It's time for a woman to be honored on American money, U.S. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said.

The all-male lineup has gone on long enough.

"We will right that wrong," Lew said.

"And when the new, redesigned $10 note is released, it will bear the portrait of a woman."

Who are some of the candidates to be  the first woman on U.S. currency notes in more than a century?

An abolitionist who helped to end slavery.

The longest-serving first lady.

A Labor Department secretary.

The founder of the Girl Scouts.

While Lew gets to decide who is featured, he and other Treasury officials will go across the country to take suggestions.

Treasury is collecting feedback on the website thenew10.treasury.gov and on the Twitter hashtag "#TheNew10."

A group called Women On 20s is trying to convince President Barack Obama to put a woman's image on the $20 bill.

The group took an opinion survey and the winner in its contest was Harriet Tubman.

She was the escaped black slave who became one of the country's leading abolitionists before the Civil War, helping hundreds of slaves escape to freedom.

Tubman got 118,328 of a total of 352,431 votes.

The Treasury Department will also host open houses, starting June 24, at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Fort Worth, Texas.

Lew will attend some of those public meetings.

He said he has "a bunch of candidates," but will wait until he hears from the American people.

He plans to make a decision later this year.

To qualify, the woman must be dead and fit the theme, which is democracy.

Eleanor Roosevelt, the wife of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the first lady from 1933 to 1945 and she was an activist for women, human rights and civil rights.

She came in second in the Women On 20s' poll.

The Girl Scouts is pushing for Juliette Gordon Low, who founded the organization in 1912.

"She was a champion for democracy and a force for good," the Girl Scouts said on Twitter.

The Treasury Department expects to unveil the new $10 bill in 2020.

The year will mark the 100th anniversary of the passage of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which gave women the right to vote.

The department cannot say when the new money will be in use.

After the woman is chosen, the bill must be designed and then printed.

The redesign of the $100 note issued in October 2013 took about 14 years.

Barbara Ortiz Howard started Women On 20s.

She said her group is fine with a woman on $10 rather than $20 notes.

Either way, it is important that the country will see a female on paper money by the 100th anniversary of the voting rights amendment, Howard said.

Another candidate could be Frances Perkins.

She was the government's Labor secretary from 1933 to 1945, and the first woman appointed to the president's Cabinet of advisers.

As head of the Department of Labor, Perkins helped give people without jobs money to tide them over.

She also helped establish the minimum wage, so that workers would not get paid too little.

She helped set up the 40-hour work week, so workers would not be forced to work too many hours.

Former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee, who is running for president, is backing Rachel Carson.

Her 1962 book "Silent Spring" helped begin the modern movement to preserve the environment.

The $10 bill was chosen after a special committee decided that it would be the next currency note to be redesigned.

Lew said that $10 note will be the first in the new series of redesigned notes.

All of them will include images on the theme of democracy.

The last changes of portraits on U.S. money were between 1914 and 1928, when four adjustments were made.

Alexander Hamilton, the first Treasury secretary, replaced President Andrew Jackson on the $10 bill.

Jackson's image moved to the $20 bill, replacing President Grover Cleveland, who was put on the $1,000 bill.

President William McKinley replaced John Marshall on the $500 bill.

Lew has said that Hamilton's image will remain part of the new $10 bill.

The last woman to appear on American paper currency was Martha Washington, the wife of President George Washington, in the late 19th century, more than 100 years ago.

