It is time that a woman be on American money, the head of the U.S. Treasury Department said.

"We will right that wrong," Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew promised.

The new $10 bill will include the picture of a woman.

Who are some of the candidates to be  the first woman on American paper money in more than a century?

A former slave who helped to end slavery.

The longest-serving first lady.

A top government worker.

The woman who started the Girl Scouts.

Lew has the final decision, but in the meantime he and other Treasury people will go across the country to ask for suggestions.

The Treasury prints money for the American government.

It is collecting suggestions on the website thenew10.treasury.gov and on the Twitter hashtag "#TheNew10."

A group called Women On 20s was trying to get a woman's image on the $20 bill.

The group took an opinion survey and the winner was Harriet Tubman.

She was a black woman who was an escaped slave.

Tubman became one of the country's leading abolitionists, fighting to free slaves before the Civil War.

Tubman helped hundreds of slaves reach freedom in the North.

She got 118,328 out of 352,431 total votes.

The Treasury Department will hold public meetings starting June 24.

They will take place in Texas.

Lew will attend some of those meetings.

He said he has "a bunch of candidates" but plans to wait until he hears from the American people.

He will make a decision later this year.

To be considered, the woman must be dead and have helped democracy, which is the theme.

Eleanor Roosevelt was the wife of President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

She was first lady from 1933 to 1945 and fought for women's rights and civil rights.

Roosevelt came in second in the Women On 20s survey.

The Girl Scouts supports Juliette Gordon Low, who started the organization in 1912.

"She was a champion for democracy and a force for good," the Girl Scouts said on Twitter.

The Treasury Department expects to present the new $10 bill in 2020.

The year will mark the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which gave women the right to vote.

It may take a long time until people are actually able to use the new money.

The $100 bill that came out 2013 took about 14 years.

Barbara Ortiz Howard started Women On 20s.

She said the group is fine with a woman on $10 rather than $20 bills.

The important thing is that a female will be on money by the 100th anniversary of the voting rights amendment, Howard said.

Another candidate could be Frances Perkins.

She was the government's Labor secretary from 1933 to 1945 and the first top woman official to advise the president.

Perkins helped begin the minimum wage and the 40-hour work week.

The minimum wage law says that bosses must pay workers at least a certain amount per hour.

Before that, businesses paid workers whatever they wanted.

The 40-hour work week made it so that bosses could not make people work too many hours.

Lew said that the $10 bill will be the first in a new series of redesigned bills.

All of them will include images on the theme of democracy.

The last time the government swapped pictures on money was between 1914 and 1928, when four changes were made.

Alexander Hamilton, the first Treasury secretary, replaced President Andrew Jackson on the $10 bill.

Jackson's image moved to $20, replacing President Grover Cleveland, who was put on the $1,000 bill.

President William McKinley was put on the $500 bill.

Lew has said that Hamilton's image will remain part of the new $10 bill.

The last woman to appear on American paper money was Martha Washington, the wife of President George Washington.

Her picture appeared on a $1 bill in the late 19th century, more than 100 years ago.

