Anyone with a smartphone can take a selfie in a second.

Four hundred years ago, people also wanted pictures of themselves.

They took much longer to make, though.

These pictures were called self-portraits.

They were painted by expert artists who thought long and hard about each detail.

Now the Mauritshuis museum is putting on an exhibit of these self-portraits.

The museum is in the Netherlands, a country in Europe.

People in the Netherlands are known as the Dutch.

The paintings were painted during what is called the Dutch Golden Age.

The Netherlands became very rich in the 1600s.

Science and the arts flourished during this time.

Many beautiful paintings were created.

The exhibit at the Mauritshuis wants to show how selfies and self-portraits are alike.

It also shows how different they are.

Emilie Gordenker is the museum's director.

She said that this is the first time a museum has shown Dutch Golden Age self-portraits next to modern selfies.

The Mauritshuis was eager to connect the old paintings to the selfie craze.

The exhibition started October 8 and ends January 3.

It includes 27 self-portraits.

They are by artists such as Rembrandt van Rijn, to a painter named Judith Leyster.

Rembrandt is one of the most famous artists in history.

Painter Huygh Pietersz Voskuyl is not as well known as Rembrandt.

His self-portrait is on the poster for the exhibition.

He painted it in 1638.

He is staring over his right shoulder at something out of the frame.

It almost looks like a selfie, and you can picture him looking into the tiny lens on a cellphone.

Golden Age artists used mirrors to see to paint themselves.

In the exhibit, giant mirrors are all over.

They reflect the paintings.

There are similarities between selfies and self-portraits.

The painter painted himself or herself.

Yet, there are also big differences.

A selfie is often taken quickly, and people might not pay attention to how they are posed.

The paintings are carefully planned works of art.

A video was made for the exhibit.

It shows how the artists paid attention to every detail.

It also shows what today's selfie makers can learn from them to improve their pictures.

Yes, you are allowed to take selfies in the museum.

The painting by Voskuyl looks very simple.

Yet it is a good example of how the painters paid attention to all the details.

"He brings out all these little details, like his beard or the little embroidery on his shirt," Gordenker said.

He even painted the fake wooden wall behind him.

He thought very hard about the things that make him who he is.

"At the same time, you can see the skill with which he painted this," Gordenker said.

The painting also had another purpose.

It was a good advertisement for what he could do.

It showed off the artist and his talent to people who wanted to buy his paintings.

For many artists, self-portraits were not just a picture of the artist, said Ariana van Suchtelen.

She organized the exhibit.

Self-portraits were also an example of the beautiful paintings the artist could create.

Rembrandt, for instance, was very famous for his sketchy way of painting.

A self-portrait by Rembrandt showed buyers his skills.

It showed off "what he could do, what he was famous for."

