These days, anybody with a smartphone can snap a selfie in a second and post it on the Internet.

Back in the Dutch Golden Age — a highpoint for Dutch trade, science, military and art — the selfies were called self-portraits.

They were painted by highly trained artists who thought long and hard about every brush stroke.

The Mauritshuis museum is staging an exhibition focusing solely on these 17th century self-portraits.

The exhibit highlights the similarities and the differences between modern-day snapshots and historic works of art.

The museum's director, Emilie Gordenker, said that there has never been such an exhibition of Dutch Golden Age self-portraits before.

Her museum was keen to tie the paintings to the modern-day phenomenon of selfies captured with smartphone cameras and spread all over the Internet via social media.

The exhibition, which opened Oct. 8 and runs through Jan. 3, features 27 self-portraits.

They are by artists ranging from Rembrandt van Rijn, a master of the genre, to his student Carel Fabritius — best known for "The Goldfinch" painting — and Judith Leyster.

Her self-portrait is on loan from the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. A less well-known artist, Huygh Pietersz Voskuyl, is the poster boy for the exhibition.

His striking 1638 self-portrait features a classic selfie pose, as he stares over his right shoulder out of the frame and into the distance.

It does not take much imagination to picture him gazing into the lens of a smartphone rather than a mirror, which Golden Age artists used to capture their images for self-portraits.

Giant mirrors are spread through the exhibition space, creating reflections within reflections of paintings that are themselves mirror images of the artist.

While the similarities between selfies and self-portraits are obvious — the subject is the person creating the image — there are also differences.

A selfie is often shot quickly with little concern for how subjects are posed, while these self-portraits are carefully conceived works of art.

A video made for the exhibition highlights the thought that went into the paintings and what today's selfie makers can learn from them to improve their snapshots.

And, yes, you are allowed to take selfies in the museum.

The Voskuyl is a good example of the richness that can be found in such an apparently simple picture.

"He brings out all these little details, like his beard or the little embroidery on his shirt, even a kind of fake wood-paneled wall behind him," Gordenker said.

"So he's thought very hard about the textures and the things that make him who he is.

At the same time, you can see the skill with which he painted this and this will have definitely been a very good advertisement for what he could do."

That kind of attention to detail and quality made the self-portraits almost a Golden Age calling card.

They showcased the artist and his or her talents to potential clients.

"A lot of artists in the 17th century painted self-portraits, not only as portraits of themselves but also as an example of the beautiful art that they could make," said the exhibition's curator Ariane van Suchtelen.

"For instance, Rembrandt was very famous for his very virtuoso sketchy way of painting.

If you would buy a self-portrait by Rembrandt, you would not only have a portrait of this famous artist but also an example of what he could do, what he was famous for — his art."

