A group wants a woman to replace President Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill.

It has four final choices that have been selected as possible replacements.

More than 256,000 votes were cast to select the candidates.

Former first lady Eleanor Roosevelt is one of the final choices.

So is Harriet Tubman, who campaigned against slavery, and civil rights activist Rosa Parks.

The first woman elected chief of a major Native American tribe, Wilma Mankiller, is also on the list.

People can now vote for one of the four.

The group behind the push, Women on 20s, has not yet decided when to end the voting.

The group originally had a list of 100 names.

The list was then sliced down to 60.

A survey was used to cut the list to 30.

Women's history experts helped pick 15 from that list.

The public was then able to choose its three favorites from the list of 15 candidates.

People on the list also included women's rights supporter Betty Friedan and Susan B. Anthony, who led to push for women to be allowed to vote.

Rachel Carson, who worked to save the environment, was also in the final 15.

Women on 20s said that Roosevelt, Tubman and Parks received the most votes.

Mankiller was not the list of 15 that the public voted on.

The group said she was selected for the final ballot because a lot of people demanded it.

There was "strong public sentiment that people should have the choice of a Native American to replace Andrew Jackson," the group said.

President Jackson helped pass a set of laws that forced Native American tribes off their lands.

The Native Americans had to move very far away.

They called it the Trail of Tears.

The year 2020 will be the 100th anniversary of the 19th Amendment, which granted voting rights to women.

The group is also going after the $20 because of the Trail of Tears.

Susan Ades Stone is in charge of Women on 20s.

She said in an interview that they were not surprised by the three women whose names received the most votes.

"They are probably the most recognizable names, and the ones that have been taught, to some degree, in schools," Stone said.

The women also seemed like heroes, she said.

Stone also said people want somebody who has "touched everyone's lives."

Stone said the group hopes to talk with the White House within the next few weeks.

She does not know whether they will wait to formally reach out to the White House until a winner is named.

They may allow the voting to continue, in hopes White House support and attention could launch even more interest and voting.

The Treasury is in charge of printing money and the treasury secretary is responsible for selecting the pictures of people that will appear on dollar bills.

According to U.S. law, only a person who is dead may appear on U.S. money.

Stone said Women on 20s decided to go to the White House instead of Treasury Secretary Jack Lew to try to get more attention.

The group also did not propose anything that might get Congress involved.

For example, the group did not suggest a new bill that would be worth a different amount of money than current bills.

If the White House and Treasury actually do support the idea, Stone said, other people would choose the woman who would be on the bill and what the bill would look like.

The person who wins the Women on 20's vote will not necessarily be the person on the bill, she said.

The men featured on current U.S. bills have not changed since 1929.

