A group wants to take President Andrew Jackson's face off the $20 bill.

It wants to put a woman on the bill instead.

The group is called Women on 20s.

It has four final choices of women to go on the $20 bill.

Right now there are no women on U.S. paper money.

Four women were chosen: Eleanor Roosevelt, Harriet Tubman, Rosa Parks and Wilma Mankiller.

Eleanor Roosevelt was a first lady.

She did a lot to help other people.

Harriet Tubman fought against slavery.

Rosa Parks was a civil rights activist.

She fought for the rights of black Americans.

Wilma Mankiller was the first woman elected chief of a big Native American tribe.

People can now vote for one of the four.

The group originally had a list of 100 names.

The list then became 60.

They asked people what they thought.

Then the list was pushed down to 30 people.

Experts on women's history helped pick 15 women from the list.

People on the list of 15 included Susan B. Anthony.

She fought for women to get the right to vote.

Women won the right to vote in 1920.

Before then, only men could vote.

The Women on 20s group said that Roosevelt, Tubman and Parks received the most votes.

Mankiller was not the list of 15 that the public voted on.

The group said she was selected for the final four because a lot of people asked for her.

People really wanted to be able to choose a Native American to take Jackson's place, the group said.

President Jackson helped pass laws that forced Native Americans to leave their lands.

They had to go far away.

The forced moving of the Native Americans is known as the Trail of Tears.

This is one reason why the group wants to change the $20.

The year 2020 will also be 100 years since the 19th Amendment was passed.

The change to the Constitution allowed women to vote.

Susan Ades Stone is in charge of Women on 20s.

She said that the group was not surprised by the three women whose names received the most votes.

Those women are the most well-known, she said.

Students learn about them in schools.

They also seemed like "heroes," she said.

The U.S. Treasury is in charge of printing money.

The person who runs the Treasury is called the treasury secretary.

He is supposed to chose the pictures of people that will appear on money.

Stone said the group wants to talk to the president instead.

She hopes to talk to the White House in the next few weeks.

The group thinks that getting the president involved will bring more attention to replacing Jackson on the $20 bill..

The person who wins the group's vote will not necessarily be the person on the bill, Stone said.

If the White House and Treasury like the idea, groups of other people would choose who would be on the bill.

They would also choose what the money would look like.

The men featured on current U.S. bills have not changed for a long time.

The last time there was a change was in 1929.

