Retail fashion giant Abercrombie &amp; Fitch has agreed to change controversial employee dress rules after being sued by two San Francisco Bay Area women who wanted to wear a Muslim headscarf.

The popular retailer agreed to change its "look policy" to provide better protections for women wearing the hijab, said lawyers for Hani Khan.

Khan, 23, was fired from a part-time job in 2010 at a store owned by Abercrombie in San Mateo because she refused to remove her hijab.

The religious garment violated Abercrombie's detailed rules governing the physical appearance of the people who work at its stores.

Abercrombie owns Hollister.

The settlement was announced on Monday.

"If it could happen to me in the Bay Area, it could happen to anyone," said Khan, a recent graduate of the University of California, Davis.

"I felt it was right for me to stand up to it."

The retailer has agreed to pay $48,000 in back pay and damages to Khan and $21,000 to a second plaintiff, Halla Banafa.

She was denied a job at a Hollister store in Milpitas when she was 18 because she was wearing a hijab.

Khan said the last 3 1/2 years have been a "roller coaster" but that the fight was worthwhile.

"For that to happen to me when I wasn't doing anything wrong was very surprising and shocking," she told reporters.

"But I'm really happy with how it turned out."

Khan was initially hired in 2009 at Hollister in Hillsdale Shopping Center.

She was allowed to wear her hijab while working as a stock clerk.

But she was fired a few months later when a visiting district manager spotted Khan and objected to her appearance.

The U.S.

Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed a lawsuit against Abercrombie in 2011.

The lawsuit said Abercrombie had violated the Civil Rights Act, which prevents religious discrimination in the workplace.

U.S. District Court Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers ruled in Khan's favor Sept. 3, setting up a trial later this month to decide damages.

Instead the parties settled.

Abercrombie did not admit violating the law.

Last week the judge who heard Banafa's case, Edward Davila, approved a settlement for both women.

Abercrombie agreed to accommodate the religious attire of applicants and employees unless doing so would create an "undue hardship" for the company.

Attorneys for the women said the retailer will have difficulty proving such hardship.

In separate rulings, the judges rejected the company's claims that the hijabs hurt Abercrombie's business.

Abercrombie will also set up a process for employees to appeal if they are denied an accommodation for religious clothing.

The retailer will also retrain its managers about the company's policy on headscarves.

Abercrombie said in a statement Monday that it was glad to put these "very old matters" behind it.

"Abercrombie &amp; Fitch does not discriminate based on religion," the statement read, in part.

"And we grant reasonable religious accommodations when they are requested."

The cases involving Khan and Banafa are the latest in a string of controversies for Abercrombie.

In 2004 the retailer paid $40 million to settle a suit claiming its hiring practices discriminated against minorities.

Shoppers boycotted the stores in 2005 after the company sold T-shirts for girls with sexual messages.

The company has achieved stunning success since CEO Mike Jeffries took over in 1992.

But sales were down over the first half of 2013.

The slump coincided with another incident.

An interview Jeffries gave to Salon.com in 2006 came up again.

Jeffries said in the interview that his company's clothes are intended only for "cool" and "attractive" kids.

The company announced in January it would close 40 to 50 U.S. stores.

It plans to focus on growing in other countries.

Abercrombie operates more than 900 stores in the United States.

More than half of them are under the Hollister brand.

Hollister is a casual clothing line.

It calls men and women "Dudes" and "Bettys."

The name Hollister was chosen to make people think of a fictional Southern California lifestyle.

The image includes "hot lifeguards and beautiful beaches."

Marsha Chien is one of Khan's lawyers.

She said that "Abercrombie's fantasy of California will no longer be allowed to suppress the real California, which embraces racial and religious diversity."

Abercrombie's policy changes will remain in effect for three years.

The court will monitor the company during that time.

The company no longer has to follow the agreement after three years, said Zahra Billoo.

She is an attorney who represented Khan for the Council on American-Islamic Relations.

But attorneys will watch the company closely to ensure it follows the law, she said.

