Hani Khan got a job working at a Hollister store near San Francisco in 2009.

Khan wore a Muslim headscarf called a hijab.

That was not a problem at first.

Then a boss visited the store and saw Khan wearing the hijab.

The boss complained.

Khan would not take off the hijab.

Hollister fired Khan in 2010.

The U.S. government decided to take the case to court on Khan's behalf.

It sued Abercrombie &amp; Fitch.

Abercrombie owns the Hollister chain.

Now Abercrombie has agreed to change its rules about how employees can dress.

The agreement was announced on Monday The rules will better protect women wearing the hijab, said Khan's lawyers.

Khan is now 23.

She recently graduated from college.

"I felt it was right for me to stand up to it," Khan said.

The retailer has agreed to pay Khan $48,000.

It will also pay $21,000 to a second woman, Halla Banafa.

She applied for a job at a Hollister store when she was 18.

But she did not get hired because she wore a hijab.

Khan said the last 3 1/2 years have been a "roller coaster."

Still, the fight was worthwhile.

"For that to happen to me when I wasn't doing anything wrong was very surprising and shocking," she told reporters.

"But I'm really happy with how it turned out."

The U.S. government sued Abercrombie in 2011.

The lawsuit said Abercrombie had violated the Civil Rights Act.

The law says people cannot be treated unfairly at work because of their religion.

Judge Yvonne Gonzalez Rogers ruled in Khan's favor Sept. 3.

The ruling set up a trial later this month.

The trial would have decided how much money Khan would get.

Instead the two sides reached an agreement.

Abercrombie did not admit it broke the law.

Last week the judge who heard Banafa's case approved an agreement for both women.

Abercrombie agreed that employees and people who wanted jobs could wear religious clothing.

The only time they could not was if it would create an "undue hardship" for the company.

"Undue hardship" is a legal term.

It means wearing the clothes would cause a really bad problem.

The women's lawyers said the retailer will have trouble proving the headscarves cause a problem.

The company already tried to show that the hijabs hurt Abercrombie's business.

The judges both rejected their claims.

Abercrombie will also set up a way for employees to appeal if they are told they cannot wear religious clothing.

The retailer will also retrain its managers.

They will relearn the company's rules about the headscarves.

Abercrombie said Monday that it was glad to put these "very old matters" behind it.

"Abercrombie &amp; Fitch does not discriminate based on religion," the company said.

Abercrombie has had problems before.

In 2004 the retailer paid $40 million to settle a different lawsuit.

People said that it was unfair to people who were not white when it hired.

Shoppers refused to go to the stores in 2005.

They were angry about certain girls' T-shirts the retailer sold.

The company has been very successful since CEO Mike Jeffries took over in 1992.

But sales were down over the first half of 2013.

The slump coincided with another incident.

An interview Jeffries gave to Salon.com in 2006 came up again.

Jeffries said in the interview that his company's clothes are intended only for "cool" and "attractive" kids.

The company announced in January it would close 40 to 50 U.S. stores.

It plans to concentrate on growing in other countries.

Abercrombie operates more than 900 stores in the United States.

More than half of them are under the Hollister brand.

Hollister is a casual clothing line.

Hollister calls men and women "Dudes" and "Bettys."

