Noah Madson remembers being tested for ADHD, a disorder that makes concentration hard.

He had to take hours of tests.

He left feeling exhausted.

"Boy, those were complicated," said his mother, Nancy.

"He'd come out and say, 'My brain hurts.'"

Today, Noah's task is less of a headache.

The 14-year-old plays a video game for 20 minutes.

Then his parents and teachers have information that paint a more complete picture of how his mind works.

Better yet, his memory and speed might actually get better as he plays the game more.

Noah is part of a study for CogCubed, a Minneapolis-based business that develops games to help decide if people have brain disorders such as ADHD.

People with such disorders have problems taking in information.

Google has already given the company $20,000 to help it grow.

CogCubed was [started](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) by a husband-and-wife team.

Kurt Roots develops games.

Monika Heller is a doctor who specializes in mental health problems in children.

Their goal is to use technology to measure the effects of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD).

Many of those effects are hard to pin down, such as inattentiveness and hyperactivity.

The game that CogCubed is testing now uses Sifteo.

It is made up of small cubes with screens on them.

The game is called "Groundskeeper."

The player uses one cube to hit a gopher that pops up on the screens of the other three cubes.

As the game goes on, distractions like rabbits and chirping birds come up.

The instructions also change.

The cubes produce information on more than 70 different things.

They measure errors, response times and even whether the player is fidgeting.

That informations is put together on a Web site that doctors, parents and teachers can use to figure out how well and in what ways a child takes in information.

The results are very exact.

"That's part of our excitement with it, that we're getting so much detailed information," Nancy Madson said.

"I can't wait for it to affect (Noah's) education plan for the coming year."

The U.S. government reported a record number of children were found to have ADHD: 11 percent of school-aged children have been diagnosed with the disorder.

That includes nearly 1 in 5 high-school-age boys.

People with ADHD can have problems paying attention.

They can be overly active and may be more likely to act without thinking about what might happen.

It's not clear what's behind the higher numbers.

But, Heller said, one thing is clear: People who take care of children with ADHD could use extra help.

It take six to 12 months to see a doctor to get thoroughly examined, she said.

CogCubed aims to start selling its "Groundskeeper" training game in the next few months.

Noah and 36 other students with ADHD are testing that game.

They play twice a day for three to five days a week.

There is another "Groundskeeper" game that would help doctors tell if somebody has ADHD.

But it won't be released until government health officials say it works, Roots said.

In a University of Minnesota study, what the Groundskeeper game found and what a doctor found matched 75 percent of the time.

A different computer-based tool that is often used works less often, Heller said.

"We don't want to make promises that we can't keep," Roots said.

"We're doing the best we can to make sure we're not selling something that gets people's hopes up and doesn't work."

CogCubed is also beginning to test Groundskeeper's ability to provide information about autism, Roots said.

People with autism can have difficulty communicating and forming relationships with other people.

Max Wiznitzer is a doctor who is involved with an ADHD group.

He cautioned against being too excited about the games.

"Can we improve working memory and teach them little tricks?

The answer is yes," Wiznitzer said.

But he was not sure this would make people a lot better in their daily lives.

"It's not the miracle cure.

I wish it were."

The results of the study at Noah's school, Groves Academy, could help teachers customize lesson plans for each student's particular needs, one school official said.

Nancy Madson said she's thrilled about the game.

"It's an opportunity for our son to become more self-sufficient with his ADHD and his learning differences," Madson said.

"And it's fun."

