The U.S. Supreme Court is now hearing the case Fisher v. University of Texas.

Our country's highest court will have to reach an important decision.

It concerns the way schools decide who to admit.  Colleges and universities can only take a small number of those students who try to get in.

There is simply not enough room for everyone.

The court must decide if schools may consider race when making their decision.

The case began when white student Abigail Fisher sued the University of Texas.

Fisher said the school had decided not to admit her because of her race.

She said a black student with worse grades had gotten in instead of her.

Fisher blamed affirmative action for the fact that she was not admitted.

Schools that believe in affirmative action consider the race of students when deciding who to accept.

They want to accept a certain number of students from groups that were treated unfairly in the past.

Both blacks and Latinos are among such groups.  Fisher says affirmative action should be against the law.

She claims it unfairly favors one group over another.

The nine Supreme Court Justices will decide if affirmative action should still be allowed.

Right now, some are for it and some are against it.

Justice Antonin Scalia is against affirmative action.

He has been talking about the mismatch theory.  The mismatch theory claims that affirmative action puts black students in schools that are "too fast" for them.

There is a mismatch between their abilities and the schools they attend.  Many treat this theory as fact.

However, many scientists say it may not be true at all.

People who support the theory claim affirmative action is bad for both white and nonwhite students.

They say some students of color are admitted to good colleges even though they had low grades in high school.

Such students are not ready to do college work, they say.  Many black students continue to do less well than white students once they are in college.

Some people say that proves they were not ready for college to begin with.  However, lower grades may not mean lower ability.

Perhaps some students just need a bit of help to do their best.

Many nonwhite students face problems that white students do not.

These can lead to ways of thinking that make schoolwork much more difficult.

Stereotypes are one problem students of color face.

A stereotype is a common but wrong idea about a particular group of people.

For example, many people believe certain groups are less intelligent than others.  Such a stereotype can have a damaging effect.

Students from these groups often worry they will be seen as unintelligent.

This makes them feel nervous.

It becomes harder for them to learn and do well.

We have given students exercises that lower their fear of being seen as unintelligent.

The results are striking.

Such students soon earn better test scores and grades.  Many black and Latino students also face another problem.

They expect to be treated differently than white students.

In fact, before college they often are.

For example, in some grade schools black students are more harshly punished than white students.  Students who notice such differences may expect college teachers to be unfair to them.

Such thoughts can make them feel they do not belong in college.

In turn that can make them do less well.

There are ways to help.

We and other scientists have given black students exercises that build trust in teachers.

Students learn that teachers want them to do well.

Such exercises have made black students' grades go up quite a bit.

The Supreme Court should uphold affirmative action.

It increases the chances that students of color will get into schools that match their true ability.  Colleges must also work harder to make students of color feel like they belong.

Only then will such students be able to do their best.

