A bad case of "affluenza" may be keeping a wealthy Texas teen out of prison for a fatal drunk driving crash.

Last week, a Fort Worth judge sentenced 16-year-old Ethan Couch to 10 years of probation after he pleaded guilty to killing four people while driving drunk.

Under probation, Ethan must get treatment for alcoholism and stay out of trouble for 10 years.

Prosecutors sought the maximum 20 years in prison.

At Ethan's trial, a psychologist said that he was so spoiled and concerned with possessions that he couldn't understand the consequences or control his behavior.

In other words, he suffered from "affluenza," and so he wasn't responsible and shouldn't go to prison, the psychologist said.

This has enraged the families of victims and many experts who say that "affluenza" is junk science.

The judge's decision gives the impression that Ethan got a light sentence because his family is rich, they say.

The term "affluenza" was popularized in the late 1990s by Jessie O'Neill, the granddaughter of a former president of General Motors, in her book "The Golden Ghetto: The Psychology of Affluence."

It has been used to describe a condition in which children — generally from richer families — have a sense of entitlement, are irresponsible, make excuses for poor behavior, and sometimes dabble in drugs and alcohol, explained Dr. Gary Buffone.

He is a Jacksonville, Fla., psychologist who advises wealthy families.

But "affluenza" is not a recognized illness, and Buffone said it wasn't meant to be used as a defense in a criminal trial or to justify driving drunk and killing someone.

"The simple term would be spoiled brat," he said.

"Essentially what (the judge) has done is slapped this child on the wrist for what is obviously a very serious offense which he would be responsible for in any other situation," Buffone said.

"The defense is laughable," he added, calling the outcome of the trial "horrifying."

"Not only haven't the parents set any consequences," Buffone said.

"But it's being reinforced by the judge's actions."

Couch pleaded guilty last week in the June accident.

The psychologist hired by Couch's family said at the trial that the boy grew up in a house where the parents argued a lot.

His parents eventually divorced, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported.

But prosecutor Richard Alpert argued in court that if the boy continues to be cushioned by his family's wealth, another tragedy is inevitable.

District Judge Jean Boyd has not publicly explained the reason behind the decision to give Couch probation.

A message left for Boyd by The Associated Press was not returned.

But according to the Star-Telegram, the judge said the programs available in the Texas juvenile justice system may not provide the intensive therapy Couch could receive at a rehabilitation center to which his parents want to send him.

His parents would pay for the $450,000-per-year cost of sending him to the treatment center near Newport Beach, Calif. One legal expert said he had never even heard of "affluenza."

"The concept that I did something because I'm rich and spoiled doesn't look like a good" excuse, Richard Segura said.

He is an attorney at the University of Texas at Austin's Criminal Defense Clinic.

"It doesn't sound like something that would (reduce) the punishment."

On the other hand, he said, the defense attorney would have likely looked at all the facts in the case and presented them in a way that he thought would best influence the judge's decision.

Also, the judge likely factored in rehabilitation and other factors when sentencing Couch, Segura said.

Psychologist Dr. Suniya Luthar said her research at Columbia University in New York has shown that 20 percent of upper middle-class teens believe their parents would help them get out of a sticky situation at school.

Couch's sentence reinforces that belief, she said.

Luthar said there is one type of justice for the rich and another for the poor.

"What is the likelihood if this was an African-American, inner-city kid that grew up in a violent neighborhood to a single mother who is addicted to crack and he was caught two or three times," Luther asked.

"What is the likelihood that the judge would excuse his behavior and let him off because of how he was raised?"

Luther's research looks at the costs of affluence in suburban communities.

"We are setting a double standard for the rich and poor," she added.

The case sends the message that "families that have money, you can drink and drive.

This is a very, very dangerous thing we're telling our children."

Authorities said the teen and friends were seen on video stealing two cases of beer from a store.

At the time of the crash, he was speeding and had a blood-alcohol level three times the legal limit, according to trial testimony.

His truck slammed into the four pedestrians.

They were Brian Jennings, 43, Breanna Mitchell, 24, Shelby Boyles, 21, and her mother, Hollie Boyles, 52.

Scott Brown, Couch's lead defense attorney, said the teenager could have been freed after two years if he had been sentenced to 20 years in prison.

Instead, the judge "fashioned a sentence that could have him under the thumb of the justice system for the next 10 years," he said.

