A Texas trial is making some people ask whether America treats the rich differently than it treats the poor.

Ethan Couch is a wealthy 16-year-old.

In June, he drove drunk and hit four people with his car, killing them.

For his crime, Ethan could have gone to prison for 20 years.

Instead, a Fort Worth judge decided not to send Ethan to jail at all.

Ethan will be under tight supervision for 10 years.

He will also get treatment for being addicted to alcohol.

He will have to stay out of trouble for 10 years.

At Ethan's trial, a doctor who studies behavior, or psychologist, spoke.

The doctor said that Ethan was so spoiled and focused on material things that he couldn't control what he did.

He also couldn't understand how his actions affected others.

In other words, he suffered from "affluenza."

"Affluenza" puts together the words "affluent," meaning rich, and "influenza," or the flu.

It was made popular in the late 1990s.

The term was usually used to describe children from rich families.

These children could do bad things like take drugs or drink alcohol.

Then they would use having too much money as an excuse.

"Affluenza" is not a real illness.

Dr. Gary Buffone is a doctor who studies behavior.

He is from Florida and he gives advice to rich families.

He said the term was never meant to be used in a courtroom.

Ethan's case has made families of victims and many experts very angry.

They say that "affluenza" is junk science.

The judge's decision makes people think that Ethan got a light punishment because his family is rich, they say.

What the judge has done, Buffone said, is slap Ethan on the wrist for a very serious offense.

The outcome of the trial is "horrifying," he said.

The psychologist hired by Ethan's family said in court that his parents argued a lot.

His parents eventually divorced, a newspaper reported.

The lawyer who was fighting to put Ethan in jail did not agree.

He said in court that Ethan would only do more bad things if the court let him use the "affluenza" excuse.

District Judge Jean Boyd has not publicly said why she chose not to send Ethan to prison.

A newspaper reported that the judge said Ethan's parents could afford better therapy for him than he would get in jail.

His parents would pay to send him to an expensive treatment center in California.

Dr. Suniya Luthar is a psychologist at Columbia University in New York.

She has done research on kids from wealthy areas.

She said a fourth of upper middle-class teens believe their parents would help them get out of a sticky situation at school.

Ethan's court case confirms that belief, she said.

Luthar said there is one type of justice for the rich and another for the poor.

We are treating the rich differently from how we treat the poor, she added.

The case sends the message that if your family has money, "you can drink and drive.

This is a very, very dangerous thing we're telling our children."

Ethan hit and killed four people.

They were 43-year-old Brian Jennings, 24-year-old Breanna Mitchell, 21-year-old Shelby Boyles, and Shelby's mother, 52-year-old Hollie Boyles.

Scott Brown, Ethan's main lawyer, said the Ethan's punishment was not light.

The teenager could have been freed after two years if he had been sentenced to 20 years in prison, he said.

Instead, Ethan will be under heavy supervision for the next 10 years, he said.

