The weapons of Afghanistan's long decades of war can be seen almost everywhere.

They range from burned-out Soviet tanks to the Kalashnikov assault rifles slung over policemen's shoulders and helicopter gunships roaring overhead.

The Afghan government's main enemy is the Taliban, who once controlled the country.

The violent, extremist group was removed from power by a U.S.-led invasion in 2001, but has since regrouped and has mounted a series of violent attacks.

It should be no surprise then that young children play "police and Taliban," chasing each other around with toy guns and weaponry designed to mimic the real thing.

Like the real war, this make-believe war has its casualties.

At least 184 people, nearly all children, suffered eye injuries over the recent Eid al-Fitr holiday from toy weapons that fire BB pellets and rubber shot.

In response, authorities have banned toy guns.

"The Afghan Interior Ministry orders all police forces to confiscate toy guns," the order read.

Such toys, it declared, "can lead to physical and psychological damage to people."

So far in Afghanistan, the problem of mistaking a toy gun for a real one has not been significant.

The noise of real gunfire is almost unmistakable to most Afghans.

Unlike in the United States, police have not yet killed any children carrying toy rifles or plastic pistols.

Afghans have grown familiar with firearms over long decades of war, from the 1979 Soviet invasion to the civil war and the rise of the Taliban in the 1990s.

After the terror attacks in New York and Washington on Sept. 11, 2001, the U.S.-led invasion introduced Afghanistan's population to a new host of weapons.

These ranged from the M4 rifles carried by American soldiers to the heavy-duty armored vehicles known as MRAPs chugging down city streets.

The toy guns come mostly from China and the neighboring country of Pakistan.

Many were given to young boys as gifts during the recent Eid, or festival, which marks the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.

Authorities had tried to warn parents about the dangers the guns pose before the holiday.

"An awareness video was prepared ... to inform people how much these toy guns can be dangerous," said Dr. Abdul Rahim Majeed, the program manager for the public Noor Eye Hospital.

"Unfortunately, the families did not take it seriously and didn't pay attention to this important message and it caused many people to get injured and come to hospitals for treatments."

Majeed said many of those injured by toy guns came to Noor, which treated 116 cases during this most recent holiday — double the number from last year.

He said the number of people injured nationwide was probably higher than what was reported, as some people may have not sought treatment or may have gone to private clinics.

Since the ban went into effect, police have begun searching shops and seizing toy guns from children, though it is unclear how many of the toys have been confiscated so far.

Parents like Shakib Nasery, a 38-year-old father of two, welcomed the effort to destroy the toy guns.

Any reduction of violence in the war-torn country — even if just children's play — would be good, he said.

"It is not good for a society to have kids with such mentality of using guns or playing gun battles," Nasery said.

"Unfortunately, this is the negative impact of an ongoing war in our country."

