Shahgol Shah was just 11 when she was married by her family to a man she didn't choose.

She never went to school and spent her life raising seven children.

Today, Shahgol Shah, who is 50, still obeys mahram.

It is the Afghan custom that forbids women to leave home without a male relative.

In public, she wears a burka, the long cloak covering her entire body worn by some Muslims for modesty.

Her face is hidden behind a shawl.

"That's our tradition," Shah says.

Her 26-year-old daughter, Ghazalan Koofi, lives a life her mother could never have imagined.

She leaves home unescorted every day, working at a government job and attending university classes at night.

She speaks fluent English and has never worn a burka.

She dresses stylishly but modestly, her wavy black hair peeking out from under a head scarf.

Koofi demands the respect of her male coworkers.

She insisted on a seat at a recent gathering, where women usually have no place.

She treasures her "love marriage" with the husband she chose for herself.

Most Afghan marriages are arranged by the families of the bride and groom, who often meet for the first time at their wedding.

Koofi's husband, Shoaib Azizi, calls his wife "a very brave woman."

He helps with housework and caring for their infant son, something that some male friends consider weak and shameful.

Koofi became an adult after the United States invaded [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan), overthrowing the Taliban government in 2001.

The U.S. went to war against the Taliban, which gave shelter to Osama Bin Laden, who was responsible for the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks against the United States.

The Taliban did not allow women to attend school, forced them to wear the burka in public and forbade them from going outside their homes without a male relative.

But U.S. combat troops are leaving Afghanistan next year.

And Koofi and other Afghan women worry that the Taliban will take over and freedoms introduced since the fall of the Taliban will disappear.

"We are entering a very dangerous period for women," says Koofi.

"I'm very worried that we will return to those terrible days when the only place for a woman was in the home, doing housework and serving the men."

Across Kabul, Shukriya Matin also belongs to the generation of women who have become adults in a world of new freedoms.

They fear for their future without them.

Matin was in grade school when her family fled the Taliban in 1996 after she was beaten for not properly covering her hair in public.

For six long years, she was a low-paid child carpet weaver in neighboring Pakistan.

She returned to Kabul and earned a high school degree.

Now, at 28, she directs a private hospital program.

Inside her neat, sparsely furnished home, Matin describes her sense of dread about the future.

"Only God knows what will happen to women after 2014," she says in lightly accented English as her 3-year-old daughter plays on the floor.

The story of Afghanistan is the story of Matin's family.

Her mother, Zahra Matin, 52, was engaged at 9 and married at 13, and never learned to read.

She now plans to attend literacy classes and dreams of her granddaughter attending college.

But Zahra Matin worries the Taliban, still strong in Afghanistan, will come back and quash their dreams.

The gains Afghan women have made since 2001 are under threat.

The country's human rights commissioner wants to cancel a law banning violence against women, which is ignored and poorly enforced.

The commissioner was appointed by President Hamid Karzai.

A recent United Nations report described "fears and anxiety" among Afghan women.

"Signs are everywhere that a rollback of women's rights has begun," warned Heather Barr.

She is a senior researcher for Human Rights Watch.

The Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission reported in January that violent crimes against women reached record levels last year, rising 24 percent over 2012.

Afghanistan is still a deeply traditional Islamic country.

Some village girls as young as 9 or 10 are forced by their families to marry older men.

Girls who flee arranged marriages are sometimes beaten and even killed by their families.

There are clear gains.

Women now have the right to vote and some serve in parliament, the army and the national police force.

There are 150 female judges.

Under the Taliban, the only education for girls was in illegal home schools.

Today, 3 million girls attend school, but that's still only 40 percent of all school-age girls.

Taliban extremists throw acid in the faces of schoolgirls and burn down girls' schools.

In the last six months, four Afghan policewomen have been killed, and female leaders in the government are routinely threatened or killed.

Last year, the head of women's affairs in eastern Afghanistan was killed by a bomb placed in her car.

A few months later, her replacement was shot to death.

"The situation for women is very fragile," says Fawzia Koofi.

She is Ghazalan Koofi's aunt and an outspoken member of parliament who taught at an underground home school for girls during the Taliban's rule.

She has been threatened with death by the Taliban, yet intends to run for president in 2018.

She says, "Our gains could easily be reversed, and we'd have to start from scratch for the simple right to work outside the home or go to school."

