When Esmatullah got engaged in 1999, he was a 26-year-old day laborer.

His bride-to-be was a young girl from a village near his native Andkhoy, in western Afghanistan.

The marriage was arranged by others and he was eager to wed. Fourteen years later, Esmatullah is still waiting.

Afghan weddings come with many long-standing traditions, and one of them is the custom known as walwar.

It demands that the groom-to-be to pay cold cash to the bride's father.

The amounts negotiated between the families can exceed $20,000.

That is far beyond the means of working-class Afghans.

In Andkhoy, a town of carpet makers and wheat farmers, many fiances borrow from relatives and friends,  and pay the money back over months or years.

For common laborers like Esmatullah, the amount is far out of reach.

His would-be in-laws insist on $13,000.

Friends and relatives lent him $8,000 but he has no way of coming up with the rest.

"I make $6 a day as a day laborer," says Esmatullah, who uses only one name like many Afghans.

"God knows how long it will take me to raise the rest."

The tradition is harshly criticized by women's rights supporters.

They say it puts a price tag on a daughter and furthers the idea that women are little more than property.

"It's basically money that the father gets for selling his daughter," says Mojgan Mostafavi, a member of the Afghan Women's Affairs Ministry.

"They are saying, 'You are like our animal.'

" Technically walwar is illegal, but it's allowed by local authorities because it has been a part of Afghan tribal society for centuries.

Fathers or grooms involved in walwar payments rarely get taken to court, Mostafavi says.

It also unfairly loads young grooms with the burden of debt, she adds.

Mostafavi called on religious leaders, media, and law enforcement to help end the practice.

She said it violates both civil and religious law, two important codes of morality in a devoutly Muslim country recently controlled by the Taliban.

Not all religious authorities are as strict as them, though.

Recently, about 400 clerics convened in Kabul to denounce walwar.

They agreed to preach against the tradition at their mosques, where many Afghans go to worship.

Walwar is just one of many elements of Afghan weddings that are at odds with reality.

In a country where the average worker makes $35 a month, Afghans spend tens of thousands of dollars on a wedding.

Guest lists often number in the hundreds.

More money must be spent on another Afghan tradition: buying gold jewelry for the bride-to-be.

Asadullah, a 21-year-old university law student in Andkhoy, recently spent $28,000 on his wedding.

$13,000 was for walwar, $12,000 for the bride's jewelry and $3,000 for the reception.

"It's a lot of money, but this is our society," says Asadullah, who comes from a wealthy family.

"We have no choice but to pay."

In 2011, politicians proposed a bill to stop wedding halls from allowing more than 500 guests at an event.

The Women's Affairs Ministry supported the bill.

But it was rejected by President Hamid Karzai's cabinet.

It failed to make it to the legislature for a vote, Mostafavi says.

"They are spending so much money, but these families often don't have enough money to buy food," she says.

"I know some families that have had 3,000 to 4,000 guests at their weddings.

In this country, a boy has to work so many years and borrow so much money to have a wedding.

Why is this happening?

It's a big roadblock for girls and boys in this society."

Pride drives much of the spending on big Afghan weddings, says Samir Rostiyar, a wedding hall owner in Kabul.

Families enjoy outdoing their friends and neighbors with bigger, pricier receptions.

Even if they're not competitive, they don't want the shame of being seen as cheapskates.

Expensive weddings are also a way of escaping everyday life in a war-torn country, if only for one night.

"Afghanistan has been at war for 30 years," Rostiyar says.

"People spend this much money to get a break from all the misery."

Afghanistan only got rid of its last king in 1973.

Since then, though, control of the country has shifted between Communists, Islamic extremists, and the current government, which is backed by U.S. forces.

That means a young person getting married today will never have known his or her country during peace time.

Abdullah Rahman got engaged to his 19-year-old fiancee a year ago.

The woman's father set the walwar price at $15,000.

Rahman, 23, his father and one of his brothers bargained him down to $10,000.

To begin raising the money, Rahman had to leave college and take on day labor jobs in his hometown of Andkhoy.

So far, he's been able to pay his future father-in-law only about $1,000.

"My father's working and I'm working to make the money," Rahman said.

"I have no idea how long it will take.

It's very hard to focus on life, focus on saving the money.

It's a tradition and we have to pay it, but I hope someday someone gets rid of this custom."

