Of all the effects of war on Afghanistan, among the most unusual — and perhaps the happiest — is swan boats.

On a recent day, nearly 40 of the boats packed with families cruised the blue mineral waters of the main lake.

The boats have foot pedals so people can make them move.

From several came one of the rarest public sounds in Afghanistan: women laughing.

For centuries Afghans have believed that the waters of the group of six lakes known as Band-e Amir can cure illness.

Now Band-e Amir also has become the nation's soothing cure for the daily horrors elsewhere: bombs, suicide attacks and corrupt police.

Partly that's due to the peacefulness and startling beauty of the remote region, which is tucked away high in the Hindu Kush of central Afghanistan.

Four years ago, it became Afghanistan's first national park.

The growing facilities have made it easier for Afghans to visit, and they've been flocking here in increasing numbers.

That's despite the fact that many have to drive a day or more and brave villages and countryside filled with rebels.

In 2008 there were about 200 visitors a month during the high season of May to September, said David Bradfield, an adviser with the New York-based Wildlife Conservation Society.

He's based at the park.

The society proposed creating the park, and it's helped with funding from the U.S. government.

This year, average attendance on Fridays alone is 4,000 to 5,000.

The park is a particularly special refuge for women and children.

They lack places almost everywhere else in the country to simply get outside and enjoy life without worrying about bombs, firefights or oppressive conservative males.

About half the visitors are children and 35 percent are women, said Mirza Hussain, the chief ranger.

"This is my first time ever out of Kabul, and this place makes me feel really happy and calm," said Mustura Baqer.

She'd driven several hours from the capital with her husband, Mohammed, a construction manager, and their 9-month-old son.

They were sitting with Mohammed's brother, Abrahim Abbas, and sister-in-law, Tamana Noori, cross-legged inside a tent they'd pitched.

The tent's shelter helped blunt the chill from being at a high altitude.

They were nibbling on salad with peach and tomato, traditional flatbread and chicken in a dark tomato sauce.

Two watermelons bobbed in the frigid waters of the lake a few feet away, cooling down.

Noori is from Bamiyan and helps deliver babies.

She said she and her husband and their three young children had visited the park 11 times.

They'd made three trips so far this year.

"It is a nice place for everybody, and the most beautiful place in the country," she said.

"Kids can play around, and we feel safer here than any other place.

People are afraid of attacks in Kabul and other places, but not here."

Visitors come from almost every part of the country, even Kandahar, the Taliban birthplace, chief ranger Hussain said.

The big days in the warm months are Thursdays and Fridays; only a trickle come the other days.

Snow closes the roads into the park in winter.

Despite its world-class beauty, the park is little known in the West.

Perhaps 20 Western visitors come in an average month, mostly aid workers from Kabul.

Like much of what people do in Afghanistan, a visit to Band-e Amir often is mixed with religion.

The Baqers' son has epilepsy, and they hoped that the powers of the waters would help.

Beliefs about the lakes' ability to heal are based on the reputed role of Ali, the son-in-law and cousin of the Prophet Muhammad, in their creation.

There's a popular shrine to him near the boats.

Ali is said to have created the lakes through various amazing feats.

With a slash of his sword he's said to have created the valley and then dammed it with cheese.

The six lakes of the park are indeed dammed with a substance riddled with holes.

But it's a rock called travertine, created by buildups of the minerals in the water.

The dams are generally U-shaped, with small lime-green and sulfur-yellow waterfalls spilling over them.

Together they make the series of lakes like massive, watery steps that stretch for miles, each one higher than the next.

Women must plunge into the chilly waters of the lakes fully clothed.

And they are required to do so out of the sight of men.

So, a walled area near the shrine is being built so that women may take their dips privately.

With the U.S. and NATO pullout of combat troops and a slide in foreign aid, there's much speculation about what will survive.

The park, funded by U.S. aid money, appears to be one of those things.

It generates income and doesn't cost much to operate.

The Afghan government supports nearly all the operations related to the park.

And the Ministry of Agriculture just approved eight new jobs for people to clean the park.

It also has approved the park's first women rangers, which will be a benefit for female visitors.

The park aids local residents, too.

The swan boats, which the Afghans insisted on having, generate income for families in 15 area villages.

There's employment at the small food and souvenir bazaar and at guesthouses in the park and close by.

In high season, locals rent out rooms in their homes.

A ranger station, a training center and a reception center are under construction.

There are plans to possibly build an international airport close to the park.

But the potential for international tourism, at least while the war continues, is murky at best.

