Back home in Afghanistan, a country in Central Asia, Salim lives with his parents.

He has six brothers and a crew of aunts, uncles and cousins, 21 people in all.

Here in the United States, Salim, 14, is part of a family of five.

He lives with Sandy Tabor-Gray and Jim Gray, and their two grandchildren, in Mooresville, North Carolina.

Salim (pronounced Sa-leem) has been living with the Grays since June while he gets medical treatment.

The treatment is free through a group called Solace for the Children.

It is a charity group that provides medical care to children from countries at war, like Afghanistan.

Since arriving in the United States, Salim has had an operation on his left arm.

The arm was badly hurt in 2013 when Salim touched a live wire while trying to untangle his kite.

He received a severe electrical shock.

Doctors in Afghanistan and Pakistan operated several times to remove sections of Salim's damaged arm.

Very little of the arm remains.

In 2014, he was chosen by Solace for the Children to come to the Hanger Clinic in Charlotte, North Carolina.

Hanger is known for helping people who have lost limbs.

Salim was fitted with a prosthetic, or artificial arm.

This year, Salim returned because he was having problems with the prosthesis.

The reason quickly became clear to Michael Jenks, manager of the Hanger Clinic.

The bone at the top of Salim's left arm was still growing, so the prosthesis no longer fit.

Scar tissue had also formed, leaving him with limited range of motion.

Jenks saw that Salim needed another operation.

So he contacted his friend Dr. Glenn Gaston, who volunteered to operate.

In late August, the doctors operated.

Recently, Salim and his host mother, Tabor-Gray, went back to see Gaston and Jenks, so they could remove his stitches and make sure everything was healing properly.

"Hey, buddy.

How ya doing?"

Gaston asked Salim when he walked into the exam room.

Salim, who speaks a kind of Persian called Dari, but also understands and speaks some English, smiled shyly.

Salim said he was feeling no pain.

He politely agreed when Gaston asked him to move his arm forward, back, up and down.

"That's awesome," Jenks said.

He slipped a clear plastic mold over Salim's arm and shoulder, and began marking the mold with a red Sharpie.

He was taking measurements for a new prosthetic arm.

Solace for the Children was launched in 1997 by Dick and Patsy Wilson to provide medical care, dentists and eye doctors for children in war-torn countries.

They started out in Belarus, a country in Eastern Europe, but since 2007, they also have been working in Afghanistan.

Each summer, a group of children travels to the United States for six weeks.

Some, like Salim, stay longer if their medical problems take more time to resolve.

The trip costs Solace for the Children $6,000 to $8,000 per child.

Solace for the Children is supported by money given to them by people who want to help, and almost all of their workers are volunteers.

While the headquarters is still in Mooresville, the group now also has a branch in Jacksonville, Florida, and has host families in cities including Los Angeles, California; Spokane, Washington, and Boston, Massachusetts.

Tabor-Gray began volunteering for Solace for the Children in 2001 after learning about it from some families at her church.

She and her husband have two grown children and are raising 5-year-old twins, children of one of their sons who died in 2013.

Tabor-Gray and her husband have hosted 10 children, including Salim, and she has traveled to Afghanistan twice.

She said Solace for the Children helps to promote peace, as well as saving the lives of children.

"We want to show these children what peace looks like," she said.

"We teach them, 'You are brothers and sisters of one country.'

We send them home as friends."

Salim will be in Charlotte for several more weeks before returning to his family in Afghanistan.

He is receiving physical therapy to make his shoulder stronger so he can handle the weight of his prosthetic arm.

He is also getting occupational therapy so that he can learn to do the things he used to do with his left arm before the accident.

He recently learned to write his name with his prosthetic hand.

Asked how he feels about his host mother, Salim answered through a translator.

"She's really nice," he said.

"I'm thankful that she loves me like her own son."

