In his hometown of Kabul, Afghanistan, Salim lives with his parents, six brothers, and a crew of aunts, uncles and cousins - 21 people in all.

Here in the United States, the 14-year-old boy is part of a family of five, living in a home with Sandy Tabor-Gray and Jim Gray of Mooresville, North Carolina, and their two grandchildren.

Salim (pronounced Sa-leem) has been living with the Grays since late June while he gets free medical treatment through Solace for the Children, an international charity that provides medical care and other help to children from war-torn countries.

Since arriving in the United States, Salim has had an operation to repair his left arm.

The arm was damaged in 2013, when Salim was electrocuted by touching a live wire while trying to untangle his kite.

Salim was treated by doctors in Afghanistan and Pakistan who operated several times to remove parts of his damaged arm.

Now, very little of the arm is left.

In 2014, he was chosen by Solace for the Children to come to the Hanger Clinic in Charlotte, North Carolina, for medical care.

The Hanger Clinic is world-renowned for helping people who have lost limbs.

Salim was fitted with a prosthetic, or an artificial arm.

This year, Salim returned because his prosthetic arm no longer fit properly.

The reason became clear when he took off his shirt in front of Michael Jenks, the manager of the Hanger Clinic.

Salim is still growing and the bone at the top of his left arm had grown too big to wear the prosthesis comfortably.

Scar tissue had also formed over his arm pit, leaving him with limited range of motion.

Jenks saw right away that Salim needed another operation, so he contacted his friend Dr. Glenn Gaston, who volunteered to operate.

In late August the doctors operated.

Recently, Salim and his host mother, Tabor-Gray, went back to see Gaston and Jenks so they could remove his stitches and make sure everything was healing well.

"Hey, buddy.

How ya doing?"

Gaston asked Salim when he walked into the exam room.

Salim, who speaks a variety of Persian called Dari, but also understands and speaks some English, smiled shyly.

Salim said he was feeling no pain.

He politely complied when Gaston asked him to move his arm forward, back, up and down.

"That's awesome," Jenks said as he slipped a clear plastic mold over Salim's shoulder and arm, and began marking the mold with a red Sharpie, taking measurements for a new prosthetic arm.

"He's been a fantastic kid," Gaston said.

Solace for the Children is a nonprofit group launched in 1997 by Dick and Patsy Wilson to provide medical care, dentists and eye doctors for children in war-torn countries.

The initial focus was on Belarus, but since 2007, the organization has also been working in Afghanistan.

Each summer, Solace for the Children brings a group of children to the United States for six weeks.

Some, like Salim, stay longer if their medical problems take awhile to resolve.

The cost to Solace for the Children is $6,000 to 8,000 per child.

Solace for the Children is supported by donations and is staffed by volunteers.

While the headquarters is still in Mooresville, North Carolina, the group now also has a branch in Jacksonville, Florida, and has host families in Los Angeles; Boston, Massachusetts; Spokane, Washington and Washington, D.C. Tabor-Gray began hosting children in 2001 after learning about Solace for the Children from friends at her church.

She and her husband have two grown children and are raising 5-year-old twins, the children of a son who died in 2013.

"I'm a Christian," Tabor-Gray said.

"I believe I'm called to do God's will, to love my neighbor.

My neighbor can be next door or my neighbor can be in another country."

When the children arrive in the United States, "we don't preach," she said.

"A nice hug and a warm smile.

It goes a long way."

Tabor-Gray and her husband have hosted 10 children, including Salim, and she has traveled to Afghanistan twice.

She said Solace for the Children helps to promote peace, as well as save the lives of children, many of whom come from warring tribes.

"We want to show these children what peace looks like," she said.

"We teach them, 'You are brothers and sisters of one country.'

We send them home as friends."

Salim will be in the United States for several more weeks before returning to his family in Afghanistan.

He is receiving physical therapy to improve the strength in his upper arm and shoulder so he can handle the weight of his prosthesis.

He is also getting occupational therapy so that he can learn to do the things he used to do with his left arm.

Salim was left-handed before his accident.

He recently learned to write his name with his prosthetic hand.

Asked how he feels about Tabor-Gray, Salim answered through a translator.

"She's really nice," he said.

"I'm thankful that she loves me like her own son."

