Of all the effects of war on Afghanistan, among the most unusual — and perhaps the happiest — is swan boats.

On a recent day, nearly 40 of the boats cruised the blue waters of the main lake.

The bird-shaped boats were packed with families.

People use foot pedals to make the boats move.

Women laughed loudly in several of the boats.

This is one of the rarest public sounds in Afghanistan.

For centuries Afghans have believed that the waters of the group of six lakes known as Band-e Amir can cure illness and help couples have children.

Now Band-e Amir also has become the nation's soothing cure for the daily horrors elsewhere: bombs, suicide attacks and corrupt police.

Partly that's due to the peacefulness and beauty of the remote region, which is high in the Hindu Kush of central Afghanistan.

Four years ago it became Afghanistan's first national park.

Afghans have been flocking here in increasing numbers.

They come even though many have to drive a day or more through a countryside filled with rebels.

In 2008 about 200 visitors came each month during the busy season of May to September, said David Bradfield.

He's an adviser with the Wildlife Conservation Society in New York.

He's based at the park.

The society helped develop a plan for the park with money from the U.S. government.

This year, average attendance on Fridays alone is 4,000 to 5,000.

The park is particularly special for women and children.

They have few places in the country to get outside and enjoy life.

Worries about bombs, firefights or traditional males make being out in public difficult.

About half the visitors are children and 35 percent are women, said Mirza Hussain, the chief ranger.

"This is my first time ever out of Kabul, and this place makes me feel really happy and calm," said Mustura Baqer.

She'd driven several hours from the capital.

Traveling with her were her husband, Mohammed, a construction manager, and their 9-month-old son.

They were sitting with Mohammed's brother and sister-in-law, Tamana Noori, inside a tent.

The tent helped block the chill from the high altitude.

They were nibbling on salad with peach and tomato, traditional flatbread and chicken in a dark tomato sauce.

Noori is from Bamiyan and helps deliver babies.

She said she, her husband and their three young children had visited the park 11 times.

They'd made three trips so far this year.

"It is a nice place for everybody, and the most beautiful place in the country," she said.

"Kids can play around, and we feel safer here than any other place.

People are afraid of attacks in Kabul and other places, but not here."

Visitors come from almost every part of the country, even Kandahar, the birthplace of the Taliban, chief ranger Hussain said.

The Taliban are a violent political group.

Despite its beauty, the park is little known in the West.

Perhaps 20 Western visitors come in an average month, mostly aid workers from Kabul.

Like much in Afghanistan, a visit to Band-e Amir often is mixed with religion.

The Baqers' son has epilepsy, and they hoped that the powers of the waters would help.

Beliefs in the lakes' ability to heal are based on the role Ali is said to have had in their creation.

He was the cousin of the Prophet Muhammad.

Near the boats is a popular shrine dedicated to him.

Ali is said to have created the lakes through amazing feats.

With a slash of his sword he's said to have created the valley and then made dams out of cheese.

The six lakes of the park are indeed dammed with a substance filled with holes, like swiss cheese.

But it's rock created by buildups of the minerals in the water.

The dams have small waterfalls spilling over them.

They make the series of lakes seem like huge, watery steps that stretch for miles.

Each one appears higher than the next.

Women must plunge into the chilly waters of the lakes fully clothed.

And they must do so out of the sight of men.

So, a walled area near the shrine is being built so that women may take dips privately.

The Afghan government just approved the hiring of the park's first women rangers.

This should help female visitors.

With U.S. and NATO  troops leaving and a drop in foreign aid, there's concern about what will survive.

The park, funded by U.S. aid money, should be able to continue.

It generates income and doesn't cost much to operate.

