There are guns all over Afghanistan.

The country has been at war for years.

Right now, the Afghan army is fighting a group called Taliban.

The police are fighting them too.

The Taliban was once in charge of Afghanistan.

Many people did not like them because they are strict and violent.

Fourteen years ago, the Taliban lost control of the country.

Now, they are growing strong again.

They are trying to take over the country.

Fighting has started in different parts of Afghanistan.

Afghan children notice what is going on around them.

It changes how they play.

In the United States, children sometimes play "cops and robbers."

In Afghanistan they play "police and Taliban."

Young Afghan children chase each other around with toy guns.

Afghan children are just pretending to fight.

Still, they are getting hurt.

Some are getting hit in the eye.

The guns shoot BBs or rubber.

Afghanistan's toy guns come mostly from other countries like Pakistan or China.

Many young boys are given toy guns as presents.

They get them as gifts during the Muslim holiday of Eid.

This year, many children were hurt during Eid with the toy guns.

Afghanistan's leaders decided it was time to do something to protect children.

They decided to make toy guns against the law.

The police were ordered to take the toy guns away.

They have begun searching toy shops.

They are also taking toy guns from homes.

Shakib Nasery is the father of two children.

He thinks it is a good idea to get rid of toy guns.

Less fighting is good, he said.

It does not matter if it is just play fighting.

Children should not be pretending to fight wars, Nasery said.

Playing like that is not a good thing.

Playing at war makes children think fighting is fun, Nasery said.

It makes them think fighting is the only way to get rid of problems.

The real fighting will not stop if people keep thinking that way.

There are many terrible things about the fighting in Afghanistan, Nasery said.

One of them is that children learn to like guns.

