Hot dogs are rarely seen in Afghanistan.

So it was very unusual when five trucks painted to look like giant hot dogs showed up on the streets of the capital this year.

The food-truck craze that is sweeping North America has now made it all the way to Kabul.

The man behind the new food trucks is 25-year-old Naveed Noori.

He is based in Kabul, but his wife and daughter live in Toronto, Canada.

While in Toronto, Noori was introduced to food trucks, and now he has brought them to Afghanistan.

In May, Noori and his cousin, Abdullah Karim, launched Lazeez, a company whose name means "delicious."

The new business sells hot dogs, burgers and chicken sandwiches.

Food is sold from the back of five small trucks outfitted with hot plates and deep-fryers.

On a fall morning, Noori visited one of his trucks, which was parked on a busy street in central Kabul.

The hot-dog-on-wheels stood out in a sea of plain-looking cars and mini-buses.

Its sides were painted with bright yellow mustard zigzags, and its roof resembled a sesame-seed bun.

Several cars came to a halt on seeing the strange truck.

Drivers peered with puzzled expressions.

Other motorists swerved and honked.

The Lazeez truck driver, who doubles as cook, had put on a hair net and plastic gloves and was grilling burgers.

Smoke blew from an exhaust fitted to the roof.

"People don't know what exactly this is," Noori said.

In addition to hot dogs, Lazeez also sells fries, salads and drinks, along with some Afghani treats.

Dishing up a full meal on Kabul's smoggy streets is a challenge.

To promote cleanliness, the cooks pack the food in wrappers and paper bags with the company name on them.

Metal trash cans are attached to each truck to discourage littering.

As Noori stood by the Lazeez truck, a black car carrying five young medical students screeched to a stop.

Mohammed Idris, 20, stepped out and studied the menu.

Finally, he ordered five chicken sandwiches, which cost a very affordable $7.

As Idris bit into his own sandwich he seemed impressed.

"It's my first time here," he said.

"I didn't know what a food truck was."

Hot dogs are not well known in Afghanistan.

The cousins briefly considered giving theirs a new Afghani name and trying to make them seem more like a familiar kind of Afghani food.

In the end, though, they kept it simple.

"A hot dog is a hot dog," said Karim, 30.

Noori's family is from Afghanistan, but he spent most of his childhood in Pakistan before returning to Kabul in 2007.

He reunited with Karim, and the two soon began testing out business ideas.

After deciding to sell hot dogs, they bought five small three-wheeled trucks.

They then spent the next year turning the trucks into mobile kitchens.

They worked on the details, inviting friends to taste-test different burger recipes and brands of ketchup.

The chicken hot dogs Lazeez uses are shipped in from Pakistan.

The rest of the food is cooked at the company's rented offices where each week, thousands of chicken patties are prepared.

The cousins plan to double their fleet to 10 trucks.

They also plan to launch a home delivery service and make their first video ad.

For now, Noori said, they sell about $450 in food every day, enough to make a small profit each month.

Lazeez employee Rohit Shuja had never cooked before he applied to work for the new company.

Now, he grills chicken and works the fryer like a pro.

The biggest challenge, he said, is dealing with police officers who hassle him about parking.

"We give them a burger or two," Noori said, "and they go away."

