After nearly 40 years of war, the Afghan capital is one of the ugliest cities in the world.

Kabul once was a city of wide avenues lined with rose gardens.

Today, streets are filled with traffic and bordered with concrete blast walls.

After recent deadly bombing attacks, the blast walls were put up almost overnight.

They appear in double rows outside government buildings, businesses and the homes of rich and powerful people.

They protect the people inside from bombs and bullets.

The walls give the city a feeling of separation.

Inside them, the wealthy are protected, while outside, anything goes.

Kabir Mokamel is an artist who returned to Kabul from Australia four years ago.

Mokamel uses street art to highlight the problems in Afghanistan caused by the long years of war.

He calls his group the Art Lords, a criticism of the country's warlords, the military leaders who still influence Afghan politics and are celebrated as warrior heroes.

"I want people to define who really are the heroes of my city — the people who clean the city, for instance," said Mokamel.

"Throughout the history of Afghanistan, it's all about the people who fought, who have swords, who have guns.

We want to include something else, like the people who take part in the betterment of the city and of our lives.

It moves people away from the mentality of war and conflict."

Artists from his group recently painted pictures of street sweepers in orange work jackets and traditional scarves on a blast wall.

Next to it is a slogan, written in large black letters that can be clearly seen by motorists going past.

It reads, "The Heroes of My City: The Street Sweepers."

Ahmad Jan, a 26-year-old, paused on a recent sunny afternoon to look at the mural.

"It's interesting to Afghans," he said.

"Everybody crossing the street will take a look and read the message and then get a different" view.

Volunteer Maryam Kohi comes every day to help paint.

She said the walls block the streets, which make it hard to get to work, and they "make the city look like a prison."

The city is polluted with dirt and officials are not honest.

She said they are corrupt, which means they take money for favors.

"With these paintings we want to take our anti-corruption message to the people," she said.

This week, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani spoke about dishonest government officials.

He said it was Afghanistan's shame to be consistently named by Transparency International as one of the most corrupt nations on earth.

When people think of corruption they think of bribery, "but it's much bigger than that," Mokamel said.

Corruption also includes things like poor work ethics, not standing in line, dangerous driving and bothering women on the street, he said.

Kabul was originally built for a population of 450,000 people.

About 4.5 million now live in the city.

Infrastructure such as transportation, water and sewers has not kept up.

"People were very trusting and very friendly," he recalled.

"These values have disappeared because of the ongoing conflict and the breakdown of normal social behavior."

Mokamel hopes to spark a return to the values he remembers before fleeing the wars as a teenager.

"I learned a lot outside and I wanted to bring it back," he said.

The Art Lords' work includes a series that Mokamel described as "healing the wounds of Afghanistan."

It features red hearts on a white wall.

One heart is a balloon held by a little girl and one is being pulled in a handcart.

A red map of Afghanistan is covered with a Band-Aid.

The next series will be about the bombings, which have killed more than 50 people in Kabul recently.

Mokamel's street art first appeared in July in front of Afghanistan's government intelligence agency, similar to the Central Intelligence Agency in the United States.

He painted a pair of beautiful woman's eyes gazing out from the blast walls.

They are a warning to corrupt officials.

Afghans were excited by the eyes, because they immediately understood their meaning.

Corruption and unemployment are among the toughest problems facing their country.

The arts are beginning to return to Afghanistan.

Ordinary Afghans, however, who are mostly poor, have little chance to see them.

Fans of the Art Lords' street art come back day after day to take part.

"I tell them it's really important because the minute you put the stroke of a brush on a wall, that much of the wall has disappeared," Mokamel said.

