Esmatullah is a day worker who got engaged in 1999 at age 26.

His bride-to-be was a young girl from a village near Andkhoy, in western [Afghanistan](http://www.newsela.com/articles/?query=Afghanistan).

She was chosen for him and he was eager to wed. Fourteen years later, Esmatullah is still single.

Afghan weddings have many ancient traditions.

One of them is the custom known as walwar.

It requires the groom-to-be to pay cold cash to the bride's father.

The sum can top $20,000.

This is much more money than a working-class Afghan can afford.

Andkhoy is a town of carpet makers and wheat farmers.

Here, [men who want to get married](http://www.newsela.com/articles/syrian-brides/levels/790) borrow money from relatives and friends.

They pay the money back over months or years.

For workers like Esmatullah, the amount is far out of reach.

The girl's family demands $13,000.

Friends and relatives lent him $8,000.

But he has no way of coming up with the rest.

"I make $6 a day as a day laborer," says Esmatullah.

"God knows how long it will take me to raise the rest."

Women's rights supporters don't like the tradition.

They say it puts a price tag on a daughter.

The money gives people the idea that women are little more than property.

"It's basically money that the father gets for selling his daughter," says Mojgan Mostafavi.

She is a member of the Afghan Women's Affairs Ministry.

"They are saying, 'You are like our animal.'

" Walwar is against the law.

But officials allow it because it has been a part of Afghan tribal ways for hundreds of years.

Punishing fathers or grooms who make walwar payments is rare, Mostafavi says.

Mostafavi called on religious leaders, reporters, and police to help end the practice.

She said it breaks both Afghan and religious law.

Recently, about 400 religious leaders came to Kabul, the capital of Afghanistan,  to oppose walwar.

They agreed to argue against the tradition at their mosques.

Most Afghans are Muslim and worship in mosques.

Walwar is not the only thing that keeps couples from getting married in Afghanistan.

The average worker makes $35 a month.

But Afghans spend tens of thousands of dollars on a wedding.

They often invite hundreds of guests.

Asadullah is a 21-year-old law student.

He spent $28,000 on his wedding: $13,000 was for walwar, $12,000 went to the bride's gold jewelry, another tradition; the reception cost $3,000.

"It's a lot of money, but this is our society," says Asadullah.

"We have no choice but to pay."

In 2011, some politicians proposed a bill to limit weddings to no more than 500 guests.

The Women's Affairs Ministry supported the bill.

But it was rejected by President Hamid Karzai's Cabinet.

It didn't make it to a vote, Mostafavi says.

"They are spending so much money, but these families often don't have enough money to buy food," she says.

"I know some families that have had 3,000 to 4,000 guests at their weddings.

In this country, a boy has to work so many years and borrow so much money to have a wedding.

Why is this happening?

It's a big roadblock for girls and boys in this society."

Pride is a main reason why Afghans spend so much on large weddings, says Samir Rostiyar.

He owns a wedding hall in Kabul.

Families enjoy going one better than their friends and neighbors.

Even if they're not competitive, they don't want the shame of being called cheap.

Big, fancy weddings are also a way of escaping everyday life.

"Afghanistan has been at war for 30 years," Rostiyar says.

"People spend this much money to get a break from all the misery."

Afghanistan got rid of its last king in 1973.

Since then, control of the country has changed often.

Communists, the Taliban, and now the current government have all fought for power.

Young people getting married have never experienced peace time in their own country.

Abdullah Rahman got engaged a year ago.

The father of the woman he was going to marry set the walwar price at $15,000.

Rahman and his family bargained him down to $10,000.

To begin raising the money, Rahman had to leave college.

He did odd jobs in his hometown of Andkhoy.

He's been able to pay his future father-in-law only about $1,000.

"My father's working and I'm working to make the money," Rahman said.

"I have no idea how long it will take.

It's very hard to focus on life, focus on saving the money.

It's a tradition and we have to pay it, but I hope someday someone gets rid of this custom."

