Less than a year ago, Shah Bibi Tarakhail was at home in Afghanistan.

She went outside one morning to play with her brother.

There had been a dangerous battle the night before.

But that was nothing the people in her village weren't used to.

Their village had been a center of violence since the Afghan war began.

She picked up something that looked like a rock.

But it was actually a grenade.

Shah Bibi threw it on the ground and it exploded.

The explosion killed Shah Bibi's brother.

It took off most of her right arm, destroyed her eye and scarred her face.

A group called Children of War Foundation wanted to help her.

It brought her to the United States.

Shriners Hospital treated Shah Bibi for free.

When the doctors and therapists met the little girl, they knew that giving her a new arm would change her life.

But they could never have guessed what happened next.

Within weeks of strapping on her new limb, she would be using it to pick up a brush.

With it, the 7-year-old began carving out a new life.

A life as a painter.

"What color would you like?"

asked artist Davyd Whaley.

They were seated at a table in an art gallery in Beverly Hills.

"That one!"

the normally quiet girl responded.

She pointed to a tube of blue paint.

Then, before her teacher could fetch it, she grabbed it with her new hand.

She unscrewed the top with her other hand.

She began squeezing out the tube onto a palette.

Her friends from the childrens' hospital watched her.

They were delighted.

Shah Bibi made a series of wide brush strokes.

She used a piece of art board Whaley had provided.

Soon there were shades of blue, green and bright orange.

They were laid out across little stickers of fish, bunnies, a flower and sky.

Whaley had showed her how to place them on the board beforehand.

At one point she giggled.

She was embarrassed.

She had accidentally squeezed a tube of orange paint onto the painting.

It was supposed to go on the palette.

But Whaley told her that accidental art sometimes makes the best abstract art.

The finished result "was pretty mind-blowing," the grown-up artist said afterward.

Shah Bibi not only handles a brush well, Whaley said.

She has an strong grasp of matching colors.

Whaley said she has such talent, she could grow up to be an artist.

His own work is hanging at the Beverly Hills gallery.

She'll return to her family in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) next week.

But Children of War plans to bring her back next year.

They want to give her a new eye and take care of her scars.

She's learned to speak a lot of English since she came to the U.S. And she also has a taste for American culture.

She was wearing a pretty dress and a pair of Minnie Mouse shoes.

Sometimes she sang along to the song "Let It Go" from the Disney movie "Frozen" as she painted.

Afterward she was a bit quiet but still all smiles.

She wandered the gallery with an iPhone, snapping pictures of the paintings, the sculptures and the people.

But there was still some unfinished business.

Whaley asked if she might like to do another painting.

"Yes!"

came the happy reply.

And the two of them got back to work.

