The doctors and therapists knew the little girl from Afghanistan was missing her arm.

And they knew the artificial one they gave her would change her life.

What they didn't know was that within weeks of strapping on her new limb, she would be using it to pick up a brush.

With it, 7-year-old Shah Bibi Tarakhail began carving out a new life — of abstract painting.

"What color would you like?"

asked artist Davyd Whaley as he sat next to her.

They were seated at a table in an art gallery in the heart of Beverly Hills.

"That one!"

the normally quiet girl responded with a determined voice.

She pointed to a tube of blue acrylic paint.

Then, before her teacher could fetch it, she grabbed it with her new prosthetic hand.

She unscrewed the top with her other hand and began squeezing out the tube onto a palette.

Her friends from the childrens' hospital watched with delight.

Shah Bibi made a series of broad brush strokes on a piece of art board Whaley had provided.

Soon there were shades of blue, green and bright orange.

They were laid out across little stickers of fish, bunnies, a flower and sky that Whaley had showed her how to place on the board beforehand.

At one point she giggled with embarrassment.

She had accidentally squeezed a tube of orange paint onto the painting rather than the palette.

But Whaley quickly told her that accidental art sometimes makes the best abstract art.

"You're going to do a Jackson Pollock," he joked, referring to the famous American artist who painted in a drip style.

The finished result "was pretty mind-blowing," Whaley said afterward.

Shah Bibi not only handles a brush well, he said.

She has an strong grasp of matching colors.

Whaley added that her natural talent means she could be an artist when she grows up.

His own work is on display in a large exhibition at the Beverly Hills gallery.

Less than a year ago, Shah Bibi was at home in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) when she went outside one morning to play with her brother.

There had been a dangerous battle between Taliban fighters and U.S. military forces the night before, but that was nothing villagers weren't used to.

Their village had been a center of violence since the Afghan war began.

"There was what looked like a rock that she picked up and threw on the ground and it exploded," said Ilaha Omar, a Children of War Foundation member.

She brought her to the United States, where Shriners Hospital treated her for free.

The explosion had destroyed her right eye.

It took off most of her right arm, put a few scars on her face, and killed her brother.

David Kraft makes prosthetic limbs and helped fit Shah Bibi with her new arm.

She was a little frightened the first time he saw her, Kraft said.

But she quickly warmed to the people around her and impressed them with how quickly she learned how to use her new arm.

She'll return to her family next week.

But Children of War plans to bring her back next year to fit her with a prosthetic eye and attend to her scars.

She's fluent in the Afghan languages of Pashto and Dari.

But she's also picked up a good deal of English since arriving in the U.S. late last year.

And a taste for American culture.

Dressed up in a pretty dress and a pair of Minnie Mouse shoes, she sometimes sang along to the song "Let It Go" from the Disney film "Frozen" as she painted.

Afterward she was a bit quiet but still all smiles as she wandered the gallery with an iPhone, snapping pictures of the paintings, the sculptures and the people.

And a few selfies to take back home.

But before heading home to her Los Angeles host family and then back to Afghanistan, there was still some unfinished business.

As the afternoon grew longer and the gallery crowd thinned, Whaley asked if she might like to do another painting.

"Yes!"

came the happy reply.

And the pair got back to work.

