Hot dogs are a rare sight in Afghanistan.

So it was particularly unusual when five vehicles painted to look like giant frankfurters — with bright yellow mustard zigzags — popped up on the streets of the capital city this year.

The food-truck craze that is sweeping North America has now made it all the way to Kabul.

Naveed Noori, 25, introduced Afghanistan to food trucks after studying the trend online and in Toronto, where his wife and baby daughter live.

In May, Noori and his cousin, Abdullah Karim, launched Lazeez, which means "delicious."

The new company sells hot dogs, burgers and chicken sandwiches out of the back of five customized three-wheelers outfitted with hot plates and deep-fryers.

On a crisp fall morning, Noori visited one of his trucks, parked on a busy thoroughfare in central Kabul.

The hot-dog-on-wheels, with a yellowish sesame-seed bun for a roof, stood out in a sea of drab sedans, sagging minibuses and gleaming SUVs belonging to the very rich.

Several cars came to a halt, the drivers peering with puzzled expressions as other motorists swerved and honked.

The truck driver, who doubles as cook, had donned a hair net and plastic gloves and was grilling burgers.

Smoke blew from an exhaust fitted to the roof.

"People don't know what exactly this is," Noori said.

Afghans are used to buying food from stationary vehicles.

Wooden carts piled high with ripe bananas and plump pomegranates sit on seemingly every corner in Kabul.

Bolani, a potato-stuffed flatbread served with yogurt sauce, is a popular street snack.

However, dishing up a full meal — Lazeez also sells fries, salads and drinks — on Kabul's smog-choked boulevards is different.

To promote cleanliness, the cooks pack the food in wrappers and paper bags printed with the Lazeez logo.

Metal trash cans are attached to each truck to discourage customers from adding to the garbage that clogs roadside sewers.

A black sedan carrying five young medical students screeched to a stop in front of the truck.

Mohammed Idris, 20, stepped out and surveyed the menu, finally ordering five chicken sandwiches.

The bill came to about $7, very affordable for the middle class, and as Idris bit into his sandwich he seemed impressed.

"It's my first time here," he said.

"I didn't know what a food truck was."

The truck's distinctive design draws a lot of attention.

Apart from a few supermarkets and restaurants aimed at foreigners, hot dogs are not sold here and are largely unknown.

The cousins briefly considered giving the humble sausage a new Afghani name and identity, but in the end they decided to keep it simple.

"A hot dog is a hot dog," said Karim, 30.

Battle-scarred Kabul has not traditionally been an environment in which to start a new business.

Corrupt authorities, customs restrictions, copycat competitors and difficulties getting supplies all cause headaches.

However, the Lazeez trucks are not the only small Western-style businesses to have popped up in the city recently.

Others include a paintball park, a frozen yogurt shop and a bowling alley.

Noori's family fled Afghanistan when the strict religious group, the Taliban, took over the country in the 1990s.

He spent most of his childhood in Pakistan before returning to Kabul in 2007.

Here, he reunited with Karim, and the two began testing ideas for a mobile business.

With an initial investment of $70,000, they bought five of the motorized local rickshaws known as zaranj.

Then, they spent the next year turning them into mobile kitchens and trying to make them dirt-proof.

They focused on the details, inviting friends to taste-test multiple burger recipes and ketchup they purchased from Pakistan when they were unable to find an Afghan brand they liked.

Custom-printed menus, napkins and other paper goods are also transported overland from Pakistan, as are the chicken hot dogs.

Beef franks are only available at one high-end grocery store in Kabul.

Pork products are forbidden in the Islamic nation.

The deliveries from Pakistan are usually swift: If Noori calls in an order by noon, the hot dogs arrive by 9 p.m. that day, shipped through a border crossing in the Pakistani city of Lahore.

The rest of the food, including more than 3,000 chicken patties and 7,000 samosa pastries each week, is cooked at their rented office, where the trucks are parked overnight.

The cousins have plans to double their fleet to 10 trucks, launch a home delivery service and produce their first video ad.

For now, Noori said, they sell about $450 in food every day, enough to turn a small monthly profit.

Rohit Shuja, who is in his 30s, was unemployed and had never cooked before he applied to work for Lazeez — but he now grills chicken and works the fryer like a pro.

The biggest challenge, he said, is dealing with police officers who hassle him about parking.

"We have to explain to them every day what we are doing," said Shuja, who was wearing a blue company polo shirt.

City traffic police allow the trucks to park in certain areas.

However, Noori said, attempts to get official permits were delayed by the recent presidential election crisis, which paralyzed government agencies for months.

In the meantime, Lazeez drivers sometimes resort to a more direct business practice when faced with meddlesome cops.

"We give them a burger or two," Noori said, "and they go away."

