Hot dogs are a rare snack in Afghanistan.

So it was particularly unusual when five vehicles painted to look like giant frankfurters popped up on the streets of the capital city this year.

The food-truck craze that is sweeping North America has now made it all the way to Kabul.

Naveed Noori, 25, is introducing Afghanistan to food trucks.

He first observed the food truck scene in Toronto, where his wife and baby daughter live.

In May, Noori and his cousin, Abdullah Karim, launched Lazeez, which means "delicious."

The new company sells hot dogs, burgers and chicken sandwiches out of the back of five small trucks outfitted with hot plates and deep-fryers.

On a fall morning, Noori visited one of his trucks, parked on a busy thoroughfare in central Kabul.

The hot-dog-on-wheels stood out in a sea of plain cars and minibuses.

Its sides were painted with bright yellow mustard zigzags, and its roof resembled a sesame-seed bun.

Several cars came to a halt, the drivers peering with puzzled expressions.

Other motorists swerved and honked.

The truck driver, who doubles as cook, had donned a hair net and plastic gloves and was grilling burgers.

Smoke blew from an exhaust fitted to the roof.

"People don't know what exactly this is," Noori said.

Dishing up a full meal — Lazeez also sells fries, salads and drinks — on Kabul's smog-choked boulevards is a challenge.

To promote cleanliness, the cooks pack the food in wrappers and paper bags printed with the Lazeez logo.

Metal trash cans are attached to each truck to discourage customers from littering.

A black sedan carrying five young medical students screeched to a stop in front of the truck.

Mohammed Idris, 20, stepped out and studied the menu, finally ordering five chicken sandwiches.

The bill came to about $7, very affordable for the middle class, and as Idris bit into his sandwich he seemed impressed.

"It's my first time here," he said.

"I didn't know what a food truck was."

Apart from a few supermarkets and restaurants aimed at foreigners, hot dogs are not sold here and thus are unfamiliar to most people.

The cousins briefly considered giving the humble sausage a new Afghani name and style.

In the end, though, they decided to keep it simple.

"A hot dog is a hot dog," said Karim, 30.

Battle-scarred Kabul has not traditionally been an easy place in which to start a new business.

Crooked authorities, copycat competitors and difficulties getting supplies all cause headaches.

However, the Lazeez trucks are not the only small Western-style businesses to have popped up in the city recently.

Others include a paintball park, a frozen yogurt shop and a bowling alley.

Noori's family fled Afghanistan when the strict religious group, the Taliban, took over the government in the 1990s.

He spent most of his childhood in Pakistan before returning to Kabul in 2007.

Here, he reunited with Karim, and the two soon began testing ideas for a business.

With $70,000, they bought five small three-wheeled trucks.

Then, they spent the next year turning them into mobile kitchens and trying to make them dirt-proof.

They focused on the details, inviting friends to taste-test burger recipes and various kinds of ketchup.

Custom-printed menus, napkins and other paper goods are all transported overland from Pakistan, as are the chicken hot dogs and ketchup packets.

Beef franks are only available at one high-end grocery store in Kabul.

Pork products are forbidden in Afghanistan because Islam is the state religion.

The deliveries from Pakistan are usually swift: If Noori calls in an order by noon, the hot dogs arrive by 9 p.m. that day, shipped through a border crossing in the Pakistani city of Lahore.

The rest of the food is cooked at a rented bungalow where the trucks are parked overnight.

Each week, more than 3,000 chicken patties and 7,000 samosa pastries are prepared there.

The cousins have plans to double their fleet to 10 trucks, launch a home delivery service and make their first video ad.

For now, Noori said, they sell about $450 in food every day, enough to turn a small monthly profit.

Rohit Shuja, who is in his 30s, was unemployed and had never cooked before he applied to work for Lazeez.

Now, he grills chicken and works the fryer like a pro.

The biggest challenge, he said, is dealing with police officers who hassle him about parking.

"We have to explain to them every day what we are doing," Shuja said.

Lazeez drivers sometimes handle the parking issue in a more direct way when questioned by nosy police officers.

"We give them a burger or two," Noori said, "and they go away."

