BUL, Afghanistan -- Mohammad Aziz Ayob adjusts his Boy Scout neckerchief, leans over, and plants a sapling into the dry Kabul soil.

Two helicopters pass overhead, the clack-clack clack-clack of their blades echoing off the neighboring mountains.

Young boys wearing uniform green shirts and caps seems dangerous in a war zone.

But organizers of Afghanistan's new Scouting program say community service and leadership are sorely needed in a society scarred by decades of war and violence.

Ayob, orphaned as a child and raised by his aunt, can barely afford to attend high school, and worries about finding a job.

But such concerns melt away when he puts on his Scout shirt.

"I love my uniform; it makes me feel proud," said Ayob, 18.

"Scouts are like my family."

The group's motto, "Be Prepared," takes on a special meaning in this country.

In Afghanistan, young Scouts risk death to attend meetings, earn the "rule of law" merit badge, and learn how to spot roadside bombs in first aid class.

Meanwhile, Girl Scouts in this conservative Muslim nation are much less visible.

The girls volunteer in hospitals, for example, rather than working out in the open.

Afghan Scouting's program manager, Mohammad Tamim Hamkar, said "it's hard to let the girls do everything" because of extremist groups like the Taliban.

Camping and hiking are also restricted to boys, given the security concerns.

Campfire singing stopped after strict Muslim clerics accused the Scouts of worshipping fire.

The recent debates in the U.S. about allowing gays to participate in Scouting wouldn't happen in Afghanistan.

In this country, the very concept of homosexuality is taboo and open discussion is unthinkable.

Though they have less opportunities, girls often make better Scouts than boys, organizers say, because they have fewer outlets for activity in such a male-dominated society.

Girls thought to be shy or "meek" are empowered by the Scout uniform, said Keith Blackey, 68, an American advising the Afghan Scouting program.

Blackey previously helped develop Scouting in Iraq.

"It's like a superhero putting on a cape.

Then they take it off and they're meek again," is how he described the power of the uniform.

Scouting was introduced in Afghanistan in 1931, and its golden years were in the 1960s, said Gul Ahmad Mustafa, who is the national training commissioner.

But the Soviet occupation of the 1980s virtually ended the movement.

And traditional Scouting was banned during the Taliban era.

Instead, the Taliban directed the Scouts to spy on their parents or, later, to clean mosques and fill ablution pots used for washing rituals.

Afghanistan has not been a member of the international Scouting organization for decades.

The Afghan charity Parsa focuses on orphans, women and literacy.

Parsa reinvigorated the Scouting program in 2009 to counter youth recruitment efforts by religious or political extremists.

Scout troops are active in only six of Afghanistan's 34 provinces, most of which are too dangerous for international advisers to visit.

"We're starting from zero," Hamkar said, pointing to patchwork uniforms, unfinished manuals and limited funding.

Hoping to learn from mistakes in Iraq, where Scouting expanded too quickly and then fell apart, the Afghan focus is on steady growth, Blackey said.

The program now has 1,062 members, 40 percent of them girls.

It hopes to have 1,500 Scouts signed up by the end of the year.

Scouting's links to the West and its English-language elements could mean trouble for its members if Afghanistan descends into chaos after the withdrawal of foreign troops in 2014.

So organizers are working hard to make Scouting a local program in Afghan life.

In Ghor province, a Scout troop's volunteer work includes cleaning mosques, proving that Scouting is not trying to threaten traditions in Afghanistan.

Blackey said that the organization is not promoting a different religion.

"We're teaching them the same things their parents are," the organizer added.

Afghan Scouting is currently funded 100 percent by foreign grants.

Organizers worry about what will happen after the foreign troops leave.

It is also difficult to train and even look after local staff.

"If things get ugly, anything with an international connection could be targeted," said Marnie Gustavson, Parsa's executive director.

"If the foreign staff becomes a liability, we'll leave."

Scouting in Afghanistan has a long way to go.

According to Abdullah Rashid, who works for the World Organization of the Scout Movement, it is still years away from official recognition by the rest of the world's scouts.

During the dark years in Afghanistan, loyal Scouts hid their uniforms.

"I was too scared to wear mine, even alone in my room," said training commissioner Mustafa.

"Sometimes I'd peek in the drawer, though, and remember better times."

Mike Farrar, an American military contractor helping train Afghan Scouts, said the program has proved invaluable.

"I never went to a Scout meeting where I had to wear a flak jacket and carry a weapon," he said.

"If the Taliban comes back, obviously Scouting goes away.

But if the Taliban doesn't, Afghanistan will embrace it."

