When the doctors and therapists met the little girl from Afghanistan, they knew she was missing her arm.

Making her a new one would change her life.

But they couldn't have guessed what she would do with it.

Within weeks of strapping on her new limb, she would be using it to pick up a brush.

With it, 7-year-old Shah Bibi Tarakhail began carving out a new life.

A life of abstract painting.

"What color would you like?"

asked artist Davyd Whaley.

He was next to the little girl with the prosthetic arm.

They were seated at a table in an art gallery in the heart of Beverly Hills.

"That one!"

the normally quiet girl responded.

She pointed to a tube of blue acrylic paint.

Then, before her teacher could fetch it, she grabbed it with her new prosthetic hand.

She unscrewed the top with her other hand.

She began squeezing out the tube onto a palette.

Her friends from the childrens' hospital watched her.

They were delighted.

Shah Bibi made a series of broad brush strokes on a piece of art board Whaley had provided.

Soon there were shades of blue, green and bright orange.

They were laid out across little stickers of fish, bunnies, a flower and sky that Whaley had showed her how to place on the board beforehand.

At one point she giggled with embarrassment.

She had accidentally squeezed a tube of orange paint onto the painting rather than the palette.

But Whaley quickly told her that accidental art sometimes makes the best abstract art.

He compared her work to a famous American abstract artist.

"You're going to do a Jackson Pollock," he said.

The finished result "was pretty mind-blowing," the artist said afterward.

Shah Bibi not only handles a brush well, he said.

She has an strong grasp of matching colors.

She could grow up to be an artist if she wants, Whaley explained.

Less than a year ago, Shah Bibi was at home in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

She went outside one morning to play with her brother.

There had been a dangerous battle between Taliban fighters and U.S. military forces the night before.

But that was nothing villagers weren't used to.

Their village had been a center of violence since the Afghan war began.

"There was what looked like a rock that she picked up and threw on the ground and it exploded," said Ilaha Omar, a Children of War Foundation member.

She brought her to the United States, where Shriners Hospital treated her for free.

The explosion had destroyed her right eye.

It took off most of her right arm, put a few scars on her face, and killed her brother.

David Kraft makes prosthetic arms and legs.

He helped fit Shah Bibi with her new arm.

She was a little frightened the first time he saw her, said Kraft.

But she quickly warmed to the people around her.

She impressed them with how quickly she learned how to use her new arm.

She'll return to her family next week.

But Children of War plans to bring her back next year to fit her with a prosthetic eye and treat her scars.

She's fluent in the Afghan languages of Pashto and Dari.

But she's also picked up a good deal of English since arriving in the U.S. late last year.

And a taste for American culture.

Dressed up out in a pretty dress and a pair of Minnie Mouse shoes, she sometimes sang along to the song "Let It Go" from the Disney film "Frozen" as she painted.

Afterward she was a bit quiet but still all smiles as she wandered the gallery with an iPhone, snapping pictures of the paintings, the sculptures and the people.

And a few selfies to take back home.

But before heading home to Afghanistan there was still some unfinished business.

Whaley asked if she might like to do another painting.

"Yes!"

came the happy reply.

And the pair got back to work.

