President Barack Obama announced plans Thursday to keep nearly 10,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan through most of next year and 5,500 when he leaves office in 2017.

The announcement cast aside the president's promise to end the war on his watch.

Indeed, it ensures the conflict will be inherited by the next president.

Obama called the new war plan a "modest but meaningful" extension of the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan, which he originally planned to end next year.

He acknowledged America's weariness of the lengthy conflict but said he was "firmly convinced we should make this extra effort."

Military leaders have argued for months that the Afghans needed additional assistance and support from the United States to beat back a revived Taliban.

Without such assistance, they say, gains made over the past 14 years of American bloodshed and with billions of dollars in aid could be lost.

Before being toppled from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001, the Taliban controlled all of Afghanistan.

In his remarks from the White House, Obama said that although Afghan forces have made progress, the security situation in the country remains fragile.

Under the newly announced plan, the current force of 9,800 troops will be maintained in Afghanistan through most of next year and then will be drawn down to 5,500 troops in 2017.

The pace of the reduction is still to be determined and will depend on the military situation.

It will be up to the next president — the third U.S. commander in chief to oversee the war — to decide how to proceed from there.

"I suspect that we will continue to evaluate this going forward, as will the next president," Obama said.

Until now, Afghanistan has barely been a factor in the 2016 presidential campaign.

However, Obama's announcement could send candidates in both parties scrambling to outline their own plans for a war they could inherit.

Several Republican candidates welcomed Obama's decision.

Still, they used it as an opportunity to criticize the president's foreign policy.

"I think it is the right thing to do," New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said in a radio interview.

"I think the president may be in some small way waking up to the fact that disengaging America from the world and allowing there to be safe havens for terrorists is not the right way to protect American homeland security and national security."

Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush said he was glad Obama "dropped his plan to abandon the region entirely."

However, he added that if the president is committed to securing a stable Afghanistan, "he shouldn't shortchange what our military commanders have said they need to complete the mission."

According to a defense official, the president approved the highest number of troops requested by commanders, with the greatest amount of flexibility.

Key to the commanders' requests was a continuation of the current counterterrorism mission, which Obama said would indeed be part of the effort after 2016.

The second part of the U.S. mission is training and assisting Afghan security forces, which are now in charge of combat operations across the country.

The American forces will be based in Kabul and at Bagram Air Field, as well as bases in Jalalabad and Kandahar.

Whoever becomes president next will likely inherit active U.S. military missions in two countries Obama vowed to withdraw from: Iraq and Afghanistan.

The president did withdraw most U.S. troops from Iraq in late 2011, an action he heralded as a promise kept to a war-weary America.

However, the rise of the Islamic State group drew the U.S. military back into Iraq last year to train and assist local security forces and to launch airstrikes.

Obama has said that campaign will likely last beyond his term in office.

On Thursday, Obama insisted he was not disappointed to not be fulfilling his pledge to withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan before he leaves.

U.S. officials have hinted at the policy shift for weeks.

They have noted that conditions in Afghanistan have changed since two years ago, when Obama first announced a more rapid troop withdrawal.

The White House also has been buoyed by having a more reliable partner in Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, who succeeded the unpredictable Hamid Karzai last year.

"We cannot separate the importance of governance from the importance of security," Obama said.

The president's decision was reinforced when Taliban fighters took control of the key northern city of Kunduz late last month.

The Taliban's seizure of the city led to a drawn-out battle between Taliban fighters and Afghan government forces supported by U.S. airstrikes.

During the fighting, a U.S. air attack hit a hospital, killing 12 Doctors Without Borders staff and 10 patients.

U.S. commanders are not only worried about a revived Taliban.

They also have expressed concern about Islamic State fighters moving into the country and gaining recruits from within the Taliban.

The Islamic State is an extremist group attempting to set up its own country governed by its version of Islamic law.

The group's fighters have captured parts of Syria and some of northern and western Iraq.

Officials said discussions on staying in Afghanistan longer began during President Ghani's visit to Washington in March.

The top U.S. commander in the country, General John Campbell, recently presented Obama with a range of options calling for keeping more troops there.

All were based on his judgment of what it would take to sustain the Afghan army and minimize the chances of losing more ground.

Officials said several countries allied with the United States have expressed support for extending the troop presence in Afghanistan.

They did not, however, outline any specific commitments from other nations.

