The United States has been fighting in Afghanistan for 14 years.

It has been fighting the Taliban.

The Taliban used to run all of Afghanistan.

They treated women very badly.

They also killed many people.

In 2001 the United States forced the Taliban out of power.

New Afghan leaders then took over.

The Taliban never really left Afghanistan, though.

They grew strong again over time.

Now they are trying to take over the country a second time.

Two years ago President Barack Obama promised to end the war in Afghanistan.

He said he would bring all U.S. troops home.

There are different kinds of U.S. troops in Iraq.

Some are in the Army.

Others fly planes.

On Thursday Obama said he will not be able to keep his promise.

Things have just gotten too bad in Afghanistan.

The troops will have to stay.

Next year the United States will keep almost 10,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan.

By 2017, there will still be 5,500 troops there.

Obama had promised to end the war next year.

Now, the war will be handed over to whoever becomes president next.

Obama will leave office early in 2017.

The president said he knows Americans are tired of the long war in Afghanistan.

He said the fighting must go on a little longer.

Afghans need more help from the United States, he said.

Afghan troops have been trying to keep Taliban fighters from taking over their country again.

Obama said Afghan troops have been fighting well.

The Taliban is still very strong, though.

Without U.S. help, Afghan troops could lose the fight.

U.S. troops in Afghanistan will not only be fighting.

They will also train Afghan troops.

Things have been getting worse in Afghanistan.

Last month Taliban fighters took over the important city of Kunduz.

Afghan troops won the city back with help from the United States It took a lot of hard fighting.

The U.S. cannot let the Taliban take over any more cities, Obama said.

If the Taliban wins power again, much will be lost.

The country could go back to the dark days before 2001.

