After many long years of war, weapons can be seen almost everywhere in Afghanistan.

They range from burned-out tanks to the Russian-made Kalashnikov assault rifles slung over policemen's shoulders.

The Afghan government's main enemy these days is the Taliban.

The violent, extremist group once controlled Afghanistan, but was removed from power by U.S.-led forces in 2001.

Since then the Taliban has regrouped and has launched a series of violent attacks.

It should come as no surprise then that instead of playing "cops and robbers," young children here play "police and Taliban."

They chase each other around with toy guns designed to look like the real thing.

Like the real war, this make-believe war has had its injuries.

Over the recent Eid al-Fitr holiday at least 184 people suffered eye injuries caused by toy weapons that fire BB pellets and rubber bands.

Nearly all those injured were children.

In response to the injuries, authorities have announced a ban on toy guns.

The Afghan Interior Ministry ordered police to find and destroy all toy guns they find.

Such toys, it declared, "can lead to physical and psychological damage to people."

So far in Afghanistan, the problem of mistaking a toy gun for a real one has not been as bad as it could be.

For one thing, the noise of real gunfire is almost unmistakable to most Afghans.

Unlike in the United States, police have not yet accidentally killed any children carrying toy rifles or plastic pistols.

The toy guns come mostly from China and neighboring Pakistan.

Many were given to young boys as gifts during the recent Eid festival, which marks the end of the Muslim fasting month of Ramadan.

Before the holiday started, authorities tried to warn parents about the dangers of toy guns.

A video was prepared "to inform people how much these toy guns can be dangerous," said Dr. Abdul Rahim Majeed of the Noor Eye Hospital.

"Unfortunately, the families did not take it seriously," he added.

They "didn't pay attention to this important message and it caused many people to get injured and come to hospitals for treatments."

Majeed said many of those injured by toy guns came to Noor.

His hospital treated 116 cases during this most recent holiday — double the number from last year.

Majeed said the number of people injured nationwide was probably higher than reported.

Some people may have not sought treatment or may have gone to private hospitals, he explained.

Since the ban went into effect, police have begun searching shops and seizing toy guns from children.

At this point, it is still unclear how many of the toys have been seized.

Parents like Shakib Nasery, a 38-year-old father of two, welcome the effort to destroy the toy guns.

Any lessening of violence in the war-torn country would be good, he said — even if it is just play fighting.

"It is not good for a society to have kids with such mentality of using guns or playing gun battles," Nasery said.

Children's focus on guns is one of the many bad effects of Afghanistan's ongoing war, he added.

