People from all over the world visit Africa every year.

Some go lion hunting.

They say nothing is more exciting than hunting the mighty king of the jungle.

Lion hunting might sound exciting.

Still, many people believe it is wrong.

So many lions are killed every year that lions are starting to die out.

People around the world are getting sick of lion hunting.

Now they are very angry at an American man named Walter James Palmer.

Palmer paid to go lion hunting in Zimbabwe, which is in Africa.

He killed a popular lion named Cecil.

Cecil lived in a park.

It was against the law to hunt him.

He was supposed to be protected.

Some news reports said Palmer tricked Cecil into leaving the park.

He lured Cecil out with a dead animal tied to a car.

As soon as Cecil left the safety of the park, Palmer wounded him with an arrow.

Then he tracked Cecil for 40 hours.

Finally, he killed him with a gun.

Many people say the time has come to end lion hunting.

Across Africa lions are dying out.

A lot of African countries allow lion hunting.

For example, South Africa, Namibia and Tanzania all allow it.

The countries say they need the money hunting brings.

Hunters pay tens of thousands of dollars for the right to hunt lions.

Countries that allow lion hunting say there are rules that must be followed.

However, other people say those rules are broken all the time.

Ian Michler is from the country of South Africa.

He is fighting to protect endangered animals.

He says what happened with Cecil is common all over Africa.

"Cecil is not the first lion that has been lured," he said.

"It goes on all the time. "

Today there are only around 20,000 wild lions left in the world.

Just 20 years ago there were almost twice as many.

Zimbabwe says the killing of Cecil was unusual.

Most hunters follow the laws, it says.

When Cecil was killed he was wearing a satellite collar around his neck.

The collar gave off signals that allowed scientists to see where he was going.

Scientists have so far put collars on more than 100 lions.

They want to learn more about where lions go.

Learning more may help them protect the big cats.

