On Tuesday, President Barack Obama made a bold pledge.

More than $33 billion will soon be spent on helping Africa.

Some of the money will come from the U.S. government.

Some of the money will come from U.S. businesses.

The idea is to help African businesses to grow.

At the same time, he said, there is another goal: To help American companies make more money buying and selling in Africa.

Africa has many valuable natural resources — that is, products of the Earth.

Among them are oil, minerals, metals, cotton and various foodstuffs.

It also has a huge population, and they are getting richer.

American companies may soon find many new customers in Africa.

Obama made the announcement as he spoke at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit.

The event was the first of its kind.

It was also the largest meeting any American president has ever held with African leaders.

Countries including China have held such events for years.

All have been interested in buying oil and other natural resources from Africa.

"We don't look to Africa simply for its natural resources," Obama said.

"We recognize Africa for its greatest resource, which is its people."

Africans, he said, are rich with talent and promise.

Obama didn't mention any of the other non-African countries.

China, however, has been criticized for its behavior.

It doesn't develop businesses in Africa, some say.

Instead, it simply buys up raw materials like oil and minerals.

It then processes them — treats and prepares them for use — back in China.

African countries end up making less money than they might otherwise.

What's more, they learn nothing about processing materials themselves.

In addition, Chinese companies in Africa rarely hire African workers.

The only jobs Africans get are the lowest-level ones.

The United States wants to do things differently, Obama said.

It won't be about removing "minerals from the ground" to benefit the United States, Obama said.

The goal is to increase "jobs and opportunity for all our peoples."

U.S. companies in Africa don't behave like Chinese companies, said Africa expert Witney Schneidman.

American companies hire and train Africans.

As a result, Africans learn new skills and over time, earn more money.

Some have said the United States hasn't been paying enough attention to Africa.

"We are missing the boat," former President Bill Clinton said.

"This is a very important part of our future."

Obama said that the continent still faces "enormous challenges."

Among them are poverty, wars, hunger and disease.

Still, he said, "a new Africa" is being born.

Tanzania President Jakaya Kikwete agreed.

Africa, he said, still has its problems.

However, many of its 53 countries have changed for the better over the past 10 years.

Other speakers noted that Africa is growing in wealth.

Six of the 10 fastest-growing countries in the world are in Africa.

The new attention to Africa wasn't only seen in speeches.

On Tuesday night, the president and first lady Michelle Obama gave a dinner at the White House.

The menu included African dishes.

Over the last 10 years, China has done more business in Africa than the United States has, Schneidman said.

Still, "the African market is so large," he said.

"There's such an opportunity there."

The real question now, he said, is: "How do we get more U.S. companies into the continent?"

