In Africa, Nasser Diallo had a good job at a radio station.

That all ended in 2009, he said.

The army became very violent.

Diallo didn't like what was happening in his country.

He decided to leave.

Many black Africans, like Diallo, are moving to America.

But they cannot find a good job.

At home, they were doctors, lawyers or teachers.

Here, they drive cabs.

They park cars.

They take care of other people's children.

They often are very poor.

As a group, they are very educated.

They are more likely to have a university degree than other groups born outside the United States.

Their brains are being wasted, said Jeanne Batalova.

She is with the Migration Policy Institute (MPI).

It studies immigrants.

Immigrants are people who come from other countries.

Immigrants from other parts of the world also cannot find good jobs.

African people have an even harder time.

There are many reasons.

Many of them do not know people who can help them find jobs.

They also may be treated unfairly because of their black skin color.

They have another problem, as well.

Some employers think African colleges are not as good as American ones, said Jeff Gross.

He is with the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA).

The group helps immigrants get jobs.

Some states and cities are trying to make it easier for immigrants.

They are making new rules to help immigrants work.

Helping parents get jobs also helps children, said Tadd Wamester.

He is with Upwardly Global.

The group helps immigrants find work.

The number of black African immigrants is growing quickly.

Between 2000 and 2013, their numbers almost tripled or went up by three times.

The number is expected to grow.

Many Africans feel that they should get a job, fast.

It does not matter what they do.

When Diallo came to the United States, he stayed with his uncle.

The uncle told Diallo to drive a cab.

"You don't have to aim high."

In Africa, Haddi had a college degree.

She had a good job at a bank.

When she moved to America, she found work at a factory.

Now she owns a hair-braiding shop.

She sent two children to college.

She wants her children to have a better life.

"I want more for them," Haddi said.

"All parents want more for their children."

