On Tuesday, President Barack Obama promised that more than $33 billion would be directed to Africa.

Some of the money will be spent by the U.S. government.

The rest of the money will come from U.S. businesses.The United States, he said, wants to help African businesses grow.

At the same time, it wants to increase opportunities for American companies.

Africa has many valuable natural resources — that is, products of the Earth.

Among them are oil, minerals, metals, cotton and various foodstuffs.

It could also be an enormous market for American goods.

Obama made the remarks as he addressed the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit.

The event was the first of its kind and the largest any American president has held with African leaders.

Countries including China have held such events for years.

All have been interested in buying oil and other natural resources.

"We don't look to Africa simply for its natural resources," Obama said.

"We recognize Africa for its greatest resource, which is its people."

Africans, he said, are rich with talent and promise.

Obama didn't mention any of the other countries interested in Africa.

China, however, has been criticized for its behavior.

It doesn't develop businesses in Africa, some complain.

Instead, it simply buys up raw materials like oil and minerals.

Then it processes them — treats and prepares them for use — back in China.

African countries end up making less money than they might otherwise.

What's more, they learn nothing about processing materials themselves.

In addition, Chinese companies in Africa rarely hire African workers.

The only jobs Africans get are the lowest-level ones.

The United States wants to do things differently, Obama said.

"We don't simply want" to remove "minerals from the ground for our growth," Obama told the gathered African leaders.

The goal is to increase "jobs and opportunity for all our peoples," he said.

"That's the kind of partnership America offers."

In the past, some have suggested the United States has been mistakenly ignoring Africa.

"We are missing the boat," former President Bill Clinton said.

"This is a very important part of our future."

Speakers noted that six of the 10 fastest-growing countries in the world are in Africa.

The continent's middle class is the fastest growing on the planet.

Obama said that the continent still faces "enormous challenges."

Among them are widespread poverty, wars, hunger and disease.

Still, he said, "a new Africa" is "emerging."

Tanzania's President Jakaya Kikwete echoed Obama's remarks.

Africa, he said, still has its "hot spots."

However, many of its 53 countries have changed over the past 10 years.

"Democracy has taken root," Kikwete said.

"There is stronger commitment now to fight vices, corruption, drug trafficking.

There is more respect for human rights."

The attention to Africa included a dinner at the White House late Tuesday night hosted by the president and first lady Michelle Obama.

The menu included African dishes.

The U.S. approach to business in Africa "is almost the opposite of the Chinese approach," said Africa expert Witney Schneidman.

When American companies like Microsoft, Procter &amp; Gamble or GE operate in Africa, they hire and train local people.

As a result, Africans learn new skills.

Over time, a middle class begins to develop.

Over the last 10 years, Chinese trade with Africa has grown more rapidly than U.S. trade with the continent, Schneidman said.

However, "the African market is so large" that "there's such an opportunity there."

The real question now, he said, is, "How do we get more U.S. companies into the continent?"

