Growing up in Russia — then part of the Soviet Union — Emilia Tynes-Mensah did the same things other children did.

She read the classics of literary master Alexander Pushkin and listened to the symphonies of Peter Tchaikovsky.

She heard the propaganda that life here was better than anywhere else.

In her home, though, there was also American jazz, Thanksgiving celebrations and stories of the struggles facing blacks in the United States.

An improvised version of soul food sometimes replaced borscht, or beet soup, the Russian favorite.

That's because her father, George Tynes, was an African-American agricultural expert from Virginia who moved to Russia in the 1930s.

Tynes was among hundreds of blacks who traveled to the Soviet Union in the two decades after the 1917 Russian Revolution, which brought the Communist Party to power.

Some were hard-core Communists, but others were simply curious adventurers.

"My father didn't know anything about this country.

He didn't know what to expect," Tynes-Mensah, 73, said as she sat in her Moscow apartment.

She is a former university chemistry instructor.

"Everybody who would come to the Soviet Union from America, my father would tell them, 'Please don't forget to bring me some records,'" Tynes-Mensah said.

"He loved Ella Fitzgerald, Duke Ellington, Paul Robeson.

But he also loved classical music and opera and ballet."

Most of the African-Americans who came to Russia were seeking a better life, said historian Allison Blakely, who has written a book on the African-American immigrants.

They were "desperate to flee the social inequality and Depression-era hardships that racked America at the time."

She added, "They were looking for a society where they could escape color prejudice and racism."

Today, fewer than 50 descendants of these African-Americans are believed to still live in Russia.

In all, their numbers in the former Soviet republics could be between 100 and 200, according to researchers.

They have become footnotes to African-American and Russian history, said Yelena Demikovsky, a New York-based Russian film director and researcher.

Demikovsky is currently making a movie, "Black Russians — The Red Experience," about the immigrants to the Soviet Union and their descendants.

Soviet officials actively recruited skilled foreign laborers and professionals, Blakely said.

About 18,000 Americans answered the call to work in the 1930s.

Among them were several hundred African-Americans who traveled to the Soviet Union, including dozens who lived there for "the good part of a decade," Blakely said.

Their ranks included graduates of historically black colleges such as Tuskegee University in Alabama and Virginia's Hampton Institute.

They were engineers, educators, entertainers, journalists, lawyers.

The actor-activist Paul Robeson and poet Langston Hughes were among those travelers captivated by communism.

The Soviets gave the African-Americans red-carpet treatment, including fat paychecks, low-cost housing and free vacations.

"My father felt the USSR treated him better than America," said Tynes-Mensah, who was born in the Russian town of Krasnodar and now lives mainly in the United States, spending summers in Russia.

"He was happy here."

A graduate of Wilberforce University in Ohio and a former college football star, Tynes could only find work washing dishes in a restaurant back in America, his daughter recalled.

So he jumped at the opportunity to go to Russia, although he never joined the Communist Party.

Tynes was among 11 African-American agricultural experts led by Oliver Golden, a Communist from Mississippi.

The group boarded the German ship Deutschland, bound for the Soviet Union, in 1931.

The experience of African-Americans who traveled to or settled in Russia was overwhelmingly positive, descendants said.

In turn, they made valuable contributions to Soviet society, said Blakely, the professor.

Agricultural experts helped devise different uses for materials, such as rope made from hemp, and helped develop plant species that were cheaper to cultivate.

Their contributions provided a boost to the Soviet economy.

Tynes, who was sent to various Soviet republics to teach people how to raise ducks and other waterfowl, became a nationally recognized expert on poultry.

Golden helped develop a cotton industry in Uzbekistan.

What's more, the African-Americans introduced Russians to blues and jazz.

"They had an impact" far beyond "their numbers because they were there precisely because the Soviet leadership was trying to use them as a symbol of what they were trying to build in terms of a truly democratic society," Blakely said.

"They were very much in the public eye."

Within years, however, such attention was unwelcome.

After the dictator Josef Stalin came into power, foreigners were viewed with suspicion and non-Soviet citizens were ordered to leave the country.

African-Americans in the Soviet Union were shunned during the Cold War, which began in 1947 and lasted roughly 45 years.

During this period, the United States and the Soviet Union were in a prolonged hostile standoff, though there was no actual fighting between the two.

African-Americans were shunned because they were foreigners, not because they were black, their descendants said.

Tynes-Mensah, whose mother was Russian-Ukrainian, said she was keenly aware when she was growing up that she was different.

"I was afraid to go out in public," said Tynes-Mensah, who has light brown skin and a short Afro.

"People used to stare — but it was curiosity.

They were not angry."

Today, Russia has a racism problem, as many people have moved to the country from Africa.

Tynes-Mensah now runs a nonprofit group called Metis that offers support to mixed-race children, the majority of whose fathers came to Russia from Africa.

"Afro-Russians want to feel Russian, but the society doesn't want to recognize them as Russian," she said.

"Sometimes (people) will say, 'Go back to Africa.'"

