In West Africa, Nasser Diallo had a good job working as a reporter for a radio station.

That all came to an end in 2009, he said.

He was reporting about a protest.

The army began shooting people.

He heard the government was looking for him and left the country.

Once in the United States, he could not find a good job.

He decided to go back to school and start again.

"I didn't have a choice," Diallo said.

"I was going nowhere.

By the time I'm going to graduate, I'll be maybe 50."

Diallo is one of the many black people from Africa who are moving to the United States.

At home, they were doctors, lawyers or professors.

Here, they drive cabs, park cars, work in stores or take care of other people's children.

They often are very poor.

As a group, though, they are more likely than any other immigrant group to hold at least a university degree, according to the Migration Policy Institute (MPI), which studies immigrants.

Jeanne Batalova, who is with the MPI, called it a waste of brains.

One in five college-educated immigrants is not working or has a job that does not pay well, the MPI said.

African immigrants have an even harder time finding good-paying work, experts say.

Africans from English-speaking countries such as Nigeria and South Africa have an easier time, according to Jeff Gross.

He is with the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition (MIRA).

Others are struggling.

Among recently arrived African immigrants, two out of five do not have good jobs.

In comparison, one out of five college-educated American-born workers do not have good jobs, according to the MPI.

The reasons are complicated.

Many immigrants do not know people who can help them get good jobs.

Others get bad advice.

Also, they may be the victims of unfair treatment because of their black skin color.

"Foreign degrees in general are often less valued than U.S. degrees," Gross said.

Some states are trying to make the process easier for immigrants.

Last year, Michigan passed a "Barber Bill."

In the past, barbers needed 2,000 hours of training to get a license to cut hair.

Now, experienced barbers who can prove they have recent experience and training do not have to start over again.

Some cities have become part of a Welcoming America network and have created ways to help immigrants.

Shelbyville, Tennessee, has many immigrants from Somalia in Africa.

It was one of the first cities to try this, said Rachel Peric.

She is with Welcoming America.

"This should be looked at as going across generations," said Tadd Wamester from Upwardly Global, a group that helps immigrants find work.

"Investing in parents is also investing in children."

Black African immigrants are a rapidly growing population.

Between 2000 and 2013, their numbers jumped from 574,000 to 1.4 million.

African immigrants now make up about one-third of the black immigrant population.

Their numbers are expected to grow.

When they arrive in the United States, many Africans feel the pressure to get a job, fast.

In 2013, according to the MPI, three-quarters of them had jobs.

More African were working than the overall population of people born in other countries or Americans born here.

The pressure to find a job, any job, means that they often find work beneath their skill level, experts say.

When he first came to the United States, Diallo said, he stayed with his uncle, who urged him to just drive a cab.

"You have to survive," his uncle told him, "you don't have to aim high."

Back home in Gambia, West Africa, Haddi said she had a college degree and a job at a bank.

Almost 30 years ago, she moved to New York.

Eventually, she found work at a factory.

Later she opened her own hair-braiding shop.

She and her husband have sent two children to college.

"I want my children to have the education I didn't have," said Haddi.

"Yes, I went to college.

But I want more for them.

All parents want more for their children."

