Ladon Brumfield asked a group of African-American girls to think about beauty.

Brumfield began Girls Rule!, a girl empowerment project.

The girls agreed that women with short, kinky hair were not beautiful.

But then Brumfield passed around a picture of Lupita Nyong'o.

She is a famous actress.

She has dark skin.

And Nyong'o wears her hair extra-short.

The girls, who are 9 and 10 years old, were silent.

Once again, they all agreed.

Nyong'o was beautiful.

More and more black women are wearing their hair in Afros, braids and twists.

With an Afro, the hair is combed up from the head.

It looks like a halo of hair.

The hairstyle was popular in the African-American community in the 1960s and 1970s.

But thanks to Nyong'o, both blacks and now whites see the Afro as beautiful.

Many black women have the courage to cut their hair short.

Most people think long hair is beautiful.

But long hair is hard for some black women.

Their hair type can range from straight to kinky.

The curl makes it look shorter.

Black women who want longer hair use hair straighteners.

They also wear fake hair.

It makes their hair look longer.

Frances Simmons is a hair stylist.

She said many African-American girls like fake hair better than their own.

They think hair has to be long to be beautiful.

It doesn't matter if it's bad for their hair.

It also doesn't matter if it looks terrible.

"What does that say about our self-esteem and self-worth?"

she said.

Television and magazines show pictures of women with long hair.

Their hair is "bouncing and behaving," said Aeleise Jana.

She is a Chicago stylist.

These pictures send the wrong message to girls, she said.

Candace Peterson of Chicago blogs about black hair.

In 2011, she cut off most of her hair.

People were not kind about it.

"People would say things like ... 'Your hair is too nappy.

How often do you comb it?'

Or, 'You can't go out with me looking like that,'" Peterson said.

Nyong'o is important for black girls, Peterson said.

She helps black girls love their hair.

"You never know what will make a difference in a child's life," Peterson said.

"Maybe by seeing someone who looks like her, she can feel more" confident and brave.

