On a recent afternoon at a Chicago elementary school, Ladon Brumfield asked a group of 9- and 10-year-old African-American girls to define beauty.

The nearly 20 girls unanimously agreed that if a woman had short, kinky hair, she was not beautiful.

But then Brumfield, the director of a project empowering young girls, passed around a photograph of Lupita Nyong'o, the dark-brown-skinned actress who wears an extra-short Afro.

The girls, who attend Dewey Elementary Academy of Fine Arts, were silent for a moment.

Then, once again, their answer was unanimous: They agreed Nyong'o was beautiful.

"It's like they had to make a mental readjustment," said Brumfield, founder of the non-profit Girls Rule!

"This was in conflict with the overwhelming (message) they receive from the media about having to have long hair."

For more than a decade, increasing numbers of black women have been wearing their natural hair in Afros, braids, locks and twists.

An Afro is a hairstyle, also called a "natural," in which the hair is combed up from the head in a halo.

It was especially popular in the African-American community in the 1960s and 1970s.

But now, thanks in part to Nyong'o, the TWA, or teenie weenie Afro, is expanding new ideas of beauty into the larger culture.

Nyong'o, a Kenyan-Mexican actress who won an Academy Award this year, isn't the first black woman or celebrity to sport a super-short natural.

But what's different about Nyong'o is that people outside the black community admire her as both a media darling and a graceful beauty.

On Friday, Nyong'o was named the new face of Lancome and will promote the company's makeup brand.

Experts say that extra-short hair will have to overcome many of today's issues surrounding beauty and hair, which reach back to slavery.

But it may give more women who have been thinking about a short haircut more confidence.

"Even when we were wearing Afros during the 'I'm black and I'm proud' (period of the 1960s and 70s), people said, 'Who has the bigger Afro?'

And length was an issue," said journalist and black hair historian A'Lelia Bundles, 61.

Bundles is the great-great-granddaughter of Madam C.J.

Walker, who started a company making hair products for black people and is considered the first self-made female millionaire in the U.S. Women view hair as an expression of identity, Bundles said.

"But as we get older and become more secure in ourselves, hair often is just hair."

Tonya Roberts studies multicultural trends at the Chicago office of the research company Mintel.

When something like the Afro becomes acceptable to society in general, "it's a wink to (the black community) that it's OK — especially if the question is 'Will I be able to get a job with this hairstyle?

Will my co-workers or family members accept me?'"

she said.

As part of a national survey on black hair care, Mintel asked black women to rate six different hair styles.

Roberts said women considered long hair to be "high maintenance," but they called it "healthy," attractive and "professional."

Short hair was considered the most "professional" and "classy."

And natural hair was viewed as low maintenance and expressing confidence.

All of the styles were considered attractive.

Throughout history, long hair has been viewed as a symbol of beauty and femininity.

But long hair can be tough for some black women, whose hair type can range from straight to wavy to curly to kinky.

The natural coil of their hair makes it appear shorter.

Women who want longer hair depend on hair straightening products, hot combs and flat irons.

Also, they use weaves and extensions, which are fake hair added to make natural hair longer -- and wigs.

Frances Simmons is a natural hair care professional who visits Chicago public schools.

Too many girls are getting weaves and extensions at a very young age and at the expense of healthy hair and a healthy self-image, she said.

"I've met a lot of girls who prefer some type of hair contraption, rather than their own because they feel hair has to be long to be beautiful," said Simmons.

"It doesn't matter if the fake hair is matted and cheap and braids (are) falling off.

What does that say about our self-esteem and self-worth?"

Encouraging people to embrace short hair has long been a challenge in an environment overflowing with images of women whose hair is "bouncing and behaving," said Aeleise Jana.

She is a Chicago stylist who specializes in cutting black women's natural hair.

She said that by the time her clients reach her, many have decided they've had enough of chemical straighteners and weaves.

Their only hope for a healthy head of hair is to cut most of it off.

In 2011, Chicagoan Candace Peterson, the co-founder of the Kiss My Curls blog, went natural and cut off most of her hair.

She said she got a lot of negative feedback at first.

"People would say things like ... 'Your hair is too nappy.

How often do you comb it?'

Or, 'You can't go out with me looking like that,'" Peterson said.

Peterson hopes Nyong'o will inspire girls to love their hair length and type, and carry themselves with poise.

"Lupita's look is something I'd never seen before (as a standard of beauty) in Hollywood," said Peterson.

"Maybe I'm an optimist, but I hope she represents a shift.

You never know what will make a difference in a child's life.

Maybe by seeing someone who looks like her, she can feel more self-assured and brave."

