High school programs on agriculture are popping up all across the middle of the country.

The classes are teaching teenagers that working in the field does not always mean dealing with cows and plows.

The number of farms in the United States has been getting lower and lower over the years.

However, the new farming programs are becoming very popular.

They are being offered in more schools, especially in cities.

The courses are rich in science subjects.

Students thinking about one day working with city forestry, raw materials and crops are taking them as a form of preparation.

Those students are lucky.

Tens of thousands of agriculture jobs are opening up each year.

Almost half of them go to people who went to college and earned agriculture-related degrees.

"There's a shortage of workers in a number of careers" such as agriculture, said Harley Hepner.

He is an official who works on agriculture education for Illinois.

A growing number of students are also being attracted to Future Farmers of America (FFA).

The FFA is a national group that encourages agriculture education among young people.

It has about 580,000 members, almost double the number of members it had the mid-1980s.

Many FFA members, such as Rebecca Goodman, have little to do with farms.

The 18-year-old is the president of the school's FFA.

She has lived in Indianapolis since she was 3, and had never been to a farm before joining the FFA.

The only animals she has experience with are cats and dogs.

"The only thing I planted was a small garden, and the only thing that grew out of it were weeds," she says.

Goodman would like to work with conservation efforts.

She says the agricultural sciences program at Beech Grove School helped her make that choice.

The Beech Grove's Applied Life Sciences Academy opened in November 2012.

The Academy is a place where students can explore live animals and plants closely.

Classes include animal, plant and soil sciences.

It also includes an introduction course on agriculture.

Programs like Beech Grove's Academy have increased in the past couple of years.

Seven high schools in Kansas and four in Nebraska added similar programs in the past school year.

Illinois added another 10.

Missouri has one of the largest number of agriculture programs in the region, a total of 311.

It added seven more schools since 2011.

In Indiana, another 13 programs similar to the Beech Grove Academy were added since 2010.

It has two middle school and two high school teachers for almost 500 students.

The Academy pays for itself thanks to help from the state, which gives an allowance for each student in the course.

Beech Grove is about understanding "the world around you as it relates to animals, plants and food, then going out with those skills," said Chris Kaufman.

He is an agriculture professional who helped set up Beech Grove's program.

Goodman said that before the Academy, she did not really know what to do in the future.

The program "helped me find my way," she said.

Her classmate Alicia Perez used to think that learning about agriculture was only for people who wanted to be farmers.

But she doesn't think like that anymore.

Learning about plants and food has also changed her life, Perez said.

"It's an amazing program," she said.

"There are so many different careers" you can find in agriculture.

