One hundred years ago, three out of every 10 Americans were farmers.

To teach them about farming and raising animals, the government created programs.

Every state now runs "cooperative extension" programs at universities.

The Cooperative Extension service was created by President Woodrow Wilson in 1914.

Back then, more than half the U.S. population lived outside cities and towns.

Today only about one in 50 Americans farms for a living.

Just one out of five Americans lives outside a town or city.

With fewer farmers now, extension programs are changing.

New Hampshire gave less money to its state extension program in 2011.

As a result, the University of New Hampshire had to remake it.

Seth Wilner once taught at the extension at the University of New Hampshire.

For 15 years Wilner was his county's expert on farming.

Farmers called him with all kinds of questions.

"Used to be, someone in my county called up and said, 'I have a llama and two goats, can you come out and look at my pasture?'"

Wilner said.

Today, Wilner works in an office.

He still travels all over the state to help farmers.

But he also relies on technology like Google Chat and Skype.

Now he offers classes and instruction online.

Extension services still operate across the country.

They share science aimed at helping farms and ranches.

Programs these days have less money.

There are fewer farmers, many more immigrants in farming and new technology.

The country is changing.

Extension is trying to meet new needs.

Extension is working on new topics.

Some extension programs teach job skills.

Others try to make people healthier.

For many states, farming is still the main part of extension.

Oregon's brings together grape growers, winemakers and students interested in making wine.

Virginia's trains farmers on food safety laws.

In some states extension is expanding into new areas.

In southwestern Kansas, extension helps Spanish-speaking immigrants who work at farms.

Extension started 4-H clubs there that use Spanish and English.

They filled four clubs with 90 youths.

Hundreds more are on a waiting list.

Last year, the Delaware and Maryland extensions started a program to help people buy health care.

The program is now in 30 states, said Michelle Rodgers.

She is the head of the Delaware Extension.

Future programs will help make school lunches healthier, Rodgers said.

Extension still needs more money to pay for its programs.

National, state and county governments used to give money equally.

That doesn't happen any more.

The U.S. government gives less money now.

So more cash must come from states, counties and cities.

Extension is also turning to charities and businesses more and more.

Some people fear this will change the programs.

They worry that those paying for programs may try to change how extension is run.

In New Hampshire, people were worried at first about changes to extension.

Over time, they changed their minds.

Lisa Townson works with the New Hampshire program.

She said people say the programs now are "better quality."

