Seth Wilner has been the go-to guy for agricultural questions in Sullivan County, New Hampshire, for 15 years.

"Used to be, someone in my county called up and said, 'I have a llama and two goats, can you come out and look at my pasture?'"

Wilner said.

Wilner was an educator with the University of New Hampshire Cooperative Extension.

Extension programs are state-run versions of a century-old, national effort to share livestock and agricultural knowledge with farmers.

New Hampshire cut the university extension's funding 23 percent in 2011.

As a result, the university had to revamp it.

Today, Wilner works out of an office in Sullivan County, but he and the other field educators still travel all around the state advising farmers.

They also rely on technology like Google Chat and Skype, and offer online tutorials and webinars.

When the Cooperative Extension Service was created in 1914 more than half of the U.S. population lived in rural areas.

Thirty percent of the workforce farmed.

Today, fewer than 2 percent of Americans farm for a living, and only 17 percent live in rural areas.

The extension service remains active across the country, but is making major changes in how it does business.

State cooperative extensions are adapting to new needs and modern technology.

The extension service now relies on nearly 3 million trained volunteers and its website to share information.

The full-time workforce dropped from 17,009 in 1980 to 13,294 workers in 2010.

Extension still shares scientific research aimed at making farms and ranches more profitable.

These days it also works on a wide range of other issues, including the environment and personal health.

For many states, agriculture remains the backbone of extension.

Oregon extension brings together grape growers, winemakers and students in person and online.

Wine grapes are now the 17th-most important crop among 220 in the state, according to A. Scott Reed, extension director at Oregon State University.

Virginia Cooperative Extension has trained more than 300 farmers in Virginia, the Carolinas and Kentucky on food safety regulations.

In many states, extension is expanding its mission.

In southwestern Kansas, working with the large immigrant population is now a focus.

Extension has started 4-H clubs that use Spanish and English for the immigrant farming community there.

The goal was to create one Spanish- and English-speaking club of up to 30 youths and their parents.

Soon there were four clubs with 90 youths and hundreds more on a waiting list.

Steve Irsik, owner of Royal Farms Dairy in Kansas, respects the desire to learn in the immigrant community.

"If we don't help them, we're holding them back," he said.

Last year, the Delaware and Maryland extensions developed a training program to help people buy health insurance.

The program has spread to 30 states, said Michelle Rodgers, director of University of Delaware Extension.

Future efforts will engage the community to create healthier school lunch and restaurant menus, Rodgers said.

Extension is turning to charities and businesses to help pay the bills.

The Spanish-language 4-H project was offered practically cost-free to people, because Irsik, the dairy owner, wrote a check for $30,000.

Texas recently hired an employee with money given to it by a health care company after cuts from state funding.

"Extension back in the day was funded about one-third federal, one-third state and one-third county," said Sonny Ramaswamy, director of the National Institute of Food and Agriculture.

"That model has frayed quite a bit."

Now, however, federal funds account for only about 10 percent of current extension funding.

The other 90 percent is split equally among states and from counties and cities, said Jimmy Henning, chairman of extension's national governing board.

Yet, state and county governments have struggled to raise money for extension.

As grants become more common, however, some worry about the strings attached to outside funding.

"There's a greater fear that the search for money may lead to funders who don't share the mission of extension," Henning said.

In New Hampshire, residents were initially doubtful about extension's reorganization.

Eventually people changed their minds.

Lisa Townson, who works with the New Hampshire Cooperative Extension, said she has not heard of any major problems.

"People say programs are more focused and better quality," although, she admitted, "It's a challenge letting people know what we are doing."

