Technology is one of the newest businesses.

It is joining forces with the world's oldest business — farming.

The businesspeople behind technology are putting their money and talents into farming.

They have serious goals.

They want to make sure there is enough food for the 10 billion people expected to live on the planet by 2100.

They also hope to make a lot of money along the way.

Silicon Valley is a region in California known for its technology.

People there getting into agriculture are part of the "ag-tech" industry.

It has seen enormous interest in Silicon Valley.

Entrepreneurs are entering every stage of the food process.

Entrepreneurs are people who build new companies, some of which are "startups."

They have taken many approaches to ag-tech.

Some entrepreneurs are buying up farms.

Startups are creating inventions such as robots that work in the fields.

The food industry "is wasteful," said Ali Partovi.

He wants to make it run better.

Partovi invests money into agricultural startups.

If the startup becomes successful, he will get his money back.

Partovi explains that people in Silicon Valley have a self-confidence that says, "Let's change it."

Experts think that ag-tech will take off.

Paul Matteucci said ag-tech is going to be big because "everybody eats."

He works at a company called U.S. Venture Partners that invests money in new companies.

He also founded Feeding 10 Billion, a center to help ag-tech businesspeople who want to start new companies.

Many companies are creating technology to make farming more productive.

They have designed robots to trim lettuce or software that can figure out the amount of grass that should be produced for cattle grazing.

Other companies are using technology to find substitutes for meat, cheese and eggs.

These fake foods will mean less land will be used to raise livestock and fewer trucks will be used to transport the animals.

That means less pollution.

One new company called Hampton Creek sells mayonnaise and cookies that use plant products instead of eggs.

Silicon Valley isn't just making technology for farms.

Some of its well-known investors are buying farmland.

They want to influence how farmers use their fields.

Farmland LP is a company that buys farms and turns them into pastures.

It says that makes better use of the land because farmers and cattle ranchers can share the grass pastures.

Most farmers have welcomed Silicon Valley technology into their world of planting seasons and water problems.

The farmers in California are increasingly tech-minded.

They are running their fields from iPads.

They are tracking soil moisture and nitrogen levels with software programs.

Farmers want more technology that will help them grow more food, and help them save money.

Ryan Jacobsen is a farmer who also runs the Fresno County Farm Bureau.

"It's an exciting time to be a farmer right now," he said.

Farmers and technology startups seem very different from each other.

They came together due to a number of reasons.

In the past five years, businesses in California were not doing well.

Most suffered, but businesspeople noticed that the agriculture industry was strong.

Prices of farmland increased while housing prices fell.

Additionally, people became more worried that there wouldn't be enough food in the future.

California is in a three-year drought, the climate is changing, and the world's population is growing.

These problems caught the attention of the businesspeople.

Meanwhile, technology got cheaper so more small- and medium-size farms could afford to buy it.

It became clear that farmers and tech startups could help each other.

For example, the company Blue River Technology has created a machine for farmers.

It uses digital imaging and powerful software to trim lettuce 100 times faster than people, said Jorge Heraud, who heads the company.

Because machines can replace human workers, some workers will have to find new jobs.

It is one problem of technology.

As more technology is introduced to farming, jobs will be lost.

The task of technology has always been about doing the jobs that humans do, Heraud said.

"There will be jobs cost (but) society generally benefits when productivity is increased."

