Ahmed Mohamed is a high school student.

He lives in Texas.

Last month, he took a homemade clock to school.

Some teachers thought it was a bomb.

The police came and took him to the police station.

People around the world heard about Ahmed.

There are many things they do not know.

Ahmed went to Sam Houston Middle School.

He is from Sudan, a country in Africa.

Ahmed is Muslim.

It means he follows the religion of Islam.

He came to the middle school in sixth grade.

Ahmed did not speak very much English.

The boy also wore glasses.

He was small for his age.

At school, Ahmed became an expert in English.

He also was good at electronics.

He invented all kinds of things.

One invention was the clock that got him in trouble.

Ralph Kubiak was Ahmed's teacher in seventh grade.

Ralph called Ahmed a weird little kid.

Ralph really liked Ahmed, though.

He said they were very much alike.

Both of them loved to learn new things.

A different teacher remembered a more playful side of Ahmed.

He and his friends lined up on opposite ends of a field.

They ran into each other at full speed.

Then they got up and did it again.

Ahmed was very smart, Kubiak said.

He was smart in class and smart in robotics club.

Ahmed also made neat inventions.

He did not get into trouble for his inventions in middle school.

Ahmed got into trouble in other ways.

He talked too much.

Ahmed wanted to make his classmates like him.

He often bothered them instead.

Ahmed said he got into trouble in sixth grade.

A friend of his family said he had to stay home from school.

They said Ahmed and a cousin both got in trouble.

They were blowing soap bubbles in the bathroom.

The school did not manage it well, the friend said.

Last year, Ahmed got into a fight in school.

Anthony Bond is a family friend.

He said Ahmed blamed a school official.

The person did not let him pray in school.

The official also punished him unfairly.

Also, other kids called him bad names.

They made fun of his religion.

One day, Ahmed told Kubiak about the bullying.

Ahmed was crying, Kubiak said.

