If you want to know about Ahmed Mohamed — the motormouth kid with a schoolbag full of inventions — ask a teacher.

Last month Ahmed became known around the world after he took a homemade clock to school and his teachers thought it looked like a bomb.

But if you want to know about the boy before the fame, ask around Sam Houston Middle School, where the boy from Sudan mastered electronics and English.

He once built a remote control to prank the classroom projector and bragged of reciting his First Amendment rights, or right to freedom of speech, in the principal's office.

You could also ask Ralph Kubiak.

He was Ahmed's seventh-grade history teacher and fellow outsider.

"He was a weird little kid," said Kubiak, now 62 and retired.

"I saw a lot of him in me.

That thirst for knowledge … he's one of those kids that could either be CEO of a company or head of a gang."

Kubiak didn't fit the mold either.

With a thick beard sprouting from a button-down shirt, Kubiak wanted his students to question the world and its expectations of them.

He wanted to make sure these children knew the truth about their rights and not to let adults control them.

Ahmed showed up at the school in sixth grade speaking almost no English.

He wore glasses, was small for his age and was far from the continent where he was born.

But a year later, he could discuss how Judaism, Christianity and his faith, Islam, are similar.

"He was secure enough in his religion to look at the other side," Kubiak said.

The teacher remembered how Ahmed told him that the group Islamic State and other terrorist groups twisted Muslim holy books like the Quran to control ignorant people.

Kubiak asked him, "Don't they read their own Quran?"

and Ahmed responded, "A lot of folks don't."

Another teacher remembered Ahmed after school: He and his friends would line up on opposite ends of a field, run into each other at full speed, then get up and do it again.

But Ahmed's intelligence shone through in the classroom, in robotics club and in the inventions he would often cram into his backpack.

Some of his middle school teachers were surprised to hear that MacArthur High School staff called police this month after Ahmed brought the homemade clock to class.

He had dragged far more elaborate gizmos into Sam Houston all the time.

When a projector kept shutting off, his classmates laughed as Ahmed sat with a hand-built remote control in his lap.

When a tutor's cellphone went dead, Ahmed's jerry-rigged battery charger brought it back to life.

Some of these inventions looked much like the clock — a mess of wires and exposed circuits stuffed inside a hinged case.

But no one remembered Ahmed getting into trouble for bringing his creations to Sam Houston.

The boy found trouble other ways.

It didn't take Ahmed long to learn fluent English.

Once he did, he had a habit of overusing it — trying to impress classmates with a nonstop stream of chatter, teachers said, and often annoying them instead.

Kubiak said he scolded Ahmed after hearing that the boy tried to get out of being punished with a day of detention by informing the principal of his rights.

Ahmed recited the First Amendment to the Constitution in the principal's office.

Ahmed said he was suspended for several weeks in sixth grade.

A family friend, Anthony Bond, said the boy and a cousin were blowing soap bubbles in the bathroom.

"Kids are kids," said Bond, who has known Ahmed since he enrolled at Sam Houston.

"He was a little boy in a new environment, and they were acting out."

Despite more trouble in seventh grade, Ahmed still ended up with an A in Kubiak's class.

By eighth grade, the young inventor was complaining of bullying — not just by students but also by the teachers at his school.

In November, Bond wrote a letter to the superintendent, school board president and other officials.

He protested, saying that Ahmed had been suspended for defending himself during a hallway fight.

A larger boy had been choking Ahmed, Bond wrote.

What's more, Ahmed also told him, "that every day, students in the school are calling him Bacon Boy and Sausage Boy and ISIS Boy."

Eating bacon and other pork products are forbidden by Islam.

ISIS is an acronym for the Islamic State group.

Bond wrote that Ahmed blamed an administrator at the school who he felt "has been terrorizing him since the 6th grade."

The administrator kept him from praying in school and unfairly punished him, Bond wrote.

Bond's letter called the boy's treatment "Muslim bashing."

Bond said the principal decided to cancel the suspension last year after meeting with Ahmed.

Kubiak was no longer Ahmed's teacher in eighth grade, but he said the two still talked in the hallways nearly every day.

"His eyes were pretty watered up" the day he told Kubiak he was being bullied, his teacher said.

After Ahmed was led away from his high school in handcuffs for the clock incident, he blamed Islamophobia.

