Last month Ahmed Mohamed took a homemade clock to school.

Some teachers thought it looked like a bomb.

The police came and led him out of school in handcuffs.

If you want to know more about Ahmed, you could ask teachers at Sam Houston Middle School.

There, the boy from the African country of Sudan became an expert at electronics and English.

You should definitely ask Ralph Kubiak.

He was Ahmed's seventh-grade history teacher and also an outsider.

"He was a weird little kid," Kubiak said.

"I saw a lot of him in me."

Both of them loved knowledge and learning new things.

Ahmed came to the school in sixth grade.

He could hardly speak English.

He wore glasses and was small for his age.

He was very far from Africa, where he was born.

A year later, he could talk about how Judaism, Christianity and Islam are alike.

Kubiak said Ahmed felt comfortable being Muslim.

He was interested in other religions.

Ahmed once told him that Islamic State and other extremist groups used Muslim holy books to tell people what to think.

Kubiak asked him if Muslims read the Quran to learn what it really says.

Ahmed answered, "A lot of folks don't."

Another teacher remembered a less serious side of Ahmed.

He and his friends would line up on opposite ends of a field.

They would run into each other at full speed, then get up and do it again.

Ahmed was very smart, Kubiak said.

His intelligence showed in the classroom.

It also showed in the robotics club and in the inventions he would often stuff into his backpack.

When a video player kept shutting off in class, all the boys looked at Ahmed.

He was sitting with a hand-built remote control in his lap.

Another time a cellphone went dead.

Ahmed's battery charger brought it back to life.

Some of these inventions looked much like the clock.

They were a mess of wires and stuffed inside a case.

No one remembered Ahmed getting into trouble for bringing his inventions to middle school.

The boy found trouble other ways.

Once he learned English, he talked too much.

He tried to impress classmates but often annoyed them instead.

Another time, Ahmed was punished in school.

He recited his right to freedom of speech in the principal's office.

Ahmed said he was suspended for several weeks in sixth grade and had to stay home from school.

Anthony Bond is a family friend.

Ahmed and a cousin were blowing soap bubbles in the bathroom, Bond said.

By eighth grade, Ahmed said, he was bullied by a school official.

In November, Bond wrote a letter to the school.

He protested that Ahmed had been punished for defending himself during a fight.

A larger boy had been choking Ahmed, Bond wrote.

Everyday, kids called him anti-Muslim names.

Bond wrote that Ahmed blamed a school official.

The person kept him from praying in school and unfairly punished him.

Bond's letter called the boy's treatment "Muslim bashing."

The school looked into it, and the principal decided Ahmed would not be punished.

Ahmed cried the day he told Kubiak he was being bullied, the teacher said.

