Last month Ahmed Mohamed became famous after he took a homemade clock to his high school.

Police led him out of the school in handcuffs after some teachers thought it looked like a bomb.

If you want to know about Ahmed, though, ask around at Sam Houston Middle School.

There, the boy from the African country of Sudan became an expert at electronics and English.

He once built a remote control to prank his teacher.

Another time, he bragged of telling the principal about his right to freedom of speech.

You should also ask Ralph Kubiak, Ahmed's seventh-grade history teacher and fellow outsider.

"He was a weird little kid," said Kubiak.

"I saw a lot of him in me.

That thirst for knowledge."

Kubiak wanted his students to question the world and what it expected of them.

He wanted to make sure these children knew about their rights.

He told them not to let adults control them.

Ahmed showed up at the school in sixth grade with almost no English.

He wore glasses, was small for his age and was far from Africa where he was born.

A year later, he could discuss how Judaism, Christianity and his faith, Islam, are similar.

Kubiak said Ahmed was comfortable enough with his own religion to be interested in other religions.

Ahmed once told him that the group Islamic State and other terrorist groups twisted Muslim holy books like the Quran to control people.

Kubiak asked him, "Don't they read their own Quran?"

Ahmed answered, "A lot of folks don't."

Another teacher remembered a less serious side of Ahmed.

He and his friends would line up on opposite ends of a field, run into each other at full speed, then get up and do it again.

Ahmed's intelligence shone through in the classroom.

Kubiak said it was also obvious in robotics club and in the inventions he would often stuff into his backpack.

Some of his middle school teachers were surprised that school officials called police last month after Ahmed brought the homemade clock to class.

He had dragged far more elaborate inventions into Sam Houston all the time.

When a projector kept shutting off, all the boys looked at Ahmed and laughed.

He was sitting there with a hand-built remote control in his lap.

When a tutor's cellphone went dead, Ahmed's jerry-rigged battery charger brought it back to life.

Some of these inventions looked much like the clock that got him into trouble.

Like the clock, they were a mess of wires and stuffed inside a case.

No one remembered Ahmed getting into trouble for bringing his inventions to middle school.

The boy found trouble in other ways.

It didn't take Ahmed long to learn English.

Once he did, he had a habit of speaking too much.

He tried to impress his classmates, teachers said, and often annoyed them instead.

Another time, Ahmed was punished with a day of detention.

He recited his constitutional right to freedom of speech in the principal's office.

Ahmed said he was suspended for several weeks in sixth grade and had to stay home from school.

A family friend, Anthony Bond, said the boy and a cousin were blowing soap bubbles in the bathroom.

By eighth grade, Ahmed was complaining of bullying by staff.

In November, Bond wrote a letter to the superintendent, school board president and other officials.

He protested that Ahmed had been suspended for defending himself during a fight.

A larger boy had been choking Ahmed, Bond wrote.

Every day, others were calling him Bacon Boy and Sausage Boy and ISIS Boy, he said.

Eating bacon and other pork products are forbidden by Islam.

ISIS is another name for the group Islamic State.

Ahmed blamed a school official.

The official kept him from praying in school and unfairly punished him, Bond said.

Bond's letter called the boy's treatment "Muslim bashing."

The school investigated, and Bond said the principal reversed the suspension.

"His eyes were pretty watered up" the day he told Kubiak he was being bullied, the teacher said.

After Ahmed was taken to the police station for taking the clock to school, he blamed Islamophobia.

That means people fearing and hating Muslims.

