AirAsia's colorful chief executive, Tony Fernandes, built an aviation empire in just the past 13 years.

Yet it truly started many years earlier with a dream of bringing low-cost air travel to millions of people in Asia.

The disappearance of an AirAsia jet with 162 people aboard was, he said, his worst nightmare.

On Sunday morning, air traffic controllers lost contact with Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 during a two-hour flight to Singapore from the Indonesian city of Surabaya.

Sometime during the flight, the plane crashed into the Java Sea.

Bodies and wreckage from the plane are being recovered from the water.

The cause of the crash is unknown.

"My heart bleeds for all the relatives of my crew and our passengers.

Nothing is more important to us," he said in a tweet Monday.

A Malaysian-born, British-educated accountant and former music executive, Fernandes teamed up with other investors to purchase a struggling Malaysian airline in 2001.

At the time, the airline had just two planes and more than $11 million in debt.

By agreeing to pay off the airline's debt, they were able to buy the company for about 25 cents.

With Fernandes at the helm, AirAsia took on national carriers such as Malaysia Airlines and grew into a regional powerhouse.

It now owns nine affiliates, including Thai AirAsia, Indonesia AirAsia, Philippines AirAsia, and AirAsia India.

It serves destinations across Asia and has a fleet of more than 160 Airbus A320 aircraft, according to the company's website.

Forbes magazine estimates Fernandes' net worth at $650 million.

Fernandes expanded AirAsia through a combination of cheap fares, good service and humorous advertising.

"There's a new girl in town," the airline declared when it started flights to Singapore.

The ad poked fun at Singapore Airlines ads that feature the "Singapore Girl."

Fernandes' giant personality and delight in the spotlight also contributed to the airline's success and has led to him being compared with Richard Branson, his friend and former boss.

Branson's antics, such as trying to travel around the world by hot air balloon, helped make his airline Virgin Atlantic world famous.

Fernandes began his career working for Branson.

Then he rose through the ranks at Warner Music International to become vice president of Warner Music South East Asia.

Last year, Branson dressed up as a female flight attendant and served customers on an AirAsia flight, after losing a bet to Fernandes over a Formula One car race.

Fernandes' aviation ambitions date back to his years as a schoolboy in Britain.

"I always liked the idea of a low-cost airline, having gone to boarding school and wanted to go home more often, and the idea was always in my mind," he told reporters in 2011.

But his interests go way beyond just airlines.

In 2011, Fernandes bought a majority stake in the Queens Park Rangers, an English Premier League soccer club.

He also invested money in a Formula One racing team, but later sold his share of the team.

And he has hosted the Asian version of the reality TV show "The Apprentice."

A constant tweeter, Fernandes used the social network to share updates with the public in the hours after the plane's disappearance.

"I am touched by the massive show of support especially from my fellow airlines," he said in one tweet.

"This is my worse nightmare.

But there is no stopping."

He defended the airline's safety record at a news conference Tuesday.

Dressed as always in jeans, and rolled-up sleeves, he said it had carried 220 million passengers in 13 years and never had a fatal accident until Flight 8501.

"We are confident in our ability to fly people," he said.

"We'll continue to be strong and continue to carry people who never flew before."

