Tony Fernandes started with a dream.

He wanted to make air travel easy for millions of people in Asia.

In just 13 years, he built a giant airline.

His company is AirAsia.

On Sunday morning, an AirAsia jet with 162 people on board disappeared.

Fernandes called it his worst nightmare.

Air traffic controllers lost radio contact with Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 after it left Indonesia.

It crashed into the water during a two-hour flight to Singapore.

Bodies from the plane have been found in the sea.

The cause of the crash is unknown.

"My heart bleeds for all the relatives of my crew and our passengers.

Nothing is more important to us," he said in a tweet Monday.

Fernandes was born in Malaysia.

He went to school in England and later worked at Warner Music, a company that records music groups.

In 2001, he teamed up with other businessmen to buy a struggling airline.

At the time, the airline had only two planes.

It owed more than $11 million.

By agreeing to pay off the airline's debt, they were able to buy the company for just 25 cents.

With Fernandes as boss, AirAsia challenged larger airlines like Malaysia Airlines.

It grew quickly and now flies to cities all across Asia.

It owns nine partner airlines, including Indonesia AirAsia, Philippines AirAsia and AirAsia India.

It has a fleet of more than 160 Airbus A320 planes.

The company has made Fernandes rich.

He is worth about $650 million.

Fernandes expanded AirAsia through cheap tickets, good service and funny ads.

"There's a new girl in town," the airline said when it started flights to Singapore.

It poked fun at Singapore Airlines ads starring the "Singapore Girl."

Fernandes' giant personality also added to the airline's success.

He likes the spotlight.

Fernandes has been compared to Richard Branson, his friend and old boss.

Branson's antics, such as trying to travel around the world by hot air balloon, puts him in the news often.

They also helped make his Virgin Atlantic airline famous.

Fernandes began his career working for Branson.

Last year, Branson lost a bet to Fernandes over a Formula One car race.

Because he lost, Branson had to dress up as a female flight attendant and serve customers on an AirAsia flight.

Fernandes' airline dreams started when he was a schoolboy in Britain.

"I always liked the idea of a low-cost airline, having gone to boarding school and wanted to go home more often," he said in 2011.

Fernandes has bigger interests than just airlines.

In 2011, he bought an English Premier League soccer club.

He also bought part of a Formula One car racing team, but later sold his share.

And he has hosted the reality TV show "The Apprentice" in Asia.

Fernandes tweets nonstop.

In the hours after the plane's disappearance, he used Twitter to share updates.

"I am touched by the massive show of support," he said in one tweet.

"This is my worse nightmare.

But there is no stopping."

He defended the airline's safety record on Tuesday.

He said it had carried 220 million passengers in 13 years.

Flight 8501 was its first bad accident.

"We are confident in our ability to fly people," he said.

"We'll continue to be strong and continue to carry people who never flew before."

