Tony Fernandes started with a dream.

He wanted to make air travel cheap for millions of people in Asia.

In just 13 years, he built a huge airline.

His company is AirAsia.

On Sunday morning, an AirAsia jet with 162 people on board crashed.

It fell into the water during a flight from Indonesia to Singapore.

Bodies from the plane have been found in the sea.

No one knows why it crashed.

"My heart bleeds for all the relatives of my crew and our passengers," he said in a tweet Monday.

"Nothing is more important to us."

Fernandes was born in Malaysia.

He went to school in England and later helped run Warner Music in Asia.

It is a company that records music groups.

In 2001, he teamed up with other businessmen to buy a Malaysian airline.

At the time, the airline had only two planes.

It owed more than $11 million.

By agreeing to pay off the airline's debt, they were able to buy the company for just 25 cents.

With Fernandes as boss, AirAsia challenged larger airlines in Asia.

Now it flies to cities all across Asia.

It owns nine partner airlines, including Indonesia AirAsia and AirAsia India.

It has a fleet of more than 160 planes.

Today, Fernandes is a rich man.

Fernandes has made AirAsia very popular.

His secret is cheap tickets, good service and funny ads.

Fernandes' giant personality also added to the airline's success.

He likes the spotlight.

He owns a soccer team in England and once owned part of a car racing team.

And he has hosted the reality TV show "The Apprentice" in Asia.

Fernandes has been compared to Richard Branson, his friend and old boss.

He likes being in the news too.

Like Fernandes, his actions made him famous.

He has tried to travel around the world by hot air balloon, and done other stunts.

They helped make his Virgin Atlantic airline popular and successful.

Last year, Branson lost a bet to Fernandes over a car race.

Because he lost, Branson had to dress up as a female flight attendant.

Then he had to serve customers on an AirAsia flight.

Fernandes' airline dreams started when he was a schoolboy in Britain.

"I always liked the idea of a low-cost airline," he said.

Being away at school always made him want to "go home more often."

Fernandes tweets nonstop.

After the plane's disappearance, he used Twitter to update people with news.

"I am touched by the massive show of support," he said in one tweet.

"This is my worse nightmare.

But there is no stopping."

On Tuesday, Fernandes said that AirAsia is still a safe airline.

He said in its 13 years it had carried 220 million passengers.

Flight 8501 was its first bad accident.

"We are confident in our ability to fly people," he said.

"We'll continue to be strong and continue to carry people who never flew before."

