Help wanted: At least 130 experienced military pilots.

Must be willing to fly fighter jets for nine years.

Salary: $34,500 to $97,400 a year.

Plus $225,000 extra just for signing up.

That offer comes from the U.S. Air Force.

It has too few fighter pilots.

Perhaps offering more money will help.

It might seem strange that not enough people want to be fighter pilots.

What they do sounds exciting to many.

But this year, the Air Force has 200 fewer fighter pilots than it needs.

And if something isn't done, things will get worse.

By 2021 it may be short 700 pilots.

Right now, it has about 3,000 fighter pilots.

Not having enough pilots is bad news for the military.

There are several reasons for the problem.

Pilots are leaving the military to take better-paying jobs as commercial pilots.

They fly for the airlines that carry passengers from place to place.

The fighter pilots are also leaving because life can be hard for their families with moving from base to base.

Some are no longer flying fighter jets because they now work with combat [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

These are remote-controlled planes.

There have been problems finding enough fighter pilots in the past.

But things may get worse than ever.

Commercial airlines are trying hard to hire young pilots.

This is because many of their older pilots will be retiring soon.

Around 460,000 new airline pilots will need to be hired over the next 20 years.

US Airways and American Airlines are commercial airlines.

Neither has hired pilots in more than 10 years.

They are now looking for many new people.

Both expect more than 2,100 of their pilots to retire within the next five years.

Pilots must retire at the age of 65.

Airlines have more money to pay pilots than the Air Force does.

Many airline pilots make around $103,210 a year.

After 11 years, Air Force pilots earn around $90,000.

A new government rule is making airlines companies eager to hire military pilots.

Soon co-pilots will have to have 1,500 hours of flying experience.

They only need 250 hours now.

Dennis Prokopowicz is a pilot with Jet Blue Airways.

He says it will be difficult for non-military pilots to fly that many hours.

It is much easier for military pilots.

"That kind of experience ... is hard to come by" for a civilian pilot, he said.

"Renting a Cessna [airplane] can cost around $100 per hour.

You don't have to pay for that in the Air Force."

The Air Force said one problem they have is that it is hard to train new pilots.

There just aren't enough pilots around who have flown long enough to be able to teach others.

Another problem is drones.

They are the fastest-growing part of the Air Force.

One-hundred and fifty-three fighter pilots were switched from flying jet fighters to working with drones.

The Air Force has stopped using fighter pilots for drones.

But it is still having trouble finding enough pilots.

John Wigle used to be a fighter pilot.

He said the problem is that it is hard to find enough people with the training to be pilots.

And he added that life as a fighter pilot is very difficult.

"People have no idea how hard it is when you have to move your family all the time," he said.

"Military life is not for everyone."

