Help wanted: At least 130 veteran military aviators willing to make a nine-year commitment to fly fighter jets.

Salary: Pay range $34,500 to $97,400.

Plus good benefits and a $225,000 signing bonus — guaranteed.

Contact: U.S. Air Force by Sept. 30.

That's the offer from the Pentagon, which is so short of Air Force fighter pilots that it's boosting its salary package to make the job more enticing.

It may be hard to imagine that life as a high-flying fighter jock has lost its swagger.

The Air Force, however, has a shortage of 200 fighter pilots this year.

And if something isn't done, it may face a shortfall of 700 by 2021.

Currently, it has about 3,000 fighter pilots.

Empty cockpits are bad news for the military, which spends about $6 million to train a single fighter pilot.

It is already shoveling money into the development of the world's most expensive plane, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jet — expected to cost nearly $400 billion.

Several factors are behind the shortage, officials said.

Pilots are leaving the military because of a surge in better-paying commercial jobs, and due to the stresses of deployment.

Many have been reassigned to operate combat [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), the remote-controlled planes that have reshaped modern warfare.

As a result, the Air Force is offering a souped-up incentive package under something called the Aviator Retention Program.

The program now offers a $25,000 signing bonus per year for nine years — nearly twice as long as the usual contract.

"Were it not for the program, there would be a greater problem than the one we currently have," said Lt. Col. Kurt Konopatzke, who oversees the program.

"Senior leadership is aware of the problem and is very concerned."

The Air Force wants to get as many as possible of the 200 to 250 eligible fighter pilots to take the deal.

Some already have signed on.

Today, just 65 percent of pilots are deciding to extend their service past their 11th year, when they choose whether to stay for an additional five years.

That's compared with 80 percent in 1993.

Air Force pilots typically earn about $90,000 by the time they complete their 11th year.

The median annual wage of airline pilots, copilots and flight engineers is $103,210, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics' latest numbers.

There have been fighter pilot shortages in the past, but the competition promises to be fierce in the years to come.

Airlines are on the hunt for young talent because of a surge in retirements.

Last year, passenger-jet maker Boeing Co. released a report that estimated a global need for 460,000 new commercial pilots over the next two decades.

There are currently more than 71,000 active airline pilots in the United States.

Neither US Airways nor American Airlines, which are in the middle of merging, has hired pilots in more than a decade.

They are now beginning a large-scale recruiting effort to fill spots.

US Airways and American are expecting more than 2,100 pilots to retire within the next five years because retirement is required of pilots at age 65.

"The airlines are going to have more money to pay for pilots than the government," said Rob Streble, secretary and treasurer for the US Airline Pilots Association, a labor union that represents US Airways pilots.

Streble knows firsthand, having left the Air Force as a pilot in the early 1990s for US Airways.

"The military is difficult on the family with all the moving around," he said.

"I added more stability by joining the airline."

One reason military pilots will be hotly sought after by commercial airlines is a new Federal Aviation Administration rule.

This substantially raises the qualification requirements for first officers who fly for U.S. passenger and cargo airlines.

It requires commercial co-pilots to have 1,500 hours of flying experience, the same as captains.

Currently, first officers only need to have a commercial pilot certificate, which requires just 250 hours of flight time.

Dennis Prokopowicz, an assistant system chief pilot with Jet Blue Airways, said it will be difficult for civilian pilots to achieve that many hours.

It is much easier for military pilots to gain that level of experience.

"That kind of experience ... is hard to come by" for a civilian pilot, he said.

"Renting a Cessna can cost around $100 per hour.

You don't have to pay for that in the Air Force."

The Air Force said part of its problem is training new pilots.

The shortage of veteran pilots has resulted in a lack of trainers.

Another problem has emerged with the proliferation of drones, and the resulting need for drone pilots.

Drones went from being a handful of aircraft on Sept. 11,, 2001 to the "fastest growing part of the force," said Peter W. Singer, author of "Wired for War," a book about robotic warfare.

As a result, pilots were plucked from fighter jet assignments and placed in control of MQ-1 Predator and MQ-9 Reaper drones.

In all, 153 fighter pilots were permanently reassigned to drones.

Recognizing the growing pilot shortage, the Air Force recently has stopped the practice of using fighter pilots for drones.

John Wigle, a former F-15 fighter pilot and current Air Force program analyst, said the problem is simply an inability to put enough trained people through the military pipeline.

He added that life as a fighter pilot, while often thrilling, is grueling.

"People have no idea how hard it is when you have to move your family all the time," he said.

"Military life is not for everyone."

