Steve Osmek is standing next to a tangle of plants, talking about conservation.

But every 45 seconds or so, his words are drowned out by a jet rumbling overhead.

He's used to the planes by now.

As the wildlife biologist on staff at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, Osmek is in charge of making sure animals play nice with the planes.

"If it moves, if it has legs, I'm responsible," he says.

Sometimes, it's simply a matter of keeping animals out, like with the 12-foot fence that prevents coyotes and deer from wandering onto the runways.

But it's more complicated for the airport's greatest wildlife hazard: birds.

Bird strikes cost the aviation industry $700 million a year, according to the government.

Birds hitting planes have killed more than 200 people around the world in the last 25 years.

When a flight from New York's LaGuardia Airport hit a flock of geese but landed safely, it was called "Miracle on the Hudson" for good reason.

In 2002, a plane made an emergency landing at Sea-Tac when it hit 26 birds.

There's no barrier to put up against birds.

Instead, Osmek is talking about conservation biology in a grassy field next to Sea-Tac.

Even with all the concrete, airports are ecosystems, home not only to planes and trucks but also pigeons, voles, grasshoppers, blackberry shrubs and, in the case of Sea-Tac, even salmon.

Managing bird strikes is about creating environments that discourage the hazardous feathered creatures, especially ones that flock, like European starlings, or large birds of prey, like red-tailed hawks.

That means Osmek is actually responsible for things that don't move and don't have legs, either, like plants.

On the airport grounds, the grass is kept short to discourage rats or insects that attract birds looking for food.

Plants with berries, nuts and seeds that attract birds are kept to a minimum.

Instead, Sea-Tac plants shrubs with dense cover that discourages nesting.

Goats were brought in to eat the blackberries in 2008, but they were a little too good at their job, consuming all the good plants, too.

Now the landscaping is done by humans.

Sea-Tac was the first airport to hire a wildlife biologist, in the 1970s.

Only a handful of airports across the country have wildlife biologists on staff, though most contract such positions out to the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.

Airports are increasing their efforts against bird strikes, and it appears to be working.

The number of bird strikes has dropped, while wildlife populations and the number of planes have increased.

"We got into this because we love animals," Ozmek said.

"Here you're trying to mitigate bird-strike hazards, and so much can be done with conservation."

Even the airport's artificial structures plug into a larger natural ecosystem.

Take the stormwater holding ponds.

To keep away waterfowl like Canada geese, which are large and like to flock, the ponds are covered in nets and lined with black plastic to prevent plants that attract birds, a strategy that has driven waterfowl away from the ponds.

As unnatural as all this plastic is, these ponds serve a conservation role.

Because of all the asphalt around the airport, rainwater runoff can overwhelm salmon creeks nearby, so the water is drained into these pools instead.

In the summer, the ponds can help boost the flow of the creeks when the water is low.

Airports, like any habitat, are subject to the whims of nature.

Two years ago, there were 121 bird strikes at Sea-Tac, nearly twice the usual number.

The culprit?

Voles, small mammals resembling mice, whose population exploded during an especially wet spring and attracted birds of prey.

Osmek and his team trapped and relocated more than 100 birds in 2011.

This year, which has been drier, they've relocated 40 so far.

The birds are tagged and taken to northern Washington on airport shuttles, and they choose to stay in those skies.

The most interesting part of the traps for birds of prey may be their bait: pigeons culled from the flock terrorizing the airport's parking garages.

A pair of pigeons both spectacularly lucky and unlucky are cooped in the trap's bottom portion.

They're fed and domesticated — sometimes they even lay eggs, according to Osmek.

But they have to regularly endure hawks swooping down and almost eating them.

Some invasive bird species, like European starlings, are killed rather than relocated.

Osmek estimates they take out a couple thousand starlings every year and their bodies are given to the Burke Museum, which no longer has to buy birds for students to dissect.

Osmek says they've seen a big decrease in the starling population since 2000, while the airport's surrounding area is now home to more songbirds, which do not flock.

Sea-Tac is also the first airport with a bird radar system.

Since it was installed in 2007, the system has been refined.

At first, managers would respond any time a single bird showed up on the radar.

But by the time they got to the site in their trucks, the bird would be gone.

Now they know to look only for flocks, which are dispersed with fireworks-type "screamers and bangers."

Ultimately, there's no way for an airport to be perfectly friendly to the environment.

After all, it's humans who are intruding on wildlife, not the other way around.

Instead of fighting nature with more concrete and asphalt, which always leads to unexpected consequences, humans can play by nature's rules, too.

And that's why even airports need wildlife biologists.

