From now on the whole world will "Remember the Alamo."

The United Nations has recently declared the famed building a world heritage site.

It means "The Alamo" is a place of international historical importance that is worth permanently preserving and protecting.

The Alamo is one of a group of five Spanish Roman Catholic sites known as the San Antonio Missions.

Situated in present-day Texas, the missions were churches with small settlements around them.

All five were selected this week by the U.N.'s world heritage site committee.

Susan Snow is an archaeologist for San Antonio Missions National Historical Park, where four of the missions are located.

The Texas site is a perfect example of the state's mixture of different cultures, she said.

"These Missions are a living example of the interchange of cultures," Snow said.

They bring together the Native American, Spanish, Mexican and other influences "that form South Texas today."

The Missions were built in the 18th century in and around what is now the city of San Antonio.

They were established to introduce Native Americans to Catholicism and make them Spanish subjects.

The best known of the missions is The Alamo, which was the site of a famous battle.

In 1836 an outnumbered band of Texas settlers staged a courageous last stand there.

In the end, they fell to General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna and his Mexican forces, who seized the mission.

During the Battle of San Jacinto several weeks later, then-victorious Texas soldiers shouted, "Remember the Alamo!"

The phrase became famous and is still often heard today.

The Missions were the only places in the United States proposed as possible world heritage sites this year.

Other famous American sites already on the list include the Statue of Liberty and the Grand Canyon.

Japan also has new heritage sites this year.

The U.N. selected a collection of almost two dozen Japanese sites that together illustrate the country's industrial revolution during the 19th century.

During that period Japan quickly modernized its technology, allowing it to compete with the West.

The selection of the Japanese sites was approved only after Japan and South Korea settled a dispute over the sites' history of wartime forced labor.

South Korea has been most concerned with the fortress island Gunkanjima.

Gunkanjim is also known as Battleship Island.

It was key to Japan's rapid development during the 1868-1912 era of the Meiji Emperor.

The emperor wanted Japan to catch up with Western countries as quickly as possible.

Until recently, South Korea strongly objected to the idea of listing Gunkanjima as a world heritage site.

It had said it would only accept that proposal on one condition: if Japan formally admitted that Korean prisoners were forced to work on the island during World War II.

Japan has now recognized that such forced labor did occur.

A large number of Koreans and others were brought to Gunkanjimi and other sites against their will during the 1940s, Japanese officials said following the U.N.'s decision.

The prisoners were "forced to work under harsh conditions," the officials said.

The United Nations has also chosen more than a dozen other places around the globe to become world heritage sites.

In the Middle East, the U.N. selected Iran's Ardeshir's palace, together with nearby archeological mounds.

Known as Susa, the Iranian site was continuously settled from the 5th century B.C.

until the 13th century.

Other Middle Eastern sites chosen include a spot in Jordan where Jesus is said to have been baptized.

Israel's Necropolis of Beth She'arim was picked as well.

Beth She'arim is a series of catacombs built from the 2nd century B.C.

onward, which served as a Jewish burial place.

It features inscriptions in Greek, Aramaic and Hebrew.

European sites include an 18th-century Lutheran church settlement known as Christiansfeld, located in the South Jutland region of Denmark.

In Italy, Sicilian churches and palaces dating back to the island's 12th-century Norman rule were selected.

Their design reflects both Arab and Byzantine culture.

In Asia, the U.N. selected Singapore's Botanical Gardens, which were created in 1859.

Mongolia's sacred Great Burkhan Khaldun Mountain was selected as well.

According to tradition, the mountain is the place where the fierce warrior and empire-builder Genghis Khan was born and buried.

Sites from many other parts of the world were also selected this year.

Among them are Mexico's Aqueduct of Padre Tembleque Hydraulic System.

Dating back to the 16th century, this Mexican canal system was conceived by a Franciscan friar.

It combines Roman water engineering and traditional Native American construction methods.

Also picked were the Blue and John Crow Mountains, Jamaica's first world heritage site.

Located on the southeast of the island of Jamaica, the mountains became a refuge for native people and escaped African slaves during colonial times.

Today they are home to many rare and endangered plant and animal species.

