The Alamo is a world heritage site.

The word "site" means place.

Heritage is something important.

It is passed down over time.

The United Nations (U.N.) told everyone the good news.

The U.N. is a government group that many countries belong to.

The U.N. said the Alamo is not just important for the United States.

It is important for the world.

The Alamo is in Texas.

It is one of five Spanish Roman Catholic churches.

The buildings were put up in the 1700s.

They are in and around the city of San Antonio.

The five buildings are called the San Antonio Missions.

All five were named world heritage sites.

The Alamo is the best known of the Missions.

In 1836, the people there were attacked by Mexican fighters.

There were a lot of fighters.

But the people at the Alamo did not give up.

Almost all were killed.

Even today we remember them.

Many have said the words, "Remember the Alamo!"

The U.N. also picked other heritage sites.

Some are in Japan.

Many new machines and boats were made at its factory sites in the 1800s.

They helped make Japan a stronger country.

At first, South Korea was not happy about the U.N.'s pick.

Koreans were forced to work at some of the Japanese sites in the 1940s.

The Koreans were prisoners during World War II.

They were made to work very hard.

South Korea said the world should know what happened.

At last the Japanese said South Korea is right.

Now the Korean workers will be remembered.

The Great Burkhan Khaldun Mountain was named a world heritage site too.

It is in Mongolia.

People say Genghis Khan was born and buried there.

He was a Mongolian fighter and leader.

In the 1200s he took over many countries.

The Blue and John Crow Mountains were picked too.

They are in Jamaica.

It is Jamaica's first world heritage site.

Jamaica was once ruled by the British.

There were many African slaves there.

Slaves who escaped from their owners ran into the mountains.

Up there, they were able to live freely.

Many Indians made homes in the mountains too.

Today, many rare plants and animals are found in the mountains.

