The United States has succeeded in its bid to "Remember the Alamo."

The United Nations has declared the famed building a world heritage site — a place of international historical importance that is worth permanently preserving and protecting.

The Alamo was one of a group of five Spanish Roman Catholic sites, known as the San Antonio Missions, to receive the coveted label.

The designation is considered desirable because it is likely to boost tourism.

Susan Snow is an archaeologist for San Antonio Missions National Historical Park, where four of the missions are located.

The Texas site, she said, is a perfect example of "the great melting pot" of the mixing of cultures that has shaped life in the United States.

"These Missions are a living example of the interchange of cultures," Snow said in a statement following the U.N. decision.

They bring together the Native American, Spanish, Mexican and other influences "that form South Texas today," she said.

The Missions were built in the 18th century in and around what is now the city of San Antonio.

They were established to convert Native Americans to Catholicism and make them Spanish subjects.

The best known of the missions, The Alamo, was the site of a famous 1836 battle.

An outnumbered band of Texas settlers staged a courageous stand before General Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna and his Mexican forces seized the mission.

During the Battle of San Jacinto weeks later, then-victorious Texas soldiers shouted, "Remember the Alamo!"

The Missions were the only sites in the United States proposed for world heritage status this year.

Other American icons already on the list include the Statue of Liberty and the Grand Canyon.

In another decision, Japan received world heritage status for a collection of almost two dozen sites.

Together those sites illustrate the country's industrial revolution during the 19th century.

The unanimous vote in favor of Japan's bid was approved only after Japan and South Korea resolved a spat over whether to acknowledge the sites' history of wartime forced labor.

Particularly at issue was the selection of Gunkanjima, or Battleship Island.

The fortress island near Nagasaki was key to Japan's rapid development during the 1868-1912 era of the Meiji Emperor.

The emperor wanted Japan to catch up with Western colonial powers as quickly as possible.

Until recently, South Korea had objected to the idea of listing Gunkanjima as a world heritage site.

It had said it would only accept that proposal if the role of Korean prisoners forced to work on the island during World War II was formally recognized.

Japan is now willing to recognize that such forced labor did occur.

"There were a large number of Koreans and others who were brought against their will and forced to work under harsh conditions in the 1940s," the Japanese delegation said in a statement after the decision.

In recent days the U.N. has also granted world heritage status to more than a dozen other sites around the globe.

In the Middle East, the U.N. selected Iran's Ardeshir's palace, together with nearby archeological mounds.

Known as Susa, the Iranian site was continuously settled from the 5th century B.C.

until the 13th century.

Other Middle Eastern sites chosen include a spot in Jordan where Jesus is said to have been baptized; Saudi Arabia's Hail Region, in which prehistoric rock art is found; and Israel's Necropolis of Beth She'arim, a Jewish burial place.

A series of catacombs built from the 2nd century B.C.

onward, Beth She'arim is located southeast of Haifa and features inscriptions in Greek, Aramaic and Hebrew.

European sites include 900-year-old Burgundy wine vineyards south of Dijon, France, and an 18th-century Lutheran church settlement known as Christiansfeld, located in the South Jutland region of Denmark.

In Italy, Sicilian churches and palaces dating back to the island's 12th-century Norman rule were selected.

Their design reflects both Arab and Byzantine culture.

Hamburg, Germany's Speicherstadt warehouse district, built between 1883 and 1927, and the Rjukan-Notodden industrial site in Norway, built in the early 20th century, were also selected.

In Asia, the U.N. selected Tusi sites in southwest China, named after the tribal chiefs who ruled there from the 13th to the early 20th century.

Also picked were Singapore's Botanical Gardens, which were created in 1859.

The Baekje region of South Korea, containing archaeological sites dating from the late 5th to late 7th century, and Mongolia's sacred Great Burkhan Khaldun Mountain were selected as well.

Tradition holds that the Mongolian mountain is the site of Genghis Khan's birth and burial.

Sites from many other parts of the world were also selected.

Among them were ancient Greek and Roman settlements at Ephesus in Turkey, and Mexico's Aqueduct of Padre Tembleque Hydraulic System.

Dating back to the 16th century, the Mexican canal system was conceived by a Franciscan friar.

It combines Roman water engineering and traditional Mesoamerican construction techniques.

Also picked were Uruguay's Fray Bentos industrial site, set up in the 19th century to process and export meat to Europe, and the Blue and John Crow Mountains, which is Jamaica's first world heritage site.

Located on the southeast of the island of Jamaica, the mountains became a refuge for native people and escaped African slaves during colonial times.

Today, the mountains are considered a biodiversity hotspot and home to many rare plant and animal species.

