British actor Alan Rickman, a classically trained theater star and a fun-to-watch screen villain in the "Harry Potter" saga and other films, has died.

He was 69.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/Obit_Alan_Rickman_Edit.png) Rickman's family said that the actor died early Thursday in London after a battle with cancer.

Daniel Radcliffe, who played opposite Rickman in eight "Harry Potter" films, said Rickman was "undoubtedly one of the greatest actors I will ever work with."

Rickman was born to a working-class London family in 1946, and trained at the prestigious Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.

Often cast as the bad guy, he used his rich, unhurried speaking voice to make evil seem strangely fascinating.

Rickman's breakout role was as scheming French aristocrat the Vicomte de Valmont.

He played the part in an acclaimed 1985 Royal Shakespeare Company production of Christopher Hampton's "Les Liaisons Dangereuses."

Film roles included the psychopathic villain Hans Gruber, who tormented Bruce Willis in "Die Hard" in 1988; a dead lover who consoles his heartbroken partner in "Truly Madly Deeply" in 1990; the wicked Sheriff of Nottingham in "Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves" in 1991; and a straying husband in the 2003 romantic comedy "Love Actually."

Millions know Rickman from the "Potter" films.

In them he played professor Severus Snape, potions master and dark arts teacher, who was either an enemy or an ally — possibly both — of teenage wizard Harry Potter.

Radcliffe, who played Harry, said Rickman "was one of the first of the adults on 'Potter' to treat me like a peer rather than a child.

Working with him at such a formative age was incredibly important and I will carry the lessons he taught me for the rest of my life and career."

Harry Potter creator J.K. Rowling tweeted that "there are no words to express how shocked and devastated I am to hear of Alan Rickman's death.

He was a magnificent actor (and) a wonderful man."

Emma Thompson, who starred alongside Rickman in films including "Sense and Sensibility" and "Love Actually," also expressed her sadness at the news of Rickman's death.

She praised Rickman's "humor, intelligence, wisdom and kindness" and called him "the finest of actors and directors."

"I couldn't wait to see what he was going to do with his face next," she told Newsweek.

Mohammed Saghir, the present-day Sheriff of Nottingham, paid tribute to Rickman's version of Robin Hood's famous foe.

"His sheriff was a gloriously nasty character who it was easy to love to hate and who he appeared to have great fun playing," Saghir said.

Rickman's villainous roles were unforgettable, and included an Emmy Award-winning turn as "mad monk" Rasputin in a 1996 biographical film.

However, Rickman's screen roles were remarkably varied.

They included the upright Colonel Brandon in Ang Lee's 1995 film version of "Sense and Sensibility" and Irish politician Eamon de Valera in the 1996 historical drama "Michael Collins."

Rickman also had a sideline in comic science-fiction.

He brought knowingness and fun to the spoof "Galaxy Quest" in 1999 and supplied the world-weary voice of Marvin the Paranoid Android in "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" in 2005.

Rickman appeared frequently onstage, earning Tony Award nominations for "Les Liaisons Dangereuses" in 1987 and Noel Coward's "Private Lives" in 2002.

He was also a filmmaker, directing and co-starring opposite Kate Winslet in the 2014 costume drama "A Little Chaos."

Seventeen years earlier, he had directed Emma Thompson and her mother Phyllida Law in "The Winter Guest."

Frequently charming in person, Rickman was, by his own account, uncompromising as an actor.

During the filming of "Harry Potter," he maintained Snape's air of haughty disdain even off-camera.

"The animal in me takes over," Rickman told The Associated Press in 2011 when he appeared on Broadway in Theresa Rebeck's play "Seminar."

"You're as polite as possible, but it's not always possible."

Rickman is survived by his partner of 50 years, Rima Horton, whom he married in 2012\.

Funeral details were not immediately available.

