First it was musk ox stew.

Then the Alaska nursing home cooked musk ox meatloaf for its elderly Inupiat residents and their visiting family members.

The reaction at the long-term residential senior care facility was immediate.

"'It was the bomb!'"

is how home administrator Val Kreil recalled one young relative describing it.

"You don't hear that every day about meatloaf."

The nursing facility is located in Kotzebue, a commercial hub of 3,100 people in northwest Alaska.

It is incorporating traditional foods donated by hunters into the regular menu.

This practice has been gaining interest nationally under a new federal law.

The measure, which passed last year, was largely modeled after an Alaska law.

It allows donations by approved sources to nursing homes and child nutrition programs.

Other public and nonprofit facilities, including those run by Native American tribes and tribal groups, will also benefit.

Traditional foods that can be easily bought, such as corn and bison, are already served in some facilities.

The new law will allow access to a wider selection of foods, including game such as venison, moose and caribou.

"It opens doors for our tribes and their citizens to continue having access to traditional foods," said Leslie Wheelock, director of the U.S. Department of Agriculture's office of tribal relations.

"It eases the way, I think, tremendously."

The Birds Springs chapter of the Navajo Nation in Arizona is developing a 20-bed nursing home it hopes to open next year.

The tribe anticipates the menu will include elk, deer and other staples like squash and beans from Navajo farmers.

"We owe it to our elders to get them what their lifestyles are accustomed to, and what they respond to physically, mentally, spiritually," said Thomas Walker, a planner with the chapter.

According to Lorinda Lhotka of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC), under Alaska's law, other organizations have served traditional foods in their facilities over the years.

Boosting the new endeavor in Kotzebue, however, is a new plant down the road that is processing and storing the meat of animals donated by local hunters.

This partnership being developed with the 18-bed nursing home is unique for the time being.

Both facilities are run by the Maniilaq Association, a regional tribal health care nonprofit based in Kotzebue.

The first meat processed was from a musk ox carcass donated by the state.

The residents got their first taste of it in early September.

Until then, they had to wait for monthly family potlucks for a taste of the subsistence foods they grew up with, and which helped their families to survive.

Most recently, the plant processed caribou meat for the nursing home, called Utugganaat Inaat — Inupiat for "a place for elders."

Some of the meat went into caribou stew with potatoes.

"It was wonderful," 80-year-old resident Mary Reed said.

"I haven't had it in a while."

Maniilaq officials had to work through a maze of rules with various agencies before the plant opened in July.

Initially, Maniilaq officials figured they had to get USDA approval.

As it turned out, the USDA did not have food safety rules for handling donated moose and caribou meat, just buffalo, bison and elk, Kreil said.

Ultimately, the USDA asked the DEC what its rules were.

All the laws were already in place.

It was just a matter of juggling them to fit in a workable way, according to Chris Dankmeyer, Maniilaq's health safety officer.

It is too early to calculate any cost savings involved in accepting donated meats, Maniilaq officials said.

It costs up to $100 to purchase a 40-pound case of ground beef, plus 78 cents a pound to fly it from Anchorage.

Using ground musk ox or other donated meat instead is expected to add up, officials said.

The real payoff for some is the joy elders receive from their favorite traditional foods.

Many Western foods are picked at or left on plates.

However, subsistence meals tend to be gobbled up, according to Cyrus Harris, whose job with Maniilaq includes hunting for the needs of elders.

"It makes a huge difference," he said.

