In a small white building in the center of Hooper Bay, young people  gathered one cold February night.

They came to dance, sing and drum together — and to save each other.

They call themselves the Native Survivors.

They are trying to end the sadness that troubles too many Native Alaskan teens and young adults.

They find community in learning their people's traditional music and crafts.

They find peace through sewing, for instance, and friends through dance.

In 2013, a woman named Wilma Bell-Joe, now age 35, started the group.

In Alaska, too many people end their own lives.

Among the Native Alaskan Eskimo population, there is a lot of poverty and jobs are hard to find.

Drinking too much alcohol is a big problem.

Since the Native Survivors began, though, something remarkable has happened.

No one has ended their own life in Hooper Bay.

"Because of us," Bell-Joe said.

The little white building echoed with the music and the beat of drums.

"These kids are inspired and encouraged."

For some in Hooper Bay, alcohol is a struggle.

Bell-Joe herself drank alcohol in the past, but now she uses her experience to show the teens the trouble it brings.

Native Survivors is a program of AmeriCorps, which sends volunteers to help communities across the United States.

In Alaska, some of the AmeriCorps volunteers work on environmental projects, like recycling and gardening.

Others like Bell-Joe are interested in health.

In the town of Huslia, young people learn to race dogs and care for them.

Both students and leaders learn more from these programs than just dog care or recycling.

They develop important skills and gain confidence.

Bell-Joe grew up in Hooper Bay, one of 13 children.

Her family lived in a two-bedroom home, with her parents sleeping in one room and all the children in the other.

She was a teen mother who dropped out of school more than once.

When she graduated from high school, her oldest child, then a toddler, was in the audience.

Native Survivors, which started with just two students, now has 53 members and is growing, Bell-Joe said.

At just 4 feet, 9 inches tall, Bell-Joe looks almost like a teenager herself.

When she hears of a problem at Hooper Bay School, she slips inside to see what is going on.

"I literally dress up as a teenager and go into the classroom," Bell-Joe said.

"Sometimes we have problems with teachers at the school."

She said she talks to the teachers about what she sees.

She reminds them that they are there to teach and encourage, and should not treat children unfairly.

"They are not there to talk down on the kids," she said.

The modern world can seem far away from village life.

Bell-Joe just learned about the selling website Amazon last month.

She discovered Facebook a year ago.

Learning traditional ways helps give the young people a feeling of comfort, she said.

Her parents are two of the elders who help teach at the little building.

Her father is the mayor of Hooper Bay.

Her mother teaches Yup'ik, the native language, at the town preschool.

Elders have taught how to make harpoons and beading, and making dance fans and qasperet, the Yup'ik word for cloth pullovers.

In the spring, the elders will take the youth group out to look for greens.

These traditional skills, Bell-Joe said, teach patience.

They also help young people work through problems rather than blow up in anger.

On the cold February night, her father and a young man led the drumming, and her mother led the dancers.

The Native Survivors danced into the night.

The dancers acted out the story of a big family celebration, a loud, happy time.

Then the dancers reached out and danced their way to an imaginary crying baby.

They gave comfort to the baby through dance.

