People in this fishing village in southwestern Alaska say they have a big problem.

A company wants to build a giant mine in their region.

They say it will kill fish and destroy their way of life.

They spoke with President Barack Obama's top environmental official about their worries.

Gina McCarthy became head of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) last month.

She said the residents' words moved her.

They reminded her of what the EPA works for every day.

"I intend to make you proud in the position the president has given me," she said.

She gave the speech in a packed gymnasium at a Dillingham school.

The crowd stood up and clapped.

McCarthy visited the Bristol Bay area this week.

Her visit took place as people across the country discuss the project.

It could be the largest open-pit mine in North America.

The problem for many?

It's in a region that is home to half the world's wild red salmon.

Supporters of the mine project say it will create new jobs.

Those against the mine say it will destroy streams, wetlands and salmon.

Many Dillingham residents are against the mine.

But they were encouraged after McCarthy's visit.

They felt she was sympathetic to their views.

"It was like a shot to the heart when she said, 'I'm going to make you proud,''' said Robyn Chaney of Dillingham.

"It gives you a glimmer of hope."

Pebble Partnership is the name of the company that wants to build the mine.

It has not filed for permission to start the work.

The EPA may use the Clean Water Act to block the company before it applies for permission.

The Act protects against water pollution.

The area of the mine is full of lakes and streams.

The sweeping land is surrounded by mountains.

Moose, caribou and grizzly bears roam here.

A tiny camp dots the Alaskan wilderness.

So far, it is the only sign of the mine project.

The Pebble Partnership says the region's supply of minerals is huge.

It is one of the largest of its kind on the planet.

The mine could produce about 80 billion pounds of copper and 107 million ounces of gold over 30 years.

The mine site is near Iliamna.

The tiny village is home to about 100 people clustered around a huge lake.

The community is quiet even in summer.

There's little activity, aside from Pebble Partnership testing the ground.

The company hopes the mine will bring in a lot of money.

Pebble workers came to meet McCarthy in Iliamna.

They wore safety vests with "zero harm" printed on them.

The workers said the mine will be good for the area.

The company will hire people from Iliamna and surrounding villages.

Jobs range from helping out in the kitchen to guarding workers from bears.

"There are no other job opportunities, absolutely none," said Janessa Woods.

She said that without Pebble Partnership, she couldn't support her family.

In Dillingham, everyone who spoke to McCarthy was against the Pebble mine.

The town of about 2,300 lives and breathes salmon.

Worn-down buildings display bright murals.

The paintings celebrate salmon and urge the fish's preservation.

"We are people of fish, we are people of salmon, that is what we depend on," said Tom Tilden.

He is the Curyung Tribal Chief.

Curyung is the Yupik Indian name for Dillingham.

"We want this renewable resource to come back year after year after year so we can continue to be here," he said.

The EPA leader toured the mine site with Pebble officials after leaving Dillingham.

John Shively heads Pebble Partnership.

He told McCarthy the company has good intentions.

Developers want to build a mine that will bring more wealth to the region while protecting the environment, he said.

The EPA said in April the mine could wipe out nearly 100 miles of stream in the region.

It could destroy 4,800 acres of wetlands.

