Many middle school students in south-central Alaska spent spring break playing video games.

Others spent time skiing in what little snow had fallen or just enjoying a lazy week away from school.

Grayson Davey, an eighth-grader, spent most of his week off looking for new employees.

Grayson is just 13 years old, but he already owns a business called Alaska Paracord Designs.

With more than $40,000 in sales in three years, Grayson is looking to expand and hire people to make his paracord products.

The neatly woven bracelets or keychain dangles are made from tough nylon cord usually used for parachutes.

While there are many similar designs for sale on the Internet, Grayson's products, which he makes himself at his home, hide some unique items that could possibly save lives.

The fire-starter bracelet looks like many other woven bracelets being sold online to outdoor enthusiasts.

In an emergency, the bracelet can be unraveled and the parachute cord used in a variety of ways — to create a shelter or make a tourniquet, or tight bandage, for example.

But Grayson's bracelet is much more than a bundle of cord.

Its clasp is also a whistle that can be used to signal for help.

When unwound, the fire-starter bracelet reveals not only 17 feet of military-grade paracord, but also a piece of firesteel and a striker that can be used to start a fire.

Also inside: 10 inches of waxed jute twine, a waterproof tinder that will light and burn easily.

When your adventure goes wrong, "what you have on you is your survival kit," he said.

Since he began making them in 2013, at the age of 11, Grayson has sold more than 1,000 of his fire- starter bracelets and fire bugs, a version that connects to a keychain and contains a mylar signal mirror and X-Acto knife.

The fire-starter bracelet costs $35; the fire bug costs $25.

Over spring break, he picked out two possible employees, and he is looking for at least three more.

Even though he's not in high school yet, Grayson has invested $10,000 in profits into the stock market and put the rest of the profits back into his growing company.

"I want to grow the company as big as I can and at least get enough money for college," Grayson said.

"And it could end up being my career."

And Grayson is not alone in his youthful entrepreneurship.

He is a member of a local Young Entrepreneurs' Academy — a group of teens who meet with experienced business professionals for advice and startup capital.

People who work with the group, and other business organizations, claim that more and more young people are looking to be their own boss, and not go to work for someone else.

Grayson said he got his big idea after a family friend almost died while boating on a local river.

The boat overturned, sending the man and his young daughter into the churning waters.

After swimming to a nearby island, the pair was stranded for three days before being rescued.

They couldn't build a fire or shelter because all their gear was lost.

Grayson said that's when he realized that a woven paracord bracelet, with small, but useful, survival tools planted inside would have made a difference.

Three years later, Grayson owns his own company, and is selling his expanding his product line on the Web and at several local stores.

"He (Grayson) was just coming in to buy fishing gear and he told me he was getting into paracord a lot," said Stewart Valladolid, the buying manager at one of those stores.

He met Grayson in 2013 when he first started making the bracelets.

"And I told him to bring some in," Valladolid said.

"I knew it is a growing niche.

And he brought his first sample in and I was absolutely amazed on the detail and the survivability, and the features that he put into the survival bracelet."

Since then, Valladolid said his shop continues to sell the popular item.

But they don't just sell the product, Grayson's ideas and products have found a number of fans.

Valladolid has one, as does his wife and many of the store's employees.

Grayson said the only way he can expand his business and handle bigger orders is to hire people to make his products for him.

He was looking into hiring home-bound people who want to pick up work and can learn the complex weaving pattern needed for the designs.

Grayson thinks his new employees could make $15 to $20 per hour, working part time.

But the entire experience of starting a company, helping it to grow and expanding its sales reach and inventory is more than a money-maker for Grayson.

It has been a life lesson.

"Entrepreneurship is something they don't do enough teaching about in school, and it's one of the things he seemed to have natural interest in," said Grayson's mom, Lori Davey.

Grayson said he doesn't think enough people follow both their dreams, and their ideas.

"If you have an idea that can be a business, just see the different ways you can start it up, and see how you can grow it from there," he said.

"But it might not be easy.

You have to work hard too."

