President Barack Obama's top environmental official made a visit to this fishing village in southwestern Alaska.

A company that drills for minerals wants to build a mine nearby.

The people who live there told her that the project will kill wild salmon and destroy their way of life.

She was moved by their comments.

Gina McCarthy became head of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) last month.

She said the residents' words remind her of what the EPA works for every day.

"I intend to make you proud in the position the president has given me," she said.

Her speech took place in a packed gymnasium at a Dillingham school.

The audience stood up and applauded her.

McCarthy's visit to the Bristol Bay region comes as more people across the country are discussing the possible mine.

It could be the largest open-pit mine in North America.

The problem for many?

It's in a region that produces half the world's wild red salmon.

Supporters say the gold and copper mine will create new jobs.

Opponents say the mine will destroy streams, wetlands and salmon populations.

Mine opponents in the fishing town of Dillingham were encouraged after McCarthy's visit.

They felt she was sympathetic to their views.

"It was like a shot to the heart when she said, 'I'm going to make you proud,''' said Robyn Chaney of Dillingham.

"It gives you a glimmer of hope."

Pebble Partnership is the company that wants to build the mine.

It has not yet applied for permits to start the work.

A permit is an official certificate of permission.

The EPA may use the Clean Water Act to block the company before it applies for the permits.

The Act protects against water pollution.

Chaney's 14-year-old son, Triston, came with her to the meeting.

He told McCarthy that streams in the region are clean enough to drink from.

"The first thing I ever drank as a baby was from a stream, and I want future generations to be able to," he said.

He asked McCarthy to stop the Pebble Mine.

The area of the mine is a wide green stretch bursting with lakes and streams.

This sweeping land is surrounded by mountains.

Moose, caribou and grizzly bears roam there.

A tiny camp dots the Alaskan wilderness.

It is the only sign so far of what could become the world's biggest mining project.

The Pebble Partnership says the region has one of the biggest deposits of minerals in the world.

The mine could produce 80.6 billion pounds of copper over thirty years.

It could produce 107.4 million ounces of gold during that time too.

The mine site is near the village of Iliamna, a cluster of about 100 people around a huge lake.

The community is quiet even in the summer.

There's little activity, aside from Pebble Partnership testing core samples and studying the area.

The company hopes the mine will bring in a lot of money.

Pebble workers came to meet McCarthy in Iliamna.

They wore their safety vests with "zero harm" printed on them.

The workers said the mine developers are hiring people from Iliamna and the surrounding villages.

Jobs range from helping out in the kitchen to guarding workers from bears.

"There are no other job opportunities, absolutely none," said Janessa Woods, who has two children.

She declared that without Pebble Partnership, she would need government assistance.

In Dillingham, everyone who spoke to McCarthy was against the Pebble mine.

The town of about 2,300 lives and breathes salmon.

Weathered buildings display bright murals.

The paintings celebrate salmon and urge the fish's preservation.

"We are people of fish, we are people of salmon, that is what we depend on," said Tom Tilden.

He is the Curyung Tribal Chief.

Curyung is the Yupik Indian name for Dillingham.

"We want this renewable resource to come back year after year after year so we can continue to be here," he said.

"Your agency can provide us that opportunity."

McCarthy toured the mine site with Pebble officials after leaving Dillingham.

Pebble Partnership CEO John Shively said afterward that he told McCarthy the company has good intentions.

He told her the developers want to build a mine that will bring more wealth to the community while protecting the environment.

An EPA study released in April said the mine could wipe out nearly 100 miles of stream in the region.

It could destroy 4,800 acres of wetlands.

The EPA said it is finishing the study, which is based on a first round of mine plans.

