The Athabasca River flows through forests of spruce and birch trees.

In the Cree Indian language, "athabasca" means "a place where grass is everywhere."

A hundred miles upstream, the forest is being destroyed.

Shovels pick up 200,000 pounds of earth at a time.

Then they dump it into yellow trucks as big as houses.

The sandy dirt contains a fortune in oil.

Oil sands can be turned into fuel to power cars and trucks.

It's a natural resource that has brought a lot of money here.

Oil companies employ people in places where there are not a lot of  jobs to mine the sands.

But the mining may be polluting the area.

It also may be hurting the health of people who live nearby.

The Native Indians of Alberta have a hard decision.

Their thinking seems to be: "'It's a choice between whether we starve to death or are poisoned to death,'" said John O'Connor.

He is a local doctor.

After the sands are mined, the leftover material is stored nearby in poisonous ponds.

Air cannons keep birds from landing.

In the U.S., people wonder if oil sands mining is involved in [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

Here the issue is more complicated.

In Fort Chipewyan, diseases have struck the mainly Cree, Dene and Metis nations.

Cancer rates have been a third higher than normal.

Three weeks ago, high levels of mercury were found in birds' eggs.

Mercury is poisonous.

Fishermen say some fish have  bulging eyes and other strange problems.

Three different studies show rising level of chemicals in nearby waterways.

Some cause cancer.

Alberta officials say the chemicals are there naturally.

They insist they are protecting the native communities.

Natives Indians have hunted and fished here for thousands of years.

They are known as First Nations.

No other country sells more oil to the U.S. than Canada.

Most of the oil come from oil sands.

Officials hope oil production will be about 5 million barrels a day by 2030.

About 1.9 million barrels are produced now.

Many of the world's biggest oil companies mine the oil sands along the Athabasca River.

There will likely be more mining if the United States approves the Keystone XL oil pipeline.

The pipeline would bring the oil from Alberta to the U.S.

It will be be made into gasoline.

Some local people fear the pipeline would cause more pollution.

A 2013 study on lakes near the mines showed pollution levels were getting worse, said Joshua Kurek.

He helped write the study.

The government says oil companies must obey environmental rules.

Over 16 years, there were 4,000 possible violations.

Alberta took action in just 37 cases, a report showed.

Yet, jobs are scarce.

And some native groups have made their peace with oil sands mining.

For years, the village at Fort MacKay fought every oil sands project.

It lost each time.

By the 1990s, it began to work with the industry.

"It's like sleeping next to a huge elephant," said Jim Boucher.

He is chief of Fort McKay First Nation.

"At the end of the day, we have to make the best of it."

Fort MacKay smells of the mines when the wind blows from the south.

But the village has gained millions of dollars from the oil sands mining.

It is building a new youth center, church and theater.

Homes are going up in nearby hills.

Villagers drive expensive cars.

In Fort Chipewyan, a youth center is named for an oil company.

Villagers fear the mining.

But they feel they can't stop it.

Alice Rigney wonders if her breast cancer was related to mining.

She would like to see the waste ponds cleaned up.

But she's also realistic: The money paid by the oil company is too good to turn down.

"I don't think we can win.

I don't even know what winning looks like," said Rigney.

She teaches the Dene language.

"This oil is just too important for the rest of Canada."

