A hundred miles up the Athabasca River, the forest has been destroyed by mining.

Huge shovels pick up 100 tons of earth at a time and dump it into yellow trucks as big as houses.

The dirt contains a fortune in oil.

The mining is called oil sands production and it is booming in Alberta, Canada.

It has enriched local Native Indian villages and provides jobs for thousands of people in places where work is scarce.

But there are fears that the oil sands production is polluting the area.

It also may be damaging the health of those in its path.

The native villagers face a terrible decision.

"Their thinking seems to be 'It's a choice between whether we starve to death or are poisoned to death,'" said John O'Connor.

He is a local doctor.

In the native Cree language, "athabasca" means "a place where grass is everywhere."

In Alberta, the Athabasca River flows through forests of spruce and birch.

The oil sands will be sent to refineries to be processed for gasoline and other fuels.

The leftover material is stored near the river in miles-long poisonous ponds.

Air cannons keep birds from landing on them.

In the U.S., people have mainly focused on whether the oil sands contribute to [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

But in northeastern Alberta, the issue is more complicated.

In Fort Chipewyan, diseases, like cancer, have affected the mostly native Cree, Dene and Metis Indian nations.

In 2009, cancer rates were 30 percent higher than normal.

Three weeks ago, scientists told villagers that poisonous levels of mercury were found in birds' eggs.

The nests were located downstream from the mine.

Fishermen say fish in the lake show bulging eyes and other problems.

Three studies show growing amounts of polluting chemicals in lakes and rivers near Alberta's oil sands mines.

Some of those cause cancer.

The oil industry and the Alberta government insist the chemicals are there naturally.

They say they are trying to protect the communities.

Some of the Native Indians have hunted and fished here for thousands of years.

They are known as First Nations.

The oil industry is beginning a system to monitor pollution.

Restoring land to its natural state can take many, many years.

Only 247 of the thousands of acres mined in Alberta have been restored.

Canada is the largest exporter of oil to the United States.

Most of that oil comes from oil sands.

Officials hope to increase oil production by 2030 to about 5 million barrels a day.

Production now stands at 1.9 million barrels.

Many of the world's biggest oil companies are involved in mining along the Athabasca River and other parts of Alberta.

Oil sands mining is likely to increase if the Keystone XL pipeline is approved by the U.S. government.

The pipeline would start in Alberta.

Some local people fear the pipeline would cause more pollution.

Since 2009, studies have linked water pollution to mining.

A 2013 study on lakes near the mines showed increased pollution, said Joshua Kurek.

There was also more ecological change.

Kurek is a lead author of the study.

There were 4,000 possible violations of environmental rules from 1996 to 2012.

Of those, Alberta took action in only 37 cases, according to a report.

Yet, jobs are scarce.

And some native groups have made their peace with oil sands mining.

For years, the village at Fort MacKay fought every oil sands project.

Each time, it lost.

By the 1990s, it began to work with the industry.

"It's like sleeping next to a huge elephant," said Jim Boucher, chief of the Fort McKay First Nation.

"At the end of the day, we have to make the best of it."

When the wind blows from the south, Fort MacKay smells like the mines.

But the village has gained millions of dollars from mining.

Mining is paying for a new youth center, church and theater.

Homes are being built in nearby hills; locals drive Cadillacs.

In Fort Chipewyan, a youth center is named for an oil company.

Villagers fear the effects of oil sands mining.

But they feel they can't stop it.

Alice Rigney wonders whether her breast cancer was related to mining.

She would like to see the waste ponds cleaned up.

But she's also realistic: The money paid by the oil company is too good to turn down.

"I don't think we can win.

I don't even know what winning looks like," said Rigney, a local woman who teaches the Dene language.

"This oil is just too important for the rest of Canada."

