Eight years ago, Texas started making high school students take algebra II and other states followed.

But now, Texas is making the tough math class optional.

And some education experts are getting nervous.

School districts in Texas like the decision because it gives them more choices in how they teach students.

But experts are concerned.

Nearly 20 states have followed Texas' lead in requiring algebra II.

And experts worry these states may follow Texas' lead in dropping it.

Algebra II is important preparation for college.

But supporters point out that not all high school students go to college.

If students didn't have to take algebra II, they would have more time to train for good jobs that don't require college degrees.

These include jobs at oil, chemical and car factories in Texas.

But critics complain the state is lowering its standards.

Algebra II works, they say.

More students have graduated since the state began requiring algebra II in 2008.

Patte Barth said there is a strong link between taking algebra II and attending college.

Barth is director of the Center for Public Education.

But Algebra II is not just good for those going to college, Barth said.

Students who take algebra II are more likely to have a full-time job after graduation.

Barth says they are also likely to be healthier.

Sixteen other states and the District of Columbia now require algebra II for most students.

Minnesota and Connecticut will do so soon.

But Florida has already stopped making students take algebra II.

Texas and Florida are two of the country's largest states.

This has led education groups to keep a close watch on other states.

They know that what happens in Texas can have a national effect.

For example, so many textbooks are bought in the state that changes made for Texas can affect books sold nationwide.

Education expert Jennifer Dounay Zinth works for the Education Commission of the States.

She says it's funny Texas is dropping algebra II so soon.

So far, most states are not following Texas' lead.

Texas lawmakers approved the change in May.

The state's Board of Education will make the change official next week.

Texas' higher education commissioner is Raymond Paredes.

He strongly disagrees with the change.

Without algebra II, students would be badly prepared for college and technical careers, he said.

Texas' change of heart came after strong pressure from Jobs for Texas.

It is an organization made up of 22 business groups.

The group argued that the state's classes didn't meet the needs of the modern workforce.

Mike Meroney is the group's spokesman.

Without having to teach algebra II, schools will have time to prepare students for high-paying jobs, he said.

Critics of the move include the powerful group Texas Association of Business.

The group accused Texas of overly-simplifying classes.

The Texas Latino Education Coalition said that some low-income students might not go to college because of the decision.

But parent and teacher groups supported the change.

They said school districts can still require algebra II.

Stephen Waddell, superintendent in the Dallas suburb of Lewisville, said most high schoolers take it anyway.

Isabel Hutt credits algebra II for raising her SAT scores.

The SAT is a test people take to get into college.

But Hutt admits she wouldn't be in the class if it weren't required.

"That would have been a dream come true, if I had stopped after geometry," said Hutt.

She is an 11th-grader in San Antonio.

Chris Witte is in charge of a chemical factory in Texas.

It offers well-paying jobs for people with two-year degrees or job training in high school, he said.

"Is algebra II required for every job out at our site?

The answer is no," Witte said.

Witte said that algebra II is helpful.

But he and Texas lawmakers said the harder math course  caused some students to drop out.

In Texas, nearly 88 percent of students graduated on time two years ago.

This was an all-time high and the fifth straight year of improvement.

Students' scores on college entrance exams also improved.

Washington state recently compared schools with and without higher standards.

Graduation rates didn't go down when schools raised their standards, Zinth said.

Washington state requires algebra II.

Other states that require it include Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee and Utah.

"There's a fear that if we set higher standards for all students, more students will drop out," Zinth said.

That isn't the case at all, she said.

