Eight years ago, Texas started a national trend by making high school students take a class called algebra II.

Now, the state is getting rid of the requirement in a move that is making some policy experts nervous.

School districts in Texas are praising the decision because it gives them more flexibility.

But some experts are concerned.

Nearly 20 states had followed Texas' lead in requiring the tough course, and the some people are worried these states may now drop it.

Supporters say that cutting down on required classes lets students focus on training for high-paying jobs that don't need college degrees.

These include jobs at Toyota's car factory and BASF's oil and chemical plants.

But critics say Texas — often watched for education policy — is watering down its standards.

Test scores and graduation rates have improved since the requirement was put in place in 2006.

"Algebra II is a really, really powerful (predictor) on whether kids go to college.

But it goes on and on after that," said Patte Barth, director of the Center for Public Education.

Students who take algebra II are more likely to have a full-time job with health insurance after graduation.

They are also likely to be healthier, Barth said.

Algebra II is not just for those going to college, she said.

Sixteen other states and the District of Columbia now require algebra II for most students.

Minnesota and Connecticut will do so soon.

Next week, Texas will drop the requirement when its Board of Education gives final approval.

Florida has already done so.

Texas and Florida are two of the country's largest states.

The decision is making some education groups keep a close watch on other states.

They know that Texas' classroom policy can affect what other states do.

So many textbooks are bought in Texas, for instance, that changes made for Texas can affect books sold nationwide.

Policy analyst Jennifer Dounay Zinth said it's funny that Texas is backing off its algebra II requirement so soon.

Zinth, of the Education Commission of the States, said what Texas is doing is rare.

Legislators overwhelmingly voted to drop the requirement in May.

This came over the protests of Texas' higher education commissioner, Raymond Paredes.

He said that taking away requirements for advanced math and science would leave students badly prepared for college and technical careers.

Florida got rid of a similar policy in April.

But unlike Texas, Florida follows education standards called "[Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core)."

Those standards still require students to learn some skills taught in algebra II.

Texas' about-face came after strong pressure from Jobs for Texas.

It is a group of 22 business organizations.

The group argued the state's course of study was too rigid and didn't meet the needs of the modern workforce.

Mike Meroney is the group's spokesman.

With fewer state-mandated courses, school districts can better prepare high school graduates to move directly into high-paying jobs, he said.

"A lot of experts believe that problem solving is not exclusively learned in algebra II," Meroney said.

Critics of the change include the powerful lobbying group Texas Association of Business.

The group accused Texas of dumbing-down classes.

The Texas Latino Education Coalition said the change could cause some low-income students not to go to college.

But parent and teacher groups supported the change.

They said it gave flexibility to school districts, which can still require algebra II.

Stephen Waddell, superintendent in the Dallas suburb of Lewisville, said mandating algebra II was unnecessary.

Most high schoolers take it anyway.

Isabel Hutt credits algebra II for dramatically raising her SAT scores.

But she admits she wouldn't be in the class if it weren't required.

"That would have been a dream come true, if I had stopped after geometry," said Hutt.

She is an 11th-grader at Alamo Heights High School in San Antonio.

Chris Witte oversees chemical company's BASF's plant in Freeport, Texas.

He said his company offers well-paying jobs for people with two-year degrees or who got job training in high school.

"Is algebra II required for every job out at our site?

The answer is no," Witte said.

Witte said that algebra II is helpful.

But he and Texas lawmakers argued the harder math course was causing some students to drop out.

But the Texas Education Agency reported last summer that nearly 88 percent of students from the Class of 2012 graduated on time.

The graduation rate was an all-time high and showed its fifth straight year of improvement.

Students' scores on college entrance exams also improved.

Texas students' ACT scores matched the national average of 20.9.

Slightly more Texas students than the national average were ready for college-level algebra.

Officials in Washington state recently compared school districts with and without tougher requirements.

They found no link between graduation rates and higher standards, said Zinth, the education policy analyst.

Graduation rates in Indiana also didn't go down when schools increased the standards, she said.

Both states require algebra II.

Other states that require the tougher math class include Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Delaware, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, South Dakota, Tennessee and Utah.

"There's a fear that if we set higher standards for all students, more students will drop out," Zinth said.

"And the data do not bear that out at all."

