When Shari Bond heard about a ranch where animals were starving to death, she called the police.

When they arrived, police found 16 dead animals.

They also found 20 that were dying and about 175 that were very sick.

The animals were starving.

The animals were alpacas.

Alpacas are related to camels.

They were first brought to the U.S. from the mountains of Peru 30 years ago.

People value them for their soft and shiny fur.

Robert Silver is 73 years old.

He and his wife were in charge of the alpacas.

They hoped to make money raising and breeding them on their ranch.

But they ended up losing a lot of money.

Alpacas can be worth a lot of money.

One alpaca farmer, Chris Sturgeon, says he has an alpaca worth $350,000.

But the Silvers could not make money.

They paid about $6,000 for each of their alpacas.

They could only sell them for $1,000.

Robert Silver says he and his wife got into the alpaca business after she went to a livestock show and fell in love with the cute creatures.

The Silvers, who live in Oregon, spent $320,000 for 50 alpacas, about $6,400 each.

They also built a barn, paid for alpaca food, and paid other costs.

They spent a total of $750,000.

"It was our life's savings," Silver says.

"But we never were able to sell any," he adds of baby alpacas that were born on the ranch.

By last year, they had to sell females for only $1,000 each.

They were losing a lot of money.

Now, Silver is warning others that it is not very easy to make money in the alpaca business.

You must be rich already, and really love alpacas, he says.

The Silvers have both been charged with animal neglect.

They are saying that they didn't abuse the animals.

Veterinarians at the large-animal hospital at Oregon State University have agreed to take care of the alpacas for free.

It is good training for the students who want to become animal doctors.

Bond runs an alpaca rescue organization.

She contacted Oregon State for help to take care of the animals.

Finding homes for the 175 ill alpacas is the biggest job ever for her group.

Now she is at the animal hospital, deciding which animals can be adopted.

"Look, you can see her backbone," says Bond, pointing to a skinny alpaca.

Even after a month of normal eating, this alpaca is so thin that her spine is showing.

In a healthy animal, the spine wouldn't show.

It's still better than in late December, when police were called to rescue the starving animals.

At that time "you could see ribs and hip bones," Bond said.

Today, the alpacas are recovering in the animal hospital at Oregon State.

The animals need new homes.

There are 300 people who want to adopt the alpacas.

Four have arrived with their trailers today.

One of them is 71-year-old Jo Sowards.

She and her husband are retired.

They raise racing dogs.

They also rescue dogs that need homes.

Today she is rescuing alpacas.

She takes home five adult alpacas, one baby, and one female who is about to have a baby.

"I'm doing what you call community service.

These are dumb animals that needed help," Sowards says.

