Not so fast, Amazon.

Before the shopping website can send a fleet of delivery drones into U.S. skies, it will have to wait for the results of drone tests at six state-run sites.

The Federal Aviation Administration will select those sites later this month.

At least 24 states are competing to host these sites.

The states expect that they'll bring jobs and investment from a rapidly growing industry.

Congress has directed the FAA to safely integrate unmanned planes, or unarmed [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), into the national airspace by 2015.

Until then, the FAA has said it will grant flight privileges to operators of drones on a case-by-case basis.

Jeff Bezos is the CEO of Amazon.

He said in an interview Sunday on CBS's "60 Minutes" news program that Amazon hopes to use drones to make same-day deliveries within five years of FAA approval.

"It will work, and it will happen, and it's gonna be a lot of fun," Bezos said.

Amazon's plan is yet another example of how drones could transform everyday life.

Manufacturers tout the machines' ability to carry water to a wildfire, monitor storm systems, or locate missing persons.

They could even deliver pizza.

Governors are well aware of the technology's job potential for engineers, programmers and pilots.

Already, Oklahoma Gov.

Mary Fallin has someone dedicated to attracting drone companies to the state.

New Mexico, which has a long history of testing military aircraft, has already secured a site.

The Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International represents drone manufacturers.

It estimates that integrating drones into the national airspace will generate at least 70,000 engineering, manufacturing and piloting jobs within the first three years of FAA approval.

The states that win the test sites also will be charged with developing privacy policies for drones.

They'll have to protect the public from being watched by drones.

The planes will be performing all sorts of tasks, including delivering packages.

Recently, eight states put limits on how law enforcement officers can use drones.

And they set guidelines for how long data collected from a drone can be stored in a database.

Still, those concerns haven't stopped the majority of states from moving ahead to attract drone businesses.

In Virginia, tea partyers and civil libertarians were able to pass a two-year moratorium, or ban, on drone use.

Only the military will be allowed to use drones.

But, even there the economic temptation of aerospace jobs persuaded the leaders of Virginia to later change the moratorium.

"Not only would future job prospects dim, but current businesses and those they employ would be at risk," warned Peter Bale, chairman of the AUVSI, in a letter to Virginia Gov.

Bob McDonnell.

"More than 50 companies that manufacture UAVs have a footprint in Virginia.

A moratorium would create an unfriendly environment for these companies, which as a result might look to take their business, as well as jobs, elsewhere."

In response, McDonnell added exemptions to the moratorium for researchers and companies to test drones.

But, they must not be armed or used to watch people.

Gov.

Paul LePage of Maine also refused to sign a bill limiting drone use.

"This bill will harm any opportunity Maine has to create new jobs in the aerospace industry," LePage wrote after vetoing a bill limiting law enforcement use of drones.

"It is the wrong message to send if we want these jobs."

Instead, LePage wants to create guidelines for law enforcement use of drones.

A model drone policy written by state government officials urges states to require a warrant for drones to watch an individual; prohibit the re-use of video or photos collected by a drone for other investigations; and ban weapons from domestic drones.

