Not so fast, Amazon.

The internet shopping site wants to use unmanned planes, known as [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), to deliver packages.

But, it will have to wait for the results of drone tests at six state-run sites.

The Federal Aviation Administration will select the sites later this month.

At least 24 states are competing to host these sites.

The states expect that they'll bring jobs and money.

Congress has directed the FAA to safely add unmanned aircraft into the national airspace by 2015.

Until then, the FAA has said it will let some operators fly drones.

But, it will be on a case-by-case basis.

Jeff Bezos is the CEO of Amazon.

He told a TV news show on Sunday that Amazon hopes to use drones to make same-day deliveries within five years of FAA approval.

"It will work, and it will happen, and it's gonna be a lot of fun," Bezos said.

Amazon's plan is another example of how drones could change everyday life.

Manufacturers say the machines could carry water to a wildfire, monitor storm systems, or locate missing persons.

They could even deliver pizza.

Governors are well aware that the technology could bring jobs for engineers, programmers and pilots.

Already, Oklahoma Gov.

Mary Fallin has someone dedicated to attracting drone companies to the state.

New Mexico, which has a long history of testing military aircraft, has already been chosen for one of the sites.

The Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) represents drone companies.

It estimates that if the FAA approves drones, it will create at least 70,000 jobs within three years.

The states that win the test sites must also develop privacy policies for drones.

They'll have to protect the public from being watched by drones performing all sorts of tasks, including delivering packages.

Recently, eight states put limits on how law enforcement officers can use drones.

And they set guidelines for how long information collected from a drone can be kept.

Still, the majority of states are moving ahead to attract drone businesses.

In Virginia, a two-year ban on drone use was passed.

Only the military will be allowed to use drones.

But, even there the governor made huge changes to limit the ban.

The temptation of new jobs from a test site was too great.

Peter Bale is the chairman of AUVSI.

In a letter to Virginia Gov.

Bob McDonnell he criticized the ban.

"Not only would future job prospects dim, but current businesses and those they employ would be at risk, " he wrote.

He said that more than 50 companies that make drones have offices in Virginia.

A temporary ban would hurt these companies, he said.

As a result, the companies might look to take their business, as well as jobs, elsewhere.

In response, McDonnell added exemptions to the ban for researchers and companies to test drones.

But, they cannot be armed or used to spy on people.

Gov.

Paul LePage of Maine also refused to sign a bill limiting drone use.

"This bill will harm any opportunity Maine has to create new jobs in the aerospace industry," LePage wrote.

"It is the wrong message to send if we want these jobs."

LePage even vetoed a bill limiting law enforcement use of drones.

Instead, he wants to create guidelines for how police will use drones.

Officials from several state governments wrote a model drone policy that urges states to require a warrant before drones can watch an individual; prohibit the re-use of video or photos collected by a drone for other investigations; and ban weapons from drones used in the U.S.

