The head of Amazon.com said recently the company wants to use [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) to deliver packages.

The pilot-free planes are controlled from the ground.

So far, they are mostly used for military purposes.

The giant online store will not be able to send a fleet of drones into U.S. skies just yet.

It will have to wait for the results of government drone tests at sites in six different states.

The Federal Aviation Administration will select the sites later this month.

At least 24 states are trying to get these sites.

Only six will get them.

The states think that they'll bring jobs.

Congress has directed the FAA to safely add drones into the national airspace by 2015.

Until then, the FAA has said it will let some operators fly drones.

Jeff Bezos is the CEO of Amazon.

He says that Amazon hopes to use drones to make same-day deliveries within five years of FAA approval.

"It will work, and it will happen, and it's gonna be a lot of fun," Bezos said.

Amazon's plan is one way drones could change everyday life.

Drone makers say the machines could carry water to a wildfire and track storms.

Or they could locate missing persons.

They could even deliver pizza.

Governors say the technology could bring jobs.

Pilots fly drones from the ground and they would have to he hired.

And people who build and design the drones could get jobs.

New Mexico has a long history of testing military planes.

It has already been chosen as a test site.

The Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) represents drone makers.

It figures that if the FAA approves drones, it will create at least 70,000 jobs.

And that's just in the first three years.

The states that win the test sites must make sure drones don't invade people's lives.

Drones will be performing all sorts of tasks.

Delivering packages is just one of those.

States will have to make sure they don't spy on people while they are doing their tasks.

Recently, eight states put limits on how police can use drones.

And they set guidelines for how long information collected from a drone can be kept.

Still, most states are moving ahead to attract drone businesses.

In Virginia, a two-year ban on drone use was passed.

Only the military will be allowed to use them.

But, the governor made huge changes later to limit the ban.

The chance for new jobs was too tempting to turn down.

Peter Bale heads up the AUVSI.

He sent a letter to Virginia Gov.

Bob McDonnell.

He said that more than 50 companies that make drones do work in Virginia.

A ban would be unfriendly to these companies, he said.

As a result, the companies might take their business, as well as jobs, elsewhere.

So, McDonnell changed the ban.

Companies will be allowed to test drones.

But, they cannot be armed or used to spy on people.

Gov.

Paul LePage of Maine also refused to sign a bill limiting drone use.

He said it was "the wrong message to send if we want these jobs."

LePage even shot down a bill limiting police use of drones.

Instead, he wants to write guidelines for how police will be allowed to use drones.

Officials from several states wrote a paper for how drones could be used.

It urges states to make it necessary to get an order from a judge before they use a drone to watch anyone; ban drone videos or photos from being re-used in more than one police investigation; and ban weapons from drones used in the U.S.

