Drones can do all kinds of things, from dropping bombs to tracking storms.

Soon, they may even deliver packages or even a pizza straight to people's doors.

A [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) is a plane that is controlled from the ground.

No pilot flies inside.

Some are as small as a remote-controlled toy.

Others are as big as a regular plane.

They are mostly used by the military for now.

But Amazon.com sees a new use for drones.

Jeff Bezos runs the giant online store.

He says that Amazon could use drones to make deliveries on the same day people place an order online.

He wants to start drone deliveries within five years.

"It will work, and it will happen, and it's gonna be a lot of fun," Bezos said.

That's if the FAA approves.

The Federal Aviation Administration is in charge of U.S. airspace.

Nothing flies without its OK – including drones.

The FAA wants to test drones out first.

Tests will be done at sites in different states.

The FAA will chose the sites.

At least 24 states are trying to get these sites.

Only six will get them.

The states think that the sites will bring jobs.

Congress has told the FAA to add drones into the U.S. airspace.

It has to do it by 2015.

Until then, the FAA has said it will let some operators fly drones.

Amazon's plan is one way drones could change everyday life.

Drone makers say the machines could be helpful.

They could carry water to a wildfire or track storms.

Or, they could locate missing persons.

Governors say the technology could bring jobs.

Pilots fly drones from the ground.

They would have to he hired.

People who build and design the drones would have to be hired.

New Mexico has a long history of testing military planes.

It has already gotten a site from the FAA.

The Association of Unmanned Vehicle Systems International (AUVSI) represents drone makers.

It figures that if the FAA approves drones, it will bring at least 70,000 new jobs.

And that's just in the first three years.

The states that win the sites have to be careful.

They must make sure drones don't spy on people.

Drones will be performing all sorts of tasks.

Delivering packages is just one of them.

Eight states have put limits on how police can use drones.

And they don't want information collected from drones to be kept forever.

Still, most states are moving ahead to attract drone businesses.

In Virginia, a law was passed to ban drones for two years.

Only the military will be allowed to use them.

But, the governor made huge changes later to limit the ban.

The chance for new jobs was too tempting to turn down.

Peter Bale heads up the AUVSI.

He sent a letter to Virginia Gov.

Bob McDonnell.

He said that more than 50 companies that make drones work in Virginia.

A ban would be unfriendly to these companies, he said.

As a result, the companies might take their business elsewhere.

The jobs would leave with those companies.

So, McDonnell made changes to the ban.

Companies will be allowed to test drones in Virginia.

But, they cannot be armed.

And they cannot be used to spy on people.

