An American soldier is being honored by Israel.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/Mideast_Israel_Americ_Edit.jpg) Master Sergeant Roddie Edmonds was from Tennessee and died in 1985.

Seventy years ago, he risked his life to save Jewish soldiers.

Edmonds is the first American soldier to earn the honor.

He is not Jewish.

Israel's main religion is Judaism.  Edmonds was a soldier in World War II.

During the war, many of the world's countries fought each other.

Germany started the war.

Germany badly treated Jews and tried to kill them because of their religion.

In 1944, the German army captured Edmonds.

He was sent to a prisoner of war (POW) camp.

On Jan. 27, 1945, the German camp head told the Jewish American prisoners to identify themselves as Jews.

Edmonds turned to the rest of the POWs.

He told 1,000 other American POWs to step forward.

The German officer then said to Edmonds, "They cannot all be Jews."

Edmonds replied, "We are all Jews here."

The officer pointed his gun at Edmonds.

He offered Edmonds one last chance.

Edmonds said, "If you are going to shoot, you are going to have to shoot all of us," said Chris Edmonds.

The German officer gave up.

Chris Edmonds said he thinks his father saved more than 200 Jewish-American soldiers.

Avner Shalev is the head of Israel's Yad Vashem Holocaust museum.

It is giving the award.

Shalev said Edmonds was an ordinary soldier.

Yet, Edmonds did what was right.

He set an example for other American soldiers.

Edmonds' son discovered the story long after his father's death.

He searched the Internet.

He found an article that mentioned his father.

Then Chris Edmonds found two Jewish men who used to be POWs.

They told him what happened.

Germany sent Jewish American soldiers to slave labor camps.

Many prisoners died there.

The non-Jewish soldiers were kept in regular prisoner camps.

Edmonds is getting the "Righteous Among the Nations" award.

It is for non-Jews who risked their lives to save Jews.

A row of trees is planted to honor them.

Before Edmonds, only four of the Righteous were Americans.

He is the first soldier.

He is also the first one who saved the lives of Americans.

A ceremony for Edmonds will be held next year in Israel.

Edmonds may also receive a Congressional Medal of Honor.

It is American's highest military honor.

Chris Edmonds said he is glad his father did the right thing.

