In 2001, Benjamin Glick was born into a Amish family in Pennsylvania.

Just weeks after his birth, Benjamin developed a mysterious illness.

He would vomit and pass out.

He wouldn't eat, and he lost weight.

Over five agonizing months, his parents took him to 12 doctors at six hospitals in the Philadelphia area.

They made sure the child got the best treatment that modern medicine could offer.

Nevertheless, nothing seemed to help.

"He was fading out, we were going to lose him," said his father, Amos Glick.

It took a clinic in a Pennsylvania cornfield to save the boy.

The clinic was called the Clinic for Special Children in Strasburg.

It had an unusual specialty: treating Amish and Mennonite children with rare genetic disorders.

The Amish are a Christian community with strict religious and cultural practices who immigrated from Europe in the 1700s.

Along with the Mennonites, Amish Americans have preserved their way of life over the centuries.

They choose to go without electricity and other modern technologies and limit the influence of the outside world.

Most of the doctors who Benjamin Glick had seen were baffled by his case, but doctors at the Clinic for Special Children in Strasburg had seen similar symptoms in other children in the Amish and Mennonite communities.

They discovered Benjamin had a rare milk-protein allergy.

They changed Benjamin's diet and his condition stabilized in a month.

A big hospital likely would have treated Benjamin individually, failing to make connections to the medical history of his community, said Kevin Strauss, a pediatrician and the clinic's medical director.

The reason that Benjamin and children like him can be so difficult to treat is that they belong to a unique population.

Doctors may not check for certain rare diseases in these children even though the diseases may be more common among Amish and Mennonite children.

Throughout their history, Amish and Mennonites have stayed relatively isolated: they speak their own language, keep up longstanding traditions, and only marry within the church.

Because they do not have children with outsiders, they have developed a distinct gene pool.

For example, Lancaster County has 60,000 Amish and Mennonite citizens, or "Plain People."

They descended from fewer than 100 settlers who immigrated to Lancaster in the early 1700s.

Through the generations, no new genes were added into the population from outsiders.

Whatever was unusual about the original gene pool was multiplied and magnified over the years, rather than being diluted by mixing with other gene pools.

Because they have such distinct genes, Amish and Mennonites are at greater risk for certain genetic diseases than the general population.

The Clinic for Special Children in Strasburg has been working to treat these rare conditions for the past 25 years.

The clinic is run out of a barnlike building that was built in a single day by Amish and Mennonite craftsmen.

It has parking spots for horses and buggies out front and dairy cows graze out back.

Inside, 63-year-old pediatrician D. Holmes Morton and his team practice cutting-edge medicine.

Morton was working at the Children's Hospital in 1988 when he encountered a 6-year-old Amish boy named Danny Lapp with an undiagnosed disease that left him brain damaged and unable to use his limbs.

Doctors thought the boy had a disease called cerebral palsy.

Morton, however, identified his disease as glutaric aciduria type 1 (GA1), a rare condition that attacks the brain.

At the time, there were only eight known cases of GA1.

The Lapp case changed Morton's life.

He co-founded the Clinic for Special Children of Strasburg with his wife, Caroline Morton, and began studying the gene pool of the Plain People.

GA1 is one of more than 150 diseases and genetic conditions the clinic has identified that affect the Amish and Mennonites of Lancaster County.

For instance, Amish babies are 100 times more likely to have GA1 than other infants.

At the same time, Morton said, diseases that strike the general population, such as cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease, do not exist among the Plain People.

Before 1990, 90 percent of children suffering from GA1 had irreversible brain damage that left most of them severely disabled.

Now, if caught early, those with the disease suffer no brain injury and have been able to live normal lives thanks to treatments at the clinic.

Jan Bergen, chief operating officer at Lancaster General Hospital, said she was "awestruck" by the small clinic's big results.

"They are unique in the world," said Bergen, who works with the clinic on research projects.

In addition to seeing patients every day, clinic researchers publish three to five papers a year and participate in 25 research projects with hospitals worldwide.

Between its research and work treating patients, doctors at the clinic have transformed health care for Amish and Mennonite children.

They have managed to find treatments for diseases that used to be death sentences for children like Benjamin.

They have also advanced our knowledge of genetic conditions, possibly leading to cures for diseases that affect everyone.

