On Tuesday night, an Amtrak train derailed in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, killing at least seven people.

The horrific accident renewed attention to the safety of the nation's busiest passenger railway route.

The accident occurred along the heavily traveled Washington-to-Boston route known as the Northeast Corridor.

Investigators determined that the train had been rounding a curve at twice the speed limit when it left the tracks.

Amtrak is a national railroad service funded by the government.

Some feel it receives too little money to fully meet its needs.

A lack of money makes it difficult for the railroad to make needed improvements to aging bridges and tunnels and to the systems that power the trains and keep them out of one another's way.

Amtrak has barely enough money to keep things running, said Steve Ditmeyer, a former associate administrator at the Federal Railroad Administration.

"Some things are falling through the cracks."

The seven-car train traveling from Washington to New York derailed after 9 p.m. Tuesday in Northeast Philadelphia.

Of the 238 passengers and five crew members on board, seven were confirmed dead Wednesday by Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter.

The dead included a U.S. naval midshipman and an employee of The Associated Press.

The chief executive of an online startup company was missing.

Pieces of the train were strewed around the track, which bends in a sharp curve in Northeast Philadelphia.

Part of the train overturned, and one car was reduced to a twisted heap of shredded metal.

"It's a devastating scene," National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) member Robert Sumwalt said Wednesday morning.

The NTSB confirmed Wednesday afternoon that the train had approached the location of the accident, Frankford Junction, at more than 100 miles per hour (mph).

The speed limit there is 50 mph.

Ditmeyer said a Northeast Corridor improvement project in the late 1970s and early 1980s was supposed to straighten out curves.

In the end, however, funding for the improvements was cut.

Amtrak's flagship Acela Express has a top speed of 150 mph but rarely reaches it.

Numerous curves, bridges and tunnels limit the speed of all trains on the Northeast Corridor.

The speed limit through two tunnels under Baltimore, Maryland, built in the 1870s, is 30 mph.

Half of the line's bridges were built between 1900 and 1920.

According to Amtrak, it would take 300 years to replace them at current funding levels.

"These are ancient things," Ditmeyer said.

"They're well over a hundred years old — they are decaying."

The twin tunnels under the Hudson River in New York, built in 1910, sustained heavy flood damage from Hurricane Sandy in 2012.

Tens of thousands of commuters depend on them every day, and are potentially at risk.

Amtrak President Joe Boardman has said the tunnels need to be replaced soon.

"I don't know if it's seven (years).

I don't know if it's four or less," Boardman said in an interview last year.

"We've got to do it — the nation has to do it.

We have to find the money."

Amtrak is in the process of installing a collision-avoidance system on the Boston-to-Washington Northeast Corridor.

The system, called positive train control, is designed to prevent trains from exceeding speed limits as they approach curves.

Ditmeyer said the Northeast Corridor was long ago equipped with a system called automatic train control.

While that system prevents trains from running past stop signals, it does not correct for excessive speed ahead of curves.

Unlike Amtrak's long-distance trains, which are diesel powered, the Northeast Corridor is electrified.

However, the system of overhead wires and supports that supplies power to the trains dates back to the 1930s.

Amtrak says 62 percent of the overhead wires and 42 percent of the steel supports need to be replaced.

