On Tuesday, an Amtrak train came off the tracks in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

At least seven people were killed.

The terrible accident has raised serious questions.

People are asking if the nation's busiest train line is safe enough.

The accident happened along a part of the Washington-to-Boston route.

The heavily traveled route is known as the Northeast Corridor.

Investigators said the train had been speeding.

They said the train approached the curve at more than 100 miles an hour.

The speed limit there is 50 miles an hour.

The train was going twice as fast.

The curve where the train came off the tracks is dangerous.

Some say such sharp curves in the tracks should be replaced.

Amtrak is a national railroad service supported by the government.

Some people feel the government gives it too little money.

Amtrak does not have enough money to fix everything it should.

Old bridges, tunnels and tracks are not being repaired or replaced.

Amtrak has hardly enough money to keep things running, said railroads expert Steve Ditmeyer.

Many things that should be fixed are not, he said.

The seven-car train went off the tracks on Tuesday night in Philadelphia.

Pieces of the train were spread around the track.

Part of the train overturned.

One car was left a twisted mess of torn metal.

During the late 1970s and early 1980s, there were plans to straighten out curves in the Northeast Corridor's tracks.

The improvements never happened, though.

The government decided not to pay for them.

It is not just the tracks that are a problem.

Half of the line's bridges were built between 1900 and 1920.

Two tunnels under Baltimore, Maryland, were built way back in the 1870s.

"These are ancient things," Ditmeyer said.

"They're well over a hundred years old."

They badly need to be fixed or replaced.

The twin tunnels under the Hudson River in New York were built in 1910.

They were heavily damaged by Hurricane Sandy in 2012.

Tens of thousands of travelers pass through those tunnels every day.

Amtrak President Joe Boardman says the tunnels need to be replaced soon.

"We've got to do it.

The nation has to do it.

We have to find the money," Boardman said last year.

Amtrak wants to create a system to avoid crashes.

The system is called positive train control.

It will stop trains from going faster than the speed limit when the train gets close to a curve in the tracks.

Ditmeyer said the Northeast Corridor already has a system called automatic train control.

That system prevents trains from running past stop signals.

However, it does not stop trains from speeding at the curves.

Most of Amtrak's long-distance trains are powered by fuel but the Northeast Corridor is electrified.

The electricity comes from a system of wires above the train tracks.

The system is from the 1930s and is really old.

Amtrak says many of the wires need to be replaced.

