In 2009, a cable broke on Knott's Berry Farm Xcelerator roller coaster in Buena Vista, Calif.

It ripped through the ride's car, slashing the leg of a 12-year-old.

With a top speed of 82 miles per hour, the roller coaster ranks among the park's fastest.

Injuries on Southern California amusement park rides are rare.

But when they do occur, the most common ones actually are fainting, nausea and dizziness.

People are more likely to get hurt on older rides than on newer ones.

And about 1 in 8 injuries involve riders who were hurt while getting on or off.

Those are some of the findings of a Los Angeles Times investigation.

It looked at six years' worth of injury reports from theme parks across Southern California.

In all, the newspaper went through 2,089 injury reports from 57 theme parks that were filed from 2007 through 2012 with the state Department of Industrial Relations.

The department oversees the safety of theme park rides.

The largest number of reports, about 18 percent, involved motion sickness, including fainting, nausea and dizziness.

Back and neck pain ranked second, at 16 percent.

Head injuries came in third at 12 percent.

Together, the parks reported an average of about 350 injuries a year during the six-year period.

The attendance at Southern California's largest parks was estimated at more than 40 million visitors a year.

Other findings include: More women reported injuries than men.

Most injuries came from roller coasters and water slides.

Nearly 20 percent of injured theme park visitors reported having previous health problems.

Three men died after riding attractions at Southern California theme parks.

Serious, already- existing medical conditions likely caused two of the deaths.

The cause of the third death was unknown.

Operators of permanent theme park rides must file an accident report with the state.

They are required to report when a visitor is injured or feels sick and then receives outside medical help.

One rider listed in the records is Adrienne Sacks of Maryland.

She became sick after riding Disneyland's Space Mountain in 2012.

The 59-year-old teacher said she was sweating and vomiting at the park's first aid station.

Eventually, she was treated by paramedics who were called to the park.

"I got really violently ill, like I've never been before," Sacks said.

In 2000, California began requiring amusement parks to report injuries after a Disneyland visitor was killed.

He was struck on the head by a piece of metal that pulled free from a ship.

Parks are not required to report information on the number of riders, making it impossible to calculate the injury rate.

Space Mountain was the leader among rides, with 120 illnesses or injuries reported during that time period.

The GhostRider roller coaster at Knott's Berry Farm came in second, with 92 reports.

Of the 10 rides with the most reported incidents, nine were at Disneyland or Disney California Adventure Park.

They are the region's most popular theme parks.

They had a combined attendance of 23.7 million visitors in 2012.

Disneyland officials say their attractions are safe.

Disney officials said 44 million people rode Space Mountain from 2007 to 2012.

In that time, 120 people were injured.

This means one injury for every 367,000 riders.

By comparison, the odds of being injured in the bathroom — and requiring a visit to the hospital — are about 1 in 1,037.

"We are at the top of the (injury) list because we are the top of the list for attendance," said Greg Hale.

He is the chief safety officer for Disney's theme parks.

Space Mountain attracts a variety of people, including older people and people with health problems.

After riding Space Mountain in 2012 with her husband and two children, Joan Brown said she suffered memory loss and headaches.

When she got off the ride, she kept asking, "Where are we going?"

said her husband, Scott Bell.

Brown was diagnosed with global amnesia, which involves memory loss for a brief period of time.

The age of Space Mountain, which opened in 1977 may also be a factor in its injury rate.

The state reports suggest that older rides cause more injuries than newer ones.

Among the 10 attractions with the most injuries, six are at least 20 years old.

Only one was built in the last decade.

Seat belts "security and safety on rides are much more advanced today than they were 30 or 40 years ago," said Dennis Speigel.

He is president of International Theme Park Services in Ohio.

The state Department of Industrial Relations investigated about half of the injuries.

In most of those cases, the state ordered minor repairs or extra staff training.

The most severe injuries occurred when theme park rides did not work properly.

In 2007, a family of five from Illinois was sprayed with battery acid at Universal Studios Hollywood.

Their Studio Tour tram ride had struck a guardrail.

Theme parks and water parks post signs making it clear that people ride at their own risk.

"There is an assumption of risk when you get on them," said California lawyer Daniel D. Geoulla.

He represents a man who says he was hurt when a Disneyland railroad train derailed.

