When people use their phones to play a game, find the location of something, or post a photo, they may be watched.

Documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden suggest that spy agencies can collect personal information from apps on smartphones across the globe.

The documents were published Monday by The New York Times, the Guardian, and ProPublica.

Mapping, gaming, and social networking apps are common on the world's estimated 1 billion smartphones.

The documents suggest that these apps can feed America's National Security Agency (NSA) and Britain's GCHQ spy agency with huge amounts of personal information.

Location information and details such as a person's political or sexual interests can all be discovered.

The size of the program isn't known.

Yet, the reports suggest that U.S. and British intelligence can easily get hold of information from apps such as the "Angry Birds" game or Google Maps.

A 2008 document from the GCHQ describes its joint spying program with the NSA.

It's quoted as saying that the program "effectively means that anyone using Google Maps on a smartphone is working in support of a GCHQ system."

The NSA did not directly comment on the reports.

But in a statement Monday it claimed that it was only interested in communications of solid "foreign intelligence targets."

The agency says that it monitors phones for good reason.

Often, they are used in planning terror attacks.

"Any implication that NSA's foreign intelligence collection is focused on the smartphone or social media communications of everyday Americans is not true," the statement said.

"We collect only those communications that we are authorized by law to collect."

GCHQ said it did not comment on intelligence matters.

It insisted, however, that all of its activity was "authorized, necessary and proportionate."

Intelligence agencies' interest in mobile phones and the networks they run on has been documented in several of Snowden's previous leaks.

The focus on apps, however, is new.

It shows how even harmless-looking pieces of software can be used for spying.

"Angry Birds" was one of the most eye-catching examples.

The addictive birds-versus-pigs game has been downloaded more than 1.7 billion times worldwide.

The Times and ProPublica said a 2012 British intelligence report laid out how to gather "Angry Birds" users' information from phones.

Another document published to the Web was a 14-page-long NSA slideshow.

It listed a host of other mobile apps.

Ones made by social media company Facebook, photo sharing site Flickr, and the film-oriented Flixster were being monitored.

It wasn't clear precisely what information can be collected from which apps.

One of the slides gave the example of a user who uploaded a photo using a social media app.

Under the words "Golden Nugget!"

it said that the information generated by the app could be examined.

A phone's settings, where it connected to, which websites it had visited, which documents it had downloaded, and who its users' friends were could all be found.

Google did not immediately return messages seeking comment on the reports.

Neither did Rovio Entertainment, the maker of "Angry Birds."

The Times briefly posted a secret U.S. document on the smartphone spying to the web Monday.

It contained material that appeared to publish the name of an NSA employee.

Computer experts said they were able to discover the name of the employee.

They also picked out the name of a Middle Eastern terror group the program was targeting.

Details about the types of computer files the NSA considered useful were also found.

Snowden began leaking documents in June.

Since then, his supporters have maintained they have been careful not to release any intelligence official's name.

They claim to have kept quiet any operational details that could compromise ongoing spying.

The employee did not return phone or email messages from The Associated Press.

Michael Birmingham is a spokesman for the Director of National Intelligence.

The DNI is in charge of all U.S. spy agencies — including the NSA, CIA and FBI — and reports to the president.

Birmingham said the agency requested the Times not publish the information.

A Times spokeswoman said the information had been posted by error.

The material has since been removed.

