The 128-year-old Detroit Institute of Arts holds some of the world's greatest paintings from such masters as [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso) and Van Gogh and murals by Rivera.

But now, the museum is taking on a very different sort of art.

Pablo, Vincent and Rivera will share their home with Mickey, Bart and Bugs.

"Watch Me Move: The Animation Show" is an exhibition that organizers are calling the "most extensive animation show ever mounted."

It will have iconic clips of Mickey Mouse, Bart Simpson and Bugs Bunny.

But it will also feature lesser-known works that span the past 100-plus years.

The show brings together film pioneers, independent filmmakers and modern artists.

It will also feature big studios such as Walt Disney and Pixar.

"Watch Me Move" takes its name from a film called "Little Nemo."

The film, which is more than a century old, has an on-screen message inviting viewers to "Watch Me Move."

At the show, visitors can view more than 100 animated clips, adding up to nearly 12 hours of footage.

All types of animation are represented: time-lapse, stop-motion, hand-drawn and computer-generated.

It's there in an arrangement of six sections designed to attract art lovers and pop-culture fans alike.

Plush couches and chairs are placed around the show with headphones.

It is designed to allow visitors to relax and take in the animation at their own pace.

For the animation experts, the museum is offering a $75 pass for unlimited visits to the show and to the related movies and lectures.

One lecture will be delivered by Leslie Iwerks.

She is an Academy Award-nominated filmmaker whose grandfather, Ub Iwerks, was an early animator for Disney.

A clip from Ub Iwerks' "Silly Symphonies" is shown not long after "Little Nemo" in the show's "Beginnings" section.

"Beginnings" kicks off the show and explores the first animated images.

The show presents more than just a collection of moving images.

Visitors can also try a video game that begins its journey in London's Underground.

Then, the show ends on a futuristic note.

In the projection mapping room, a program fits projected images on surfaces of different shapes.

In one example from the exhibition, light splashes across jagged-edge formations.

The way the light hits them gives the appearance that spiders are crawling all around.

The museum wanted people to experience the first and last parts of the show together.

That way, visitors can see the changes animation has gone through over the years.

"This is where the technology is now," said Holly Harmon, an interpretive specialist at the DIA.

"When you walk into this room, you really don't know how it's done."

And as Porky Pig would say: "That's all folks."

