At 128 years old, the Detroit Institute of Arts has a sterling reputation.

It houses some of the world's revered masterpieces including works by Van Gogh, [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso) and murals by Rivera.

However, in the next few months, things are going to look a bit different as Vincent, Pablo and Diego are accompanied by Mickey, Bart and Bugs.

"Watch Me Move: The Animation Show" is an exhibition that organizers are calling the "most extensive animation show ever mounted."

It will feature iconic clips of Mickey Mouse, Bart Simpson and Bugs Bunny.

It will also include lesser-known works that span more than a hundred years.

The show brings together film pioneers, independent filmmakers, modern artists and big studios such as Disney and Pixar.

The show takes its name from American cartoonist and animator Winsor McCay's century-old short film "Little Nemo" which displays an on-screen message inviting viewers to "Watch Me Move."

At the show, visitors can view more than 100 animated film clips.

This adds up to nearly 12 hours of footage.

Time-lapse, stop-motion, hand-drawn and computer-generated animation.

It's all there in an arrangement of six sections designed to attract art lovers and pop-culture fans alike.

"Animation is art and is just as worthy as our Van Goghs or our (Pieter) Bruegels to hang inside a museum," said Jane Dini, one of the show's curators.

And "hang" is the key word.

Plush couches and other seating areas are placed around the exhibit with headphones and built-in audio sources.

It's designed to allow visitors to relax and absorb the animated content at their own pace.

"One of the things we tried to think about was how somebody could easily get through the exhibition in half an hour, 40 minutes and feel that they had been immersed in the history of animation," Dini said.

"And then for those real connoisseurs of animation, that they could sit here and really" take it in.

For the animation experts, the museum is offering a $75 pass for unlimited visits to the show and to the related movies and lectures.

One lecture will be delivered by Leslie Iwerks.

She is an Academy Award-nominated filmmaker whose grandfather, Ub Iwerks, was a pioneering Disney animator.

A clip from Ub Iwerks' "Silly Symphonies" is shown not long after "Little Nemo" in the show's "Beginnings" section.

"Beginnings" (what else?)

kicks off the show and is devoted to the emergence of the animated image.

The exhibition presents more than a lengthy succession of moving images.

Visitors can also try a video game that begins its journey in London's Underground.

The show ends on a futuristic high note — the projection mapping room.

Projection mapping uses a program to fit projected images on surfaces of different shapes.

In one example from the exhibition, light splashes across jagged-edge formations.

The way the light hits gives the appearance that spiders are crawling all around.

"The thing that we wanted to do with the show that we thought was really important was to have a unifying introductory experience and a unifying conclusion experience," said Holly Harmon, an interpretive specialist at the DIA.

"This is where the technology is now.

When you walk into this room, you really don't know how it's done."

And as Porky Pig would say: "That's all folks."

