"Big Hero 6" has been a big hit for Walt Disney Animation Studios, winning an Oscar and taking in more than $500 million at the box office.

But the more important number may be the 39,000 hours Disney Animation spent developing the computer program that made the movie possible.

The software is called Hyperion.

It simulates the physics of light, which can make animated films more lifelike or give them an otherworldly look.

It's the latest shot in a technological battle among animation houses.

One of Disney's rivals, DreamWorks Animation, had a research and development group of about 120 people as of last year — among them nearly a dozen former employees of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena.

Pixar, which is owned by the same company as Disney Animation, has long been a trailblazer, producing the first feature-length computer-animated film, 1995's "Toy Story."

But Hyperion could transform animation.

"It's a major step for them," said Dan Sarto, co-founder and publisher of Animation World Network.

"They are only as good as the tools they allow their artists to use."

Computer-animated films are big business: In most years, a handful rank among the top 10 U.S. box-office hits.

They can also generate toys, clothes and other products that can produce big profits.

Disney Animation's "Frozen" brought in more than $1 billion and has bolstered profits for several business units of the studio's parent, Burbank-based Walt Disney Co.

Such huge hits are rare.

But in Hyperion, Disney Animation has a powerful new tool.

The software was created to solve a problem.

Disney Animation executives felt that none of the existing programs available to the company was advanced enough to create the world that the "Big Hero 6" filmmakers had envisioned.

The movie was released in November and directed by Don Hall and Chris Williams.

It centers on a robot, Baymax, and a young robotics expert, Hiro, who form a superhero group and take on a masked villain in the futuristic city of San Fransokyo.

The city, a mash-up of San Francisco and Tokyo, is situated on a shimmering bay and is filled with towering skyscrapers and pulsing neon lights.

"We wanted to make sure we could get the air and light of San Francisco," said "Big Hero 6" producer Roy Conli.

"I lived there years ago as a student, and I just remember the skies."

The film's animation drew praise from reviewers, and several aerial sequences are filled with amazingly realistic uses of light.

Without Hyperion, the movie would not have looked as lush and could not have delivered on the vision of the directors, said Disney Animation's chief technology officer, Andy Hendrickson.

The software is now being used by Disney Animation for its upcoming movie "Zootopia," which will be released in March 2016.

It also was used for "Frozen Fever", a short film that features the characters of "Frozen" and "Feast," the Oscar-nominated short that premiered alongside "Big Hero 6."

Before Hyperion, the process of creating animated light was tedious because the way each ray of light moved and looked had to be individually tracked.

A single frame of animation could contain several light sources, and each ray of light could bounce off multiple surfaces, making the calculation of those individual pathways a computational challenge.

"When you shoot (lights) into scenes, they can split into thousands of rays," Hendrickson said.

"Does it reflect right back if it came off a mirror?

Does it scatter?

Does it pick up the color of the object?

You end up running out of computing power."

Development of Hyperion, which took about 2 1/2 years, was jump-started by an idea from software engineer Brent Burley.

Burley suggested that organizing large groups of light rays into bundles would allow a computer system to more efficiently handle calculations of their trajectories — the paths they follow.

By doing this, a film could feature more lighting sources and make them more nuanced and detailed.

He presented his theory to Disney Animation executives in November 2011, and they were encouraged.

The company decided to try Burley's ideas out.

Four developers began working on the project and the number later swelled to 12.

Disney Animation did not bring in outside programmers to work on Hyperion, instead handling the job completely in house.

Disney Animation would not say how much it cost to develop the software.

The decision to create Hyperion had its risks.

Programmers were still coding it when "Big Hero 6" went into production.

They completed it in July 2014, just a few months before the movie went into postproduction.

If the software hadn't performed as Disney Animation hoped, production of "Big Hero 6" could have been put in jeopardy.

"This was a big risk," Sarto said.

"But it will pay off for them.

A tool like this allows them to spend more time art-directing how the film is going to look."

