"The Star-Spangled Banner" is hard to sing and sometimes hard to remember.

Even professional singers have stumbled over it at venues like the Super Bowl.

But it is also the national anthem.

It is a musical symbol of the United States, sung before every major sporting and government event.

It is also very patriotic and stirs deep feelings among U.S. citizens.

The words were written by lawyer Francis Scott Key to honor the flag flying over Baltimore's Fort McHenry.

That moment was a turning point against the British during the War of 1812.

The anthem is getting its glorious due in its 200th anniversary year.

The commemorations began on June 14, Flag Day, with a kickoff event at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History.

That's where the anthem manuscript has been paired for the first time with the actual flag that inspired it, the 30-foot-by-42-foot banner that endured "the rockets' red glare and bombs bursting in air."

"People sing the song all the time, but don't know anything about it," said Jennifer Jones, an expert on military history at the museum.

"These words that we sing were inspired by this flag.

Having them in the same place at the same time is exciting."

Maryland Gov.

Martin O'Malley and G. Wayne Clough, secretary of the Smithsonian, attended an event at the museum featuring the historic display.

There was also a concert named "Anthem for America."

The anthem was sung in more than 40 places nationwide at the same time.

The song has been the nation's official national anthem only since 1931, when Congress approved it after strong support led by other famous composers.

Until then, it was one of several patriotic melodies featured at official or military events The lyrics were written Sept. 16, 1814, by Key as a poem after he watched the Battle of Baltimore from a ship in the harbor.

He saw the enormous flag "at dawn's early light" as a reminder for the young American democracy.

"Key was a gentleman poet," Laura Rodini, marketing director of the Maryland Historical Society in Baltimore, said.

The society owns the manuscript and is loaning it to the Smithsonian through July 6.

"He wanted to capture the moment."

Key was on the ship to secure release of a physician held hostage by the British.

He wrote the four verses on a single sheet and called it "The Defence of Fort McHenry," in honor of the defenders of the fort.

The verses were published in a newspaper and immediately became popular.

Key's description of the flag as "The Star-Spangled Banner" became the name of the song.

It also came to refer to the giant flag made by Mary Pickersgill that Key saw that day.

But why is the anthem so hard to sing?

Because it requires a singer with a wide range, said Jones.

Also, "it was written for a man who had an extremely high voice," added Library of Congress music specialist Loras John Schissel.

Some singers also struggle to remember the words.

That happened to pop star Christina Aguilera at the beginning of Super Bowl XLV in February 2011.

Others also have flubbed the lyrics or the tune, though this year there was relief all over social media that Super Bowl XLVIII organizers brought in an opera superstar, soprano Renee Fleming, to do the honors.

As BuzzFeed put it, "She absolutely killed it."

Historians want the melody, the words and the flag to all come together for the public during the anthem's bicentennial.

"We hope as a national museum, people will be inspired to learn more about history and to be part of history," Jones said.

The anthem has become much more than poetic words and popular music.

"It was a symbol that was transformative," she said.

