It's not easy to sing "The Star-Spangled Banner."

The famous song is the United States' anthem.

It is played all over the country before major sporting and government events.

It brings up strong emotions among Americans.

But many singers can't get it right.

They forget the words and sometimes also the tune.

The song was written by a man named Francis Scott Key in 1812.

He wanted to praise a giant flag flying over Fort McHenry in Baltimore while Americans were fighting with England.

Key wrote the song as he watched the Battle of Baltimore from a ship in the harbor.

He saw the enormous flag "at dawn's early light."

Key wanted to capture the moment.

He "was a gentleman poet," said Laura Rodini.

She runs a history group in Baltimore.

The group owns the paper that the song was written on.

It is loaning it to the Smithsonian through July 6.

Key wrote the song's lyrics on a single sheet.

It was published in a newspaper and became popular quickly.

Later, the name of the song became "The Star-Spangled Banner" because those were the words he used to describe the flag he saw from the ship.

It also became the name of the giant flag made by Mary Pickersgill that Key saw that day.

This year, the song is turning 200 years old.

There many celebrations throughout the country.

The biggest celebration began on June 14 at the National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.

The song's lyrics and the flag have been put together for the first time.

"People sing the song all the time, but don't know anything about it," said Jennifer Jones, an expert at the museum.

"These words that we sing were inspired by this flag.

Having them in the same place at the same time is exciting."

Jones said that she hoped people will be curious to learn more about the history of the song.

The party at the museum had many important guests, including Maryland's governor.

There was a concert and people all over the country sang "The Star-Spangled Banner" that day.

The song has been the nation's official anthem since 1931.

Before then, many other melodies were played at big events.

But why it is so difficult to sing "The Star-Spangled Banner?"

Because it was written for men with extremely high voices.

And because many singers can't remember the words.

Pop star Christina Aguilera forgot the words at the beginning of Super Bowl XLV in February 2011.

Many others also have made mistakes.

This year was different.

Super Bowl XLVIII organizers brought in an opera singer to sing the song.

She sang it beautifully.

Historians hope that the words, music and the flag come together for museum goers.

They want everyone to learn about the flag and the song on its 200th birthday.

