Last year, a popular and talented student at Los Altos High School collapsed after walking out of English class.

She suffered a disabling emotional breakdown after she read her parent's text message asking her to come home and talk about her grades.

The girl, a star athlete and generally a straight-A student, had received a D. "I was very good at putting up a facade," said the Los Altos High student, now a senior.

She later was diagnosed with major depression and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), a diagnosis that her parents resisted for six months and that many who knew her couldn't believe.

The student, who didn't want to be identified because of the stigma, or shame, of mental illness, is not alone.

Educators are seeing more and more students suffering from depression, anxiety and social phobia, which is an overwhelming anxiety about social situations.

Mental illness has become more acute, educators say.

And it is striking ever younger children, although many quietly bear the stress for years before snapping.

"I was raised on how to sell myself, which buttons to press, which phrases to drop," the Los Altos student added.

Until one day "everything just shattered."

The increasing stress isn't just affecting children of Silicon Valley's wealthy and educated who compete to get into top colleges.

It appears to cut across social class, income level, ethnicity and academic ability.

Overfelt High School on the East Side of San Jose, Calif., has seen a sudden rise in student panic attacks, where kids have an intense feeling that something bad will happen.

Anxiety disorder rose this past fall among teens in nearby schools as well.

"We are seeing children who are coming in with greater needs around mental health,"  said Judith Cameron of the San Ramon Valley Unified School District.

Not all schools have reported an increase in mental illness.

But not every school has staff that pay attention to each student's well-being, nor do they have therapists to work with students with mental illnesses.

That is changing.

Since an epidemic of student suicides at Palo Alto high schools four years ago, the district has trained teachers and offered more counseling.

It is now training all students in how to step in to help those who threaten to kill themselves.

San Ramon Valley schools added a counselor at every high school this year to deal with mental health, and a Morgan Hill school hired more therapists for depression among fourth- and fifth-graders.

Two years ago, the San Mateo Union district created two classes for students with social phobias.

It runs two more classes for those with anxiety or depression, in addition to two classes for students with more complicated emotional problems.

They're all full.

What's behind the increase in mental illness is uncertain.

Theories include economic hardship, dysfunctional families, absent and preoccupied parents, also obsession with technology, social media like Facebook, and the extraordinary pressure on kids to excel.

"They're not expected to be great; they're expected to be stupendous," said Cristy Dawson, assistant principal at Los Altos High.

It's "all about getting ahead."

Sometimes, anxiety grows into phobias.

"Kids are so depressed or anxious, they're not getting out of bed.

They're becoming agoraphobic," afraid to go out in public, said Helen Hsu, a supervisor at the city of Fremont's Youth and Family Services, which provides therapists to several schools.

A former Aragon High student, now 18, left the San Mateo school as a freshman because he had become increasingly afraid to attend school.

Two years in boarding schools didn't help, so he returned to the district and enrolled in Haven, a class for students with fears like his.

"I stepped through the door, and it was a bit like my heart would stop," said the student about his first day at Haven.

But thanks to the program, he graduated, got a job and enrolled this semester at a community college.

The stigma surrounding mental illness discourages some parents from seeking help.

"I've had parents refuse to sign permission for counseling for one boy," said Hsu.

"They were afraid it would negatively affect his college application."

Data from the National Institute of Mental Health indicate that teen mental illness was stable for a decade through the early 2000s, according to the latest numbers available.

Those surveys show that 25 percent of teens have suffered anxiety at some time in their lives.

Another 11 percent have suffered from major depression and two percent from agoraphobia.

But mental health professionals and educators say those figures are not in line with what they observe today.

"I see an incredible rise in the stress in families," said Barbara Neal, principal at Morgan Hill's Nordstrom Elementary School.

The pressure on high school students to get into good colleges seems to be a culprit.

"There's a consistent urgency that you have to be the best," said Los Altos High School junior Borna Barzan, 16.

Barzan co-leads a school club called Let's Erase the Stigma, which teaches fellow students about mental health.

But Brenda Carrillo, student services coordinator in Palo Alto Unified, said it's important not to blame academic pressure.

"A mental health condition doesn't necessarily come from high expectations," she said.

With support from the school, the Los Altos student has brought her depression under control.

She noted that students face pressures from peers and social media — such as the Facebook page where seniors' college acceptances are posted, whether they want it or not — but also from within.

While overloading themselves with advanced-placement classes and extracurricular activities, "everyone really focuses on the future, like college and jobs," she said.

She added, "But no one's looking at themselves and asking, 'Am I happy?'"

