Last year, a California high school student walked out of class and collapsed.

She had received a text from one of her parents to come home to talk about her grades.

The girl, a star athlete and generally straight-A student, had received a D. The student at Los Altos High School was suffering from depression.

She felt sad and like she wasn't good enough.

She also was found to have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which is called ADHD.

It causes people to be overactive and have problems paying attention.

It took her parents six months to accept that she had a mental illness.

She is not alone.

Educators are seeing more and more students who are depressed, anxious and scared of being in social situations.

And these mental illnesses are affecting ever younger children, they say.

Many students quietly deal with their worries for years before breaking down.

The student said she was raised to put on a good front for others, and always do and say the right things.

She said she became good at hiding her real feelings until one day "everything just shattered."

This anxiety isn't just affecting children of the rich and educated fighting to get into top colleges.

It's seen in rich and poor kids and kids of all family backgrounds and educational abilities.

Overfelt High School in San Jose, Calif., has seen a sudden rise in panic attacks among students.

Panic attacks are intense fears of something bad happening.

Nearby schools have seen a lot of anxiety this past fall among teens as well.

Judith Cameron is with the San Ramon Valley Unified School District.

She said the students are coming to school with more mental health problems and at a younger age.

Not all schools have reported an increase in mental illness.

But not every school has people watching out for it.

Likewise, not every school has therapists to work with students.

But that is changing.

Schools are adding counselors and therapists to deal with depression and other mental health problems.

The San Mateo Union district in California has six classes to help kids deal with depression, anxiety and social fears.

They're all full.

What's causing the increase in mental illness is not clear.

Theories include poverty, difficult family situations, and absent or busy parents.

It also may be caused by students being addicted to technology and Facebook, or other social media.

Also, the intense pressure on kids to do well in school may add to it.

"They're not expected to be great.

They're expected to be" amazing, said Cristy Dawson.

She is the assistant principal at Los Altos High.

Sometimes, anxiety grows into fear.

"Kids are so depressed or anxious, they're not getting out of bed," said Helen Hsu.

She is with the city of Fremont's Youth and Family Services.

The department provides therapists to several schools.

Some parents worry others will see mental illness as shameful.

So, they don't seek help for their children.

"I've had parents refuse to sign permission for counseling for one boy," said Hsu.

They were afraid colleges wouldn't accept him.

Studies from the National Institute of Mental Health show that one out of every four teens have felt very anxious at some point.

Another one in 10 are depressed.

A small number are afraid to go outside.

But these studies are old.

But experts say they see a lot more mental illness now.

"I see an incredible rise in the (anxiety) in families," said Barbara Neal, a elementary school principal.

High school students feel pressure to do well and get into a good college.

"There's a constant feeling that you have to be the best," said Borna Barzan, 16.

She is a junior at Los Altos High.

Barzan co-leads a school club that helps kids not be ashamed of mental illness.

Brenda Carrillo is at Palo Alto Unified.

She said that pressure to do well in school shouldn't be blamed.

Mental illness has many causes.

The Los Altos student has brought her depression under control.

Students do face pressure from friends, she said.

They may get down when they see posting on Facebook of which colleges their friends got into.

But students also put pressure on themselves, she said.

They overload themselves with advanced classes and clubs.

They think too much about future success.

She added, "But no one's looking at themselves and asking, 'Am I happy?'"

