Last year, a popular and talented student at Los Altos High School collapsed.

She suffered an emotional breakdown after reading her parent's text message asking her to come home to talk about her grades.

The girl, a star athlete and generally straight-A student, had received a D. She was later found to have major depression, a feeling of sadness and hopelessness.

She also had attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), which causes overactivity and loss of focus.

It took her parents six months to accept she had a mental illness, and many who knew her couldn't believe it.

The student said she was very good at putting up a front.

The student, who didn't want to be identified because of the shame of mental illness, is not alone.

Educators are seeing more and more students suffering from depression, anxiety and social phobia.

A social phobia is an uncontrollable anxiety about social situations.

And mental illness is striking ever younger children, they say.

Many students quietly bear the pressure for years before snapping.

"I was raised on how to sell myself, which buttons to press, which phrases to drop," the Los Altos student added.

Until one day "everything just shattered."

The increasing anxiety isn't just affecting the children of Silicon Valley's wealthy and educated who compete to get into top colleges.

Los Altos is in California's Silicon Valley, home to many high tech companies.

The anxiety cuts across social class, income level, ethnicity and educational ability.

Overfelt High School on the East Side of San Jose, Calif., has seen a sudden rise in student panic attacks.

Nearby schools are reporting more teens with anxiety disorders this past fall.

"We are seeing children who are coming in with greater needs around mental health," said Judith Cameron of the San Ramon Valley Unified School District.

Not all schools have reported an increase in mental illness.

But not every school has staff watching out for it, nor does every school have therapists to help students.

That is changing.

Since a series of student suicides at Palo Alto high schools four years ago, the district has trained teachers and offered more counseling.

It is also training all students to know what to do if other teens threaten to kill themselves.

Other schools are adding counselors and therapists to deal with depression and other mental health problems.

The San Mateo Union district has created six classes for kids with anxiety, depression and social phobias.

They're all full.

What's behind the increase in mental illness is unclear.

Theories include poverty, difficult family situations, and parents who don't have enough time for their kids.

Other reasons could be addiction to technology, Facebook and other social media and the pressure on kids to do well.

"They're not expected to be great.

They're expected to be stupendous," said Cristy Dawson, assistant principal at Los Altos High.

"This valley is all about getting ahead."

Sometimes, anxiety grows into phobias.

"Kids are so depressed or anxious, they're not getting out of bed.

They're becoming agoraphobic," afraid to go out in public, said Helen Hsu, a supervisor at the city of Fremont's Youth and Family Services, which provides therapists to several schools.

A former Aragon High student, now 18, left school as a freshman because he had become increasingly afraid to go to school.

Two years in boarding schools didn't help.

He returned to the district and enrolled in Haven, a class for students with fears like his.

But thanks to the program, he graduated, got a job and enrolled at a community college.

The shame of mental illness discourages some parents from seeking help.

"I've had parents refuse to sign permission for counseling for one boy," said Hsu.

They were afraid colleges wouldn't accept him if they found out he needed counseling.

Numbers from the National Institute of Mental Health indicate that teen mental illness was stable for 10 years through the early 2000s.

Those surveys show that 25 percent of teens have suffered anxiety at some time in their lives.

Another 11 percent have suffered from major depression and two percent suffered from agoraphobia.

But mental health experts and educators say they are seeing a lot more mental illness today.

"I see an incredible rise in the stress in families," said Barbara Neal.

She is the principal at Nordstrom Elementary School.

The pressure on high school students to get into good colleges seems to be one reason.

"There's a consistent urgency that you have to be the best," said Los Altos High School junior Borna Barzan, 16.

Barzan co-leads a school club that tries to erase the shame associated with mental illness.

But Brenda Carrillo, who heads up student services at Palo Alto Unified, said that pressure to succeed in school shouldn't be blamed.

"A mental health condition doesn't necessarily come from high expectations," she said.

With support from the school, the Los Altos student has brought her depression under control.

Students do face pressures from peers and social media, she said.

This includes a Facebook page where the colleges that seniors get into are posted, whether they want it or not.

But students also put pressure on themselves, she said.

Students overload themselves with advanced-placement classes and extracurricular activities, and focus on future success, she said.

She added, "But no one's looking at themselves and asking, 'Am I happy?'"

