Some students take classes in high school that are as difficult as college classes.

They are called Advanced Placement (AP) classes.

They are harder than regular high school lessons.

Students who do well in them can take a test at the end.

If they get a good test grade they will get points for college.

Class points are called credits.

Kyana Julian goes to high school in Florida.

She works hard and gets good grades.

Because she gets good grades, she can take AP classes.

Many students in the United States study in AP classes.

Kyana says in her first year of high school, she took an Advanced Placement class because she was told that it would help her to get into a good college.

She is not sure that she wants to take any more.

Kyana is now in her third year of high school.

She could take more AP classes, but feels the classes that she has already taken did not teach her enough.

Kyana earned good grades in the classes, but did not do well enough on the tests at the end to get credit for college.

Are the classes too easy or too hard?

One Florida school leader says parents tell him that their children are pushed too hard.

He says that he does not want any child to take an AP class who does not want to be there.

Some students and parents say there is too much pressure to take harder classes.

Kyana says she feels frustrated because school leaders seem to tell every student to take AP classes.

"They don't look at a student as an individual," she says.

An individual is a separate person.

Gordon Chavis works at a college in Florida.

He says teachers and parents do push students to take AP classes.

They want teens to be ready for college.

Mary Bridges helps students choose their classes.

She is a guidance counselor.

She says that teachers want to make sure students have many choices for college.

Students do not have to take AP classes.

However, Bridges says that some students are put in the classes by their schools.

Teachers look at test grades to figure out who to put in class.

"What we don't want to do is miss students who could do well," Bridges says.

She says school leaders should speak with parents who are worried that their students have too much work.

However, Bridges also says that teachers want to make sure students are not in classes that are too easy for them.

She says that schools have to offer students opportunities.

If they can do hard work, then it is not OK to "put them in an easy class or not push them at all," she says.

Schools are always looking for new AP students.

Walt Griffin is the superintendent of a Florida school district.

He recently met with all of his principals.

Together they looked at information about students.

He says that he wanted to make sure that every student has the same chance to take AP classes.

The number of students who take Advanced Placement tests is rising.

It has gone up every year for the last four years.

A group called the College Board is in charge of all of the AP classes in the country.

The group says that more than 200,000 Florida students took an Advanced Placement test just this year.

John Williamson works for the College Board.

He says parents, students and teachers should decide what is best for each student.

Williamson pointed out that students who take Advanced Placement classes are more likely to finish college on time.

