Apple Stores are no longer just a place to buy the latest phone or computer.

They are now also a space in which to see works of art.

Apple Stores around the country are showing artworks made on iPhones and computers.

Apple asked 12 artists to make new artworks on iPads, iPhones or Mac computers.

The photos and other artworks are now displayed in Apple's stores.

They can also be seen on the company's website.

Austin Mann is one of the 12 artists Apple invited to take part.

He used an iPhone 6 to take photos of a glacier in Iceland.

These days, Mann takes as many pictures with his iPhone as he does with his expensive cameras.

He likes the way taking pictures with an iPhone is so cheap and easy.

Technology is not just saving artists money, it is also changing the way they work.

Roz Hall is another of Apple's 12 featured artists.

New technology has certainly meant big changes for him.

Hall once did his paintings the old way, with real paint brushes.

Then he began experimenting with an app called Brushes, which allowed him to paint on his iPhone.

He went from making life-sized paintings to working on a 3.5-inch screen.

Hall said he likes painting on an iPhone or iPad because there is no need to prepare before he starts working.

He no longer needs to carefully mix paints, like he did when he painted the old way.

He can get right to work as soon as he has an idea.

Hall lives in Britain.

He has shown his work in many cities, from San Francisco to New York to Shanghai.

He has not painted the old way for many years, Hall says.

Instead, he now uses the app Procreate, which allows him to paint with his fingers on his iPad.

Some artists say that painting on a phone or computer is cheating.

They say it is too easy to erase mistakes.

Hall does not agree.

He thinks being able to erase mistakes easily is a good thing.

He says it makes artists more daring.

Artists take more chances because they are not worried about expensive mistakes, he says.

An artist who just spent $75 on paint might not be willing to tear up a not-so-good painting, he says.

"You don't want to waste what you spent."

For the Apple project, Hall used the Procreate app to paint pictures of various people.

One picture shows a young, bearded man with bright yellow glasses.

Another shows a thoughtful-looking woman in a floppy black hat.

Alistair Taylor-Young is another of Apple's featured artists.

He has been taking photos for magazines for many years.

For the Apple project, he used his iPhone 6 to take shots of rainy city streets.

Taylor-Young liked the fact that it was very simple to take pictures.

"You just saw something and took a photo."

Second, they are always there when you want them, since people carry their phones around.

Many more people are taking pictures these days, because cellphones are so simple to use.

In the past, most people took photos only rarely, in order to record special events or trips.

Today, many of us use our cameras constantly.

Today people who once might not have thought of taking pictures are using their cellphones to record the world around them, Taylor-Young says.

Photography is now something everyone can do.

