The trees at Cornell University's orchard are full of apples.

There are waxy apples, deep-red apples, round apples, egg-shaped apples.

The thousands of trees are there for a single reason: to grow apples with just the right mix of sweet and tart tastes that farmers can grow easily.

The orchard is part of the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station.

Essentially, it's a 50-acre lab where food scientists try to come up with new kinds of apples.

These have to be tasty.

But they also have to be firm enough to ship.

Over the last hundred years or so, the station has released 66 new kinds of apples.

These include Cortland and Macoun apples.

Now they have two new kinds: SnapDragon and RubyFrost.

They will be sold at farm markets this fall.

"I could never be a medical doctor; I don't like blood.

But I can create," breeder Susan Brown said.

By crossing different kinds of apples, she can make fruit no one has ever seen or tasted.

"Sometimes it's a home run and sometimes it's a spitter."

Brown is a professor of agriculture at Cornell University.

She has been breeding apples since 1990.

On a sunny day this week, she walked through rows of her apple trees.

Stopping here and there, she offered fruit to taste.

One apple was juicy but mushy.

Another was unusually firm and crisp.

"You would not want to eat this with dentures," she said with a laugh.

Brown's team is looking for crisp and tasty apples.

They also pay close attention to the smells that add so much to an apple's flavor.

An appealing apple might smell a bit like cherry.

Or it might have a certain grassy smell to it.

But researchers also want apples that are easy for farmers to grow.

They must hold up well against insects and tree diseases.

And they look for apples that aren't easily bruised during shipping.

One promising type was rejected because many of its leaves turned spotty.

A green apple that tasted delicious also had to be dropped: It developed blister spots.

Those blister spots were only "skin deep," Brown said.

Still, people probably would not have bought those apples.

The scientists here have the latest technology.

But most of their work is pretty much the same as what breeders have done for hundreds of years.

First, pollen is collected from unopened blossoms.

Then, it is applied to female parts of another tree's flower.

Once a seedling — a young new tree — is created, scientists have to be patient.

It can take four years before its fruit is ready for tasting.

Scientists try to add together the good parts of two different kinds of apples: say, the sweetness of one and the way another holds up against insects.

But things often don't end up as expected.

After all, children don't always look like either their mom or dad.

So too, new apples often turn out to be nothing like their "parents."

"We plant out thousands and thousands of seedling trees," Brown's helper Kevin Maloney said.

But if their apples aren't unusually good, the trees are removed.

About 95 percent of the seedlings can't be used, and get chopped down.

Brown has high hopes for two new apples.

SnapDragon is a cross of the tasty Honeycrisp apple and another kind that's easier to grow.

RubyFrost is high in vitamin C. It also doesn't turn brown easily when sliced.

This is important now that apple slices are popular in stores and restaurants.

Both apples will be sold at dozens of farm markets in New York this fall.

But Brown is already planning to make a better apple.

She hopes to breed one that's even less likely to turn brown.

And with as much vitamin C as an orange.

Already, she has crossed SnapDragon and RubyFrost apples, she said.

Soon, she may have her perfect fruit.

