Apple just bought Beats Electronics.

It paid $3 billion for the company.

The deal will bring it more music listeners and and some extra swagger.

Beats Electronics is a headphone maker and music streaming company.

It was founded by rapper Dr. Dre and businessman Jimmy Iovine.

It's the most expensive purchase Apple has ever made.

Apple is paying that price to defend its iTunes store.

The iTunes store is in danger of losing customers to other music services.

Beats is already making money.

It took in $1.1 billion last year.

It will increase Apple's earnings starting in October.

Iovine and Dre were important in the deal.

They began working with Apple in the early days of its iTunes store.

Now they will work in Apple's music divisions.

Tim Cook runs Apple.

"We have known these guys forever," Cook said of Iovine and Dre.

"We've dated, we've gone steady and now we are getting married.

These two guys have a very rare set of skills.

It's like finding a particular grain of sand on the beach.

It's that rare."

Cook said Beats' music-streaming service was the main selling point.

He thinks the headphone line will to continue growing, too.

Iovine thinks most technology companies are dumb.

At least when it comes to culture.

But he thinks Apple will help Beats to achieve its goals.

Beats wants to improve the sound of digital music.

It also wants to create playlists specifically for each subscriber.

"To complete our dream, we needed a company like (Apple)," Iovine said.

"We couldn't finish this on our own."

There are other music streaming services like Pandora and Spotify.

They have been growing in popularity.

But this has meant lower sales of songs and albums.

iTunes was on top of that business for the past 10 years.

U.S. sales of downloaded songs fell last year.

They only sold $2.8 billion.

Meanwhile, streaming music made $1.4 billion.

Apple broke into streaming last September.

It launched iTunes Radio.

Unfortunately, the service has not been as popular as the company hoped.

ITunes Radio has 40 million listeners.

It will continue as a free service with ads.

Meanwhile, Beats Music will try to tap into the more than 800 million iTunes accounts.

It will try to sell more subscriptions to its customized service.

Beats Music has more than 250,000 subscribers.

That's well below Spotify.

It has more than 10 million paying customers.

Apple is counting on Beats to boost its image.

It's trying to remain a leader in digital music.

"Apple suddenly has regained its cool," said Doug Morris.

He runs Sony Music.

He was one of the first people in the music business to support iTunes.

In fact, it was because Iovine told him to.

That was more than 10 years ago.

Beats was started in 2008 by Dr. Dre and Iovine.

Dre's real name is Andre Young.

Iovine has worked in the music business for a long time.

Now Beats is the leading high-priced headphone brand.

Its equipment is also a big seller in Apple's stores.

Iovine has visited Apple regularly.

He said he has no worries about joining the company.

"We can roller-skate in the halls here.

Dre and I have been working together for 22 years.

We are not about to go somewhere where we are going to fall."

A video posted online a few weeks ago showed Dre celebrating the deal before it was announced.

It called him hip-hop's first billionaire.

He appeared calmer on Wednesday when the deal was official.

"To be able to do something that could potentially change the world, I'm thrilled," he said.

