Apple Inc. is pressuring the major record companies to offer new music releases exclusively through its iTunes store.

The move would initially block availability on streaming services such as Spotify or Beats Music, according to several people familiar with the matter.

Apple executives claim that on-demand music services have begun to eat into its download sales.

They are demanding that record labels create a release window reserved solely for digital purchasing.

The release window would be similar to the one some Hollywood studios impose for films newly released for home viewing.

Under the deal, iTunes would offer new music for a period of time before streaming services get it.

Music industry insiders spoke on condition that they not be named for fear of retaliation from Apple, the industry's largest and most powerful music retailer.

Apple's push for a new release window shows the tech giant is scrambling to retain its competitive advantage in a changing digital music market.

Apple is based in Cupertino, Calif. "These are really changing times, and I think everybody's going to be trying different things, whether it's iTunes, Spotify or the (music) labels," said Irving Azoff, who manages the Eagles, Christina Aguilera and other acts.

"It's kind of up for grabs."

Apple's iTunes online store accounts for about 80 percent of all download sales in the U.S.

But following a decade of steady growth in the U.S., its digital song and album sales began to slide in 2013. iTune's slump has continued into this year.

Song downloads were down 12 percent through the first eight weeks of this year compared with a year earlier.

Digital album sales were down 13 percent, according to data from Nielsen SoundScan, a company that tracks music sales.

Industry insiders attribute the decline to a variety of factors.

These include the growing popularity of streaming services, as well as increased competition from other music services.

Mobile devices have become the digital era's equivalent of the Sony Walkman.

Debuting in the U.S. in 1980, the Walkman cassette player became the first portable music device that let people listen to music anywhere.

Nowadays, about 48 percent of smartphone owners use their phones every day to listen to streaming music.

Just 42 percent use them for downloading music, according to Nielsen.

Apple remains the single largest manufacturer of smartphones, but it only makes the iPhone.

More U.S. consumers now own different phones that run Google's Android software, according to the Yankee Group, a technology research company.

As consumers switch to Google-powered smartphones, they lose access to the world's biggest and most widely recognized music retailer, Apple's iTunes.

iTunes is not accessible on Android phones.

Apple has been meeting with major label executives, and approaching individual artists, in an attempt to get exclusive music releases.

A spokesman declined comment for this report.

"I've never had anyone (at Apple) say 'streaming is killing our business,'" said Jim Guerinot, a veteran music manager.

His Rebel Waltz Management company handles No Doubt, Trent Reznor (founder of Nine Inch Nails) and other acts.

"They've been very specific for 10 years about wanting extra content, just like Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Target.

They're very aggressive about trying to do something that will (distinguish) them from everybody else."

People familiar with the matter say Apple has cited the brisk sales of Beyonce's fifth studio album in December.

The album was offered solely through iTunes and became the fastest-selling album in the digital store.

Few artists enjoy the popularity of Beyonce.

But Apple uses the example to support its argument that withholding albums from streaming services can increase music sales.

But Beyonce's album also provoked a backlash from Target and Amazon.com, which refused to carry the CD when it was released.

More recently, hip-hop artist Kid Cudi's release, "Satellite Flight: The Journey to Mother Moon," was made available for purchase only through iTunes and other digital retailers.

It debuted last week at No.

4 on Billboard's Top 200 album charts, selling 87,000 units.

Another rap act relied heavily on streaming to publicize a forthcoming release.

It debuted at the top of Billboard's album chart last week.

Schoolboy Q's "Oxymoron," which was heavily promoted on Spotify, sold nearly 139,000 copies in its first week.

Spotify users in the U.S. had listened to 3.3 million streams in the months before the album debut.

The rapper's two earlier albums, "Setbacks" and "Habits &amp; Contradictions," sold just 17,000 and 48,000 copies, respectively.

"It's not a great strategy to try to dictate how people (listen to) music when they're clearly asking for and, in fact, doing something different on a wide scale," said Spotify Chief Content Officer Ken Parks.

"It just doesn't work for anyone."

Longtime music industry analyst Mark Mulligan said streaming services may be luring away Apple's most devoted music customers.

"It's not that streaming is replacing downloads in a larger sense," Mulligan said.

"What it is doing is going right after the spending of some of the most valuable download customers there are — and Apple's most valuable download customer."

