On a crisp late fall afternoon, David Bedford plucks an apple from a young tree.

He chomps into the fruit, chews thoughtfully, then renders his judgment.

It is "perfectly good," he says, but no more than that.

It's "not excellent — not a wow."

He tosses the apple to the ground, then sprays a stripe of orange paint down the trunk that tells the orchard crew to take it down.

"You're going to the firewood farm," he tells the tree, with a wry grin.

Bedford is mild-mannered and even-tempered, but ruthless in his quest to produce the next great apple.

After decades as an apple breeder, Bedford knows what he is looking for — and this apple isn't it.

So the tree has to go to make room for other, more promising varieties at the University of Minnesota's Horticultural Research Center in Excelsior.

As research scientist for the university's apple-breeding program, Bedford tastes around 500 to 600 apples a day during peak apple season.

His finely honed palate for apples has shaped the choices available in grocery stores across the country and even around the globe.

"He's one of the elite breeders for apples in the world," said grower John Jacobson.

"One of his strengths is his ability to take an apple, bite it and project what's going to be popular — that texture, that crunch, that juiciness.

He's done a fabulous job being able to put all those characteristics together."

Bedford doesn't do the job alone, he is quick to point out, but as part of a team.

He and Jim Luby, who directs the university's fruit-breeding program, have been collaborating on apple selection for three decades.

During their partnership, the program has released six new varieties: Honeycrisp, Zestar!, SnowSweet, Minneiska — also known as SweeTango — Frostbite and most recently MN55, which has yet to be given a proper name and will not be available in grocery stores for several years.

However, Bedford is the guy who does the day-to-day cultivating, grafting and cloning.

He is the one who personally tastes all those so-so apples in hopes of finding "the next Honeycrisp, or something even better."

"He's our front line, making the decisions about what gets thrown out — and 99 percent gets thrown out," Luby said.

Of the surviving 1 percent, Honeycrisp is the program's rock star.

Introduced in 1991, it's now the sixth-largest apple in production in the United States, according to Mark Seetin of the U.S. Apple Association.

Honeycrisp's rapid rise is "extraordinary," Seetin said.

"It has exploded in the last five years — it's a doggone good apple."

The university's apple operation, one of the nation's three major breeding programs, is more than a century old, with 27 apple introductions to its credit, but Honeycrisp put it on the map, in Jacobson's opinion.

"When they released Honeycrisp, they hit it out of the park."

Bedford didn't breed the first Honeycrisp tree — that was done before his time.

However, he and Luby were the ones who noticed how good it was and saved it from being abandoned and lost forever.

"Here's a little-known secret of Honeycrisp: It got thrown away by the original breeder — it had some winter injury," Bedford said.

That first tree was destroyed, but four clones survived.

His first taste of the "explosively crisp" fruit made an unforgettable impression.

"I've tasted millions of apples, and I can still remember my first Honeycrisp and my first SweeTango."

Other apples bring up less fond memories.

Bedford is not shy about trash-talking Red Delicious, the "pathetic" variety he grew up eating in North Carolina that made him think he didn't even like apples.

Sampling apples with Bedford is a bit like tasting wine with a wine expert.

As he shares each slice, he points out apples that taste like cloves or cherry Lifesavers, fruit with floral notes or herbal flavors.

He looks for 20 characteristics when sizing up apples, but some traits carry more weight than others — and appearance is secondary.

"Texture and flavor are the two most important things," he said.

To achieve that perfectly textured, flavorful apple, Bedford pairs different parent trees in pursuit of superior offspring.

MN55, the latest promising apple the program has come up with, is the child of Honeycrisp and an Arkansas variety.

The result is an apple that tastes much like Honeycrisp but is more heat-tolerant and ripens earlier.

Jacobson was convinced that MN55 was a winner after tasting one of the red apples in mid-August.

"I ate it, and thought, 'This is really something.'"

He shared his enthusiasm with Bedford — who in his usual, laid-back way just said, "We've gotta do a little more testing on it."

Bedford "knows his stuff," Jacobson said, and Jacobson trusts him when it comes to figuring out whether the apple really will be a winner.

Bedford, 63, has no desire to retire anytime soon.

"The intrigue, that last cross you made — it keeps you coming back," he said.

"We are nowhere near reaching the limit of how far we can go."

He hopes to keep breeding apples as long as he is physically able.

"If an apple a day keeps the doctor away, I'll live forever," Bedford added with a smile.

