On a late fall afternoon, David Bedford plucks an apple from a young tree.

He bites into the fruit and chews thoughtfully.

He declares it is "perfectly good," but no more than that.

It's "not excellent — not a wow."

He tosses the apple to the ground, then sprays a stripe of orange paint on the trunk that tells the orchard crew to take it down.

"You're going to the firewood farm," he tells the tree, with a grin.

Bedford is calm and easygoing.

However, he is unforgiving in his attempts to produce the next great apple.

After many years as an apple breeder, Bedford knows what he is looking for.

Unfortunately, this apple isn't it.

So the tree has to go to make room for other, more promising types.

Bedford works as a scientist for the University of Minnesota's apple-breeding program.

During peak apple season, he tastes around 500 to 600 apples a day.

His sense of what is a good apple and what is not has a real effect.

It shapes what people find in grocery stores in this country, and even around the world.

Bedford is one of the best apple breeders in the world, said grower John Jacobson.

"One of his strengths is his ability to take an apple, bite it and project what's going to be popular."

He can immediately spot what people will love.

Bedford does not do the job alone, he is quick to point out, but as part of a team.

He and Jim Luby have been working together for 30 years.

But Bedford is the person who does the day-to-day work.

He personally tastes all those so-so apples in hopes of finding the next big thing.

"He's our front line, making the decisions about what gets thrown out," Luby said.

Out of 100 apples, 99 end up getting tossed out, he added.

The program's biggest success is the Honeycrisp.

Introduced in 1991, it is now one of the most popular types of apple in the country.

"It's a doggone good apple," Mark Seetin of the U.S. Apple Association said.

"When they released Honeycrisp, they hit it out of the park," Jacobson said.

Bedford looks for certain things when sizing up apples.

Appearance is not that important.

Crunchiness and flavor "are the two most important things," he said.

Achieving the perfect apple takes a lot of experimentation.

Bedford crosses different parent trees in hopes of producing the perfect offspring.

His latest apple has yet to be given a proper name.

For now, it is simply known as MN55.

The fruit will not be in markets for a couple of years, but Bedford is excited about it.

MN55 is the child of Honeycrisp and an Arkansas type.

The result is an apple that tastes much like Honeycrisp, but it does better in hot weather and ripens earlier.

Jacobson was convinced that MN55 was a winner after tasting it in mid-August.

"I ate it, and thought, 'This is really something.'"

Jacobson shared his excitement with Bedford.

In his usual, laid-back way Bedford just said, "We've gotta do a little more testing on it."

Bedford, who is 63 years old, has no desire to stop working anytime soon.

"We are nowhere near reaching the limit of how far we can go," he said.

He hopes to keep breeding apples as long as he can.

"If an apple a day keeps the doctor away, I'll live forever," Bedford said with a smile.

