Apple Inc. wants new music offered through its iTunes store before anyone else can sell it.

At least at first, the move would prevent people from hearing the new releases through streaming services such as Spotify or Beats Music.

This is according to several people familiar with the matter.

Apple executives claim that on-demand music services have begun to eat into its download sales.

They are pressuring the record labels to release music solely on iTunes for a brief window of time.

Some Hollywood studios impose a similar window for films newly released for home viewing.

Apple wants to offer new music through iTunes before other services can stream it.

Music industry insiders spoke on condition of not being named.

The digital market is changing, they say, and Apple's push for the release window shows the tech giant is scrambling to keep its advantage.

Apple is based in Cupertino, Calif. "These are really changing times, and I think everybody's going to be trying different things, whether it's iTunes, Spotify or the (music) labels," said Irving Azoff.

He manages the Eagles, Christina Aguilera and other acts.

"It's kind of up for grabs."

Apple's iTunes online store is responsible for about 80 percent of all download music sales in the U.S. For the past 10 years, the iTunes store grew steadily.

But in 2013, its digital song and album sales began to slide.

Song downloads were down 12 percent through February.

Digital album sales were down 13 percent, according to Nielsen SoundScan, a company that tracks U.S. music sales.

Industry insiders say the decline is caused by a variety of factors.

The growing popularity of streaming services is the chief reason, however.

Mobile devices have become the digital era's Sony Walkman.

The Sony Walkman is a portable music player.

Released in the U.S. in 1980, the cassette player became the first device that let people listen to music anywhere they went.

Nowadays, about 48 percent of smartphone owners use their phone every day to listen to streaming music.

Just 42 percent use them for downloading music, according to Nielsen.

Apple remains the single largest manufacturer of smartphones.

But it only makes the iPhone.

More U.S. consumers now own phones from different companies that run Google's Android software, according to a survey by the Yankee Group, a technology research company.

As consumers switch to Android phones, they can't use iTunes, the world's biggest music seller.

Android phones don't come with the iTunes app.

Apple has been meeting with major record labels in an attempt to make deals, and also approached music artists.

An Apple spokesman declined to comment on the issue.

"I've never had anyone (at Apple) say 'streaming is killing our business,'" said Jim Guerinot.

His Rebel Waltz Management company handles No Doubt, Trent Reznor (of Nine Inch Nails) and other acts.

"They've been very specific for 10 years about wanting extra content, just like Best Buy, Wal-Mart and Target."

Apple has been very forceful about setting the company apart from everybody else, he said.

People familiar with the matter say Apple has cited the excellent sales of Beyonce's album in December.

The album was offered solely through iTunes and became the fastest-selling album in the digital store.

Few artists enjoy the popularity of Beyonce.

But Apple uses the example to support its argument that giving its customers access to music first can increase sales.

But Beyonce's album also angered Target and Amazon.com, which refused to carry the CD when it was released.

More recently, hip-hop artist Kid Cudi's release, "Satellite Flight: The Journey to Mother Moon," was sold only through iTunes and other online stores.

It debuted last week at No.

4 on Billboard's Top 200 album charts, selling 87,000 units.

Another rap act relied heavily on streaming to publicize a forthcoming release.

It debuted at the top of Billboard's album chart last week.

Schoolboy Q's "Oxymoron" was heavily promoted on Spotify.

It sold nearly 139,000 copies in its first week.

Spotify users in the U.S. had listened to 3.3 million streams in the months before the album debut.

The rapper's two earlier albums, "Setbacks" and "Habits &amp; Contradictions," sold just 17,000 and 48,000 copies, respectively.

Spotify Chief Content Officer Ken Parks said it's not a great policy to tell people how to listen to music when they want to listen to it another way.

"It just doesn't work for anyone," he said.

Mark Mulligan is a longtime industry analyst.

He said streaming services may be luring away Apple's most devoted music customers.

"It's not that streaming is replacing downloads in a larger sense," Mulligan said.

"What it is doing is going right after the spending of some of the most valuable download customers there are — and Apple's most valuable download customer."

