Apple introduced two new iPhones Tuesday.

One can read your fingerprint and will be the top of Apple's line.

The other costs a lot less and comes in plastic.

Apple once changed the smartphone business.

Now it hopes the new iPhones will help it close the gap on Samsung.

The Korean company sells a lot more phones now.

Apple is No.

2.

Apple revealed the new iPhones at its headquarters in California.

The phones will go on sale on Sept. 20.

Why sell a cheaper phone?

Not everybody can spend so much on new electronics.

There are more Chinese customers than anywhere else.

But people there do not have as much money.

The 5C costs less.

It may help Apple sell more phones to the Chinese.

And in other places.

Gartner Inc. is a company that studies electronics sales.

It said that Apple sold 14.4 percent of the world's smartphones from April through June.

Samsung sold 31.7 percent.

The iPhone 5C will be sold in five colors.

Customers can decide between green, blue, yellow, pink and white.

The 5C has a 4-inch screen.

The rear cover lights up.

The 5C will cost $99 or $199.

It depends how much memory you want the phone to have.

Those prices are only good if you have a two-year contract with a cellphone carrier.

Peter Misek called the phones "lovely."

Misek keeps close watch on the smartphone business as part of his job at Jefferies.

But even the lowest $99 price for the 5C "is higher than expected" he said.

Other companies still sell a smartphone for less.

The second phone is the 5S.

It is "the most forward-looking phone we have ever created," said Phil Schiller.

He works at Apple.

It will come in silver, gold and "space gray."

It has electronics inside than can work twice as fast as the A6.

Schiller said the new phone can run more health and fitness programs.

These apps have become increasingly popular.

More people are using them to track exercise, how much they eat and even how they sleep.

The camera in the 5S was improved.

It should take better pictures, Apple said.

It can capture more light.

The phone also has a "true-tone" flash feature.

The flash is designed not to clash with the colors in the room or a person's skin color.

Schiller said this has not been done on a phone before.

The camera is called iSight.

It is designed to help avoid blurry pictures.

It also has a slow-motion camera for video.

A "burst mode" can take 10 frames per second as long as you hold your finger on the button.

Then it finds the best one to keep.

The 5S also includes "Touch ID."

This is what reads your fingerprints.

The 5S learns about your fingerprint.

Then you can just touch the home button to unlock the phone.

The company said fingerprints will not be stored on Apple's computer servers.

The fingerprint scanner could be used as a new way for people pay for things.

Such a technology could open new ways for Apple to make money.

Both models will be on sale on Sept. 20 in the United States and other countries, including China.

Apple said this is the first time that a new phone will be available right away in China.

This is a sign of the growing importance of Chinese customers to the company.

The 5S will cost $199, $299 or $399.

The price depends on how much memory the phones has.

You have to have a two-year contract with a cellphone company to get the price.

Apple also said its next mobile operating system, iOS 7, will be available as a free download on Sept. 18.

The operating system manages how the phone works and how apps work on it.

The new system can be downloaded on the iPhone 4 and later models, as well as on the tablets beginning with the iPad 2.

Apple also said that it expects to ship its 700 millionth iOS device next month.

Apple CEO Tim Cook predicts that iOS 7 will become the most popular mobile operating system in the world.

Investors seemed unimpressed.

Apple's stock price fell $11.60, or 2.3 percent.

One share of Apple was worth $494.58 as the stock market closed on Tuesday.

