The trees at Cornell University's research orchard smell like autumn and are heavy with all kinds of apples: waxy apples, deep-red apples, round apples, oval apples.

The thousands of trees here are tended for a single goal: to grow apples with just the right mix of sweetness, tartness and crunch.

The orchards are part of the New York State Agricultural Experiment Station.

Essentially, they are a 50-acre lab devoted to developing apples that are tasty, but also easy to grow and ship.

The station has released 66 apple varieties over more than a century, including Cortland, Macoun and two new entries at farm markets this fall: SnapDragon and RubyFrost.

"I could never be a medical doctor; I don't like blood.

But I can create," breeder Susan Brown said.

Through cross-breeding, she can develop apples no one has ever seen or tasted.

"Sometimes it's a home run and sometimes it's a spitter."

Brown is a Cornell professor of agriculture who has been breeding apples since 1990.

On a sunny day this week, she walked through the apple-dappled rows offering test chomps.

One apple was juicy but mushy, another exceptionally firm and crisp.

"You would not want to eat this with dentures," she said with a laugh.

Brown's team is looking for crisp apples with a good balance of sugar and acid.

They also pay close attention to the fragrances that contribute so much to an apple's flavor, such as a hint of cherry or grassiness.

But researchers also want farmer-friendly apples that hold up well against insects, fire blight and apple scab.

And they look for apples that aren't easily bruised during shipping.

One promising variety was rejected because many of its leaves turned spotty.

A green apple that tasted delicious was dropped because it tended to develop blister spots.

Those blister spots were only "skin deep," Brown said.

Still, they would probably have been enough to make people not want to buy them.

The researchers here have cutting-edge technology available to them.

But the mechanics of their breeding work is similar to what breeders have done for generations.

Pollen is collected from unopened blossoms and applied to female parts of another tree's flower.

It can take four years before a seedling produces fruit ready for tasting.

Researchers try to combine the good characteristics of two different apples — like the snappy sweetness of one and the resistance to insects of another.

But just like a mom and dad can have children who aren't much like either of them, new apples can turn out quite differently than expected.

Research assistant Kevin Maloney says about 95 percent of the seedlings they plant are rejected.

The neat rows of trees have gaps where apples that didn't make the cut had grown.

"It's a numbers game.

We plant out thousands and thousands of seedling trees," Maloney said.

"If they're not exceptional quality or something we can use in the breeding program, they're removed."

Brown has high hopes for two new apples developed in partnership with the members of the New York Apple Growers.

These will initially be sold at dozens of farm markets in New York this fall.

SnapDragon crosses Honeycrisp with a Jonagold-like apple that's easier for farmers to manage.

RubyFrost is high in vitamin C. It also resists browning, which is important now that apple slices are a popular supermarket item.

As picking season for the SnapDragon begins, Brown is already thinking of the next-generation apple.

She believes she can breed an apple that is resistant to browning.

And she thinks she can increase an apple's vitamin C content to the level of an orange.

"I've already made the next generation, crossing SnapDragon and RubyFrost," she said.

