Using fish to make fertilizer isn't a new idea.

But John Morris is doing it in a modern way called aquaponics.

Morris turned his 8-acre farm in Isle of Wight, Va., into the Herb Aqua Farm.

Inside two large greenhouses, Morris raises tilapia fish in large tanks.

The fish produce waste.

It's then turned into a kind of liquid fertilizer.

Part of the water goes into hydroponic beds inside the greenhouse.

Hydroponics allows famers to grow plants in water, without soil.

The rest of the water is pumped outside to fertilize Morris' in-ground crops.

The farm lets Morris earn money two ways.

By March, his first batch of tilapia will have grown large enough to sell.

And the lettuce, herbs and vegetables can be sold year-round.

It's the only way to farm where you can grow both fish and vegetables, Morris says.

Morris' fish farm fits in with the county's goals, says Lisa T. Perry.

She works to bring new kinds of business to Isle of Wight County.

What Morris is doing shows how things are changing in farming, she added.

Morris, 56, came to farming late in life.

For 17 years he was a firefighter in Portsmouth where he grew up.

Later he operated a cabinet-making business.

In 1999 he moved to Isle of Wight.

One day he picked up a Farmer's Almanac and read an article about Rebecca Nelson and John Pade.

They are co-owners of Nelson + Pade Inc., an aquaponics firm.

Nelson wrote "Aquaponic Food Production" and is editor of Aquaponics Journal, which was first published in 1997.

In aquaponics, plants and fish grow together without soil, Nelson wrote in a website article.

He explained that can produce fresh, organic food anywhere.

And it has almost no effect on the environment.

Before he started on his new path, Morris wrestled with the idea, saying, "I was very nervous ...

I fought it tooth and nail."

However, he finally sold his cabinet-making shop and purchased a Nelson + Pade system.

"I believe this is my calling," Morris said.

"I didn't want to wake up when I was 75 years old and wish I'd done something else."

"It was a big decision," he says, "but you have to keep learning.

That's what keeps us young."

Morris says he has put about $175,000 into the business.

"If it fails, it fails," he says, but he's hopeful.

"I have a business mind and I'm methodical."

He's also passionate about "green" farming.

He doesn't use herbicides and pesticides, which are chemicals often used to kill weeds and bugs that harm crops.

They have polluted the Chesapeake Bay and killed off the earthworms and the healthy bacteria in the soil.

Morris bought his first fish in August.

They live in tanks heated to about 72 degrees Fahrenheit.

The waste water goes through a filter that traps the solids.

The nutrient-rich water is pumped into the beds.

Two 21-by-96-foot covered bays hold a maze of steel tanks and pipes.

At the far end sit large hydroponic beds waiting to be planted.

Morris uses a wood furnace to heat the facility.

Using large grow lights suspended from the ceiling, Morris says, "It's a year-round growing operation ...

I'll have crops in January."

