Using fish to make fertilizer isn't a new idea.

But John Morris has modernized the process through a sophisticated farming operation called aquaponics.

Morris turned his 8-acre farm in Isle of Wight, Va., into the Herb Aqua Farm.

Inside two large greenhouses, Morris raises tilapia fish in large tanks.

The fish produce waste, and the waste water is processed into a kind of liquid fertilizer.

Part of the water goes into hydroponic beds inside the greenhouse, which grow plants in water, without the need of soil.

The rest of the water is pumped outside to fertilize Morris' in-ground crops.

The operation gives Morris two sources of income.

By March, his first batch of tilapia will have grown large enough to sell.

And the crops he grows — lettuces, herbs and vegetables — can be marketed year-round.

"It's the only farming method where you can produce both a protein product and a farming product," Morris says.

Morris' operation fits in with the county's goals, says Lisa T. Perry, director of economic development in Isle of Wight County.

"It's another form of agribusiness, and it shows exactly how things are changing in that field," she said.

Morris, 56, came to farming late in life.

For 17 years he was a firefighter in Portsmouth, where he grew up.

Later he operated a cabinet-making business, and in 1999 he moved to Isle of Wight in southeastern Virginia.

One day he picked up a Farmer's Almanac and read an article about Rebecca Nelson and John Pade.

They are co-owners of Nelson + Pade Inc., a leading aquaponics firm in Wisconsin.

Nelson is the author of "Aquaponic Food Production" and editor of Aquaponics Journal.

In aquaponics, plants and fish grow together without soil, Nelson wrote in a website article.

That can produce fresh, organic food anywhere with almost no effect on the environment, he explained.

Before he started on his new path, Morris wrestled with the idea, saying, "I was very nervous ...

I fought it tooth and nail."

However, he finally sold his cabinet-making shop and purchased a Nelson + Pade system.

"I believe this is my calling," Morris said.

"I didn't want to wake up when I was 75 years old and wish I'd done something else."

"It was a big decision," he says, "but you have to keep learning.

That's what keeps us young."

Morris estimates he's sunk a total of $175,000 into the business.

"If it fails, it fails," he says, but he's hopeful.

"I have a business mind and I'm methodical."

He's also passionate about "green" methods of farming that don't require chemicals like herbicides and pesticides, which are used to kill weeds and bugs.

They have polluted the Chesapeake Bay and killed off the earthworms and the healthy bacteria in the soil.

On his farm, two 21-by-96-foot covered bays hold a maze of steel tanks and pipes.

At the far end sit large hydroponic beds waiting to be planted.

Morris uses a wood furnace to heat the facility.

He's hung large growing lights from the ceiling, so that, "It's a year-round growing operation ...

I'll have crops in January."

Morris purchased his first batch of small tilapia called fingerlings back in August.

The warm-water fish live in tanks heated to about 72 degrees Fahrenheit.

The waste water they create is filtered through a clarifier that traps the solids, and then the nutrient-rich water is pumped into the beds.

He's growing basil, lettuce, Swiss chard, yellow pea tomatoes and radicchio.

He wants to add kale because "everyone at the farmers market was asking for it — they juice it."

