In the spring of 2010, a lone gray whale was spotted off the Mediterranean coast of Israel.

Gray whales are native to the Pacific Ocean.

This was the first North Atlantic sighting of a gray whale in about 200 years.  In recent years, many creatures have been turning up in places they don't belong.

Species that live in the Pacific Ocean have been appearing in the Atlantic, and vice versa.

Northern gannets, a North Atlantic species, have been spotted off the coast of California several times in recent years.

Meanwhile, several Pacific species of auks, a type of diving bird, have recently been observed in the Atlantic.

It is a perplexing trend.

While animals do occasionally wander outside of their normal environments, scientists are starting to believe that the recent flurry of movements between the Atlantic and Pacific ocean basins is not accidental.

Rather, it may be the result of climate change.

Scientists argue that as Arctic ice continues to melt, northern passageways that used to be blocked are opening up, allowing certain animals to cross into new territories.

Marine mammals, such as whales or seals, are often physically prevented from moving through the Arctic by sea ice, which gets in the way of their swimming or prohibits them from coming up to breathe.

Birds are capable of flying over the frozen ocean, but they frequently choose not to do so.

The ice prevents them from diving for fish.

As the climate has grown warmer, however, sea ice has begun melting, and passageways have started opening up in the Arctic.

Animals are now more free to move about as they please, which may account for the recent movements.

A new paper, released Nov. 30 in the journal Global Change Biology, explores the Pacific-Atlantic migrations, which scientists call "faunal exchange."

"Animals on occasion get lost and they show up in strange places," said the paper's lead author, whose name, ironically, is Seabird McKeon. However, he said that an unusual pattern of faunal exchange was starting to emerge.

The paper presents a list of marine mammals and birds that the authors expect will move between the Atlantic and Pacific more and more in the future. The list includes bird species such as Arctic terns, common eiders, Atlantic puffins and short-tailed shearwaters.

Mammals on the list include beluga whales, ringed seals and Atlantic white-sided dolphins.

Altogether, the list contains dozens of species.

Kristin Laidre, who was not involved in the study, is a scientist at the University of Washington's Polar Science Center.

She said that the ideas presented in the paper have been floating around the scientific community for some time.

Laidre was the lead author on a recent paper in Conservation Biology that discussed how the increasing effects of climate change in the Arctic were affecting marine animals there.

The paper noted the possibility of increased movement of animals in the Arctic and many of the species discussed in Laidre's paper also appear in McKeon's new paper.

While no one can say for sure what consequences these movements will have, McKeon and his team discuss a number of possible outcomes in their paper.

They examined past examples of faunal exchange to get a sense of how the Arctic exchange may play out.

One example the authors considered is the Great American Biotic Interchange, which occurred several million years ago when a thin strip of land called the isthmus of Panama formed between North and South America.

The new bridge allowed land animals to cross between the two continents for the first time.

As a result, mammals from North America invaded South America and outcompeted many of the native species there for resources.

McKeon and his team argue that a similar outcome is a possible with species crossing from the Pacific to the Atlantic, and vice versa.

Additionally, faunal exchange can greatly affect food webs, the complex network of relationships between predators and prey.

McKeon and his team discussed killer whales as a recent example.

They explained that killer whales recently moved into ice-free areas of Hudson Bay, a large body of water in Canada.

The whales were seen preying upon Arctic marine mammals in Hudson Bay, altering the balance of the food web there.

Faunal exchange may lead to genetic changes as well.

As animals move to new territories and mix with new species, different species may begin to interbreed, changing their genetic makeup.

McKeon said that scientists should watch closely as animals move about in the Arctic to better understand faunal exchange and its effects.

This can help inform conservation tactics moving forward, including the need for updated international conservation agreements.

Kirsten Oleson is a professor of ecological economics at the University of Hawaii and is one of the paper's co-authors.

She said that there are currently few protections for Arctic animals because the area is blocked off by ice.

However, she noted that as access increases and other animals start passing through the Arctic, "new environmental protections may need to be put in place."

At this point, though, scientists can only wait and see.

Most scientists seem to agree that faunal exchange between the Pacific and Atlantic is already occurring, and will only increase as more passages open up in the Arctic, but the exact effects of faunal exchange remain to be seen.

