Gray whales live in the Pacific Ocean.

In the spring of 2010, though, a single gray whale was spotted in the Mediterranean Sea off the coast of Israel.

It was the first time a gray whale was seen in the North Atlantic in about 200 years.  Recently, strange animal sightings have been happening more often.

Animals are showing up in places where they are normally never seen.

In particular, creatures that live in the Pacific Ocean have been appearing in the Atlantic, and creatures that live in the Atlantic Ocean have been appearing in the Pacific.  A group of scientists, led by a scientist named Seabird McKeon, published a paper last week about the strange pattern.

The paper was released on Nov. 30 in the journal of Global Biology, a magazine for scientists.

It argues that the reason animals are moving between the Atlantic and the Pacific may have to do with climate change.  The Arctic generally acts as a natural barrier between the Pacific and the Atlantic, keeping animals from moving between the two oceans.

Marine mammals, such as whales or seals, are often prevented from moving through the Arctic by ice.

The ice gets in their way and can block them from coming up to breathe.

Birds are capable of flying over the frozen ocean, but the ice prevents them from diving for fish.

Climate change seems to be making such journeys easier, though.

The earth's average temperature is gradually increasing.

As the climate has become warmer, ice in the Arctic Sea has started to melt.

As a result, passageways have opened up in the ice, allowing certain animals to cross through the Arctic. Scientists call these movements "faunal exchange."

"Animals on occasion get lost and they show up in strange places," said McKeon. However, he said that the recent pattern of faunal exchange was different.

The paper presents a list of marine mammals and birds that the authors expect will move between the Atlantic and Pacific more and more in the future. The list includes bird species such as Arctic terns, common eiders, Atlantic puffins and short-tailed shearwaters.

Mammals on the list include beluga whales, ringed seals and Atlantic white-sided dolphins.

Altogether, the list contains dozens of species.

No one can say for sure what effects the faunal exchange will have.

To get some idea, though, McKeon and his team examined past examples of faunal exchange.

One example the authors considered is the Great American Biotic Interchange, a large exchange that occurred several million years ago.

A thin strip of land called the Isthmus of Panama formed between North and South America.

The new bridge allowed land animals to cross between the two continents for the first time.

As a result, mammals from North America invaded South America and outcompeted many of the native species there for food or ate them.

McKeon and his team argue that the current exchange between the Pacific and Atlantic may have similar effects.

McKeon and his team also looked at what happened when killer whales moved into Hudson Bay, a large body of water in Canada.

The whales started hunting Arctic marine mammals there.

All of the sudden, those mammals had to be on the lookout for a predator they were not used to.

Faunal exchange, in that case, altered the delicate balance of predators and prey, what scientists call the "food web."

Faunal exchange may lead to genetic changes as well.

As animals move to new territories, they mix with new species.

This can lead to interbreeding and may create new genetic combinations.

Given these possible effects, McKeon said that scientists should pay close attention to faunal exchange through the Arctic.

The exchange may make some conservation efforts more complicated.

Conservationists work to keep different species from dying out.

If faunal exchange continues, it may create new threats.

Conservation tactics may have to change and conservation agreements between countries may need to be updated.

Kirsten Oleson is a professor at the University of Hawaii and is one of the paper's co-authors.

She said that there are not very many protections for animals in the Arctic currently in place.

Historically, few protections were needed because the area was blocked off by ice.

However, she noted that as more animals pass through the Arctic, "new environmental protections may need to be put in place."

At this point, scientists can only wait and see.

Most scientists seem to agree that faunal exchange between the Pacific and Atlantic is already occurring, and will only increase as more passages open up in the Arctic.

The exact effects of faunal exchange, however, remain to be seen.

