The waves in the Arctic seas have gotten a lot bigger.

That's what scientists have realized since Aleksey Marchenko made an accidental discovery in 2010.

Marchenko is a researcher at The University Center in Svalbard, Norway.

On May 2, 2010, he and a group of his students set out on a research trip in the Arctic.

Huge islands of ice cover much of the chilly Arctic waters near the North Pole.

Near the edges, the ice is made up of tiny floating pieces.

Farther inside, however, it is packed into a nearly solid mass.

Marchenko's ship can usually pick its way slowly through it.

In years before, the chunks of ice were solid enough to camp on.

This time, things turned out differently.

Marchenko stopped the boat near a large chunk of ice.

He and his students were going to explore it, but Marchenko checked it out first.

"We were ready to go but when I went out, I discovered many cracks around," he remembers.

He decided to move the boat deeper into the ice for safety.

The farther in he went, he thought, the more stable the ice would become.

As they pushed on, however, the ship encountered small waves, and then bigger ones.

Soon, the waves broke up the ice around the ship into thousands of smaller pieces.

Within an hour, Marchenko and his team saw a wave that was about 13 feet high.

The boat's navigation system recorded waves more than 20 feet tall.

These waves were the largest ever measured in icy waters.

Marchenko remembers seeing even bigger waves in the distance.

He says they were 30 feet high, or more.

Back on solid ground, Marchenko gave his measurements to Clarence Collins, who worked at the U.S.

Naval Research Laboratory (NRL).

He looked at Marchenko's measurements to try to figure out how the waves got to be so big.

Collins found that the ice near the outer edge of a cluster of ice absorbed some of the energy of arriving waves.

At the same time, the outer layer of ice focused the remaining energy.

It was so strong that it lifted up huge chunks of ice, letting the waves roll beneath.

As waves bounced chunks of ice up and down, the ice started to break.

Once broken, the smaller ice chunks allowed the largest waves to pass through and attack solid ice farther in.

The ice went from blocking almost all the wave energy to none at all within just one hour.

The process happened so fast, in fact, that Collins calculated waves were destroying the ice at a rate of over 10 miles of ice an hour.

Scientists had never imagined that Arctic waves could break up ice so quickly.

Historically, the waves in these regions were small.

So much of the oceans were covered with ice that there was little open space left where storms could whip up big waves.

Climate change has brought milder winters, warmer sea temperatures and bigger storms.

This is a dangerous combination.

Warmer temperatures lead to less ice and more open seas.

Waves then build up energy on the open water and crash into the arctic ice, breaking it up and clearing even more open ocean.

The presence of large waves makes these waters more dangerous.

The speed and power of the waves makes it impossible to know when they're coming.

That could spell disaster for sailors, oil companies and communities of native peoples who are unprepared for large waves or rely on sea ice to protect them.

Wildlife like polar bears and walruses that rely on Arctic ice are also in danger.

Collins does not expect the record waves that Marchenko observed in 2010 to remain a record for long.

As waves break up ice, the Arctic seas will become more open, and as a result, waves will become even stronger.

For the Arctic Ocean, there are stormy times ahead.

