The Arctic, the area around the North Pole, is melting.

As it melts, scientists are discovering strange things: mysterious craters, ice that burns, slow-moving mudslides, and leaning trees.

Temperatures are rising all over the globe, but they are rising twice as fast in the Arctic.

Higher temperatures are melting the permafrost — permanently frozen soil.

The thawing causes strange things to happen.

Scientists are trying to explain craters that have appeared in northern Russia where ice has melted.

Nothing in science can "really, fully explain those craters," said geologist Guido Grosse, who is traveling to Siberia in northern Russia this year.

Scientists have tried to figure out where the craters came from.

They think methane gas collected underground for centuries, and when the ground thawed recently, the methane burst out.

Some of the changes caused by melting ice can lead to more melting ice.

For example, some of these methane craters can become lakes.

Lakes warm the land around them because their waters trap heat from the sun.

Lakes and wetlands also are home to microbes.

Microbes are tiny organisms like bacteria that eat dead plants and change them into methane gas.

An area with a lot of methane gas can be lit on fire, causing flames to dance above the ice.

Another sign of the melting Arctic are trees that lean over after the ground underneath them became unstable.

When permafrost melts, hard soil turns to mud.

Whole forests are now leaning to one side, earning the nickname "drunken trees."

Roads, buildings and pipelines can also be damaged after sinking into the mud.

On steep ground, the melting permafrost has even more serious effects.

The melting ice creates slumps, which are like slow-moving mudslides.

Some of these slumps are huge, more than a kilometer across.

These megaslumps are moving across the land and they show no signs of stopping.

One enormous slump in Russia has been growing since the 1970s, Grosse says.

Maybe the biggest worry in the Arctic is a sudden release of methane gas.

Methane is a greenhouse gas: it traps heat in our atmosphere and adds to global warming.

Methane traps eight times more heat than carbon dioxide (CO2), the most common greenhouse gas.

This causes the globe to warm faster.

Humans also cause CO2 by burning fossil fuels like oil, coal and natural gas.

The thawing in the Arctic will release carbon dioxide, too.

The more greenhouse gases the Arctic releases, the faster it will warm.

This is called a feedback cycle.

The thawing will also expose dead plants.

When microbes eat the plants and release CO2, it causes even more warming.

"You can't refreeze it," Schaefer says.

"Once the decay turns on you can't turn it off."

It can go on for hundreds of years, he added.

There are more than 1.7 trillion metric tons of carbon trapped below the frozen Arctic soil.

That is more than twice as much as in the atmosphere today.

Of that, 120 billion metric tons could be released by 2100.

That's enough to raise global average temperatures by nearly a third of a degree Celsius.

In the past, scientists assumed the Arctic would thaw gradually over time.

But that may not be correct.

Signs of thawing like slumps and lakes are happening faster and affecting larger areas than expected.

It's difficult to predict how much thawing will occur in the Arctic, and how quickly it will happen.

The meltdown could speed up and happen in decades or slow down and thaw over centuries.

"What are the limits of permafrost thaw?"

Grosse asks.

"We don't really know."

Scientists continue to study the Arctic, but it's difficult because of the huge area and harsh conditions.

For now, the National Academy of Sciences admits that Arctic thawing is something we must research more.

