The Arctic, the northernmost part of our planet, is melting.

As it does, scientists are discovering all sorts of strange things: mysterious craters, strange mud slides, drunken trees and ice that burns.

The far northern hemisphere, mostly northern Canada and Russia, is mostly covered with permafrost — permanently frozen soil.

Today, temperatures in the Arctic are rising twice as fast as the rest of the globe, and the permafrost is melting.

The melting is causing some strange sights.

In far northern Russia, scientists are trying to explain mysterious craters that have appeared where ice has melted.

"There is nothing described in the scientific literature that can really, fully explain those craters," says geologist Guido Grosse, who is headed to Siberia in northern Russia this year.

Still, scientists have tried to figure out where the craters came from.

They believe methane gas collected over centuries underground.

When the ground thawed within the past few years, the methane burst out.

Some of these craters become lakes.

As the lakes trap heat from the sun in their waters, the land becomes even warmer.

The lakes and surrounding wetlands also create muddy conditions that are ideal for microbes.

The tiny organisms eat dead plants and break them down into methane gas.

An area with a lot of methane gas can be lit on fire, causing flames to dance above the ice.

So-called "drunken trees" are more common than craters or burning ice.

Melting permafrost causes hard soil to turn to mud.

The trees sitting in the mud begin to lean over when the ground under them becomes unstable.

Now the Arctic is home to whole forests of trees that are tilted to one side.

Man-made structures are also in danger from the melting permafrost: Roads, pipelines and buildings can sink into the mud.

Over the long term, there are huge costs from permafrost melt, biogeochemist Kevin Schaefer said.

On steep ground, the permafrost thaw is even more serious.

The thawing ice creates slumps, which are like slow-moving mudslides.

Some of these "megaslumps" are huge.

They can move through the landscape at a kilometer per decade and show no signs of stopping.

One slump in Russia extends more than 70 meters deep into the permafrost and has been growing since the 1970s, Grosse says.

Perhaps the biggest concern of thawing permafrost is a sudden and huge release of methane gas from the Arctic.

Methane is a greenhouse gas — it traps heat in our atmosphere and contributes to global warming.

Methane traps eight times more heat than carbon dioxide (the most common greenhouse gas), driving global warming even faster.

Over the last 30 years, methane gas emissions from the Arctic have increased 8 percent.

Ocean expeditions have observed methane bubbling out of methane ice at the bottom of the Arctic Ocean.

Along with methane, the thawing in the Arctic will also release CO2 — carbon dioxide.

As the Arctic releases more methane and CO2 into the atmosphere, temperatures will rise, further melting the region.

Scientists using computer simulations predict that up to a third of the permafrost on the surface in Alaska, Canada and Siberia could thaw.

Melting ice in the Arctic also thaws out dead plants.

When microbes begin to eat these plants and turn them to CO2, the melting process begins to take on a life of its own.

"You can't refreeze it," Schaefer says.

"Once the decay turns on you can't turn it off, and it persists for centuries."

Under the frozen Arctic soil is a possible time bomb: 1.7 trillion metric tons of carbon, more than twice as much as in the atmosphere today.

Not all of that will thaw in the near future, but 120 billion metric tons could be released by 2100.

That's enough to raise global average temperatures by nearly a third of a degree Celsius.

"These are big numbers," Schaefer notes.

Yet, he says they are in fact small when compared to those from burning fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas.

"Those emissions are just immense."

In the past, scientists assumed the Arctic would thaw gradually over time.

But their assumptions might be incorrect: thawing signs like slumps and lakes are happening faster and affecting larger regions than expected.

It's difficult to predict how much thawing will occur in Arctic, and how quickly it will happen.

The speed of the ongoing meltdown could speed up and happen in decades or slowly thaw over centuries and thousands of years.

"What are the limits of permafrost thaw?"

Grosse asks.

"We don't really know."

Scientists continue to expand monitoring of the Arctic, but huge gaps remain because of the huge land area and difficult conditions.

Observations are usually in places where it's easy for scientists to get to, not necessarily the best place for measurements.

For now, the thawing situation remains something that needs more research, according to the National Academy of Sciences.

"This situation is unprecedented," Schaefer says.

"The faster you burn fossil fuels, the faster the Arctic is going to warm."

