In the coldest parts of the ocean, near the North and South Poles, the water is full of ice.

Some pieces of ice are huge, like floating islands.

Things are changing in these parts of the world.

Temperatures have gotten hotter.

As a result, a lot of the ice has melted.

Scientists have discovered another change.

These northern waters are now full of huge waves.

The discovery was an accident.

In 2010, scientist Aleksey Marchenko set out on a trip.

He and his students wanted to study the icy waters.

Marchenko's ship had to make its way through the ice slowly.

They made it to the parts of the ocean where the ice was thick.

Marchenko stopped the boat near a large piece of ice.

He and his students were about to explore it.

Marchenko decided to check it out first.

Then Marchenko noticed something.

"I discovered many cracks around," he remembers.

He decided to move the ship deeper into the ice for safety.

They saw small waves, and then bigger ones.

Soon, the waves broke up the ice around the ship into thousands of smaller pieces.

Within an hour, Marchenko and his team started seeing huge waves.

They recorded waves that were more than 20 feet tall.

They were the largest ever measured in icy waters.

Marchenko remembers seeing even bigger waves in the distance.

He says they were 30 feet high, or more.

Marchenko then gave his measurements to a man named Clarence Collins.

Collins worked at the U.S.

Naval Research Laboratory (NRL).

He looked at Marchenko's measurements to try to figure out how the waves got to be so big.

Collins found that the ice could not stop the waves.

The waves were so strong that they lifted up huge pieces of ice and rolled on under them.

As the ice bounced up and down, it started to break into smaller pieces.

This made it even easier for the waves to pass through.

The ice was broken up within just one hour.

Collins figured that waves were destroying more than 10 miles of ice an hour.

Scientists had never imagined that waves could break up ice so quickly.

The waves in these areas used to be small.

So much of the oceans were covered with ice that there was little open space left where storms could whip up big waves Things have changed, however.

Temperatures have gone up.

This causes ice to melt.

It also causes more storms.

Now, when there are storms over the water, waves have room to build up.

Then they crash into the ice, breaking it up and clearing even more open space.

The large waves make these waters more dangerous.

The speed of the waves makes it impossible to know when they'll come.

This could make it dangerous to humans to be there.

Wildlife like polar bears and walruses that live on the ice are also in danger.

Collins thinks soon scientists will soon see even bigger waves in these icy waters.

As waves break up ice, the seas will become more open, and the waves will get even stronger.

There are stormy times ahead.

