Every year, researcher Aleksey Marchenko of The University Center in Svalbard in Norway leads students across the chilly waters of the Barents Sea.

In 2010, he and his students came face-to-face with the largest waves ever recorded amid the floating ice packs of the Arctic.

The chance encounter has alerted scientists that waves in the region are quickly becoming bigger.

Large waves may damage oil platforms, threaten coastal communities, and force shipping boats to take alternate routes.

These dangers were outlined in a March report by scientists at the U.S.

Naval Research Laboratory (NRL).

The report describes how large waves can penetrate and break up ice packs faster and more completely than anyone previously suspected.

When Marchenko left port in May 2010, he was expecting two or three days of leisurely fieldwork.

Near the edges, Arctic ice is composed of pieces loosely drifting on the water, but farther inside, there are huge chunks that have been blown together into a nearly solid mass.

Marchenko's ship, the RV Lance, can usually pick its way slowly through it.

In previous years, the chunks of ice were solid enough to camp on.

This trip turned out to be different.

The Lance sailed east and moored next to a large chunk of ice around 50 miles from the small island of Hopen on May 2, where Marchenko prepared to lead his class out onto the ice.

"We were ready to go but when I went out, I discovered many cracks around," he remembers.

He decided to move the Lance deeper into the ice for safety, thinking that the farther in he went, the more stable the ice would become.

As they pushed forward, however, the ship encountered small waves, and then bigger ones.

Soon the waves broke up the ice around the ship into thousands of smaller pieces.

Within an hour, Marchenko and his team witnessed a wave that was about 13 feet high, and the boat's navigation system ultimately recorded waves more than 20 feet high, the largest ever measured amid Arctic ice.

"And we could see even bigger waves higher than the deck of the ship — 30 feet or more," Marchenko says.

Marchenko later gave his measurements to Clarence Collins and his coworkers at the NRL in Mississippi so they could investigate how such big waves made it so far into the ice.

Collins found that the ice near the outer edge of the pack absorbed some of the impact of arriving waves.

At the same time, the outer layer of ice focused the remaining energy into pulses that could lift the ice pack as the waves rolled beneath.

The rise and fall strained ice to the breaking point.

Once broken, the smaller ice chunks allowed the largest waves to pass through and attack solid ice farther in.

The ice went from blocking almost all the wave energy to none at all within just one hour.

The process happened so fast, in fact, that Collins calculated waves were destroying the pack at a rate of over 10 miles of ice an hour.

Scientists had never imagined that Arctic waves could break up pack ice so quickly.

Historically, the region's extensive ice cover had not left the kind of large areas of open water needed by storms to whip up really big rolling waves.

But climate change has brought milder winters, warmer sea temperatures and bigger storms.

This is a dangerous combination.

Warmer temperatures lead to less ice and more open seas.

Waves then build up energy on the open water and crash into the arctic ice, breaking it up and clearing even more open ocean.

The presence of large, powerful waves in these waters makes navigating the region more dangerous.

The speed and ferocity of the waves makes it impossible to know in advance when they're coming.

That could spell disaster for mariners, oil companies and native communities who are unprepared for large waves or rely on sea ice to protect them.

Wildlife like polar bears and walruses that rely on abundant sea ice to survive are also in danger.

Collins does not expect the record waves that Marchenko observed in 2010 to remain a record for long.

As waves break up ice, the Arctic seas will become more open, and as a result, waves will become even stronger.

For the Arctic Ocean, there are stormy times ahead.

