Many people die each year trying to come into the U.S. from Mexico.

They're hungry and thirsty from crossing the border.

And they pass through towns in Arizona.

People there want to help them so they won't die.

But they don't know if they'll get in trouble for helping out.

People aren't supposed to cross the border that way.

It's not legal.

Maggie Milinovitch wanted to help.

She lives in southern Arizona, just a few miles north of the Mexico border.

Many times, people trying to secretly enter the United States from Mexico have crossed over her desert land.

Milinovitch felt she should offer food and water to the weary border crossers.

Many of the travelers were exhausted.

Some could hardly walk anymore.

But her husband didn't agree.

He worried they might be arrested or lose their land if they helped the dozens of border crossers.

In the end, Milinovitch decided she had to help.

"If I come across someone in need, I'm not going to just leave them there," she said.

Still, she didn't want to break the law.

People who live in Arivaca have to make those sort of hard decisions all the time.

Illegal border crossings in the area have fallen a lot.

But deaths are at an all-time high.

More than 2,000 croseers have died in the last 13 years.

Last year, a number of people living in Arivaca decided they had to do something.

Together they formed People Helping People.

This group gives aid to border crossers.

Volunteers keep the office running.

They answer questions and hand out medical aid kits.

They also hand out water bottles and baggies of food for border crossers.

The bags are filled with things like potato chips, juice boxes and canned meat.

People stash them in their cars or homes in case they come across a border crosser in need.

Doctors and nurses give medical aid classes at the office.

A Spanish class teaches a few simple Spanish words.

For example, students learn the words for water: _agua_.

And they learn the word for food: _comida_.

Alex Huesler is glad he got a food bag from the office.

Two men walked up to the backyard of his Arivaca home several months ago.

One man was Mexican.

The other was from Nicaragua.

"Agua, agua," the men said to Huesler.

One of the men had a bloodied face.

He had scratched it when he fell on a tree, Huesler said.

He says the men told him they'd tried to ask one of his neighbors for water.

But they were sent away.

"I understand that sometimes they are afraid," he said of the neighbors.

"I never felt any fear or any cause to fear the people that I've met."

Huesler said he gave the men food and water from a bag.

He had nothing in his refrigerator.

He also called a friend for help bandaging up the injured traveler.

The man was taken to a hospital.

The other man walked away.

People in Arivaca who helped border crossers have gotten into trouble.

In 2005, Daniel Strauss and Shanti Sellz were arrested.

They were charged with smuggling.

They had tried to drive three men to a hospital.

A judge threw out the case a year later.

And Daniel Millis was charged with littering.

He had left big bottles of water for border crossers in the desert near Arivaca.

A judge cleared him two years ago.

Since then, there have been no arrests.

James Duff Lyall is a lawyer in Arizona.

He tries to help people when their rights aren't respected.

He says courts have decided that helping crossers is not a crime.

He says people should know that.

People "should do what they think is the right thing to do," he says.

