In the wake of a tragic school shooting on the other side of the country, the controversial sheriff of Arizona's Maricopa County is sending in the posse to protect the county's school children.

Sheriff Joe Arpaio proudly calls himself "the toughest sheriff in America."

The Arizona lawman is a controversial figure who frequently makes headlines.

He faces lawsuits from the U.S. Justice Department and private citizens for allegedly singling out Latinos on immigration patrols, a practice known as racial profiling.

He also launched an investigation into President Barack Obama's birth certificate, and he published a biography called "Joe's Law" that included some controversial statements about Mexican-Americans.

His supporters point out that he was fairly re-elected by county voters.

Following the Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy in Connecticut, officials all over the country are trying to figure out the best way to keep schools safe.

In January, Sheriff Arpaio put his own new school safety plan into action.

He dispatched his volunteer posse to patrol 59 schools in Maricopa County.

The posse is a group the sheriff assembled in 1993 to help with shopping mall thefts.

Now, it is best known for its role in assisting the sheriff in workplace raids looking for undocumented immigrants.

Posse volunteers drive around school grounds looking for activity they deem to be suspicious.

They are not inside schools or even on school property.

A lieutenant commander in the posse, Dennis Donowick, told The New York Times that when they are on patrol, posse volunteers look for someone they feel does not belong, such as "a guy in (a) trench coat in the middle of summer."

Most of the schools the posse currently patrols are in small, rural places the sheriff's office was already policing.

School officials and parents were not asked if they wanted the volunteers.

Ann Donahue, a district spokeswoman, said that school administrators heard of the sheriff's plans from the news, not from his office.

She said school administrators do not necessarily oppose the new plan, but that there are details that schools need to consider.

Sheriff Arpaio did not need extra money to finance the program because posse members do not get paid for their work.

They receive some basic training from the sheriff's department.

Some volunteers are armed with automatic or semi-automatic weapons.

The school patrol plan has its critics.

Some wonder about the background of the volunteers and if they can be trusted.

The posse includes military veterans and former police officers.

However, a local television news investigation revealed that some posse members have criminal records, including assault and disorderly conduct charges.

Arizona State Representative Chad Campbell opposes the sheriff's plan.

He has stated that he was not sure how effective officers could be by simply driving around schools and not interacting with administrators or teachers.

The sheriff maintains that publicity about the program will help prevent violent criminals from entering schools.

"This will be mainly a deterrent, prevention, that's why we're sending marked cars out there," Arpaio told The Arizona Republic.

"But if we need to take action, we will."

The move by Sheriff Arpaio comes amid a highly charged political climate.

When President Obama made his new gun control plan public, he was surrounded by children who had written to him about gun violence.

He vowed to convince the public to support better gun control laws.

The plan would require universal background checks and would ban assault weapons.

These are measures the National Rifle Association (NRA) opposes.

Instead, the NRA has called for armed police officers in every school in the nation.

A new ad by the group aims to persuade the public to oppose Obama's plan.

It asks, "Are the president's kids more important than yours?

Then why is he skeptical about putting armed security in our schools when his kids are protected by armed guards at their school."

The White House called the NRA video, "repugnant and cowardly."

Jay Carney, Obama's press secretary, said most Americans agree that a president's children should not be used as "pawns in a political fight."

Secret Service agents protect the president's daughters.

Their school has no armed guards of its own on staff.

Sheriff Arpaio has said that he supports the NRA's plan for an armed officer in every school.

He also says that his plan differs from the NRA's proposal.

Its focus is on enhancing security in the area surrounding schools, not directly inside them.

The sheriff first spoke about his plan in December, shortly after the Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy.

He told ABC/Univision in December that his plan wasn't up for debate.

"It doesn't matter whether they like it or don't … I'm still going to do it.

I can't imagine criticism coming when they're given free protection."

