Maggie Milinovitch wanted to help.

With her husband, she owns property in southern Arizona, just a few miles north of the Mexico border.

Many times, people trying to secretly enter the United States from Mexico have crossed over the couple's desert land.

Milinovitch felt she should offer food and water to the weary border crossers.

Many of the travelers were desperate and dehydrated.

Some were nearly crippled by enormous blisters on the bottoms of their feet.

But her husband didn't agree.

He worried they might be arrested or lose their land if they gave aid to the dozens of border crossers.

In the end, Milinovitch decided she simply had to help.

"If I come across someone in need, I'm not going to just leave them there," said Milinovitch, who has lived in Arivaca since 1980.

Still, she didn't want to break the law.

These are the sort of hard decisions that those who live in the harsh borderlands have to make all the time.

While unlawful border crossings in this southern Arizona corridor have fallen dramatically, deaths are at an all-time high.

More than 2,000 migrants have perished in the last 13 years.

Last year, this crisis led some Arivaca residents to band together to form People Helping People, a group that provides aid to border crossers in the area.

Shortly after, the group opened a humanitarian aid office, which now sits on the main street of this town of 600 people.

The center is one of the first of its kind along the border, said member Leesa Jacobson.

"We're hoping this will be an example for other communities," she said.

Volunteers keep the office running.

They answer questions and hand out medical aid kits.

They also provide water bottles and prepackaged baggies with potato chips, juice boxes and canned meat intended for border crossers.

Residents are encouraged to stash the goods in their cars or homes in case they come across a migrant in need.

The group also started a series of workshops that educate residents about their right to provide humanitarian aid.

It has brought in lawyers and members of No More Deaths, a humanitarian organization.

No More Deaths provides direct assistance to people lost, injured or ill while crossing through the Arizona desert.

Legal experts have answered numerous questions, such as: Can you give medical aid?

Can you provide a border crosser with a map?

Can you tell the traveler how far away he or she is from the nearest city?

Answers are yes, no and yes.

Volunteer doctors and nurses also host medical aid classes.

A Spanish class teaches just enough language skills to communicate with border crossers.

For example, students learn the words for water and food: _agua_ and _comida_.

Cellphone numbers for on-call volunteer doctors, nurses and lawyers are handed out to residents.

And people are encouraged to call the group if they run into a border crosser and don't know what to do.

For Alex Huesler, the prepared food bag he'd gotten at the office came in handy a couple of months ago.

Two men walked up to the backyard of his rural Arivaca home.

"Agua, agua," the men said to Huesler.

One of the men had a bloodied face, scratched up after having fallen on a mesquite tree, Huesler said.

He said the men told him they'd tried to ask one of his neighbors for water but were shooed away.

"I understand that sometimes they are afraid," he said of the neighbors.

"I never felt any fear or any cause to fear the people that I've met."

Huesler, who has lived in Arivaca for six years, said he gave the men — one Mexican and the other Nicaraguan — food and water from a prepackaged bag.

He had nothing in his refrigerator.

He also called a friend for help bandaging up the injured traveler.

In the end, he called an ambulance.

The other man walked away.

Huesler, who has taken a few of the People Helping People classes, said he knows now what he can legally do while providing humanitarian aid.

"They all want rides to Tucson, and I say, 'No, no I cannot do that.'"

In 2005, problems between aid groups and Border Patrol agents reached a peak in Arivaca.

Humanitarian aid volunteers Daniel Strauss and Shanti Sellz were arrested for smuggling when they tried to drive three dehydrated men to a hospital in Tucson, Ariz. A judge dismissed the case a year later.

Two years ago, humanitarian aid volunteer Daniel Millis was found guilty of littering.

He had left gallon-sized bottles of water for border crossers in the desert near Arivaca.

A court overturned the ruling later.

Since then, government officials have backed off.

They are no longer trying to arrest humanitarian aid workers.

"The courts have rejected the general idea that humanitarian aid is a crime," said human rights lawyer James Duff Lyall.

"People should know that humanitarian aid is not a crime.

The courts have clearly stated that, and they should do what they think is the right thing to do."

