Maggie Milinovitch wanted to help.

She felt she should offer food and water to the weary border crossers who pass through her southern Arizona desert property, located just a few miles north of the Mexico border.

Many were desperate and dehydrated, and some were nearly crippled by enormous blisters on the bottoms of their feet.

Her husband, though, worried they might be arrested or lose their land if they gave aid to the dozens of travelers.

In the end, Milinovitch decided she had to help.

"If I come across someone in need, I'm not going to just leave them there," said Milinovitch, who has lived in Arivaca since 1980.

Still, she didn't want to break the law.

These are the sort of hard decisions that residents who live in the harsh borderlands have to make regularly.

While illegal border crossings in this southern Arizona corridor have plummeted, deaths are at an all-time high.

More than 2,000 migrants have perished in the last 13 years.

Miscommunication, confusion and fear have persisted as the problem grew.

The worsening situation led some Arivaca residents to band together last year to form People Helping People, a group that provides aid to border crossers in the area.

Shortly after, the group opened a humanitarian aid office, which now sits on the main drag of this rural town of 600 residents.

The center is believed to be one of the first of its kind along the border, said founding member and local librarian Leesa Jacobson.

"We're hoping this will be an example for other communities," she said.

Volunteers keep the office running, answering questions or handing out medical aid kits.

They also provide water bottles and prepackaged baggies with potato chips, juice boxes and canned meat intended for border crossers.

Residents are encouraged to stash the goods in their cars or homes in case they encounter a migrant in need.

The group also started a series of workshops aimed at educating residents on their right to provide humanitarian aid.

It has brought in attorneys and members of No More Deaths, an organization that provides direct humanitarian assistance to people lost, injured or ill while crossing through the Arizona desert.

Legal experts have answered numerous questions, such as: Can you give medical aid?

Can you provide a border crosser with a map?

Can you tell the traveler how far away he or she is from the nearest city?

Answers are yes, no and yes.

Volunteer doctors and nurses also host medical aid classes.

A Spanish class gives Arivaca residents enough language skills to communicate with border crossers, by teaching such basic words as _agua_  (water) and _comida _(food).

Pamphlets with a list of cellphone numbers for on-call volunteer doctors, nurses and attorneys are given to residents, who are also encouraged to call the group if they encounter a border crosser and don't know what to do.

For Alex Huesler, the prepared food bag he'd gotten at the office came in handy a couple of months ago when two men walked up to the backyard of his rural Arivaca home.

"Agua, agua," the men said to Huesler.

One of the men had a bloodied face, scratched up after having fallen on a mesquite tree, Huesler said the man told him.

He says the men told him they'd tried to ask one of his neighbors for water but were shooed away.

"I understand that sometimes they are afraid," he said of the neighbors.

"I never felt any fear or any cause to fear the people that I've met."

Huesler, who has lived in Arivaca for six years, said he gave the men — one Mexican and the other Nicaraguan — food and water from a prepackaged bag.

He had nothing in his refrigerator to offer them.

He also called a friend for help bandaging up the injured traveler.

In the end, he called an ambulance.

The other man walked away.

Huesler, who has taken a few of the People Helping People workshops, said he knows now what he can legally do while providing humanitarian aid.

"They all want rides to Tucson, and I say, 'No, no I cannot do that.'"

Victor Brabble, a spokesman for U.S. Customs and Border Protection in Tucson, Ariz., said the Border Patrol and other immigration agents urge residents to be careful when providing humanitarian aid.

"We do have a common goal, which is to reduce victimization of border crossers from hazards of the desert," Brabble said.

Providing water and food is allowed by law, he said, but he wouldn't go further, stating that each case is different.

In 2005, tensions in Arivaca between aid groups and Border Patrol agents reached a peak.

Daniel Strauss and Shanti Sellz, both humanitarian aid volunteers, were arrested on suspicion of smuggling when they tried to drive three dehydrated men to a hospital in Tucson.

A district court judge dismissed the case a year later.

Two years ago, a federal appeals court overturned a littering conviction against humanitarian aid volunteer Daniel Millis.

He had left gallon-sized bottles of water for border crossers in Buenos Aires National Wildlife Refuge, near Arivaca.

Since then, federal officials have stopped trying to prosecute humanitarian aid workers, said human rights attorney James Duff Lyall.

"The courts have rejected the general idea that humanitarian aid is a crime," he said.

"Ultimately people should know that humanitarian aid is not a crime.

The courts have clearly stated that, and they should do what they think is the right thing to do."

