Maggie Milinovitch wanted to help.

With her husband, she owns property in southern Arizona, just a few miles north of the Mexico border.

Many times, people trying to secretly enter the United States from Mexico have crossed over the couple's desert land.

Milinovitch felt she should offer food and water to the weary border crossers.

Many of the travelers were desperate and dehydrated.

Some were nearly crippled by enormous blisters on the bottoms of their feet.

But her husband didn't agree.

He worried they might be arrested or lose their land if they gave aid to the dozens of border crossers.

In the end, Milinovitch decided she simply had to help.

"If I come across someone in need, I'm not going to just leave them there," said Milinovitch, who has lived in Arivaca since 1980.

Still, she didn't want to break the law.

These are the sort of hard decisions that those who live in the region have to make.

Unlawful border crossings in the area have fallen a lot.

But deaths are at an all-time high.

More than 2,000 migrants have perished in the last 13 years.

Last year, this problem led some people in Arivaca to band together.

They formed People Helping People, a group that provides aid to border crossers.

It has an office in the town.

The office is one of the first of its kind along the border, said member Leesa Jacobson.

"We're hoping this will be an example for other communities," she said.

Volunteers keep the office running.

They answer questions and hand out medical aid kits.

They also provide water bottles and prepackaged baggies with potato chips, juice boxes and canned meat intended for border crossers.

People are encouraged to stash the goods in their cars or homes in case they come across a migrant in need.

Volunteer doctors and nurses give medical aid classes.

A Spanish class teaches a few simple Spanish words.

For example, students learn the words for water and food: _agua_ and _comida_.

For Alex Huesler, the prepared food bag he'd gotten at the office came in help a couple of months ago.

Two men walked up to the backyard of his Arivaca home.

"Agua, agua," the men said to Huesler.

One of the men had a bloodied face, scratched up after having fallen on a tree, Huesler said.

He says the men told him they'd tried to ask one of his neighbors for water but were shooed away.

"I understand that sometimes they are afraid," he said of the neighbors.

"I never felt any fear or any cause to fear the people that I've met."

Huesler, who has lived in Arivaca for six years, said he gave the men — one Mexican and the other Nicaraguan — food and water from a prepackaged bag.

He had nothing in his refrigerator.

He also called a friend for help bandaging up the injured traveler.

In the end, he called an ambulance to take the man to the hospital.

The other man walked away.

Victor Brabble works for the government agency that protects the U.S. border.

He said the Border Patrol urges people to be careful when providing aid to crossers.

"We do have a common goal," Brabble said: to protect border crossers from the dangers of the desert.

Providing water and food is allowed by law, Brabble said.

But, he added, each case is different.

In 2005, problems between aid groups and Border Patrol agents reached a peak in Arivaca.

That year, aid volunteers Daniel Strauss and Shanti Sellz were arrested.

They were charged with smuggling after they tried to drive three men to a hospital.

A judge dismissed the case a year later.

Another aid volunteer, Daniel Millis, was found guilty of littering.

He had left bottles of water for border crossers in the desert near Arivaca.

A judge cleared him of the charge two years ago.

Since then, government officials have backed off.

They are no longer trying to arrest aid workers.

James Duff Lyall is a lawyer in Arizona.

He tries to help people when their rights aren't respected.

He says courts have decided that helping crossers is not a crime.

He says people should know that.

People "should do what they think is the right thing to do," he adds.

