Sheriff Joe Arpaio calls himself "the toughest sheriff in America."

He serves Maricopa County in Arizona.

His actions have earned him both high praise and sharp criticism.

He is facing lawsuits for discrimination.

Some people allege that he unfairly singles out Latinos.

After the Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy, officials all over the country wanted to find out the best way to keep schools safe.

In January, Sheriff Arpaio put his own new school safety plan into action.

He organized his volunteer posse to patrol 59 schools in Maricopa County.

The posse is a group the sheriff put together in 1993.

Back then, it was formed to deal with thefts at shopping malls.

Now, it is best known for helping with the sheriff's immigration raids.

The raids occur when the sheriff sends deputies to find and arrest undocumented immigrants.

Nowadays posse volunteers drive around school grounds looking for suspicious activity.

They are not inside schools or even on school property.

Most of the schools the posse currently patrols are in small, rural places where the sheriff's deputies are already involved.

Sheriff Arpaio appeared on television news programs to talk about his new plan.

District spokeswoman Ann Donahue said that school administrators heard of the sheriff's plans on the news.

They did not hear from his office.

Nor were parents asked if they wanted the volunteers to help with school safety.

Sheriff Arpaio did not need extra money for the program because posse members do not get paid for working.

They receive some basic training from the sheriff's department.

Some of the volunteers carry weapons with them during their patrol.

The sheriff's plan has some critics.

People wonder about the background of the volunteers.

The posse includes some former police officers.

It also includes some men who have served in the military.

A local television news investigation revealed that some posse members also have criminal records that include violent behavior.

Arizona State Representative Chad Campbell opposes the sheriff's plan.

He questions how effective the posse could be since their patrols do not involve talking to school administrators or teachers.

The sheriff argues that just having publicity about the program will help prevent violent criminals from entering Maricopa County schools.

"This will be mainly a deterrent, prevention, that's why we're sending marked cars out there," Sheriff Arpaio told The Arizona Republic.

The sheriff's actions are part of a larger debate already going on in the United States about gun control.

In January, President Obama made his new gun control plan public.

The president appeared with children who had written letters to him about gun violence.

President Obama wants to convince the public to support stricter gun laws.

His plan would make it harder for people to buy guns.

It would also ban some types of guns.

The National Rifle Association (NRA) opposes these measures.

The NRA has a different idea about how to handle school safety.

It wants armed police officers in every school in America.

A television ad by the NRA tries to convince the public to support this idea.

It asks, "Are the president's kids more important than yours?

Then why is he skeptical about putting armed security in our schools when his kids are protected by armed guards at their school."

The White House called the NRA video "cowardly."

Obama spokesman Jay Carney said most Americans agree that a president's children should not be part of the debate.

Secret Service agents protect the president's daughters.

Their school has no armed guards of its own.

Sheriff Arpaio has said that he supports the NRA's plan for an armed officer in every school.

He also says that his plan differs from the NRA's proposal.

Its focus is outside schools, not inside them.

The sheriff first spoke about his plan in December, shortly after the Sandy Hook Elementary School tragedy.

He told ABC/Univision that his plan wasn't up for debate.

"It doesn't matter whether they like it or don't.

I'm still going to do it.

I can't imagine criticism coming when they're given free protection."

