!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/AP465143414804_1.jpg) ATLANTA — Jasmine Jacobs, an Army National Guard soldier, knew that however she wore her hair, it had to be neat.

So, four years ago, she figured that changing her hair to a more natural style would make her a better soldier.

It would require less care, especially on military exercises and drills.

"I never had anyone say anything to me about my hair," Jacobs said, who previously straightened her hair with a chemical straightener.

"It's never been out of regulation or interfered with my headgear."

That changed in April when the Army issued rules about how women in uniform can wear their hair.

It also announced new rules about tattoos.

The rules ban certain hairstyles that are popular among black women.

The banned hairstyles include twists, large cornrow braids and dreadlocks.

The rules hit a nerve in the black community, many of whom have strong feelings about what is "good" or "bad" hair.

Jacobs, 25, launched a White House petition to reverse the rule.

She argued that it punishes the more than 26,000 black women in the Army.

The changes are "racially biased, and the lack of regard for (black) ethnic hair is apparent," the petition said.

More than 17,000 people signed the petition.

But it would have needed 100,000 signatures for the president to respond.

It did get the attention of the Congressional Black Caucus, which is made up of the black members of the U.S. Congress.

They asked Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel to rethink the hair rule.

"The Army recognizes the concerns expressed by soldiers who believe they are restricted by the number of natural hairstyles authorized by the Army," said Army spokesman Troy A. Rolan Sr.

He said the Army wants hairstyles to look neat and professional.

The new rules come at a time that the Army is trying to reduce the number of soldiers from 520,000 to 440,000.

The rules also ban tattoos on the face, neck, lower arms and hands.

The Army says the rules are needed to ensure a "uniformity" of appearance.

Also, hair can't get in the way of soldiers' headgear.

The rule bans extreme, eccentric (or unconventional) or faddish styles.

Not all the banned hairstyles are those worn by black women.

That judgment has re-opened centuries-old wounds.

They come from arguments over how black women wear their hair and why they wear it that way.

"I just think I said what everyone else was thinking.

I didn't have any options of what to do with my hair," said Jacobs.

She sees the new rules as hurtful and insulting.

But "to be quiet would have been the greatest insult."

Tarshia Stanley is the chairwoman of Spelman College's English Department and an expert on the black female image.

She said that black girls are pressured to make their hair look like white women's hair.

"We have been told for so long and from so many sources that our hair is not good enough and that it must be straight and long," Stanley said.

"The relationship between women and their hair has always been deep.

But with black women, it has also been a very (complicated) relationship."

Nevertheless, Stanley does not call the Army's policy racist.

"I think it has more to do with cultural blindness," Stanley said.

She added that when she started growing her dreadlocks in 1996 she got criticized mostly by blacks.

Stanley said that she would have thought that the Army would not want to get involved in the debate over black women's hair.

"To tell black women that their hair isn't good enough is hurtful," she said.

The new guidelines state that hair extensions and wigs are allowed.

That particularly upsets Jacobs.

"Having to chemically alter my hair or getting a damaging weave doesn't make sense," she said.

In a weave, fake hair is woven into a person's real hair.

"They want us to have a white hair standard."

Jacobs said she stopped straightening her hair about four years ago.

The chemical relaxers she had used burned her scalp and she lost patches of hair.

She figured going natural would be healthier, safer and easier to maintain.

Jacob's petition has gotten national attention.

But she's not hopeful that the Army will give in.

"In order for the military to make changes, they have to admit they were uneducated, and say they made a mistake," she said.

However, on Tuesday, Hagel directed the military to rethink the new policies.

"I want to assure you that, while none of the Army's revised grooming and appearance policies were designed or intended to discriminate," Hagel wrote to the Black Caucus.

"I take your concerns very seriously."

