A ready-to-eat Army meal can survive a 1,200-foot parachute drop and stay fresh for up to three years.

But if it doesn't taste good to a soldier, it's going straight to the trash.

That's a problem researchers at North Carolina State University want to solve.

Their solution is to pull out the nutrients from tasty fruits and vegetables and put them into foods like snack bars.

"Soldiers throw out anything that doesn't look and taste good," said Mary Ann Lila, the lead researcher.

"If it's nutty and good tasting, the guys will eat it — especially if they know it has high protein and will help with energy and muscle mass.

Here, we are making an ingredient that not only will taste good but will be good for your body and your health."

Lila and her researchers received $60,000 from food companies to help with their project.

They money will allow them to test their new way of pulling out and transplanting vital nutrients.

They got to chose one fruit and one vegetable for testing.

"Because of our North Carolina connection, we decided on kale greens and muscadine grapes," she said.

These and other vegetables and fruits have phytochemicals.

Antioxidants are another word for phytochemicals.

The body needs phytochemicals for many things.

They help ward off illness and they can repair cell damage.

Brain functions improve with the help of phytochemicals.

Feeding an army is not easy.

The military has its own food research and development laboratory in Natick, Massachusetts.

It's called the Combat Feeding Directorate.

Delivering fresh fruits and vegetables to troops is difficult.

Sometimes it is downright impossible, especially in parts of the world where they are not grown, said Tom Yang, a food technologist for the Combat Feeding Directorate.

Getting any food to the right place is hard enough, but fruits and vegetables spoil fast, Yang said.

"Many times there is no refrigeration.

We have to use food that is shelf-stable."

The Army considers food to be shelf-stable if it can stay fresh for 3.5 years when stored at 80 degrees, or nine months at 100 degrees.

And the food must be something soldiers are willing to eat.

"It has to taste good and look good to soldiers who are 20 or 21 years old," Yang said.

"They can be pretty picky.

They'd really rather be eating fried chicken or pizza or hamburgers."

Soldiers in harsh climates such as Iraq or Africa have few options.

They tend to survive on snack bars full of protein and carbohydrates.

The bars don't have a lot of nutrients.

They lack the cancer-fighting glucosinates found in kale or the heart-healthy flavonoids in grapes.

The researchers have found a way to make similar products in a healthier way.

First, they take out the phytochemicals from fruit and vegetables.

Then they add the phytochemicals to flour made from soybean or hemp.

The flour can be used to make snack bars for the soldiers.

Their process also filters out some sugars, fats and waters from the fruits and vegetables.

It makes a concentrate.

One tablespoon of the concentrate is equal to four or more servings of fruits and vegetables.

The concentrate is safe to eat for several months, Lila said.

Lila's team hired a company to run a taste test.

"They really loved it," Lila said.

"It has a pleasant fruity aroma and texture."

Yang said he is eager to run his own tests on samples from the project.

He wants to figure out how the products will work as part of the Army's ready-to-eat meal program.

"The work sounds impressive so far," he said.

Meanwhile, researchers at the institute are experimenting with different foods that could be made with the healthier flour.

They test the new products for shelf-life, nutrition and taste.

Soldiers aren't the only ones who could use more phytochemicals, Lila said.

Athletes, hikers and people watching their weight could also be helped.

In a 17-day experiment, some students drank a beverage containing  phytochemicals from blueberries and green tea.

Others got a drink with no phytochemicals.

During the final three days of the experiment, they all did a 2.5 hour-long workout each day.

The students who had no phytochemicals stopped burning fat shortly after exercising, Lila said.

"But those given the phytochemicals were still burning fat in their sleep."

