A gallery in Dubai held an art sale on Monday.

Collectors inside the gallery bought works by Syrian artists.

Outside on the street, those same artists talked about events in Syria.

They checked their smartphones to find out the latest on their country's civil war.

These Syrian artists now live in Dubai.

They are able to continue their work in safety after the gallery brought them to the Gulf state.

But they remain deeply connected to Syria.

All of them are influenced by the bloodshed they left behind.

More than 100,000 people already have been killed in Syria's civil war.

Now, there are plans to save Syria's artists.

The art sale on Monday was part of that effort.

Gallery owner Hisham Samawi said what is happening in Syria is really bad.

But it would be even worse if Syria lost all its art, he said.

Samawi's Ayyam Gallery moved from Damascus to Dubai in late 2011.

The Arab Spring rebellion was getting bigger at the time.

"For us,'" Samawi added, "the artists are part of our family.

We had to do it.

It was for us and for them."

The gallery moved 15 artists and their families to Dubai over nearly two years.

Among those the gallery has brought to Dubai is Tammam Azzam.

He is one of the rising stars in Syria's revolution-inspired art world.

His goal is to draw attention to the horrors of the war.

One piece, "Freedom Graffiti," places a kissing couple over a bullet-scarred apartment wall.

It made the 33-year-old Azzam famous.

And it made him one of the leading artistic voices of the civil war.

Another of Azzam's pieces is a digital print called "Syrian Olympics."

This shows shooters aiming their guns at runners.

It has the look of Olympic signs.

A signed copy sold for $12,000.

A copy of "Freedom Graffiti" brought in $6,000.

"I have to do something for the people there," said Azzam.

He wanted to tell the world what was happening in his country, he said.

"People dying every day, every minute, and nobody can stop that."

Azzam sometimes worries that "art doesn't make sense" in the middle of a war.

But war has always led to creativity.

In the 18th-century, cartoonists commented on the American and French revolutions.

In the 1930s artworks such as Pablo [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso)'s "Guernica" reflected the Spanish Civil War.

And now, uprisings in the Middle East have led to a wave of protest art.

Much of that art is being spread by the Internet.

Since 2011, there have been dozens of important shows for the work of Arab Spring artists.

Among those featured was Egyptian Ahmed Basiony.

He was killed during anti-government protests in the final days of Hosni Mubarak's rule.

In Turkey this summer, anti-government protesters imitated Erdem Gunduz's "Standing Man."

As fighting raged around Istanbul's Taksim Square, they stood motionless.

It was a form of performance art.

The artists are important, Samawi said.

"We had to get them out."

He also said: "There was no question about it.

It wasn't like: We'll go find other artists.

These are our artists.

We believe in them and believe they have a voice."

Samawi hopes to bring other Syrian artists out of the country.

But that is much harder to do now.

The fighting has gotten worse.

"It's a good thing we started when we did," said Samawi.

"It becomes more and more difficult as every month passes."

The artist Azzam said friends are watching his abandoned art studio in Syria.

"But who knows if it will be there when I return," he said.

"And who knows when I can return."

