Would you like to assist the FBI in solving the biggest property theft in U.S. history?

If so, keep a lookout for priceless works of art.

On Monday, agents asked the public to help in tracking down over a dozen rare artworks that were stolen from a Boston museum 23 years ago.

Investigators also announced a $5 million reward for information leading to the recovery of the masterpieces.

They include works by famous artists such as Rembrandt, Manet, Degas and Vermeer.

On the night of the robbery, two men wearing police uniforms tricked guards into letting them into the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum just after midnight on March 18, 1990.

The thieves tied up the security guards, then stole 13 pieces of art in just 81 minutes.

These included 11 paintings, as well as a bronze eagle from the top of a flagpole and a Chinese beaker.

The total haul was worth $500 million.

For over two decades now the theft has been a mystery to the FBI and the people of Boston.

The missing pictures include highly important and respected artworks.

One painting by Rembrandt is more than 380 years old.

Another work, "The Concert" by Johannes Vermeer, is the world's most valuable stolen painting.

The FBI has interviewed people around the globe to try and find the missing art.

Detectives have questioned several figures in the Boston crime world.

But investigators have not had much success in the case until recently.

Then came Monday's big announcement.

The FBI said it now knows the names of the thieves.

But it still does not know the location of the missing paintings.

That is where it needs assistance.

"Today, we are pleased to announce that the FBI has made significant progress in the search for the stolen art," special agent Richard DesLauriers told reporters.

"We've determined in the years after the theft that the art was transported to Connecticut and Philadelphia.

But we haven't identified where the art is right now, and that's why we are asking the public for help," DesLauriers continued.

The $5 million reward is for any tips that might help bring the artworks home.

"You don't have to hand us the paintings to be eligible for the reward," said Anthony Amore.

He is the museum security chief.

Special Agent Geoff Kelly, who is in charge of the investigation, encouraged the public to think hard.

"It's likely over time someone has seen the art hanging on a wall or stored in an attic.

We want that person to call the FBI," he said.

While detectives now say they know who stole the art, they have not revealed any names.

Agent DesLauriers said that releasing the identities of the thieves could damage the continuing investigation.

The FBI said that it now has been so long since the crime that it would be difficult to prosecute the men involved.

Investigators could still charge people who have handled or sold the stolen paintings.

But authorities said that they might offer special immunity deals in exchange for information about the missing art.

The empty frames where the stolen paintings used to be remain hanging on the museum walls.

U.S. lawyer Carmen Ortiz said that these blank holes represent the sadness about the theft.

But she said it also shows hope that the masterpieces will eventually be returned.

"The key goal here is to recover those paintings and bring them back," Ortiz said.

The museum is named after Isabella Gardner, who spent 30 years collecting the art that is now inside.

She was also known as a famous eccentric.

Gardner was a huge fan of the Boston Red Sox baseball team.

She shocked many people at a formal concert in 1912.

Gardner wore a white headband on which she had written "Oh, you Red Sox!"

Everyone at the concert was wearing fancy clothes at this event, except for Gardner in her baseball headband.

The museum's website says that this led a local newspaper to call her "a woman gone crazy."

Nowadays, the museum grants a $2 discount on admission to any visitor wearing Red Sox gear.

Gardner opened her museum in 1903 with a grand party where doughnuts were served.

Since then, the galleries have been open for everyone to appreciate the art.

But until these 13 stolen works are found, her museum will never be complete.

