Would you like to assist the FBI in solving the biggest property theft in U.S. history?

If so, keep your eyes peeled for some priceless works of art.

On Monday, FBI agents appealed for the public's help in tracking down over a dozen irreplaceable artworks that were famously stolen from a Boston museum 23 years ago.

Investigators also announced a $5 million reward for information leading to the recovery of the masterpieces by artists including Rembrandt, Manet, Degas and Vermeer.

On the night of the robbery, two men wearing police uniforms tricked guards into letting them into the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum just after midnight on March 18, 1990.

The thieves overpowered and tied up the security guards in the gallery, before calmly getting to work on the crime.

In just 81 minutes the men were able to steal 13 precious works of art.

Their $500 million haul included 11 paintings cut from their frames, as well as a bronze eagle from the top of a flagpole and a Chinese drinking beaker.

For over two decades now, the theft has remained a mystery to the FBI, the police and the people of Boston.

The missing works include some of the most important and respected artworks in the world.

One painting, entitled "The Storm on the Sea of Galilee" by famous Dutch artist Rembrandt, is more than 380 years old.

Another work, "The Concert" by Johannes Vermeer, is thought to be the world's most valuable stolen painting.

Since the daring theft all those years ago, the FBI has followed global leads to try and track down the missing art.

Detectives have questioned several figures in the Boston crime world and some who even had links to the Mafia.

But investigators had not had much success in the case.

Then came Monday's big announcement.

The FBI said it now knows the names of the thieves who committed the robbery.

But it still does not know where the missing paintings are, and that is where it needs assistance.

"Today, we are pleased to announce that the FBI has made significant investigative progress in the search for the stolen art," special agent Richard DesLauriers told reporters at a news conference.

"We've determined in the years after the theft that the art was transported to the Connecticut and Philadelphia regions.

But we haven't identified where the art is right now, and that's why we are asking the public for help," DesLauriers continued.

There is now a $5 million reward out for any tips that might help bring the artworks home.

"You don't have to hand us the paintings to be eligible for the reward," said Anthony Amore, the museum security chief.

Geoff Kelly, who is in charge of the FBI investigation, encouraged the public to wrack their brains.

"It's likely over time someone has seen the art hanging on a wall, placed above a mantel, or stored in an attic.

We want that person to call the FBI," he said.

While detectives say they know who stole the art, they have not revealed any names.

Agent DesLauriers refused to answer any questions about the identity of the thieves.

He said that releasing their names could damage the ongoing FBI investigation.

DesLauriers would not say whether the robbers in question are already in prison for other crimes, or even whether they are dead or alive.

The FBI says that it has been so long since the crime that the legal statute of limitations has expired.

This means it would be difficult to prosecute the men involved in the actual theft.

It would still be possible to charge people who have handled or sold the stolen paintings.

But authorities hinted that they might offer immunity against prosecution in exchange for information on the missing art.

The empty frames where the stolen paintings were once displayed still hang on the museum walls.

According to U.S. Attorney Carmen Ortiz, these blank holes are symbolic of both sadness caused by the theft and the hope that the masterpieces will eventually be returned.

"The key goal here is to recover those paintings and bring them back," Ortiz said during the publicity campaign at the FBI's Boston headquarters.

The museum is named after Isabella Gardner, who spent three decades collecting the art that is now inside.

She was also known as a famous eccentric.

Gardner was a huge fan of the Boston Red Sox baseball team.

She shocked many people at a formal concert in 1912 when she appeared wearing a white headband, on which she had written "Oh, you Red Sox!"

According to the museum's website, this act led a local newspaper to refer to her as "a woman gone crazy."

Gardner opened her museum in 1903 with a grand party where doughnuts and champagne were served.

Since then, the galleries have been open to the public.

But until these 13 stolen works are found, her museum will never be complete.

