Would you like to help solve the biggest property theft in U.S. history?

If so, look out for some very expensive paintings.

On Monday, detectives asked the public to help them find a number of rare artworks.

They were stolen from a museum in Boston 23 years ago.

No one has seen them since.

Investigators also announced a $5 million reward.

This will be given to anyone who can help find the missing art.

The stolen pictures are extremely famous and valuable.

They are works by important artists such as Rembrandt and Vermeer.

Two thieves tricked their way into the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum on the night of March 18, 1990.

They wore police uniforms and demanded to be let into the museum.

The guards believed they were police officers.

The men tied up the security guards.

Then they stole 13 pieces of art.

The robbers took 11 paintings.

They also removed a metal model of an eagle and a Chinese beaker.

Since then this theft has been a mystery.

The missing artworks are very old and are valued together at $500 million.

One painting was painted 380 years ago.

The FBI has interviewed people around the globe to try to find the lost art.

Detectives have questioned many people who have committed previous crimes in Boston.

But they have not had much success in this case until recently.

Then came Monday's big announcement.

The FBI said it now knows the names of the burglars.

But it still does not know where the missing paintings are.

That is where it needs your help.

"Today, we are pleased to announce that the FBI has made significant progress in the search for the stolen art," special agent Richard DesLauriers told reporters.

DesLauriers said that detectives have figured out that the paintings were transported to Connecticut and Philadelphia after the theft.

"But we haven't identified where the art is now, and that's why we are asking the public for help," DesLauriers continued.

There is now a $5 million reward for any tips that might help bring the art home.

"You don't have to hand us the paintings to be eligible for the reward," said Anthony Amore.

He is the museum security chief.

Special Agent Geoff Kelly, who is in charge of the investigation, encouraged the public to think hard.

"It's likely over time someone has seen the art hanging on a wall or stored in an attic.

We want that person to call the FBI," he said.

While detectives now say they know who stole the art, they have not revealed any names.

Agent DesLauriers said that releasing the identities of the thieves could damage the ongoing police work.

The FBI said that it now has been so long since the theft that it would be hard to punish the men involved.

The police could still charge people who had handled or sold the stolen paintings.

But officers said that they might agree not to arrest people in exchange for information about the missing art.

The empty frames where the stolen paintings used to be remain hanging on the museum walls.

Government Lawyer Carmen Ortiz claimed that these blank holes represent two emotions.

There is sadness at the theft but also hope that the art will eventually be returned.

"The key goal here is to recover those paintings and bring them back," Ortiz said.

The museum is named after Isabella Gardner, who spent 30 years collecting art.

She was known as an eccentric for her unusual behavior.

Gardner was a big fan of the Boston Red Sox baseball team.

She shocked many people at a formal concert in 1912.

Everyone else at the concert was elegantly dressed.

But Gardner wore a white headband with "Oh, you Red Sox!"

written on it.

The museum's website says this led a newspaper to call her "a woman gone crazy."

Nowadays, the museum gives a $2 discount to anyone wearing Red Sox gear.

Gardner opened the museum in 1903.

On the first night she held a grand party and served doughnuts.

Since then, the museum has been open for people in Boston to appreciate the art.

But until these 13 stolen works are found, her museum will never be complete.

