Painters, dancers and musicians are preparing to move into new lower-income apartments built just for them in downtown Loveland, Colorado.

The apartments were renovated by Artspace, an organization that fixes up abandoned properties to create homes for artists.

The apartments are generally located in areas that need revitalization.

Artspace believes the artists can help breathe new life into these run-down areas.

Artspace started with a single renovation project about 30 years ago.

The Minneapolis, Minnesota-based organization transformed an early 20th century warehouse in St. Paul.

They turned the warehouse into housing for artists that were struggling financially and created space for nonprofit arts organizations to do business.

Now Artspace is working on similar projects all over the country.

In East Harlem, New York, they are turning an abandoned public school into housing for artists and space for arts organizations.

"There's a wave of awakening to the value of creative people in the community," said Wendy Holmes, a senior vice president at Artspace.

Tax credits and money from national development grants helped Artspace give old warehouse and factory buildings a makeover along the railroad tracks in Loveland.

They created a 30-apartment structure that will be full of artists by May.

Now other business owners are opening restaurants and galleries near the apartments.

The project is not finished yet, but Mayor Cecil Gutierrez says the city has already noticed a change for the better.

People are starting to spend more money downtown.

The government has received 10 percent more money from sales tax on purchases people make.

Gutierrez said downtown began to die in the 1970s when a large mall opened in the region.

The mall pulled people away from the downtown shopping district of department and hardware stores.

Loveland repeatedly launched downtown development studies, but they never went anywhere.

Gutierrez believes this new project is finally succeeding because it has targeted the arts.

Jamie Bennett, executive director of ArtPlace America, says Loveland is a great example of something important that is happening all over the country.

The arts are becoming a bigger part of community planning and development.

Jason Schupbach, director of design programs for the National Endowment for the Arts, said the idea that art can make or break a city has been around since the days of Michelangelo.

In the past 12 years or so, Schupbach has seen this idea making a comeback in a new way.

In cities like Detroit, Boston, Baltimore and Chattanooga, Tennessee, policy-makers have settled on goals, agreed on ways to measure progress and coined a new phrase: creative place making.

Community planning and development can be a long, difficult process.

Schupbach says that, when energy drops, a colorful mural or dance performance can lift spirits and keep the project moving in a positive direction.

As Loveland's new apartment building neared completion, crews began fixing up an old mill from 1892 that went out of business in the early 2000s.

Felicia Harmon had been trying to save the mill from being torn down for quite a while.

She loved its old brick walls and industrial equipment.

She was thankful when artist Megan Tracy finally helped others see the mill's unique charm.

Tracy is the artistic director at the mill, which is now known as Arts @ the Feed &amp; Grain.

It will eventually house a gallery and performance space, plus an "incubator" project to help new businesses get started.

The mill is still a work in progress, but that has not stopped Tracy from finding creative ways to put it to good use.

Thanks to funding from several organizations, she has already been able to bring in more than 100 artists and 20,000 art lovers in the past three years.

The mill has already hosted a variety of art, music and literature performances.

"Artists just think differently," Tracy said.

"They can show you things you didn't see before."

The Artspace developments have inspired others to find their own way to join the movement.

Doug Erion, a painter, renovated a long-vacant warehouse, transforming it into artist galleries and workspace.

Erion is planning to expand his project and has gotten involved with a workspace for engineers, computer programmers and other tech creators right next door.

Even though none of his projects are officially part the Artspace development, Erion says he does not believe he could have succeeded without their help.

He is thankful Artspace made the first move to attract artists to the area.

