Painters, dancers and musicians in Loveland, Colorado, are getting ready to move into special apartments built just for them.

Artspace, a group that fixes up empty, abandoned properties to create homes for artists led the way on creating the apartments.

Artspace finds ways to keep the rent low to make sure artists can afford to live there.

Artspace is building the apartments in downtown Loveland because it is an empty, run-down area.

Artspace believes the artists can help downtown Loveland make a fresh start.

Artspace started about 30 years ago in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

The group fixed up an old warehouse in nearby St. Paul.

They turned the warehouse into housing for artists and created space for nonprofit arts groups to set up offices.

Now they are working on similar projects all over the country.

Artspace's Wendy Holmes says residents are "waking up" and starting to see how creative people are valuable to their communities.

Using money from grants and the government, Artspace turned the old warehouse and factory buildings along Loveland's railroad tracks into something brand new.

They created a group of 30 apartments that will be full of artists by May.

Now other business owners are opening restaurants and galleries near the apartments.

The project is not finished yet, but Loveland Mayor Cecil Gutierrez says the city is already starting to see improvements.

People are starting to spend more money downtown.

When people spend more money, the city government gets more money.

Gutierrez said downtown Loveland started seeing hard times back in the 1970s.

A large shopping mall opened in the region.

It pulled people away from the downtown shopping district.

Loveland tried to come up with ways to fix the problem several times, but never found a solution.

Gutierrez believes this new project is finally succeeding because it is trying something different by focusing on the arts.

Jamie Bennett of ArtPlace America says Loveland is a great example of something important that is happening all over the country.

The arts are becoming a bigger part of how people plan cities.

Jason Schupbach works for the National Endowment for the Arts.

Schupbach says the idea that art can make or break a city has been around since the days of Michaelangelo.

In the past 12 years or so, Schupbach has seen this idea becoming more popular again, but in a new way.

Cities like Detroit, Boston and Baltimore have gotten more serious about how to make sure the arts have their own special place.

City leaders have set big goals and agreed on ways to keep track of their progress.

Changing part of a city can be a long, difficult process.

Schupbach says that when the project gets stuck or people get tired, a colorful outdoor painting or dance performance can cheer people up and keep things moving.

It can help remind everyone why they are working so hard.

As Loveland's new apartment building neared completion, crews began another big project.

They started fixing up an old mill that was built in 1892 and went out of business in the early 2000s.

Felicia Harmon had been trying to save the mill from being torn down for quite a while.

She loved its old brick walls and industrial equipment.

She was thankful when artist Megan Tracy finally helped others to see what makes the mill so special.

Tracy is the artistic director at the mill, which is now called Arts @ the Feed &amp; Grain.

Eventually, it will be the home of a new gallery and a performance space.

It will also have an "incubator" section to help new businesses get started.

The mill project is not finished yet, but that has not stopped Tracy.

She has already hosted a variety of art, music and literature performances there.

Thanks to funding from several groups, she has been able to bring in more than 100 artists and 20,000 art lovers in the past three years.

"Artists just think differently," Tracy said.

"They can show you things you didn't see before."

The Artspace project has helped other people in Loveland find their own way to join the movement.

Doug Erion, a painter, renovated a warehouse that had been empty for a long time.

He made it into a workspace for artists and galleries where they can display their work.

Erion is planning to expand his warehouse and has gotten involved with a neighbor's project.

It is a workspace for engineers, programmers and other people who create their artwork with computers.

Even though none of his projects are officially part the Artspace building, Erion says he does not think he could have succeeded without Artspace's help.

He is thankful Artspace made the first move to attract artists to the area.

