Artists in Loveland, Colorado, are getting ready to move into special apartments built just for them.

A group called Artspace built the apartments.

Artspace fixes up old, empty buildings.

They turn them into homes for artists.

Artspace works hard to make sure the new apartments will not be too expensive.

They want to make sure artists will have enough money to live there.

Artspace started about 30 years ago in Minnesota.

The group fixed up an old storage building.

They turned it into a place for artists to live.

They also created space for nonprofit arts groups to set up their offices.

Now Artspace is fixing up empty buildings all over the country.

The apartments in downtown Loveland were chosen by Artspace because it is an old part of town that is not very popular.

Nobody lives there right now.

If people move in, it will be full of life.

Artspace believes the artists can help downtown Loveland become busy again.

They know artists look at things differently.

They are good at turning plain old things into beautiful new ones.

Wendy Holmes works for Artspace.

She says people are "waking up" and starting to see how artists are important to their cities.

They are starting to give money so that groups like Artspace can help places like Loveland.

Artspace used some of the money people gave them to make something brand new out of old factory buildings.

The empty buildings were just sitting there next to the railroad tracks.

Artspace used them to build 30 new apartments.

The apartments will be full of artists by May.

Now other business owners are opening shops and restaurants near the apartments.

After they finished the new apartment building, crews began working on something else.

They started fixing up an old mill.

Mills are places where grain is made into flour.

The Loveland mill had been built in 1892.

It went out of business in the early 2000s.

Felicia Harmon had been trying to save it from being torn down.

She loved its old brick walls and machinery.

An artist named Megan Tracy understood why Harmon loved the mill so much.

Tracy helped Harmon show other people what made the mill so special.

Now Tracy is in charge of all the art events at the mill.

The mill has a new name, too.

It is called Arts @ the Feed &amp; Grain.

Soon, there will be a place for artists to sell their artwork.

It will also have a program to help new businesses get started.

The mill is not finished yet, but that has not stopped Tracy.

She has already hosted all kinds of art shows and concerts there.

She has brought in more than 100 artists and 20,000 art lovers in the past three years.

Artspace is not finished working in Loveland yet, but things are already getting better.

Mayor Cecil Gutierrez says people are starting to spend more money downtown.

Gutierrez said downtown Loveland started having a hard time back in the 1970s.

A large shopping mall opened nearby.

It pulled people away from the downtown shopping area.

People in Loveland tried to come up with ways to fix the problem several times.

They never found a solution.

Gutierrez says Artspace is finally succeeding because they are trying something different.

They are focusing on the arts.

