Painters, dancers and musicians are preparing to move into new lower-income apartments built especially for artists in downtown Loveland, Colorado.

It's the latest project by Artspace, a Minneapolis-based organization that renovates abandoned city properties, drawing artists into areas that need revitalization.

Artspace is working on similar projects all over the country.

In East Harlem, New York, they are turning an abandoned public school into housing for artists and space for arts organizations.

The group got its start three decades ago when it renovated an early 20th century warehouse in St. Paul, Minnesota.

Artspace turned the warehouse into affordable artists' housing and created space for nonprofit arts organizations to do business.

"There's a wave of awakening to the value of creative people in the community," said Wendy Holmes, an Artspace senior vice president.

In Loveland, tax credits and national development grants helped Artspace transform old warehouse and factory space along the railroad tracks about an hour north of Denver.

Now business owners are opening restaurants and galleries near the 30-apartment structure, which will be occupied in May.

Mayor Cecil Gutierrez said downtown sales tax revenue has increased 10 percent in recent years as buzz about the development has grown.

In a pattern familiar nationwide, Gutierrez said downtown began to die in the 1970s when a large mall opened in the region.

Its opening cut traffic to a shopping district of department and hardware stores.

Loveland repeatedly launched downtown development studies, but they never went anywhere.

Gutierrez believes targeting the arts meant the difference between seeing more proposals fade away and seeing them take off.

Jamie Bennett, executive director of ArtPlace America, calls Loveland "a brilliant microcosm of what is happening across the country."

Bennett's organization brings together major funders like the Ford and Rockefeller foundations to distribute grants weaving the arts and artists into community planning and development.

Jason Schupbach, director of design programs for the National Endowment for the Arts, said the idea that art can make or break a city has been around at least since Michelangelo.

In the past 12 years or so, Schupbach has seen this idea making a comeback in a new way.

In cities like Detroit, Boston, Baltimore and Chattanooga, Tennessee, policy-makers have settled on goals, agreed on ways to measure progress and coined a new phrase: creative place making.

When energy lags over the long process of development, a dance performance or splashy mural can lift spirits, Schupbach said.

"Arts have a real value in keeping the momentum up."

As Loveland's new apartment building neared completion, rehabilitation began on a cavernous 1892 mill that went out of business in the early 2000s.

Felicia Harmon, long involved in development and the arts, had been trying to save the mill from being demolished.

She credits artist Megan Tracy with helping others see the charm in the mill's soaring brick walls and room-sized grain hoppers.

Tracy is the artistic director at the mill, which is now known as Arts @ the Feed &amp; Grain.

It will eventually house a place for small businesses to grow, a gallery and performance space.

The mill is still a work in progress, but that has not stopped Tracy from finding creative ways to make an impact.

Thanks to support from ArtPlace America, the Community Foundation of Northern Colorado and the National Endowment for the Arts, she has already been able to bring more than 100 artists and 20,000 art lovers to the mill over the past three years.

Collaborators have put on conceptual, site-specific shows such as one in which silk sheets floated over the mill's scarred wooden floors, or another featuring ceramic discs that appeared to flow from the ceilings like water.

Musical and literary performances also have been part of installations.

"Artists just think differently," Tracy said.

"They can show you things you didn't see before."

The Artspace developments have inspired others to find their own way to join the movement.

Doug Erion, a painter, renovated a long-vacant warehouse, transforming it into artist galleries and workspace.

Erion is planning an expansion and has gotten involved with a shared-space business for engineers, computer programmers and other tech creators right next door.

Though none of his projects have received any direct support from the Artspace development, Erion says he could not imagine any of them would ever have taken off if Artspace hadn't made the first move to attract artists to the area.

