Prehistoric traders of the Delaware tribes bivouacked on the bank of what would someday be called the Allegheny River.

European settlers cut forests and built overlapping settlements near the three rivers' confluence.

A century later, more immigrants arrived, invented a middle class and rose to power in the city of Pittsburgh.

Archaeological evidence of each group is still there, buried under centuries of urban development.

"With modern multidisciplinary research, we can take it even further than that," said archaeologist Casey Campetti.

"Sometimes, we can link specific relics we've found in Pittsburgh with the actual individual people who once owned them."

On Nov. 22, Campetti led Venture Outdoors' sold-out archaeological walking tour of parts of the city, pointing out recently discovered remnants of the city that once was.

Campetti works with AECOM, an architectural research group.

Excavation, research and publication of the tour sites was conducted by Pittsburgh-based Christine Davis Consultants.

"Each time the city is reinvented, they leave a staggering number of things there," said Campetti.

"During the North Shore Connector excavation, (there were) something to the tune of 18,000 artifacts found just within the footprint of the construction project.

(They) found row houses and privies and evidence of Native American sites."

Before municipal trash collection, things that weren't wanted were chucked into the privy, or outhouse.

Today, the discovery of those spots can reveal generations of cultural change.

Urban archaeology is a relatively new discipline.

It is the result of laws and regulations establishing new cultural resources management responsibilities for companies that are doing construction.

The laws and regulations apply to agencies that use federal funding.

"It's usually not holding up big projects.

Construction managers are usually pretty savvy to what's going on," said Campetti.

"We have three phases of work: ID, is there anything there?

Importance, are the artifacts related to an important person or some important new discovery?

And treatment, if there's something important there, what should we do about it?

In urban settings, broad archaeological research zones are usually impractical.

"Urban construction used to be just knocking down what's there and building something over it," said Campetti.

"Nowadays, with these big skyscrapers, they often have to dig down so deep to scoop out the foundation.

We're finding layers of historical relics from very different times."

During the dig for the North Shore Connector, an extension of the city's light-rail system, researchers found a wide range of items.

They unearthed children's toys — marbles, dolls, bottles — as well as cleaning materials and toothbrushes.

Nearby were stone tools, projectile points, burned wood — evidence of temporary Native American occupation from centuries earlier.

"It's probably that the settlers built a house and then other things were built over that.

But there was very little disturbance to the road that went past it, and so you find these little slivers of mostly undisturbed Native American artifacts."

In the early 1800s, the Pennsylvania legislature authorized the construction of a lock and dam system to provide more consistent water levels for navigation on the Ohio, Monongahela and Allegheny rivers.

Raising the rivers would require raising the elevation of the entire downtown area.

"They buried it all.

I don't think they made an attempt to remove stuff from it … although I'm sure anything of value to them at the time was removed," said Campetti.

In stages, the land at the rivers' confluence was raised in elevation, by more than 50 feet in places.

Millions of tons of bricks and architectural debris, junked industrial parts and trash, as well as remnants of the former Grant's Hill, the namesake of Grant Street, were dumped to raise downtown to its current elevation.

By evaluating strata of relics from different periods, a story emerges of a growing middle class.

Pieces of broken plates buried under shards of fine German china may show how a neighborhood evolved.

"We research historical documents listing how the property was used, who owned it, who lived there, who worked there," said Campetti.

"When the historical assessment was done, they found 300 to 400 individuals they can actually trace through time."

Prior to construction of the 23-floor 3 PNC Plaza, excavators dug through 20 feet of Pittsburgh's past before reaching the original surface.

Artifacts found at the site are incorporated into the decor of the Fairmont Pittsburgh hotel built on the property.

"There are some dolls that were found, and some china as well, from the different storefronts that used to exist here," said Fairmont desk agent Juan Rojas.

"We wanted the hotel to connect with the city, and our visitors find it very neat.

Some take our artifacts tour."

Archived in a glass case at the Carnegie Science Center are artifacts uncovered by the North Shore Connector dig team that included Campetti.

"These weren't single-family dwellings, there were renters, and if you had something valuable you might try to hide it," she said.

"(They) found this little wood-lined box with some goodies in there: part of a handgun, a straight razor with a decorated handle — things that someone wanted no one else to find.

For whatever reason, he was never able to retrieve his hidden box."

Campetti said the archaeology walk was not about claiming that these sites should be preserved.

"I think you can go too far with that," she said.

"It's just knowing that much of what was here is still here, and we're the next part of the history."

