Prehistoric traders of the Delaware tribes made camp on the bank of what would someday be called the Allegheny River.

Hundreds of years later, European settlers cut forests and built settlements near where three large rivers meet in Pittsburgh.

A century after, more immigrants arrived, invented a middle class and rose to power in the city.

Archaeological evidence of each group is still there, buried under centuries of city development.

Archaeologist Casey Campetti said it is now easier to link items with the people who owned them long ago.

She cited modern research methods as the reason.

On Nov. 22, Campetti led a sold-out archaeological walking tour of parts of the city, pointing out recently discovered pieces of the city that once was.

Campetti works with AECOM, an architectural research group.

"Each time the city is reinvented, they leave a staggering number of things there," Campetti said.

During the digging for a new tunnel called the North Shore Connector, around 18,000 artifacts were found.

Row houses, outhouses and evidence of Native American sites were discovered, she said.

Before the city collected trash, things that were not wanted were tossed into the outhouse.

Today, the discovery of those spots can reveal generations of cultural change.

Archaeology in cities is a relatively new field of study.

It is the result of new laws and regulations.

These new rules establish responsibilities for federal agencies that use federal money to do construction.

They tell the agencies how to manage the handling of any evidence of past human activity unearthed during construction.

Campetti said archaeologists do three things at construction sites.

"ID, is there anything there?

Importance, are the artifacts related to an important person or some important new discovery?

And treatment, if there's something important there, what should we do about it?"

"Urban construction used to be just knocking down what's there and building something over it,"  Campetti said.

"Nowadays, with these big skyscrapers, they often have to dig down so deep to scoop out the foundation.

We're finding layers of historical relics from very different times."

During the North Shore Connector dig, researchers found children's toys — marbles, dolls, bottles — as well as cleaning materials and toothbrushes.

Nearby were stone tools, points from weapons, burned wood — evidence of temporary Native American occupation from centuries earlier.

"It's probably that the settlers built a house and then other things were built over that.

But there was very little disturbance to the road that went past it, and so you find these little slivers of mostly undisturbed Native American artifacts."

In the early 1800s, Pennsylvania lawmakers authorized the construction of a dam system on the Ohio, Monongahela and Allegheny rivers.

The state wanted more consistent water levels for navigation. Raising the rivers would require raising the elevation of the entire downtown area.

Campetti said artifacts in the downtown area were buried.

"I don't think they made an attempt to remove stuff from it … although I'm sure anything of value to them at the time was removed," she said.

The land where the three rivers met was raised more than 50 feet in places.

Millions of tons of debris were dumped to raise downtown to its current elevation.

Included were bricks and architectural waste, junked industrial parts, and even remnants of a famous area called Grant's Hill.  By evaluating layers of relics from different periods, a story emerges of a growing middle class.

Pieces of broken plates buried under shards of fine German china offer such a glimpse.

"We research historical documents listing how the property was used, who owned it, who lived there, who worked there," Campetti said.

"When the historical assessment was done, they found 300 to 400 individuals they can actually trace through time."

Before construction of the 23-floor 3 PNC Plaza, excavators dug 20 feet before reaching the original surface of the city.

Artifacts found at the site are part of the decor of the Fairmont Pittsburgh hotel built on the property.

"There are some dolls that were found, and some china as well, from the different storefronts that used to exist here," Fairmont desk agent Juan Rojas said.

"We wanted the hotel to connect with the city, and our visitors find it very neat.

Some take our artifacts tour."

Archived in a glass case at the Carnegie Science Center are artifacts uncovered during the North Shore Connector work.

The dig team included Campetti.

"These weren't single-family dwellings, there were renters and if you had something valuable you might try to hide it," she said.

"(They) found this little wood-lined box with some goodies in there: part of a handgun, a straight razor with a decorated handle — things that someone wanted no one else to find."

Campetti said the archaeology walk was not about claiming that these sites should be preserved.

"I think you can go too far with that," she said.

"It's just knowing that much of what was here is still here, and we're the next part of the history."

