On Tuesday, Michelle Obama made a forceful argument for the importance of the arts in education.

The arts, the first lady said, aren't something to be introduced after student test scores go up.

Rather, they are critical to achieving those higher test scores in the first place.

Obama argued her case while opening the first White House student talent show.

This featured spirited song and dance numbers from a group of student performers.

The children all attend schools that have been performing very poorly.

In an effort to turn things around, their schools were chosen for a new federal arts education program.

By the end of the hour-long show, Mrs. Obama had joined the students on stage to dance with them during their closing number.

President Barack Obama even broke away from his work to surprise the group and make his own pitch for arts education.

The president congratulated the elementary and middle school performers.

The talent show was conceived as a way to showcase the "Turnaround Arts" program.

This was created as an experiment in 2012.

Its purpose is to test whether arts education can help improve student test scores and make students feel better about school.

Major artists adopted each school.

Encouraged by the results so far, including higher reading and math scores, Mrs. Obama announced that the program is being expanded this year.

It is growing from the original eight schools to 35 schools in 10 states and the District of Columbia.

Those 10 states are: Iowa, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Louisiana, Oregon, Montana, Colorado, California, Illinois and Minnesota.

Two of the original eight schools have improved so much they are no longer in need of "turnaround," she said.

Those schools are Findley Elementary School in Iowa and Orchard Gardens in Boston.

The arts, the first lady said, help get students excited about taking their seats in class.

Students are happy to be in school.

They look forward to the next musical they're performing in or the instrument they can't wait to play.

"But if they're not in their seats then we can't teach them anything at all," Mrs. Obama said.

"The bottom line here is very clear: Arts education isn't something we add on after we've achieved other" goals, "like raising test scores and getting kids into college.

It's actually critical for achieving those" goals "in the first place."

Six million children do not have art or music instruction in their schools.

Millions more get only a very slight amount of arts education, she said.

The president added that arts education is a necessity, not a luxury.

"The arts are central to who we are as a people, and they are central to the success of our kids.

This is not an afterthought," he said.

"This is not something you do because it's kind of nice to do.

It is necessary for these young people to succeed that we promote the arts."

A few big-name artists, such as actresses Sarah Jessica Parker and Alfre Woodard, were at the White House event.

The stars performed with students from the schools they have adopted.

They also spoke about the change they have seen in their students.

"Our kids are glimpsing the fact that they have" worth, Woodard said.

"That confidence just spreads across their lives."

Students spoke about what the arts mean to them, too.

"I think that the arts are important to our school," said 8-year-old Sinai Jones, who attends Martin Luther King Jr. School in Oregon.

Arts education gives kids "an opportunity to see what they want to do in their life as careers" and "a level of confidence."

At the White House on Tuesday, Sinai was in an all-girl singing group that included Parker on backup.

The group performed "You're Never Fully Dressed Without a Smile" from the musical "Annie."

