The Freer Gallery of Art is a museum in Washington D.C. that houses old paintings from Asia.

Museum officials want to make sure people can enjoy and study the art years from now.

But first, they have to save Grace Jan's job.

Jan works as a Chinese-painting conservator in the museum.

Her job is to care for and fix very old paintings created in China.

These paintings could easily be ruined because they are so old.

But Jan's job at the museum might come to an end.

There is not enough money.

In 1904, Charles Freer gave more than 7,000 pieces from his American and Asian art collection to the Smithsonian museum.

Some of the paintings he gave to the museum were created by artists more than 100 years ago.

The museum decided to put the art in a space where the public could see it.

The Freer Gallery opened in 1923.

The artwork in the museum has to be handled with great care because it is so old.

Every six months, paintings are swapped out for newly repaired ones.

The paintings that come off the walls are worked on and cared for by people like Jan.

They won't appear in the museum again for five years.

Gu Xiangmei helped Jan learn how to care for old artwork.

Gu is one of only four high-ranking people in the United States who fix old Asian paintings.

They are called senior conservators.

Gu started working with scrolls and paintings in 1973 while living in China.

She worked for the Shanghai Museum.

Gu said she was lucky to be considered for the job.

"They were looking for younger (people)," she said.

"We worked eight hours a day, six days a week," she said of her training years.

"We worked like a team."

Gu is now 62 years old.

She is reaching retirement.

That makes the museum's W. Andrew Hare worry.

Hare wants to make sure that Gu's skills are passed on to younger people like Jan. That way, old paintings will not be destroyed by time.

"Once you've faded an image, you can't bring it back," Hare said.

"So that ongoing care is very important to what we do."

But teaching conservator skills to younger people has been hard because there is not enough money.

In September, a foundation offered the Freer museum $1 million.

In order to get the $1 million, the museum will have to raise money on its own.

The money would help pay young conservators like Jan.

The money would also help young people learn how to care for important paintings.

For example, some of the older paintings in the museum were mounted on acidic paper backings.

Those backings will eventually fall apart.

Gu and the museum conservators will remount the paintings on new Red Star rice paper bought in China.

The Red Star rice paper is not acidic.

Teamwork is important for Gu and Jan at the museum.

Gu says that she trains younger people the same way she was trained.

She helps them learn with traditional, hands-on, and sometimes repetitive, work.

Hare explains that it takes "years and years" to learn how to take care of the old paintings.

He also said that young people would benefit from working with experts like Gu.

Jan has been learning from Gu since she started at the museum in 2009.

"I'm the first student to do Chinese paintings but … there's no position," said Jan.

