High above the Big Sur coast, atmospheric scientist Ian Faloona is detecting high levels of pollution on the edge of the continent.

His findings are surprising because the place should have some of the country's cleanest air.

From an astronomical observatory in the Santa Lucia Mountains, Faloona has for the last three years measured ozone, the lung-damaging gas in smog, as it arrives to California.

Ozone can be healthy or unhealthy depending on where it is in the atmosphere.

If it is high up in the atmosphere, it protects people from harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun.

However, if it is low in the atmosphere, it can hurt people's lungs.

Faloona's monitoring site is located on Chews Ridge, more than 5,000 feet above sea level.

It gives Faloona access to undisturbed air from across the Pacific before it is fouled by U.S. pollution sources.

He and other scientists have been documenting rising levels of ozone across the western U.S., even as nationwide emissions have dropped steeply over the last few decades.

Ozone can trigger asthma attacks, worsen heart and lung disease and lead to early death.

Soaring emissions from China and other fast-growing Asian countries are blowing across the Pacific Ocean, the scientists say, increasing levels of ozone in the western U.S.

In about a week, winds carry ozone formed by emissions from cars, factories and power plants in Asia to the U.S. West Coast.

The ozone is then added to locally generated pollution, worsening smog in cities such as Bakersfield, Fresno and Los Angeles.

The phenomenon is fueling a debate about just how much Asia is to blame for bad air in the U.S.

Experts say that as U.S. air quality improves, Asian emissions — previously thought to have barely any effect here — are having a stronger influence on smog levels.

The problem is particularly pronounced in western states that sit at higher elevation and are first exposed to the pollutants.

Recently, some local pollution regulators have begun citing Asian pollution as a reason they cannot meet pollution-reduction targets.

They are arguing that they should not be penalized if Asian pollution causes local smog to exceed health standards set by the Clean Air Act.

Last year, the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District submitted a first-of-its-kind petition to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

San Joaquin district argued that because of ozone pollution from Asia, it should be exempt from penalties for exceeding permissible pollution levels.

The district "shouldn't be penalized for pollution that comes from elsewhere," said district official Seyed Sadredin.

The EPA did not approve the district's petition.

It said the district can meet health standards despite the added pollution from Asia.

Lawyer Jed Anderson said San Joaquin Valley's request is "not going to be unique for very long."

It opens the door for air quality agencies across the nation to consider foreign pollution as a factor in local air quality violations.

The EPA has proposed tightening ozone limits, from 75 parts per billion to between 65 and 70 parts per billion, later this year.

A new standard would put more areas of the country in violation of air quality standards.

It would place parts of the West in a tough spot between a rising baseline of ozone and stricter federal limits.

Limiting pollution flowing in from Asia would require an international treaty, said atmospheric scientist Owen Cooper.

Such a deal is unlikely, leaving U.S. regulators to eke out further cuts in smog-forming pollutants, he said.

"Here in Denver, our emissions have come down enormously due to cleaner cars, but our ozone pollution isn't coming down.

It's kind of stuck."

The recent focus on ozone from Asia has drawn criticism from health advocates.

They say state and local regulators should devote their resources to curbing emissions from cars, factories, farms and other sources they have the power to control.

Dolores Weller is director of the Central Valley Air Quality Coalition.

She says the air district's attention to ozone from Asia is the latest example of officials "not focusing in on homegrown pollution and continuing to look for exemptions and further excuses."

"It's just an easier target for an air district under pressure from local industries," Weller said.

Recent studies have found that Asian ozone contributes 3 to 8 parts per billion of the pollution in low-elevation parts of Southern California, such as Bakersfield and Los Angeles.

In high-elevation regions of the West, it contributes up to 15 parts per billion.

On Chews Ridge, Faloona has measured ozone concentrations as high as 80 parts per billion.

He has also found evidence that the gas is mixing into the air in the San Joaquin Valley, boosting smog levels in such cities as Bakersfield and Fresno.

Jared Blumenfeld oversees the Pacific Southwest region for the EPA.

Although ozone from Asia is a concern, he says, it is not as significant a problem as San Joaquin Valley pollution regulators make it out to be.

"We can't put too great an emphasis on sources that may not have a large contribution," Blumenfeld said.

Still, the attention to the issue is a major shift from decades ago.

Back then, Los Angeles and other large cities that were battling crippling smog treated it as a local matter.

Now, pollution is increasingly being viewed as an international concern.

Faloona agrees that Asian and U.S. air-quality problems are no longer divorced from one another.

He can see the connection between the two from his monitoring site.

To the west, he can see a sliver of the Pacific Ocean, where his air quality monitor's plastic intake tube is pointed and pumping away.

Looking inland, he sees the San Joaquin Valley, blanketed in a layer of air pollution.

"People think of these pollutants as relatively short-lived and think they don't make it that far," Faloona said of Asian pollution.

"But we've realized it's all connected."

