It is hard for some people who live in other countries to make enough money.

Some of them come to live in the United States.

They hope for better lives.

They hope to make enough money to feed their families and live in safe homes.

Pranee Wilcox was one of those people.

She comes from Thailand, a country in Asia.

She had a job back home.

She had a college degree.

Yet she struggled to make enough money there.

Wilcox took a job as a housekeeper in Washington, D.C. She left her babies behind in Thailand.

Wilcox thought she would make much more money here in the United States.

Sadly, that is not always true.

More people from Asia and the Pacific Islands come to live in the United States than any other group.

Even more Asians come than Latinos.

People who move to the U.S. are called immigrants.

The immigrants who come from Asia and the Pacific Islands are often successful.

Many make enough money to live good lives.

However, some Asian-Americans struggle.

Immigrants come from 30 countries across the large continent of Asia.

They speak 100 languages.

It is not easy for all immigrants to find ways to make money and live a good life in the United States.

Some groups struggle or drop out of school.

Some people do not speak English.

It is hard for them to find English classes.

Immigrants hope to live the "American Dream."

The American Dream is the hope of getting an education, having a good job, and making good money.

Karthick Ramakrishnan teaches at a college.

He also started a company.

It gathers facts about Asians and Pacific Islanders.

He said we should not think all Asian-Americans are successful.

It makes it harder for the people who need help.

People may not know they need it.

More than 16 million Asians and Pacific Islanders live in the United States.

Thousands cannot speak English.

Many are poor and cannot pay for doctors.

Yet some lawmakers do not see their struggles.

Some Asians do not have enough money to pay for a home.

Many Asians have good jobs.

Many start technology companies or become doctors.

For others like Wilcox, life is much harder.

She has not given up.

She works now at a nail salon.

Wilcox gives manicures and pedicures.

She still hopes to bring her son here to live with her in the United States.

