The Freer Gallery of Art in Washington D.C. wants to make sure that people can see historic pieces of Asian art for hundreds of years.

But first, the museum has to save Grace Jan's job.

Jan works as a Chinese-painting conservator in the Freer museum's Chinese Painting Conservation Program.

Her job is to work on and repair paintings from Asia that are 100 or more years old.

The paintings could easily fall apart without proper care.

But Jan's job at the Freer museum is in danger because there is not enough money.

The museum wants Jan to become a high-ranking Chinese-painting conservator, like her co-worker Gu Xiangmei.

Gu is one of only four senior conservators in the United States who repair old paintings.

Gu is 62.

She and her conservator co-workers are getting older and reaching retirement.

That makes the museum's W. Andrew Hare worry.

"It's very important that we pass (their) knowledge" to the next generation of conservators, Hare said.

But passing information and skills on to younger conservators has been hard.

There is not enough money to pay Jan and her co-workers.

But good news came in September.

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation gave the museum a $1 million challenge grant.

The foundation will give $1 million to the Freer if the museum raises a certain amount of money.

The Freer will have to come up with $750,000 by 2016 in order to receive the $1 million grant.

If that happens, then the museum will be able to pay young conservators like Jan.

The money is very important.

It will help train new conservators in how to repair old paintings so people in the future can still see and study them.

In 1904, Charles Freer gave more than 7,000 pieces from his American and Asian art collection to the Smithsonian.

The collection came from the 19th and early 20th centuries.

The Smithsonian decided to make the collection an exhibit.

It opened the Freer Gallery in 1923.

Even artwork that is handled with care can be damaged by time.

That's why the Freer rotates its art.

Every six months, the paintings are swapped out for newly repaired paintings.

The paintings taken down from the walls will be worked on by people like Jan.

They won't appear in the museum again for five years.

"Once you've faded an image, you can't bring it back," Hare said.

"So that ongoing care is very important to what we do."

Money given by different people and companies has helped pay for the Chinese Painting Conservation Program, which began in 2001.

The program teaches people like Jan how to repair and remount Chinese paintings.

It also teaches students how to fix the silk on ancient papers, and other museum jobs.

For example, some of the older paintings in the museum were mounted on acidic paper backings, which eventually fall apart.

They'll be remounted on new Red Star rice paper bought in China.

The Red Star rice paper is not acidic.

Gu said that she started working with scrolls and paintings in 1973 while living in China.

She worked for the Shanghai Museum.

Gu said she was lucky to be considered for museum training back then.

"They were looking for younger (people)," she said.

"We worked eight hours a day, six days a week," she said of her training years.

"We worked like a team."

Teamwork is an important part of her job at the Freer.

Gu says that she trains younger conservators the same way she was trained.

She helps them learn with traditional, hands-on, practical, and sometimes repetitive, work.

"These are skills that are learned through hands-on practice," Hare said.

"It takes years and years of experience working with a trained individual" to properly take care of the art at the museum.

Jan began learning from Gu when she started at the Freer in 2009.

"I'm the first student to do Chinese paintings but … there's no position," said Jan.

