In an era when U.S. airline accidents are rare, the crash landing of Asiana Flight 214 has given the safety improvements of the past three decades the chance to prove their worth.

As tragic as the loss of three young lives in the crash is, 304 people lived.

In other words, 99 percent survived.

"The tremendous safety enhancements that have been made over the past 30 years were put into play in this tragic event," said Larry Rooney, an executive with an important pilots group.

"It was a tragic loss of life, but nowhere near what you would have anticipated."

Among the safety features that helped so many passengers survive: stronger, fireproof seats; materials inside the cabin and around the cargo areas that stop flames; illuminated strips on the floor leading to the exits, and training of flight attendants to speak up — and pilots to pay attention — when they notice something wrong.

The Boeing 777 that crashed on July 6 has a record as one of the safest planes in the sky, said Kevin Hiatt.

He is president and chief executive officer of the Flight Safety Foundation.

That said, there are problems to study.

Some escape slides opened inside the aircraft, momentarily trapping two flight attendants.

Evacuation was delayed for 90 seconds.

The lap seat belts in most of the seats injured some passengers, even as they also helped save their lives.

"Accidents are very rare, and this one will be closely looked at," said Todd Curtis, who worked on safety features of the 777 at Boeing.

He now operates AirSafe.com which is a Web site that provides information for travelers on safety and security.

Industry rules could change because of the crash, he said.

The airplane that struck the seawall at San Francisco International Airport, breaking off its tail, had its first flight on Feb 5, 2006.

It was built when safety features developed in the late 1980s and 1990s were being put into new airliners.

The seats on the Asiana aircraft were able to stand up to 16 times the force of gravity, meeting a Federal Aviation Administration rule.

Firefighters entering the aircraft found the seats toward the front of the aircraft in almost perfect shape, "like you could fluff the pillows and almost go out," National Transportation Safety Board Chairwoman Deborah Hersman said.

Toward the rear, the damage was more severe, and seats were "jumbled," she said.

Hiatt said passengers may have climbed over the seats, pushing them forward.

The escape path lighting on the floor worked.

This was a feature added to aircraft built in 1986 and later.

The public address system was still active, so an important order to get out of  the plane could be announced.

FAA rules say passengers should be able to leave the aircraft in 90 seconds, even if some exits are blocked.

Although the aircraft burned, passengers had time to escape.

In the 1980s, the FAA issued regulations requiring fire-resistant materials inside the cabin.

Improvements continue today.

"In a fire that burns through the top of the aircraft, the heat is extremely intense," said Hiatt of the Flight Safety Foundation.

"But if you can slow that down to a point where you can get the aircraft evacuated, it makes all the difference in the world."

Also, materials inside the passenger area are designed not to crack and create sharp surfaces.

"Everything in the airplane is engineered for the ultimate design of safety," said Thomas Anthony.

He is the director of the University of Southern California's Aviation Safety and Security program.

"The crews are better trained than they were," said Rooney, who has flown for 30 years.

That includes flight attendants.

Crew training now focuses on communication instead of who is in charge when something goes wrong.

The order to get out of Flight 214 was given after a flight attendant noticed fire outside the cabin.

She passed word to the captain, who reversed an earlier instruction not to evacuate.

But investigators will want to know why there was a delay.

"When the aircraft has gone through that crash landing, the chances of a fire starting are almost 100 percent.

Why not order an evacuation?"

asked Vahid Motevalli, director of the Center for Technology Development at Purdue University and co-author of a 2005 study of milestone aviation accidents.

Improved navigation technology and better instruments for flying in bad weather have made flight much safer.

