The Freer Gallery of Art in Washington D.C. hopes to save Asian artworks for future generations.

But it has to save Grace Jan's job first.

Jan is the assistant Chinese-painting conservator in the museum's Chinese Painting Conservation Program.

Jan's job is to help maintain and restore very delicate, very old Asian paintings in the Freer Gallery to their former glory.

But her position is at risk because of a lack of funding.

The Gallery, which is part of the Smithsonian's museum of Asian art, wants to see Jan develop into a senior Chinese-painting conservator, like her co-worker Gu Xiangmei.

There are only four in the United States and they are aging.

Gu is 62 years old.

"We are at a critical point here, because Gu and other conservators working here in the States are reaching retirement," said W. Andrew Hare, the supervisor of East Asian painting conservation, whose specialties are Chinese and Japanese paintings.

"So it's very important that we pass that knowledge, that information, on to the next generation.

Unfortunately, up to now there hasn't been that much opportunity because of lack of funds."

In September, the Freer Gallery announced a $1 million challenge grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation.

A challenge grant is a commitment to award a specified amount of money to an organization based upon the amount of new funds raised in response to the challenge.

The Freer needs to match the grant with $750,000 by 2016.

If achieved, the Gallery will be able to provide a salary for the position of an assistant Chinese-painting conservator, like Jan, in the Freer Gallery of Art's Department of Conservation and Scientific Research.

The specific department oversees the Chinese-painting program and is the only U.S. program that teaches conservators how to care for delicate Chinese paintings.

The money is intended to secure long-term improvements and support for programs like the Chinese Painting Conservation Program.

It will do this by providing a career pathway for aspiring conservators as well as mentoring a new generation of master conservators in the field.

"This program is crucial to the future of Chinese-painting conservation, creating the ideal educational climate for research, collaboration and exchange," Freer director Julian Raby told Philanthropy News Digest.

"Matching this endowment will be an important investment in protecting some of the most fragile treasures in U.S.

museums."

In 1904, Charles Freer gave more than 7,000 pieces from his American and Asian personal art collection from the 19th and early 20th centuries to the Smithsonian Institution.

The Smithsonian's Freer Gallery opened in 1923.

Freer died in 1919.

Even with careful handling, 100 years take their toll on delicate artwork.

The Freer rotates its art.

Every six months the works are swapped out for new pieces and the originals won't appear again for five years.

"Once you've faded an image, you can't bring it back," Hare said.

"So that ongoing care is very important to what we do."

The museum started the East Asian Painting Conservation Studio in 1932.

Grants have funded the Chinese Painting Conservation Program, which began in 2001.

It offers practical instruction in restoring and remounting Chinese paintings, replacing or restoring the silk on scrolls, and other museum operations, including working with the curators on exhibits.

For example, some of the older paintings were mounted on acidic paper backings, which eventually fall apart.

They'll be remounted on new Red Star rice paper bought in China, which is not acidic.

Senior conservator Gu, who arrived in 1991, trains her apprentices the way she was trained, with traditional, hands-on, practical, and sometimes tedious, work.

The Shanghai Museum chose Gu when China restarted its arts programs after the Cultural Revolution.

"From 1966 to 1972, no work, all stop," she said.

"So that's a pity."

Gu said she was lucky to be considered for museum training.

"They were looking for a younger generation," she said.

She started working with scrolls and paintings in 1973.

"We worked eight hours a day, six days a week," she said of her training years.

"We worked like a team."

Teamwork is likewise important to the conservation efforts taught at the Freer.

"These are skills that are learned through hands-on practice," Hare said.

"It takes years and years of experience working with a trained individual, working with actual art objects, to learn all the important details, all the methods, to get all the knowledge you need to carefully take care of these objects."

Jan, the assistant conservator, studied at The Conservation Center of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, then went on to graduate work.

In her final two years, she did an internship at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and then went to China.

She spent seven months at the Shanghai Museum and four months at Beijing's Palace Museum working with the conservation staff there.

She started at the Freer in 2009.

"I'm the first student to do Chinese paintings but … there's no position," said Jan, who added that other students at the Freer studied Japanese art conservation.

"The Freer has been really great to support me the last couple of years.

It's been a great experience."

