She worked as an accountant and had a college degree, yet back home in Bangkok, Thailand, Pranee Wilcox still struggled to make ends meet.

In 2001, the Thai ambassador offered her a job as his housekeeper in the Washington, D.C., embassy.

She said yes — even though that meant leaving her babies behind.

Wilcox figured she would make much more money working abroad.

Four years later, when the ambassador returned to Thailand, Wilcox decided to stay, although that meant living in the United States undocumented and speaking very little English.

Desperate for money, she worked 12-hour days, six days a week, first as a cook, then as a nail technician.

She sent the money back to her family.

"I still feel like I'm not a success yet," Wilcox, 44, said while taking a break from giving manicures and pedicures at a D.C. salon.

Over the past 10 years, more Asians and Pacific Islanders have entered the United States than any other group, even Latinos.

The Pew Research Center tracks global problems and trends.

The Pew group projects that Asians will become the biggest immigrant group by 2055.

Immigrants come to America from countries all over that vast continent, from Afghanistan to China, India to the Philippines, Samoa to Vietnam.

As a whole, Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders are highly successful.

They are the most educated, highest-earning racial, or ethnic, group in the United States.

They are often called the "model minority."

However, holding up all Asian-Americans as a shining example of hard work and success for other minorities is inaccurate.

That stereotype does not reflect the struggles experienced by many Asian-Americans, social scientists say.

The immigrants represent 30 countries and 100 languages.

Their ability to take advantage of opportunities in the U.S. varies, depending on the events that brought them here and where they landed.

Some groups struggle, drop out of school at higher rates, and have difficulty finding language classes, mental health services and food stamps, research shows.

Social scientists say nicknaming Asian-Americans the "model minority" can hurt some of them.

After all, attaining the American Dream — getting a good education, working at a good job, and making a good living — is not always possible.

And presenting Asian-Americans as the model for success can distance them from other minority groups.

"There is a danger in homogenizing the Asian-American experience," said Karthick Ramakrishnan.

He is a political science professor at the University of California, Riverside.

He also co-founded AAPI Data, a business that collects data about Asians and Pacific Islanders.

Just focusing on Asian-Americans' success stories is misleading because hundreds of thousands of Asians face language barriers, live in poverty, and cannot get health care, Ramakrishnan said.

Yet these struggles are often invisible to policymakers.

Their experiences are not seen as the quintessential, or typical, Asian experience.

There are 16.6 million Asians and Pacific Islanders living in the United States, according to the White House Initiative on Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders.

Nearly two-thirds are foreign-born.

One-third of the 1 million legal U.S. immigrants come from Asia each year.

And 1.3 million of the 11.5 million undocumented immigrants in the United States are Asian, according to the Department of Homeland Security.

The success of many Asians in technology companies in Silicon Valley, California, and in the medical profession is widely acknowledged.

But for others, life here is much harder.

About 14 percent of elderly Asians live in poverty, nearly twice the rate of whites, according to AAPI Data.

Some non-citizens may not qualify for Social Security, the government program that gives money to retired people or those who are disabled.

Finding affordable housing is challenging for many Asians in expensive states like California or New York.

One in 5 Asians and Pacific Islanders experience housing discrimination.

A 2013 report by the National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community Development found the number of poor Asians increased 38 percent between 2007 and 2011.

Only Latinos experienced a greater increase in poverty.

Language can get in the way of improving one's life.

For example, one-third of Asians do not speak English fluently, which makes it difficult to get good health care.

Here in the United States, Wilcox never felt a sense of community with other members of her culture.

There are too few, and they do not look out for each other, she said.

She did not ask them for help when she struggled.

Nor did she seek out support from the government, such as welfare money or food stamps, once she got her immigration papers.

"I don't know about these things," she said.

But she found community elsewhere.

Wilcox remarried in 2005, this time to an American, which allowed her to get her green card.

Armed with her Social Security card and encouraged by a Vietnamese nail salon owner, she went back to school to learn to do nails.

Her marriage did not last and she misses her children, now 21 and 16.

But with her earnings in the United States, she was able to buy a house for her family back in Bangkok.

One day soon she hopes to become a U.S. citizen.

Bringing her son here would make all her struggles worth it, she said.

