The Santa Lucia Mountains along California's Big Sur Coast should have some of the country's cleanest air.

However, scientist Ian Faloona is finding high levels of pollution there.

He says the pollution is blowing across the Pacific Ocean from Asia.

Faloona has been measuring ozone, the lung-damaging gas in smog.

For the last three years, he has been studying it as it reaches California.

His measuring devices are located on Chews Ridge more than 5,000 feet above sea level.

There he can test air from across the Pacific Ocean before it is affected by U.S. pollution.

He and other scientists are finding rising levels of ozone across the western United States.

Ozone pollution is caused by cars, trucks and factories.

It leads to asthma, heart and lung disease and even early death.

The rise in ozone levels was not supposed to happen.

Across the country, pollution from cars, trucks and factories has been cut a lot.

Scientists say pollution from China and other fast-growing Asian countries is causing the increase.

Ozone from Asia is blowing across the Pacific Ocean.

It is increasing ozone levels in the western U.S.

Winds carry the ozone from Asia to the U.S. West Coast in about a week.

The ozone is then added to pollution created by American cars and factories.

In California's cities such as Bakersfield, Fresno and Los Angeles smog has become worse.

The problem is bigger in western states, which get the ozone from Asia first.

It will not be easy to limit pollution from China, said scientist Owen Cooper.

The U.S. and China would have to work out a deal.

A deal between two countries is called a treaty.

Such an agreement is unlikely, Cooper said.

Therefore, the U.S. will have to concentrate on fixing the pollution created here.

Pollution from U.S. cars and factories will just have to be cut even more than it has been already.

In Denver, some kinds of pollution "have come down enormously due to cleaner cars," Cooper said.

However, "our ozone pollution isn't coming down.

It's kind of stuck."

Some believe there is too much attention on ozone from Asia.

They say state and local regulators should focus on cutting down pollution from cars and factories here in the U.S. Dolores Weller is director of the Central Valley Air Quality Coalition.

She says that state and local officials are looking for "further excuses."

Weller believes officials do have the power to control pollution that is created at home.

Nevertheless, the U.S. did not used to worry about pollution in Asia.

Now, people are realizing that smog in a faraway country can affect us here.

Faloona agrees that the Asian and U.S. pollution problems are linked.

He can see the connection from up on Chews Ridge.

Looking west, he sees ozone blowing in across the Pacific Ocean.

Looking inland, he sees the San Joaquin Valley covered by a cloud of air pollution.

People used to think Asian pollution would not affect us here, Faloona said.

They did not believe it could travel all the way across the Pacific Ocean.

However, "we've realized it's all connected."

