N JOSE, Calif. -- Scientists are planning to park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon.

Most of us want to dodge space rocks.

But NASA has an ambitious plan with a $105 million price tag.

It wants to build a spaceship and drag an asteroid closer to Earth.

It's a first step of a future voyage to Mars.

The space agency wants to get to the asteroid so it can "then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer.

He's a director at NASA's Ames Research Center.

Scientists at Ames will be working on the project.

Asteroids demand respect.

A big one could knock Earth off its orbit.

In February, a little one rocked Russia.

That same month, a bigger one just missed Earth.

The close call made people take asteroids even more seriously.

But asteroids are also valuable.

Chasing one could launch us into deeper space.

That's because we'll need a vehicle a lot better than a fuel-driven rocket.

With new NASA money, engineers hope to design a futuristic solar-electric ship.

It would make a slow and steady trip to find an asteroid.

There would be no worries about running out of fuel.

The idea of this journey thrills scientists.

After finding the right space rock, the spaceship might push, tug or spear the asteroid.

Or it might stuff the rock into a big bag.

It could even use a lasso like some kind of space cowboy.

"It has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," said Stanford University professor G. Scott Hubbard.

"We need to regain our 'chops,' " he said, speaking of the U.S. space program.

"It's a demonstration of space exploration technologies for the future."

The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still in talks in Washington, D.C.

The sun has set on NASA's shuttle program.

The fleet is now on display in museums.

The agency also grounded a moon-landing plan.

So catching an asteroid would represent a new goal for NASA.

The California Institute of Technology suggested the idea last year.

It has support from the White House.

In his only space speech, President Barack Obama promised we would land on an asteroid by 2025.

But some in Congress are not so keen.

They think the U.S. can't afford to chase asteroids.

Developing the technology needed to bring home an asteroid will raise costs, warned Hubbard.

The $105 million is just enough to get the project started.

It could end up costing billions of dollars.

In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will work out the details.

At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.

For instance, Ames scientists could make tools like their CheMin device on the Mars rover.

It examines Martian rocks.

Ames could also build sensors to help find an asteroid.

Most asteroids travel too far away to be useful.

And some are huge.

But little ones might be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.

In asteroid terms, "little" is about the size of a dump truck.

Asteroids are the rubble left from the birth of our solar system.

They hold clues about our origins.

They could even contain valuable metals.

The main goal of NASA's plan is not to protect the Earth from a space rock.

But what scientists learn could come in handy one day, said Tom Jones.

He is a scientist and former astronaut.

The technology they build could be useful if they ever need to knock a big asteroid off its course toward Earth, he explained.

The hunt won't be easy.

The perfect asteroid will be too small to reflect light.

Plus, it doesn't want to be captured.

NASA calls it "an uncooperative object."

It will be moving at 17,000 miles per hour.

It may not even be solid rock, but just a tumbling bunch of ice.

Then there's the trick of catching it.

Korsmeyer calls it a complicated "math game."

Think of catching a baseball while on a Ferris wheel.

Once captured, it would be slowly pushed or pulled, and nudged close to the moon.

There, unmanned ships would arrive to chip off chunks for study.

Eventually, astronauts would visit it.

"It's not a trivial undertaking," Korsmeyer said.

"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."

