To find and track asteroids, NASA has decided to ask the public for ideas.

Some of these space rocks have the ability to wipe out life as we know it.

There's nothing less at stake than the future of planet Earth.

In February 2013, a 65-foot-wide asteroid exploded over Russia, unleashing the force of 500,000 tons of TNT.

It had previously been undetected.

Afterward, NASA launched a series of contests for smart folks around the globe.

The space agency wanted to come up with ways to keep an eye on asteroids that could threaten Earth.

Currently, NASA estimates that only 1 percent of the asteroids hurtling around our solar system have been found.

And there are millions of them out there.

NASA calls the series of contests the Asteroid Grand Challenge.

It says they are "a broad call to action."

The hope is to defend Earth against asteroids that could be bearing down on us right this instant.

"Good ideas can come from anywhere," said Ben Burress.

He is a staff astronomer at the Chabot Space &amp; Science Center in California.

"There are millions of asteroids we don't know about, so the idea of more information really is better.

Are we going to be hit?

Yes.

The question is, when and by how big of an asteroid?"

In a video announcing the series of contests, a NASA narrator says, "Asteroid hunting is an activity everyone can get involved with, whether it's writing computer code, building hardware, making observations through a telescope.

Survival is its own reward.

It's up to each of us to protect our planet from asteroids."

And in a throw down to all citizens of Earth, the narrator says, "The dinosaurs would have cared if they knew about this problem."

But NASA is out of the business of launching humans into space.

So "Earth's defense," as NASA calls it, is left in the hands of us mortals.

NASA first invited what it calls "citizen scientists" to join the search for killer asteroids in March.

They extended the invitation at the South by Southwest festival in Texas.

It was during a session titled, "Are We Smarter than the Dinosaurs?"

On Friday, NASA ended the third contest of its competition.

The task was to create an algorithm to find hidden asteroids.

No fewer than 422 people from 63 countries — from Argentina to Zimbabwe — submitted algorithmic solutions.

NASA spokeswoman Sarah Ramsey could not immediately say whether any entries came from the brightest algorithm-writing minds in Silicon Valley.

In all, NASA plans to award $35,000 this year.

That will go to people who can figure out how to identify hidden asteroids.

The algorithm contests are managed by NASA's Center of Excellence for Collaborative Innovation.

The center uses the NASA Tournament Lab and its partner, the Harvard Business School, for programming contests.

"For the past three years, NASA has been learning and advancing the ability to (use) algorithm and coding skills through the NASA Tournament Lab to solve tough problems," Jason Crusan said in a statement.

Crusan is the lab's director.

"We are now applying our experience with algorithm contests to helping protect the planet from asteroid threats through image analysis."

This year, NASA hopes to receive calculations to solve the problem from citizen scientists.

They hope to be able to find and track asteroids, identify their size and shape and whether they represent threats to Earth.

Then they will come up with ways to prevent them from hitting and wiping out plants, animals and humans.

"This is a big global problem that needs everybody to solve," Ramsey said.

"We can't do it alone.

That's the whole point of the grand challenge."

NASA plans 10 contests this year.

Asked how long the entire Asteroid Grand Challenge will last, Ramsey said, "Until the problem's solved."

