Astronaut Scott Kelly is about to take off for the International Space Station.

He is 51 years old.

Like some space travelers, he may feel a bit confused or out of place when he first gets there.

Some people call it a "foggy" feeling.

Scientists have not had much luck learning about this problem with their usual tests.

Now scientists from the University of Pennsylvania are trying something new.

Scott Kelly will spend a year in space.

While he's is in space, scientists will test his brain to see how it is working.

They will also check to see if Scott Kelly does better or worse than another person.

They need to look at someone who is as much like Scott as possible.

They will study his twin brother, Mark Kelly.

Mark Kelly is a retired astronaut.

He will take all the same tests as his brother, but he will stay on Earth the whole time.

The University of Pennsylvania team is very excited about their project.

Scientists at other schools want to study the Kelly twins this way, too.

NASA is the United States' space program.

NASA will let nine other groups of scientists study the twins at the same time.

Each group will study something different about the twins' health.

The Kelly brothers are just one example.

Scientists can't really prove anything new just by looking at one set of twins.

Their study could still help scientists find important clues, though.

It will give them information to compare with tests from future missions.

The scientists might also discover things that can help other teams.

The University of Pennsylvania team plans to share their work with the other scientists.

Each team of scientists wants to learn more about what happens to astronauts' bodies during long space trips.

They have lots of information about astronauts who have spent six months in space.

They have very little information from one-year trips.

Only a few astronauts have ever stayed in space that long.

NASA wants to use all of the new study information the scientists collect.

They want to help get astronauts ready for missions to Mars.

Those missions are expected to last between 2 1/2 and three years.

Astronauts can suffer from all sorts of health problems while they are in space.

They often have trouble sleeping and breathing.

Floating can also become a problem for astronauts.

It can be fun at first.

But spending a long time weightless weakens the bones.

It can cause fluids to gather in unusual parts of the body.

Mathias Basner leads the University of Pennsylvania research team.

He says it's important to take good care of astronauts.

Keeping them healthy also protects all of the expensive equipment on their spaceships.

Even a tiny mistake can create big problems.

Basner's team has created new tests for astronauts' brains.

They said the old tests were too easy.

When an astronaut can't pass the new test, they have to stop what they are doing.

They can't make any big decisions.

They can't try anything that could be dangerous.

They have to get more rest first.

The Kelly twins have taken the new tests several times here on Earth.

They will take them 11 times during the mission.

They will take them three more times after Scott Kelly lands.

The Mars trip is still many years away.

The Kelly twins know they will not get to be part of it.

They are still helping make it happen.

The tests they are doing will help keep other astronauts safe in the future.

