Astronaut Scott Kelly is about to take off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan for the International Space Station.

If he is like some space travelers, he may temporarily feel a bit foggy or disoriented once his Soyuz spacecraft is in orbit.

Scientists have not had much luck measuring this subtle effect with standard tests of mental abilities, but now a group of University of Pennsylvania researchers is trying something new.

While Kelly is in space, they will compare his mental performance with that of an individual whose brain is about as similar to Kelly's as you can imagine.

They will study his identical twin, Mark, who will stay on Earth.

The Penn study of the twins, who grew up in West Orange, New Jersey,  is one of 10 that NASA has approved for the one-year mission.

Scientists from other institutions are tackling such topics as space-induced changes in Kelly's immune system, intestinal bacteria and how genes act.

All of it will be compared with test results from his brother, a retired astronaut.

The goal is to get a better idea of what happens to the human body during a prolonged mission.

Ultimately, NASA aims to prepare astronauts for missions to Mars lasting between 2 1/2 and three years.

NASA has lots of data on astronauts who have spent six months in space, said Mathias Basner, a professor at Penn's Perelman School of Medicine.

The impact of a one-year trip is a relative unknown, although a few Russians have done it.

While in space, astronauts can suffer from issues like sleep deprivation, stress and elevated levels of carbon dioxide in the air they breathe.

Weightlessness can lead to weakened bones and cause bodily fluids to accumulate in unfamiliar places.

"It's all about getting the astronaut there and back, healthy," said Basner, who is leading the Penn research alongside Ruben Gur and David Dinges.

Not just for the astronauts' own sake, but also for the protection of the robotic arms and other high-tech equipment that they operate.

Basner says that, in a "super-hostile environment" like space, even a tiny mistake can have huge consequences.

Studies of twins have long been a hallmark of science.

Since the DNA of identical twins is very nearly the same, differences in their health may be attributed to different exposures — in this case, being in space versus on the ground.

No one is pretending that the 10 teams of scientists will truly be able to prove anything remarkable about space travel by monitoring just one set of twins.

But the results from these studies can be compared with those from astronauts on future long missions.

Basner said the various findings from each of the 10 studies may also be related to one another.

For example, scientists might find that changes in Scott Kelly's internal bacteria correspond to changes in his performance on the mental tests.

Of all the studies, measuring mental fogginess in space seems to be one of the most challenging.

Most of the related tests were actually designed to gauge the effects of significant brain injury, Basner said.

They were also developed for typical people, not astronauts, who usually have higher intelligence and physical fitness.

As a result, the Penn researchers developed harder questions in a variety of areas, such as working memory, spatial orientation and emotion recognition.

If the tests are validated in future studies, they might be used to determine whether an astronaut is alert enough to engage in a particularly challenging task, such as a space walk.

Subpar performance could indicate the need for more rest.

The Penn team says similar tests could be used for people in other high-stakes occupations, such as pilots.

The conditions in an airplane cockpit are quite different from those on the space station, but both are dangerous places to experience fatigue.

The 51-year-old Kelly twins have taken the cognitive tests several times here on Earth, and are scheduled to do so 11 times during the mission.

They will take the tests three more times once Scott Kelly is back on land.

As identical twins, the brothers are ideal test subjects from a genetic standpoint.

Yet their exposures and experiences make them different in any number of subtle ways, even though they grew up in the same household and pursued the same career.

Their brains are probably quite similar as well, though the twins agree that Mark Kelly, who is six minutes older, had better grades in high school.

The brothers have both been to the space station on previous missions.

The space station orbits less than 250 miles from Earth.

While the environment there is certainly grueling, it is largely shielded from the harmful radiation that would be involved in a trip to Mars.

That trip is likely decades away, too far in the future for the astronaut twins from New Jersey to take part.

But they will contribute to the Mars mission nonetheless, in the form of test results from their immune systems, their bacteria and their brains.

