A company called Atari made a video game more than 30 years ago.

It was based on the move "E.T.

The Extraterrestrial."

Some call it the worst video game ever made.

A lot of the game cartridges were buried in a New Mexico dump.

Now, they have been found.

A film company making a movie about Atari dug them up.

Before Xbox or PlayStation put games online or on discs, video games were kept on cartridges.

These were like tapes that were put into a machine called a console to play the video game.

In the 1980s, the most popular video game console was made by Atari.

Film director Zak Penn showed one of the "E.T."

cartridges.

He said that hundreds more were found in the mounds of trash and dirt.

About 200 local residents and game fans gathered early Saturday in southeastern New Mexico.

They watched big machines dig through the concrete-covered landfill.

The equipment was used to search for up to a million discarded copies of the game.

Atari had wanted to hide the copies forever.

Penn said he was "relieved" that the people got to see something.

Meanwhile, people working on the movie looked through mounds of trash.

They pulled out boxes, games and other Atari products.

Most of the crowd left the dump before the discovery.

Strong winds had kicked up huge clouds of dust and garbage.

By the time the games were found, only a few dozen people remained.

Some were playing the game on a TV and 1980s game machine in the back of a van.

One person who watched was Armando Ortega.

He is a city official.

Back in 1983 he got a tip from a landfill worker.

The worker said a lot of games were being dumped there.

"It was pitch dark here that night, but we came with our flashlights and found dozens of games," he said.

They braved darkness, coyotes and snakes.

They even had to sneak past the guard.

But it paid off.

He says they found dozens of crushed games.

They took the games home.

The games still worked.

Video game fans have been fascinated for 30 years by the "E.T."

game and what it meant for Atari's downfall.

The search for the games will be featured in an upcoming movie.

The movie is about Atari.

It was the biggest video game company of the early '80s.

Xbox Entertainment Studios is one of the companies helping to make the movie.

It is expected to be released later this year on Xbox.

People on the Internet wonder whether Atari decided to bury thousands or millions of copies of the failed game.

More important is the question: why?

Kristen Keller is a spokeswoman at Atari.

She said "nobody here has any idea what that's about."

Atari has been sold many times over the years.

Atari currently has about 200 game titles.

They include Centipede and Asteroids.

Atari was sold to a French company by Hasbro in 2001.

The city of Alamogordo agreed to give the film makers some of the games that were found.

Alamogordo Mayor Susie Galea said finding something in the landfill might bring more tourists to this city.

"Lots of people just pass through, unfortunately," she said.

The "E.T."

game is one of the things blamed for Atari becoming less popular.

Tina Amini works at a gaming website.

She said the game "was practically broken."

The main character in the game was E.T., a friendly alien.

He would fall into traps that were almost impossible to escape.

The traps would appear constantly.

You did not know when they would show up.

The company produced millions of the games.

Sales were not bad to start.

But a lot of the games were returned.

"Even if the game was insanely successful," Amini said, she doubts the company would have ever sold enough of them.

