More than 30 years ago, a video game company called Atari made a game based on the hit move "E.T.

The Extra-Terrestrial."

Some call it the worst video game ever made.

Many of the "E.T."

video games were buried in a New Mexico landfill.

Now, they have been found.

A film company making a movie about Atari dug them up.

Movie director Zak Penn showed one of the "E.T."

cartridges retrieved from the site.

He said that hundreds more were found in the mounds of trash and dirt.

Before video games were purchased online or put on discs, they were kept on cartridges.

These were like tapes that were put into a machine called a console to play the video game.

In the 1980s, the most popular video game console was not Xbox or PlayStation.

It was one made by Atari.

About 200 local residents and video game fans gathered early Saturday in southeastern New Mexico.

They watched big machines dig through the concrete-covered landfill.

The equipment was used to search for up to a million discarded copies of "E.T.

The Extra-Terrestrial."

The game's maker had wanted to hide those copies forever.

"I feel pretty relieved and psyched that they actually got to see something," said Penn.

Meanwhile, the people working on the movie sifted through the mounds of trash.

They pulled out boxes, games and other Atari products.

Most of the crowd left the landfill before the discovery because of strong winds that kicked up huge clouds of dust and garbage.

By the time the games were found, only a few dozen people remained.

Some were playing the game on a TV and 1980s game machine in the back of a van.

Others took selfies beside a life-size E.T.

doll inside a DeLorean car.

A car like that one was turned into a time machine in the classic 1980s movie "Back To The Future."

One person who watched was Armando Ortega.

He is a city official.

Back in 1983 he got a tip from a landfill employee about the huge dumping of games.

"It was pitch dark here that night, but we came with our flashlights and found dozens of games," he said.

They braved the darkness, coyotes and snakes of the desert landfill.

They even had to sneak past the guard.

But it paid off.

He says they found dozens of crushed games that they took home.

The games still worked.

Video game fans have been fascinated for 30 years by the "E.T."

game and its contribution to the downfall of Atari.

The search for the games will be featured in an upcoming movie.

The film is about Atari.

It was the biggest video game company of the early '80s.

Xbox Entertainment Studios is one of the companies helping to make the movie.

It is expected to be released later this year on Xbox.

Whether Atari decided to bury thousands or millions of copies of the failed game is part of much speculation on the Internet.

More important is the question: why?

Kristen Keller, a spokeswoman at Atari, said "nobody here has any idea what that's about."

Atari has changed hands many times over the years.

Atari currently manages about 200 game titles.

They include Centipede and Asteroids.

Atari was sold to a French company by Hasbro in 2001.

The New York Times wrote about the games being dumped in 1983.

It said 14 truckloads of the game and computer equipment were dumped in the New Mexico landfill.

An Atari spokesman quoted in the story said the games came from its plant in El Paso, Texas.

El Paso is about 80 miles south of Alamogordo.

Local news reports from the time said that the landfill workers were throwing cartridges there.

Then the workers ran a bulldozer over the games before covering them with dirt and trash.

The city of Alamogordo agreed to give the film makers some of the copies of the game that were found.

Alamogordo Mayor Susie Galea said finding something in the landfill might bring more tourists to this city.

"Lots of people just pass through, unfortunately," she said.

The "E.T."

game is one of the things blamed for Atari losing money.

It is also blamed for the downfall of a multimillion dollar U.S. video game industry.

It took several years for the industry to make money again.

Tina Amini is deputy editor at gaming website Kotaku.

She said the game tanked because "it was practically broken."

The character of the game, the beloved alien, would fall into traps that were almost impossible to escape and would appear constantly and unpredictably.

The company produced millions of the games.

Sales were not bad to start.

But a lot of the games were returned.

"They had produced so many cartridges that were unsold that even if the game was insanely successful I doubt they'd be able to keep up," Amini says.

