W YORK  - On Wednesday a group of doctors and sports experts issued a message to the people who train student athletes: Be on the lookout for mental health problems.

Athletic trainers are in a special position, the group said.

Their closeness to college athletes makes them well-suited to reach out to troubled students.

The group included trainers and pediatricians.

Athletic trainers are "usually right there with the student-athletes during some of their worst moments," said Timothy Neal, who heads the group.

"You have their trust."

Neal also works at Syracuse University.

About 30 percent of college-aged people said they had some type of mental illness during 2010 and 2011, according to a federal agency.

Neal said he has seen all sorts of mental health problems among athletes.

Some had eating issues or feelings of anxiety.

Students sometimes come to him for help.

In other cases, he reaches out when it seems like something's not quite right.

"What I look for is someone who is acting opposite of as you know them," Neal said.

Examples are somebody who is more bad-tempered or more withdrawn than they normally are, he said.

Athletic trainers should approach troubled students and offer to arrange counseling.

It helps if trainers already have a relationship with mental health counselors, Neal said.

They should also talk to the counselors about the problems facing student-athletes.

Trainers should call counselors right away if athletes are a threat to themselves or others, the group noted.

And they should contact law enforcement if a person is violent.

Neal said that at the beginning of every season he talks with student-athletes about the importance of psychological health.

His aim is to reduce feelings of shame over having a mental health problem.

According to Dr. Thomas L. Schwenk, it can be very difficult to convince athletes that it's okay to have a mental illness.

People who are very good at what they do feel shame about mental illness, he said.

Schwenk has studied mental illness among athletes.

He said hard work is needed to help student-athletes understand that they get sick just like everybody else.

They have mental health problems just like everybody else.

There is one time when athletes are particularly likely to develop psychological problems: When they get injured and have to take time out from their sport.

A lot of athletes think being an athlete is who they are, Neal said.

This is especially true in college.

When they get hurt, they may start to feel they've lost what made them themselves.

They may feel alone.

Schwenk suggested one good way to reach out to athletes: Tell them mental health care can improve their game.

An athlete may not listen at first, Schwenk said.

"Until you say, 'This is the way you can be better.'"

