W YORK  - Athletic trainers need to keep an eye out for mental health problems among student-athletes, a group of doctors and sports experts said on Wednesday.

Trainers are in a special position, the group declared.

Their closeness to college athletes makes them well-suited to reach out to troubled students.

Athletic trainers are "usually right there with the student-athletes during some of their worst moments," said Timothy Neal, who heads the group.

"You have their trust."

The group includes representatives from the National Athletic Trainers' Association and the American Academy of Pediatrics.

About 30 percent of college-aged people reported having some type of mental illness during 2010 and 2011.

Neal said he has seen athletes with all all sorts of mental health problems.

Some had anxiety and eating disorders, while others were suicidal.

Some students come to him for help.

In other cases, he reaches out when it seems like something's not quite right.

"What I look for is someone who is acting opposite of as you know them," Neal said.

It could be somebody who is more angry "than they normally would be, someone who's more withdrawn than they normally would be," he said.

When that's the case, athletic trainers should approach students and offer to arrange counseling.

It helps to already have a relationship with mental health counselors, Neal said.

It also helps to talk with counselors about the particular problems facing student-athletes.

Athletic trainers should make an emergency appointment with counselors if student-athletes are a threat to themselves or others, the group noted.

They should call law enforcement if the person is violent.

Neal said he talks with student-athletes at the beginning of every season about the importance of psychological health.

His aim is to reduce the shame associated with having a mental health problem.

According to Dr. Thomas L. Schwenk, it can be especially difficult to convince athletes that it's okay to have a mental illness.

With "people who are particularly goal-oriented, particularly high achievers, particularly focused, there still is a" feeling of shame, said Schwenk.

Schwenk, who has studied mental illness among athletes, said hard work is needed to help student-athletes "understand that they get sick just like everybody else.

They have mental health problems just like everybody else."

There is one time when athletes are particularly likely to develop psychological problems: When they get injured and have to take time out from their sport.

"Many athletes especially at the college level identify themselves as a person as an athlete," Neal said.

So when they get hurt, they may start to feel they've lost what made them who they are.

They may feel alone.

Schwenk suggested one good way to reach out to athletes: Talk about mental health care as a way to improve their game.

"An athlete may not be too enthused," Schwenk said, "until you say, 'This is the way you can be better.'"

