Chey Castro plays golf, but he has a problem.

When he tries to putt, he gets something called the yips.

An example came in a recent game.

The ball was only 5 feet from the hole.

Still, when Castro tried what should have been an easy shot, his hand shook.

He missed the putt that would have won him $180.

"I know I'm good, and I know I can make these putts," says Castro.

"I used to always make them and never had an issue."

The name might make the condition sound minor.

But in fact, the yips can ruin a professional athlete's career.

Golfers get an uncontrollable shaking that occurs in the hands right before the club hits the ball, says Dr. Debbie Crews.

She is a sports psychologist who works with the Arizona State University women's golf team.

Crews has helped Castro and others treat the yips.

The yips affect many kinds of athletes, including cricket and baseball players.

Even piano players can get the yips.

However, golfers are most known to have the problem.

Tiger Woods' bad performance at the recent Phoenix Open led some fellow players to guess even he has it.

Around 4 in 10 golfers will experience the yips at some point in their career, says Crews.

In the past, most golfers refused to admit they had it.

Today, scientists like Crews are trying to understand what causes the yips, as well as how to treat it.

Scientists separate the yips into two types.

One is neurological, or physically related to the nerves and the brain.

The other is psychological, something that is not physical and is in the player's mind.

A small number of golfers who come down with the yips have a problem in the brain that causes involuntary muscle tensing, says Crews.

This is when the muscles get tense and the golfer cannot control it.

The problem is called focal dystonia.

For most, though, there's nothing physically wrong.

This is what makes the yips so mysterious.

Some golfers have the yips only under certain conditions, like if they're playing a game for a lot of money.

Others might have it on and off for a few months.

For some, it might happen all the time.

Castro first experienced the yips more than 10 years ago.

He had played golf since he was 6 and was especially active in high school, but when he went to college, he stopped playing so frequently.

That's when he first felt the yips.

Castro, 37, says the reason is a lack of confidence.

In high school, he was practicing every day.

Now, he just plays for fun several times a week.

The lack of practice makes him less confident when he steps up to even the simplest putt.

"When I just play with some buddies, I play the best," says Castro.

"But when it's for a tournament ...

I kind of sometimes put too much pressure and mess it up."

Anxiety doesn't cause the yips, Crews says, but it can make the problem worse.

Crews helped ease Castro's anxiety through a variety of exercises.

She had him focus his attention past the ball and make minor position adjustments in his setup.

Crews also suspects that making slight hand and feet adjustments can help train the brain to work differently.

When a golfer putts, his or her brain relies on a model.

The model is created to determine what signal is sent to which muscles to tell them what to do.

With the yips, this model stops working.

Crews says making a small change in hand position seems to adjust the brain.

This is similar to a treatment for focal dystonia when writing.

If you place paper on the desk, people with focal dystonia can't write.

Place it on the wall, though, and all of a sudden, they can.

"People think they've got to do this one perfect motion this one way, but that's not true," Crews says.

"There are many ways."

