A jury convicted 11 former Atlanta teachers and administrators on trial in the largest test-cheating scandal in the nation.

The teachers, principals and their bosses were convicted of changing student test scores to make the district look better.

The higher scores earned the teachers and administrators bonuses and pay raises or at least let them keep their jobs.

On Wednesday afternoon, 10 former teachers and school administrators were handcuffed and taken to jail, where they will await sentencing and possibly decades in prison.

The 11th was at home, waiting to give birth.

Only Dessa Curb, a former teacher, was declared innocent and walked out of the courthouse a free woman.

"I knew God had my back," she said.

In total, 32 former educators were convicted, including the 21 who pleaded guilty before the trial started last year.

Two others, including former school Superintendent Beverly Hall, died of cancer before they could be put on trial.

On Wednesday, Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard said he hoped the trial's outcome would lead to a re-examination of Atlanta's education system.

Many in Atlanta had originally criticized Howard for bringing charges against teachers.

The cheating also robbed the students, since they were often passed on to the next grade though they couldn't read, write or do basic math.

Inflated test scores hid these failures, causing schools to miss out on federal money that could have paid for tutoring or other remedial programs to help students catch up.

Prosecutors tallied the lost money at $8 million in 2009 alone.

The case began in 2008, when the Atlanta Journal-Constitution newspaper broke the first story highlighting suspect test scores in Atlanta Public Schools and other Georgia districts.

The state began reviewing test answer sheets from 2009, and found statistically unlikely numbers of wrong answers, which were erased and replaced with correct answers.

Students in a fourth-grade class at Dobbs Elementary School in southeast Atlanta had a 1 in 288 septillion chance of doing as well as they purportedly did.

A septillion is a one followed by 24 zeros.

The large number of changed answers prompted an investigation by the governor's office.

Special investigators aided by scores of Georgia Bureau of Investigation agents interviewed hundreds of Atlanta Public Schools employees, some of whom confessed to cheating.

The investigative report released in July 2011 concluded that cheating was widespread and that thousands of schoolchildren were deprived of the education they deserved.

"Image was more important than truth," the report said.

"Somewhere in this process, the truth got lost, and so did the children."

Prosecutors said the superintendent demanded ever-increasing and unrealistic test scores and won national acclaim as the scores rose.

The report said the system was ready for cheating because of the severe consequences for failure, including firings, demotions and public humiliation.

Well before the trial, the scandal led to an overhaul of the Atlanta school board and the hiring eventually of a new superintendent, Meria Carstarphen.

"I have always felt the whole thing was tragic," said Erroll Davis, who served as the superintendent temporarily between Hall and Carstarphen.

"I think every teacher understands now the downsides of bad integrity," Davis said.

"That's abundantly clear to all."

Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed said he hoped the verdict would allow his city to "finally close this chapter and move forward with the education and development of our young people."

But Richard Quartarone, a father of two children in an Atlanta school, said the verdict brings his city no closer to healing.

Prosecutors said cheating had gone on for years, denying thousands of an education.

"Closure," Quartarone said, "is figuring out how to educate the kids who are in the system now and how to support the kids who were denied the opportunity to learn."

The 11 convicted former educators face up to 20 years in prison on one count alone, violating Georgia's Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO.

The law is usually used against gangsters, not teachers.

The eight convicted on additional counts could get more time.

Angela Williamson, a former teacher at Dobbs Elementary School in southeast Atlanta who was convicted of telling kids the correct test answers, could spend the most time in prison.

She was convicted of racketeering, or committing a crime for an organization.

She was also convicted on four other counts, more than any of her co-defendants, with the other charges carrying prison sentences of five years or more.

Fulton County Superior Court Judge Jerry Baxter has indicated he will show little sympathy to the convicted educators.

He has said that they were given ample opportunity to accept reduced sentences in exchange for pleading guilty.

Twenty-one others pleaded guilty, and many of them testified at trial.

"They have been convicted of felonies, serious felonies," Baxter said.

"I don't like to send anybody to jail … but they have made their bed and they have to lie in it."

After deliberating for eight days, the jury returned Wednesday afternoon with the guilty verdict.

The educators took it unemotionally, but there was an outburst when Baxter ordered them to jail.

Bob Rubin, who represented former Dobbs Elementary principal Dana Evans, said there was no reason to lock up the ex-educators before sentencing.

Then came the metal clicks as deputies pulled out their handcuffs.

Their lawyers left the courtroom with their clients' belongings, including bags filled with jewelry, cellphones and computers.

Gerald Griggs said his client, Williamson, the former teacher who told students the answers, whispered to him that she could not believe she had been convicted on all five counts against her.

"I respect this verdict, but how do you send teachers to prison?"

Griggs said.

The Atlanta school system released a statement calling the case a "sad and tragic chapter" that is now over and said Carstarphen and the school board are collaborating to "create a new culture."

