A jury found 11 former Atlanta educators guilty in the largest test-cheating scandal in the country.

The teachers, principals and their bosses were found guilty of changing student test scores to make their school district look better.

The higher scores earned the teachers and administrators bonuses and pay raises.

At least, they let the educators keep their jobs.

On Wednesday afternoon, 10 former teachers and school administrators were handcuffed and taken to jail.

They will be sentenced later and face possibly decades in prison.

The 11th teacher was at home because she is pregnant and will have her baby soon.

Only one former teacher, Dessa Curb, was declared innocent and walked out of the courthouse a free woman.

"I knew God had my back," she said.

In total, 32 former educators were convicted, including the 21 who pleaded guilty before the trial started last year.

Former Superintendent Beverly Hall and one other died of cancer before the trial.

On Wednesday, Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard said he hoped the verdict would lead to a re-examination of Atlanta's education system.

Howard had been criticized for bringing charges against teachers.

During the trial, several teachers confessed that after students finished taking standardized tests, they secretly erased the wrong answers and put down the right ones.

The changed tests made it seem that the students were doing better than they actually were.

Students were often passed on to the next grade although they couldn't read, write or do basic math.

The students were also cheated.

The fake test scores made schools miss out on federal money that could have paid for tutoring or other programs to help students catch up.

The lawyers from the county said the lost money totaled $8 million in 2009 alone.

The case began in 2008, when the Atlanta Journal-Constitution newspaper raised questions about the high test scores.

The state began reviewing test answer sheets and found that too many wrong answers were erased and replaced with correct answers.

Students in a fourth-grade class at Dobbs Elementary School had a 1 in 288 septillion chance of doing as well as they seemed to do.

A septillion is a one followed by 24 zeros.

The large number of changed answers led to an investigation by the governor's office.

Special investigators interviewed hundreds of Atlanta Public Schools employees.

A report released in July 2011 concluded that cheating was widespread and that thousands of schoolchildren were deprived of the education they deserved.

"Image was more important than truth," the report said.

"Somewhere in this process, the truth got lost, and so did the children."

Prosecutors said the superintendent demanded ever-increasing and unrealistic test scores, and won national acclaim as the scores rose.

If students got bad test scores, their teachers faced severe consequences, including firings and public humiliation.

"I have always felt the whole thing was tragic," said Erroll Davis, who served as the superintendent temporarily after Hall was fired.

Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed said he hoped the verdict would allow his city to "finally close this chapter."

He said the city needed to move forward with the education of its young people.

But Richard Quartarone, a father of two children in an Atlanta school, said the verdict brings his city no closer to healing.

"Closure," Quartarone said, "is figuring out how to educate the kids who are in the system now and how to support the kids who were denied the opportunity to learn."

The 11 convicted former educators face up to 20 years in prison on one count alone.

They violated Georgia's Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, or RICO.

The law is usually used against mobsters, not teachers.

The eight convicted on additional counts could get more time.

Angela Williamson, a former teacher who told students the correct answers during testing, could face 40 years in prison or more.

Fulton County Superior Court Judge Jerry Baxter has indicated he will show little sympathy.

"They have been convicted of felonies, serious felonies," Baxter said.

"I don't like to send anybody to jail … but they have made their bed and they have to lie in it."

After taking eight days to decide, the jury returned Wednesday afternoon with the guilty verdict.

The educators did not appear emotional at first, but some grew upset when Baxter ordered them to jail.

Bob Rubin, who represented former Dobbs Elementary principal Dana Evans, said there was no reason to lock up the ex-educators before sentencing.

Then came the metal clicks as deputies pulled out their handcuffs.

Their lawyers left the courtroom with the educators' belongings, including bags filled with jewelry, cellphones and computers.

Gerald Griggs said his client, Williamson, the former teacher, whispered to him that she could not believe she had been convicted on all five charges against her.

"I respect this verdict, but how do you send teachers to prison?"

Griggs said.

The Atlanta school system released a statement.

It called the case a "sad and tragic chapter" that is now over.

It also said that Meria Carstarphen, the new superintendent, and the school board are working together to "create a new culture."

