group of ladies sat around a dining table in Rose Honda's West Los Angeles home.

In front of them lay some things from their past.

There were photos from group trips, old-fashioned shoes and dress gloves.

There was an airline ticket dated from 1951.

There was an invitation for Christmas dinner that included a menu of ham and candied yams.

Together the women thought back on all the good times and bad times they shared.

They call themselves the Atomettes and they have been meeting and celebrating their friendship for the last 65 years.

In 1949, seven young Japanese-American women came together to form a social group.

They were seeking relief from social pressures like exclusion and racism.

They have been there for each other through life's events, both big and small.

And today, the group still endures.

Each woman has brought a different personality to the group.

Taye Inadomi is the brainy one.

Susan Uemura, happy and generous.

Sadie Hifumi, the talented writer and leader.

Kathi Yamazaki, the creative only child.

Frances Yonemori, the funny one.

Karlene Koketsu, the artist.

Michi Yamaji, who was quiet but lighthearted, died several years ago.

"When we get together, it's always like yesterday," said Honda, 87, who has been a leader in the group from the beginning.

"We talk and talk and talk and don't want to say goodbye."

Social groups like the Atomettes spread throughout Southern California after World War II.

Many clubs were formed by second-generation Japanese-Americans, known as Nisei.

The clubs provided communities for Japanese-Americans, who faced social and political hardships in America at the time.

According to Valerie Matsumoto, an Asian American studies professor at UCLA, the groups provided the women something important during their adolescence.

The clubs protected youth from the prejudice and exclusion they were subject to as Japanese-Americans.

They provided a place of belonging and friendship.

Before the war, the clubs could be found all over.

However, after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941, the federal government made it extremely hard for these clubs.

During World War II, Japanese-Americans on the West Coasts were forced to leave their homes and jobs to live in internment camps, often in rural areas with armed guards and barbed wire.

After the war, community leaders began to promote clubs as a way to help the Nisei make their lives more normal after they returned from the camps.

The Atomettes formed a few years after the war, through a church.

Many clubs were sponsored by religious organizations.

Despite the rich history of these clubs, it has been hard to create interest today.

With the dozens of options of social and athletic groups for kids, the clubs struggle to remain popular.

This type of decline is typical in most immigrant groups as members try to become more American and care less about keeping their homeland's culture.

As generations of immigrants settle into their new lives in America, their ties to ethnic traditions and the past often weaken.

This is true for the Atomettes.

Most of their children haven't married other Japanese-Americans, attended Japanese-language school or support community institutions.

"I'm glad that my children are comfortable with who they are, interacting with people of different ethnicities," Hifumi said.

"But at the same time, I'm a little sad that they and their children are losing the qualities that make them unique as Japanese-Americans."

Times are very different now than when the Atomettes began in the 1940s, when Harry S. Truman was the president.

Back then, Japanese immigrants in California were not allowed to own land or marry whites.

Racism toward Japanese-Americans was very common in Los Angeles.

The Atomettes experienced different acts of hate as they were growing up.

They dealt with having rocks thrown through their windows, being called names and even being spat on.

The church and social community provided comfort and safety to the girls during this time.

While their immigrant parents were often struggling socially and financially, the girls could experience America through their new friend groups.

As the girls grew up and graduated from college, their meetings turned into social gatherings, and included birthdays, weddings and baby shows.

One of the most memorable moments was when the group held a surprise retirement party for Honda in 1989.

They presented her with a handmade quilt featuring patterns symbolizing her life's milestones.

The friends have also experienced tough times together over the last few decades.

They have had to deal with sicknesses, such as brain injuries and surgeries.

The group helps one another through these moments with prayers, plants, food and support.

Their friendships have been drama-free and intimate all of these years.

Some think that the Japanese cultural values of cohesion and group harmony have kept them together.

Others believe the women have simply clicked from the beginning.

"It's a sisterhood," Inadomi said.

"When we get back together, it's like we're young again."

