Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.

But he wasn't prepared for the uproar that followed.

In online posts and comments, Palestinian critics called the visit treason.

People advised the professor to keep a low profile, stay away from his university in East Jerusalem and consider taking a vacation abroad, he recalled.

"People said we were giving support to (Israel) and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," said Dajani.

He is the director of the American Studies program at Al Quds University.

The Palestinians are seeking their own state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which border Israel.

They want East Jerusalem on the city's Arab side, which is part of Israel, to be its capital.

No stranger to controversy, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia.

It aims to promote moderation and forgiveness among Palestinians.

These are two qualities of which there are not enough, he says.

Dajani said he got the idea of taking students to Auschwitz after he made a journey there three years ago.

About 1 million Jews were killed at the Nazi concentration camp during the Holocaust, the attempted destruction of the European Jewish community by Nazi Germany during World War II.

"In my community you see a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.

People don't want to recognize the suffering of the" Jews, Dajani said.

He said he wanted to help make Palestinians more aware of the Holocaust.

Because Israel was created in 1948 immediately after the Holocaust and many survivors found a home there, the Holocaust is linked to Israel in the minds of many Palestinians.

They think Palestinians have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe by losing their land.

During Israel's War of Independence, many Palestinians fled or were expelled from their homes by Israeli troops.

They consider the founding of Israel a tragedy, equal to the Holocaust.

They remember it in annual commemorations just as Jews mark Holocaust Remembrance Day, which took place this past Sunday.

"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.

"It is a history ignored."

Dajani wants Palestinians to learn about the Holocaust.

The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation project sponsored by a German university.

The trip also included a visit by Israeli students to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.

The Israeli students and faculty are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.

Organizing the Palestinian visit to Auschwitz had to be done carefully.

Thirty people were selected from about 70 applicants, although three students withdrew under peer pressure, Dajani said.

The trip was kept quiet, because Dajani didn't want to risk it being canceled.

Information about the trip was spread "by word of mouth," and there was no prior announcement.

In Poland, the Palestinians visited Krakow near Auschwitz.

There, they learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust and visited former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues.

In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors.

It's believed to be the first trip to a concentration camp by Palestinian students.

"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a Palestinian who went on the trip.

"When you step on the soil where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."

Palestinians accused the participants of showing sympathy with Israelis.

"But I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.

Nasser al-Qad is a student at Al Quds.

He said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our (conflict) with the Israeli side."

He added, "We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions over education."

He said Israelis should recognize Palestinian suffering caused by the founding of Israel.

Abdullah Dweikat, a Palestinian writer, condemned the trip.

He said he rejected the killing of any human being because of his religion, country or political views.

But he also said he could not ignore "wounds and pain of our people."

Sweidan said many people privately expressed support to participants.

Dajani said he used to view Israelis as oppressors.

Then his father became ill with cancer.

Dajani said that the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital changed his attitude toward Israelis.

"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said.

His response to the critics was straightforward.

"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.

"I would do it again."

