Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.

But he wasn't prepared for the uproar that followed.

In online posts and comments, Palestinian critics denounced the visit as treason.

Acquaintances advised the professor to keep a low profile, stay away from his university in East Jerusalem and consider taking a vacation abroad, he recalled.

"People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," said Dajani, the director of the American studies program at Al Quds University.

Since before the Jewish State of Israel was declared in 1948, Jews and Arabs have each laid claim to the same land.

Zionism calls for a Jewish homeland in the Biblical Land of Israel.

The Palestinians are seeking their own state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, which border Israel, with East Jerusalem -- the city's Arab side -- as its capital.

No stranger to controversy, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia.

It aims to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians -- values that often seem in short supply in their long-standing conflict with Israel.

Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz in Poland took shape after he made a journey there three years ago.

Auschwitz was a Nazi concentration camp in World War II where about 1 million Jews were killed.

"In my community you see a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.

People don't want to recognize the suffering of the other," Dajani said.

"I felt that I did not want to be a bystander, and wanted to bring more awareness and consciousness among Palestinians of this issue."

Because of its important role in the creation of Israel, the Holocaust carries political overtones in Palestinian society, where many think that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe.

Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion from the land after the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" similar to the Jewish Holocaust.

They remember it in annual commemorations just as Jews mark Holocaust Remembrance Day, which took place this past Sunday.

"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.

"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine."

Dajani has publicly supported Holocaust education among Palestinians and has devoted part of his own classes to the subject.

The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation research project sponsored by Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany.

The trip also included a visit by Israeli students to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.

The Israeli students and faculty are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.

Organizing the Palestinian visit to Auschwitz was a sensitive undertaking.

Thirty people were selected from some 70 applicants, though three students from Birzeit University in the West Bank withdrew under peer pressure, Dajani said.

Planning the visit was kept quiet, because he might have been forced to cancel it if too many people knew.

He noted that applications were sought "by word of mouth," and there was no prior announcement of the trip.

It is thought to be the first of its kind by Palestinian students.

The schedule included a trip to Krakow, where participants learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust and visited former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues.

In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors brought by the Israelis, and a Polish guide.

"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, who went on the trip.

"When you step on the soil where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."

"People accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier, but I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.

Israel occupies the West Bank.

Nasser al-Qadi, who is getting a master's degree in American studies at Al Quds, said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."

He added, "We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions over education."

Israelis should also recognize Palestinian suffering, al-Qadi said.

Many Palestinians fled or were forced out of their homes by Israeli forces during the war that accompanied the creation of Israel.

Al Quds University issued a statement saying it was not involved in Dajani's trip and warned him that he should make clear that the visit was not a university activity.

Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist, wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people, who are being slaughtered every day at the hands of the occupiers."

Sweidan said many people privately expressed support to participants.

They called the visit a brave step and acknowledged that the public atmosphere had kept them from speaking out.

Until 1993, Dajani saw Israelis as oppressors and occupiers.

That year, he came back to Jerusalem to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.

He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude toward Israelis.

"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said.

His response to the critics was straightforward.

"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.

"I would do it again."

