The leaders of the Warlpiri tribe in Australia look at a person's footprints.

A good person, they believe, leaves good prints in the red dust.

Four years ago, after Sebastian Watson got into trouble, his footsteps turned bad.

The leaders of his community sent him off to Mount Theo.

On the mountain, Peggy Brown and her husband care for kids in trouble.

She made Watson healthy on the outside with good food and healthy living.

She also worked to make him strong on the inside.

She surrounded him with the ancient way of life of the Warlpiri.

The tribe is one of the original peoples of Australia.

They were there before white people came.

The Warlpiri have deep ties to their land, family and to the spirit world.

After he arrived at Mount Theo, Watson was asked to get wood for a campfire.

He walked into the wilderness to find dry wood.

Around the campfire, Brown taught the troubled kids about the Warlpiri way of life.

She also talked about the things that hurt their people.

She spoke about alcohol, drugs and violence.

At night, Watson said he heard a spirit talk to him.

It said: "You are gifted, you've got to use these gifts in a good way.

Don't ruin these gifts with sorrow."

As he lay there, he felt the sadness and worry leave his body.

Watson now works for the Warlpiri Youth Development Aboriginal Corporation.

He helps troubled young people from his community.

The group began 20 years ago, when a drug problem swept the tribe.

Young people began sniffing gasoline to escape their problems.

Some were as young as 11.

Sniffing gasoline is very dangerous.

It can cause brain damage and even death.

Elders became afraid that all their children would be lost to it.

They feared the Warlpiri history and way of life would disappear.

When the kids began sniffing gas, the leaders searched for them at night to take them home, they said.

However, even after the children were brought home, the kids did not stop.

The leaders were desperate and called a meeting.

That's when they decided to send the troubled kids to Mount Theo.

The Walpiri believe the mountain has the ability to heal.

The leaders wanted to heal them and teach them about being Warlpiri.

Even with sending kids to Mount Theo, many Warlpiri children still have troubles.

Geraldine Dixon works at Warlpiri Youth Development.

Her voice is soft.

She uses the same calm voice when dealing with kids in trouble.

When the rains come, the bush turns a soft gray-green.

Honey ants burrow up seeking water.

After the rains end, Dixon goes into the wilderness.

She brings a group of girls who are having troubles.

Dixon shows them where to dig down to find honey ants.

The ants' tails are filled with nectar and are the sweetest thing in the dry outback.

Honey ants are important to the Warlpiri.

They are at the center of the Warlpiri "dreaming."

The "dreaming" are the Warlpiri stories that explain life and how the world was created.

The girls suck the honey from the ants' yellow tails.

The sweetness bursts on the girls tongues and helps the girls feel more hopeful and alive.

