The elders of the Warlpiri tribe in Australia look at a person's footprints.

A good person, they believe, leaves good prints in the red dust.

Four years ago, Sebastian Watson got into trouble and his footsteps were said to have turned bad.

The elders of his community sent him off to Mount Theo.

On the mountain, Peggy Brown and her husband care for troubled youth.

She made Watson healthy on the outside with good food and healthy living.

She also worked to make him strong on the inside.

She surrounded him with the ancient way of life of the Warlpiri, one of the original peoples of Australia.

The Warlpiri have a deep connection to the land, to family and to the spirit world.

After he arrived, Watson was asked to find wood for a campfire.

He walked into the wilderness and tore a branch from a dry tree.

As the flames from the campfire crackled up, "I felt the spirit of the tree, and the spirit of the fire," Watson remembered.

"I believe I was being healed spiritually because it's a healing place."

Around the campfire, Brown taught the troubled youngsters about their Warlpiri history.

She also talked about things that kill their people, such as alcohol, drugs and violence.

When he lay down to sleep, Watson said that the spirit of the land spoke to him.

It told him, "You are gifted, you've got to use these gifts in a good way.

Don't ruin these gifts with sorrow."

While he was lying there, he felt the sadness and worry leave his body.

Watson now works for the Warlpiri Youth Development Aboriginal Corp.

He helps troubled young people from his community.

The Walpiri Youth Corp began 20 years ago, when a drug problem swept the tribe.

Young people began sniffing gasoline to escape their problems.

Sniffing gasoline is very dangerous.

It can cause brain damage and even death.

Elders became afraid that a generation of children would be lost, and with them centuries of history and their way of life.

White-haired elders and leaders sat in a half circle, telling the story.

They spoke sometimes in the Warlpiri language and sometimes in English.

Some children as young as 11 began sniffing gas.

The elders said they started nightly patrols to take the young people home.

However, the children just went back to sniffing again the next day.

Desperate, the elders called a community meeting.

That is where they came up with the idea to send troubled youth to Mount Theo, which the Walpiri believe has healing qualities.

The elders wanted to heal them and teach them about being Warlpiri.

Even with sending youngsters to Mount Theo, many are still at risk.

Sebastian Watson and another counselor, Geraldine Dixon, get calls day and night.

People phone them about family problems and teens behaving violently.

Dixon speaks in a voice so soft that at times it fades into the hot afternoon.

She uses the same calm voice when dealing with kids in trouble.

When the rains come, the bush turns a soft gray-green.

The honey ants burrow up seeking water.

After the rains end, Dixon goes into the bush with a group of girls having troubles.

Dixon shows them where to dig down to find honey ants.

The ants' tails are filled with nectar and are sweetest thing in the dry outback.

Honey ants are important to the Warlpiri.

They are at the center of the Warlpiri "dreaming," their stories that explain life and how the world was created.

The girls pluck the honey ants from their nests, sucking the honey from their yellow tails.

The taste of the sweet nectar bursts on the girls' tongues, helping the girls feel more hopeful and alive.

