The elders of the Warlpiri Aboriginal tribe in Australia look at a person's footprints.

A good person, it's believed, leaves good prints in the red dust.

Four years ago, Sebastian Watson's footsteps were said to have turned bad after he had a brush with the law and was charged with attacking someone.

The elders of the remote Warlpiri community in Yuendumu  sent him off to Mount Theo, where Peggy Brown and her husband care for troubled youth.

Brown's face is as wrinkled as the stony hills that rise from the surrounding desert.

She made Watson healthy on the outside with good food and healthy living and also worked to make him strong on the inside.

She immersed him in the ancient culture of the Warlpiri, one of the original peoples of Australia, with its deep connections to land, family and ceremony.

After his arrival, Watson walked into the bush to fetch wood for a campfire.

He tore a branch from a dry tree.

When the flames crackled up, "I felt the spirit of the tree, and the spirit of the fire," Watson recalled.

"I believe I was being healed spiritually because it's a healing place."

Around the campfire, Brown taught the troubled youngsters about their Warlpiri identity, and talked about things that kill the culture: alcohol, drugs and violence.

When he lay down to sleep, Watson said, "the spirit of the land met my spirit inside me.

The spirit talked and talked."

Watson's spirit listened: "I could feel the tension going out of my body, when I was lying there."

The spirit, Watson told him, "You are gifted, you've got to use these gifts in a good way.

Don't ruin these gifts with sorrow."

Watson now works for the Warlpiri Youth Development Aboriginal Corp. (WYDAC), helping other troubled young people from his community.

WYDAC began two decades ago, when the problem of youths sniffing gasoline to get high swept the remote outback.

Elders became afraid that a generation of children would be lost, and with them centuries of history and tradition, if there was nobody to pass the knowledge to.

Reciting their story, white-haired elders and other leaders sat in a semicircle.

They spoke sometimes in musical Warlpiri language, which sounds like a bubbling creek, and sometimes in English.

When the youngsters began sniffing gas, the elders started nightly patrols to take the youths home.

The children, some as young as 11, went back to sniffing the next day, they said.

Gas caps from cars went missing, thrown into the bush as boys siphoned most of the gas from a tank.

The addiction to sniffing gasoline led to house break-ins and fights, turning many youths brain-damaged and uninterested in life.

Eddie Robertson and his wife, Lottie, described their torment when two of their sons started sniffing.

"I used to go around looking for them.

They were always in dark houses, where the old houses were, out near the airstrip."

Lottie Robertson said.

When she found her sons and told them to come home, they only looked at her and laughed, she said.

Desperate, the elders called a community meeting and decided to send the troubled youth to Mount Theo, which the Walpiri believe has healing qualities.

Sending the youths far away was part punishment, but it was also meant to heal and to teach them the Warlpiri culture.

Brown continues to work in the bush healing troubled youths.

He offers rewards for those who come back, such as sports, trips into the bush to learn more about Warlpiri culture and job training.

Sebastian Watson and another WYDAC counselor, Geraldine Dixon, get calls day and night.

People phone them about family crises, teens behaving violently, teenage mothers having troubles, and at least once, a young person considering suicide.

Sometimes Watson tells the youth to come sleep at his home.

Other times he encourages them to talk to the elders.

Dixon, who is also Watson's mother-in-law, speaks in a voice so soft that at times it fades into the sweltering afternoon.

She uses the same calm voice when faced with a crisis.

"It's got to be in a calm way, she said, "talking to someone who's at high risk."

When rains come to Australia's outback, the bush turns a soft gray-green, and the honey ants burrow up toward the surface seeking moisture.

Honey ants, with swollen tails filled with nectar, are at the center of Warlpiri "dreaming" — their tribal stories that explain the world's creation, life and existence.

After the rains, Dixon goes into the bush with a group of troubled girls.

Dixon shows them where to dig down to find the honey ants, the sweetest morsel that can be found in the harsh outback.

They pluck the ants from their nests, sucking the ants' swollen yellow tails and feeling the burst of sweet nectar on their tongues.

The trip to the bush pulls them back to life.

