Data entry is repetitive and hard to do well; that is, quickly and accurately.

Shane Foley is great at it.

The 21-year-old Ellicott City, Maryland, man works on two computer screens, eyeing images of handwritten sheets on one and clicking the information into a program on the other.

His boss gives him a glowing review.

So does the head of the state agency whose project he is working on.

That is really something for a young man whose doctor told his parents, many years ago, to consider sending him to live in an institution.

Foley, who has autism, is the first employee of a Maryland program for people with autism-spectrum disorders.

The goal?

Connect participants with autism and Asperger's syndrome to tech jobs that put strengths like logical thinking and a high ability to focus to good use.

That can be in data entry, like Foley's job, or software testing.

"We're very much believers in the abilities of all peoples with disabilities," said Catherine Raggio, secretary of the Maryland Department of Disabilities.

She got the ball rolling for the program, but it is not state-run.

It operates as a staffing agency through PDG Inc., a company that specializes in services for people with disabilities.

PDG hired Foley in November.

It trained him and got him started on a project for the state.

So far, that is the only contract.

But Morris Tranen, PDG's CEO, expects to have more contracts and employees this year.

"There's a lot of interest out there," said Tranen, whose goal for the program once it gets going is to cover all costs with money earned from the services.

"People have said, 'Well, come back when you're ready.'

... Now it's really a matter of going out and testing the model.

Will they really make the hires that they said they would?"

Sam Abed, Maryland's secretary of juvenile services, is an enthusiastic supporter of the program, thanks to Foley's near-flawless data entry.

In five months, he has made a single mistake.

And that was at the very beginning.

"We have people who could do it but weren't doing as good a job as this young man is doing," Abed said.

Health officials refer to the "spectrum" of autism because its symptoms vary widely.

Autistic disorder, so-called classic autism, often causes big language delays as well as social and communication challenges.

Those with Asperger's typically do not have language problems, and their IQ is normal or above average.

But they find social situations a never-ending challenge.

Understanding body language or making friends can be difficult.

Raggio said she initially planned on a program to help adults with Asperger's get work.

Then organizers met Foley.

His job performance convinced them that they should consider workers with classic autism as well.

"You sit him down with a pile of data, and he just doesn't look up till it's finished," Tranen said.

One in 50 children ages 6 to 17 has an autism-spectrum diagnosis, according to a March analysis by the National Center for Health Statistics.

Numbers have risen rapidly in recent years.

At least some of the increase is driven by higher awareness of the disorder, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says.

More than a third of young adults on the autism spectrum are neither working nor in college.

That is a much higher percentage than peers with a learning disability or mental retardation, according to a 2012 study.

The study was partially funded by the National Institute of Mental Health.

Young adults on the autism spectrum "experience unique challenges in finding work or getting appropriate education after high school," the institute said.

Shanna Pool, assistant principal of Kennedy Krieger Institute's special-education high school in Baltimore, said tech jobs can be a good fit for people with autism or Asperger's.

"It's not necessary to read emotions when they're working on computers, or social cues," she said.

"It's more concrete, straightforward and logical, and generally their thinking is concrete, straightforward and logical."

Julie Foley, Shane's mother, said her son prepared for a data-entry job, taking IT classes in school and doing data entry in a work-study program.

The family found out about the job program by chance -- the Howard County, Md., school system's director of special education heard about it and immediately thought of the Foleys.

Now Shane Foley does the job from one of the office cubicles at The Arc of Howard County, close to home.

It is his first paid position.

His mother declined to say how much he earns per hour, but she said it is more than [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

Foley speaks in one- or several-word phrases.

However, he has no trouble communicating how much he loves the work.

He is laser-focused on it.

He is smiling.

And when asked what he thinks of it, he responded, "Yay!"

The Department of Juvenile Services is testing a point system to reward incarcerated youths for good behavior.

Foley's job is to record each young adult's points.

It takes him an hour or less each day to enter the records, except on Mondays, when he has the weekend to handle.

Julie Foley said her son enjoys earning money.

But he loves the work for its own sake.

"It gives him a sense of identity on multiple levels -- not just what do you do, but who do you do it with?"

she said.

"As a parent, I'm just thankful every day."

