The prom is the biggest high school dance of the year.

People wear very fancy clothes.

They take lots of pictures with their friends.

Camille Galli, age 16, thought she might never be able to go.

She does not like to be in big groups of people.

Camille has autism.

People with autism have a hard time saying how they feel.

Sometimes, they do not understand how other people feel, too.

It can be hard for them to make friends.

Camille started thinking about the prom last year.

Her older sister, Bella, was getting dressed up to go to the dance.

Camille got frustrated.

She started tapping on a special machine.

The machine helps Camille tell people what she is thinking.

Camille's message asked: "Why am I not going to prom?"

That message upset Frankie, Camille's 14-year-old sister.

Frankie did not want Camille to miss out on a prom.

Frankie teamed up with a 17-year-old named Lauren Etherton.

Lauren's brother has autism, too.

He and Camille go to a special school.

It is called the Kennedy Krieger School.

Frankie and Lauren planned a prom night that students with autism could enjoy.

They made sure there was a quiet room nearby.

That way, students would have a place to calm down if the dance floor got too crazy.

The girls told the Kennedy Krieger School about their plan.

Then they asked their friends to help.

Frankie and her classmates visited the Kennedy Krieger School several times.

Volunteers helped students get ready for the big event.

They taught students how to ask someone to dance.

Students got to practice their dance moves, too.

On prom night, volunteers invited the Kennedy Krieger students to dance and take photos.

Teachers were also there to help.

They could take students into the quiet room if they needed a break from all the excitement.

Lauren and her brother, Justin, age 19, went to the photo booth.

She tried to get him to use a fake mustache.

He grabbed a plastic axe and pretended to chop her.

Lauren was happy to see him having fun.

Frankie kept inviting Kennedy Krieger students to dance.

They did not always want to dance with her.

She threw herself into the music anyway.

Sometimes, she got a dance partner to do some silly moves with her.

Frankie and Lauren worked hard to give students with autism a special night.

They loved seeing everyone having a good time together.

