It started with the perfect dress — mint green, strapless, with a rhinestone belt.

Then came the carefully applied makeup, the emotional parents snapping endless photos and the DJ blaring Top 40 tunes as circles of friends danced all night together.

This weekend, Camille Galli enjoyed every detail of one of America's most popular teenage events — going to the prom.

It is one part of growing up that Camille wasn't always sure she and her classmates would be able to experience.

Camille has autism.

Like many people with autism, she has a hard time with verbal and non-verbal communication and often struggles in social situations.

Camille's path to the prom began last year when she watched her older sister, Bella, dressing up for her prom.

Frustrated, she started tapping out a message on the electronic device she uses to communicate.

"Why am I not going to prom?"

the 16-year-old asked.

Camille's 14-year-old sister, Frankie, couldn't forget those words.

She teamed up with Lauren Etherton, a 17-year-old whose brother also has autism.

Frankie, Lauren and their friends decided to make sure that the girls' siblings, plus 17 more students with autism, could enjoy a prom designed especially for them.

This prom would still have a disco ball, a slow dance and crowd-pleasing food like chicken fingers and ice cream.

However, there would also be a quiet room where students could escape the chaotic dance floor and find calm if they felt overwhelmed.

Frankie and Lauren shared their idea with their siblings' teachers at Kennedy Krieger School for children with developmental disabilities in Rockville, Maryland.

Then they recruited their friends to help and divided up the prom-planning responsibilities.

Frankie and her family put together a fundraiser at SoulCycle, a local exercise studio where participants paid to take a cycling class.

The event raised $11,000, which was enough to pay for food and prom activities at a stylish 21-story building called Somerset House.

They even had enough money left over to fund next year's prom, too.

Frankie and her Georgetown Day School classmates visited the Kennedy Krieger School several times to prepare students for their big night.

To help students feel more comfortable with the social elements of the prom, volunteers made videos about proper table manners and taught students some dance steps they could use on prom night.

They even turned to wikiHow for simple pointers on how to ask someone to dance.

Lauren and her friends at Albert Einstein High School jumped in to help out and co-host on the day of the prom.

Principal Joanna Sandusky said teachers at Kennedy Krieger also incorporated the prom into their lesson plans.

"We've been practicing dancing," she said.

"We've been practicing being part of a bigger group because that can be extremely challenging for a lot of our students."

Kennedy Krieger staff said all that prom practice started paying off before the big event even took place.

Sandusky reported that students became more comfortable participating in school events like pep rallies.

Speech language pathologist Maria Papageorgiou noticed improvements in social skills like greeting a person to start a conversation.

"I've seen a lot of growth in our students," Papageorgiou said.

She pointed out that the prom was a fun way to keep students engaged, but that it also has benefits that will carry over into students' everyday lives.

"It's a very meaningful way to teach," she said.

On the evening of the prom, teenage volunteers mixed into the crowd, inviting the Kennedy Krieger students to dance, take photos and enjoy the food.

They wanted to make sure everyone felt encouraged to join in the fun.

Students' teachers were also on hand to escort them into the quiet room if they needed a break from the excitement.

Jaleel, 21, will graduate from Kennedy Krieger in two weeks.

He said he'd been looking forward to "girls and food" more than anything else.

As soon as he arrived, a young blond volunteer in a black dress eagerly posed for a photo with him before he headed for the appetizers.

Lauren's brother Justin, 19, was also having a blast.

Seeing his friend Matthew playing with a light-up toy handed out by the DJ, he pointed and yelled, "Guys!

Guys!

Get a photo of this.

Look at Matthew!"

Justin gravitated toward the photo booth, where Lauren tried to tease him into picking up a fake mustache when they took a sheet of silly pictures together.

He whacked her playfully with a plastic axe instead.

"Oh my gosh, I'm so happy," Lauren gushed after taking the photo.

"A lot of the kids who normally don't participate are participating.

They're up dancing!"

Meanwhile, Frankie kept inviting Kennedy Krieger students to dance.

They didn't always want to, but she threw herself into the music, flailing her arms and legs like crazy.

Sometimes, she got a dance partner to pick up his feet and imitate her silly moves.

Frankie was delighted and moved to see her friends trying so hard to give students with autism a special night.

"Seeing my friends bond with all these people is the greatest experience," she said.

