Entering lots of information into a computer is repetitive and hard to do well quickly.

But Shane Foley is great at it.

The 21-year-old Maryland man works on two computer screens.

He looks at images of handwritten sheets on one and types the information into the other.

The process is called "data entry."

His boss gives him a glowing review.

So does the head of the state agency he is doing the work for.

That is really something for a young man whose doctor said many years ago that his parents should think about sending him to live in an institution.

Foley is the first employee of a Maryland program for people with autism-spectrum disorders.

Its goal is to get people with autism and Asperger's syndrome tech jobs.

What for?

To put their strengths like logical thinking and a high ability to focus to good use.

"We're very much believers in the abilities of all peoples with disabilities," said Catherine Raggio, secretary of the Maryland Department of Disabilities.

She started the program, but it is not state-run.

It operates as a staffing agency through PDG Inc. That is a company that specializes in services for people with disabilities.

PDG hired Foley in November.

It trained him and got him started on a project for the state.

So far, the state is PDG's only customer.

But the company expects to have more contracts and employees this year.

"There's a lot of interest out there," said Morris Tranen.

He is the CEO of PDG.

Sam Abed, Maryland's secretary of juvenile services, supports the program.

He pointed out that Foley's data entry work is nearly flawless.

In five months, he has made a single mistake.

And that was at the very beginning.

"We have people who could do it but weren't doing as good a job as this young man is doing," Abed said.

Health officials talk about the "spectrum" of autism because the symptoms vary.

Some, like Foley, have autistic disorder.

This is also called classic autism.

It often causes big language delays and social and communication challenges.

Others have Asperger's.

They typically do not have language problems.

Their IQ is normal or above average.

But they find social situations a never-ending challenge.

Understanding body language or making friends can be difficult.

Raggio said she first planned on a program to help adults with Asperger's get work.

Then organizers met Foley.

His job performance convinced them that they should think about workers with classic autism too.

"You sit him down with a pile of data, and he just doesn't look up till it's finished," Tranen said.

One in 50 children ages 6 to 17 has an autism-spectrum diagnosis, according to a March analysis by the National Center for Health Statistics.

Numbers have risen rapidly in recent years.

Government researchers say at least some of the rise is due to the fact that more people are aware of autism.

More than a third of young adults on the autism spectrum are neither working nor in college.

That is a much higher rate than peers with a learning disability or mental retardation, according to a 2012 study.

Shanna Pool is assistant principal of Kennedy Krieger Institute's special-education high school in Baltimore.

She said tech jobs can be a good fit for people with autism or Asperger's.

"It's not necessary to read emotions when they're working on computers, or social cues," she said.

Julie Foley, Shane's mother, said her son took technology classes in school.

He did data entry in a work-study program.

The family found out about the job program by chance.

Their local director of special education heard about it and immediately thought of the Foleys.

Now Shane Foley does the job from an office cubicles close to home.

It is his first paid position.

He makes more than the [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

Foley normally speaks in one- or several word-phrases.

But he has no trouble communicating how much he loves the work.

He is laser-focused on it.

He is smiling.

And when asked what he thinks of it, he responded, "Yay!"

