Most teenagers look forward to their high school prom.

It is the biggest, fanciest dance of the year.

Camille Galli, age 16, thought she might never be able to go to the prom.

She was not worried about having a date.

It was just scary for Camille to think about being around so many people at one time.

Camille has autism.

People with autism have a hard time saying and showing how they feel.

It can be difficult for them to understand how other people feel, too.

They often struggle to make friends.

Camille started thinking about the prom last year.

Her older sister, Bella, was getting dressed up to go to the dance.

Camille got frustrated and started tapping on the machine she uses to communicate.

Her message asked: "Why am I not going to prom?"

Camille's message upset her 14-year-old sister, Frankie.

Frankie wanted to make sure Camille did not miss out on the prom.

Frankie teamed up with a 17-year-old named Lauren Etherton.

Lauren's brother has autism, too.

He and Camille go to a special school.

It is called the Kennedy Krieger School.

Frankie and Lauren decided to plan a prom night that students with autism could enjoy.

The girls told the Kennedy Krieger School about their plan.

Then they invited their friends to help.

This special prom would still have a disco ball and delicious food.

Frankie and Lauren planned extra things so their brother and sister would feel comfortable.

They made sure there was a quiet room nearby.

That way, students would have a place to hang out and calm down if the main room got too crazy.

Frankie and her family put together a fundraiser.

People donated money to take a fun exercise class.

When Frankie's family counted up the money, they had $11,000.

That was enough to pay for food and prom activities at a beautiful building called Somerset House.

They even had enough money left over to pay for next year's prom, too.

Frankie and her classmates visited the Kennedy Krieger School several times before prom night.

Volunteers helped students get ready for the big event.

They taught students how to ask someone to dance.

Students got to practice their dance moves, too.

Teachers at Kennedy Krieger also made lessons that had to do with the prom.

"We have been practicing being part of a bigger group," said Principal Joanna Sandusky.

"That can be extremely challenging for a lot of our students."

On prom night, teenage volunteers mixed into the crowd.

They invited the Kennedy Krieger students to dance, take photos and enjoy the food.

Frankie and Lauren wanted to make sure everyone joined in the fun.

Teachers were also there to take students into the quiet room if they needed a break from all the excitement.

Lauren and her brother, Justin, age 19, went to the photo booth.

She teased him and tried to get him to use a fake mustache in their pictures.

He pretended to chop her with a plastic axe instead.

"Oh my gosh, I'm so happy," Lauren said.

She said a lot of the kids who were up dancing do not usually join in group activities.

Meanwhile, Frankie kept inviting Kennedy Krieger students to dance.

They did not always want to dance with her.

She threw herself into the music anyway.

Sometimes, she got a dance partner to do some silly moves with her.

Frankie said it meant a lot to see her friends working hard to give students with autism a special night.

She loved seeing everyone having a good time together.

