S ANGELES – Doctors can't usually be sure a child has autism until the child is at least 2.

But, a new study finds that early signs can seen even at 2 months of age.

Autism can be a serious problem.

People who have some form of autism have trouble talking to others.

They may have a habit of doing things over and over.

Or, they might be interested in one thing while ignoring everything else.

The new study was published Wednesday by the journal Nature.

The scientists looked at babies' ability to make eye contact with caregivers.

People with autism often don't look people in the eyes.

Children generally look people in the eyes more as they get older.

But children with autism look less at people's eyes starting between 2 and 6 months of age.

In the study, by age 2, levels of eye contact among children with autism were low.

The levels were only half that of children who were developing normally.

The scientists expected to see a difference between the two groups of kids.

But, they were surprised that babies who later turned out to have autism started out just like other babies.

That means that some of the skills that help people handle daily life and be social may be in babies' brains at birth.

If it's true, that would mean there's great hope for treatment, the study found.

Warren Jones and Ami Klin of the Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta tested 110 babies in the study.

Among them, 59 had a brother or sister with a autism.

That group was seen to be at a high risk of having the condition themselves.

And 51 babies who had no close relatives with autism were considered at low risk.

That group served as a controls.

Experiments usually have a "control group" to make sure there aren't other reasons for what a study finds.

The babies were shown scenes of caregiving.

At the same time, the scientists tracked their eyes to see where the babies are looking.

They measured the amount of time babies looked at the caregiver's eyes, mouth, body and nearby objects.

The babies were tested 10 times between the time they were 2 months and 20 months old.

By age 3, 13 were diagnosed with autism — 10 boys and two girls from the high-risk group and one boy from the control group.

The scientists decided to make things simple.

So, they looked just at the boys: 11 with autism and 25 without.

The results showed that differences in eye contact could be seen between ages 2 months and 6 months.

During that period, the boys in the control group spent more time looking at the caregiver's eyes.

They spent less time looking at the mouth, body or other places.

But for the boys with autism, interest in the caregiver's eyes dropped after the 2-month test.

The study also found that steeper drops in eye contact mattered.

Bigger drop-offs in eye contact were linked to children who had the hardest time socializing with others.

Other differences showed up as well.

Boys in both groups showed interest in the caregiver's mouth through the age of 18 months.

However, boys who developed normally lost interest in the body and other objects more quickly than the boys with autism.

Jones and Klin said the study had just a small "sample size" of 110 babies.

But, they said it still showed how skills can drop off.

If the results are true, doctors could get involved earlier.

Therapy could start sooner.

And that might mean better results.

The sooner doctors see early signs of autism, the better treatment can be, said Dr. Thomas Insel.

He heads up the National Institute of Mental Health.

It is the group that paid for the study.

