Ford Motor Company, a car manufacturer that has been located in Detroit, Michigan, since it opened its doors in 1903, has set up a new research center in Palo Alto, in the area of Northern California known as Silicon Valley.

The Valley is a high-tech center, nicknamed after silicon, the material used to make some computer parts.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20151120_CA_AUTO.png) At the new Ford Research and Innovation Center, a team of 100 people is studying how humans experience machines.

They are running self-driving vehicle simulations and testing software that examines how bicycles and cars interact on the road.

"For 100 years, automobiles have been a mechanical engineering industry," said the center's director, Dragos Maciuca, who formerly worked for Apple.

As software has become an increasingly important part of carmaking, the move to Silicon Valley makes sense, he said.

Ford's new offices, opened in January, are just one example of the move of carmakers to California.

Other automotive powerhouses with Valley offices include Toyota, Hyundai and BMW.

Although some might be surprised at the move of car companies to California, it is anything but sudden.

The state has led in developing self-driving cars, advanced green vehicles and automotive software.

California's concern with the environment  and generous assistance for electric car companies have helped companies to grow.

California is also the birthplace of taxi service Uber, and car-sharing companies Turo and Getaround, all of which rely on apps.

Many say that partnerships between the state's tech and auto industries might soon lead to a time when riders can order driverless taxis.

"We have the best software engineers in the country, and the most of them," said Pasquale Romano, chief executive of ChargePoint.

ChargePoint is a company that builds electric car charging stations.

The software engineers and professionals in California provide all the parts "necessary to make California the next Detroit," he said.

The move to Silicon Valley by auto companies has brought with it a flood of new jobs.

Employment at auto companies and auto-parts makers in California has jumped nearly 26 percent since 2011, to almost 47,000 jobs this year.

The automotive industry in California is still small compared with Detroit, however.

An increase of about 10,000 jobs has a small effect on the state's economy, and job numbers in California are still a fraction of the 326,000 automotive workers employed in Michigan.

Companies are also struggling because labor, real estate and environmental laws are more costly than in some other states.

Still, Tesla, an electric car maker, and companies such as electric bus builder Proterra are adding manufacturing jobs in California.

The automotive tech boom here shows no sign of slowing.

The growing car company presence in Silicon Valley is in part a response to Google's advances in self-driving car development.

Google says that self-driving cars will be safer than those driven by people.

It will no longer matter if someone is a good driver, as driving will be automated, the company says.

"Google is the current technology leader in this arena," said Egil Juliussen, research director at IHS Automotive.

IHS is hired by auto companies and others to do research.

Juliussen said that no other company has as much of the technology needed to make self-driving cars happen.

Even before self-driving cars are on the road, companies are working to create technology to make conventional, human-driven cars safer.

Toyota announced this month that it will hire 200 employees and pour $1 billion into research on artificial intelligence at a new center in Palo Alto.

The research center, which is expected to be one of the largest in Silicon Valley, will work on automated features to make driving safer.

California has long played an important role in the auto industry.

California is the biggest market in the United States.

for selling electric cars.

California also sets styling trends and is home to design studios for Honda, Toyota, Ford and other car makers.

Still, California's automotive industry has had its setbacks.

Toyota is moving more than 3,000 jobs from California to Plano, Texas, over the next two years.

Five years ago Toyota closed a factory it operated together with General Motors.

As many as 4,700 workers lost their jobs.

Tesla now owns the factory once owned by Toyota, and the company is rehiring.  Even so, it is not clear whether the automotive tech companies and electric car companies will grow fast enough to replace the jobs lost by Toyota workers.

Faraday, a new electric car startup, said it plans to soon announce the location of a $1 billion auto factory.

California is one of several states that would like the factory there, but people studying the automobile industry believe Faraday will pick a site near Las Vegas, Nevada.

Being in Nevada means that the company could take advantage of the state's incentives, money that Nevada gives to companies willing to move there.  If Faraday moves to Nevada, it will be following the lead of others.

Tesla chose Nevada for the location of a new battery factory after the state offered an incentive package worth $1.3 billion over 20 years.

Despite these issues, it is impossible to ignore the exciting things happening in the auto industry in California.

Karma, a competitor of Tesla's, has leased a large factory where it will assemble electric cars.

They could be for sale as early as the middle of 2016.

As cars become more and more high tech, carmaking is changing in very basic ways, said Bill Hampton, publisher of AutoBeat Daily, a daily Web report for people in the auto industry.

"You're getting way far away from bending metal and bolting cars together,"  he said.

