Airplane manufacturers such as Boeing and Airbus are charging into a new world: They now are building wings and jet bodies out of carbon-fiber composites, rather than metal.

This new lightweight material is made from a blend of carbon and plastic that is woven together like cloth.

So far, only a few suppliers can provide the tools needed to accurately cut and shape it.

One such supplier is the engineering firm Electroimpact.

Based in Mukilteo, Wash., it is perfecting a sophisticated new robotic technology.

This, it claims, can handle carbon-fiber composites better than anything else out there.

During a recent demonstration, one of Electroimpact's machines zipped back and forth across a spinning drum, laying down half-inch-wide ribbons of black fiber.

Its speed was dizzying.

The high-tech contraption is known as an automated fiber placement, or AFP, machine.

It will soon be shipped to South Korea.

There, Boeing will use it to make the cone-shaped fuselage, or body, for its 787 Dreamliner.

Todd Rudberg, Electroimpact's project manager, hopes Boeing will also buy an AFP machine to make something else: the giant wing of its soon-to-be-launched 777X airliner.

"777X is the Holy Grail right now," Rudberg said.

"We're competing mightily for that."

Electroimpact originally started out making automated drilling and fastening machines.

Now, it is developing machines that build composite parts.

AFP technology is currently no more than about 10 percent of Electroimpact's business, but it's set to grow.

What makes Rudberg's machine special is its circular robotic head.

This has many spools of carbon-fiber ribbon attached to it.

It can move around any complicated shape with pinpoint accuracy and at unheard-of speeds.

First, a laser measures the surface upon which the fiber is to be laid.

Next, a computer works out the complicated three-dimensional moves needed to tailor the layers.

Then, the head moves back and forth, laying down shorter and longer strips of fiber.

Each is heated to a fiery glow, while the surface to be covered rotates as needed.

As it zipped around, the machine reached an astounding top speed: 595 pounds of carbon fiber laid down per hour.

That is "a very large number, probably the fastest we've seen," said journalist Jeff Sloan.

Typically, a speed of 90 pounds per hour would be fast, he said.

Bill Hasenjaeger works for CGTech, which developed the computer software used in AFP technology.

He claims accuracy is a more important measure than speed.

If the new machine is accurate, he said, 595 per hour is "a pretty darned impressive number."

Ben Hempstead, chief of staff at Electroimpact, insists no one can match the company's AFP technology.

"You won't see this anywhere else on the planet," he said.

Rudberg said he's keen to have his AFP machines used to make wing skins and wing spars.

The latter are two long beams, each more than 100 feet, that run the length of a wing.

One is in the front of the wing; the other is in the rear.

The Electroimpact machine could make each of those spars as a single piece without any joins, he said.

They would be an "uninterrupted beautiful structure."

The custom-built AFP machine used in the recent demonstration is Electroimpact's smallest model.

It costs $5 million.

The company has built bigger models that run up to $25 million.

For the 777X, Boeing might need four to six machines to make the wing skins and an equal number for the spars, Rudberg estimated.

A separate plant would be needed to build the wings.

They'll be so big they'll need to be made near the jet's final assembly line.

Meanwhile, Electroimpact is already making equipment for all the world's major plane makers.

Some projects are secret.

Electroimpact's founder and CEO, Peter Zieve, said he hopes to add two big new buildings to the six the company already has.

Intriguingly, he mentioned that as soon as the next building is ready, he'll empty out the largest of the old ones.

That way, it can be "filled with a huge Boeing project."

He wouldn't say which project.

