It was early morning in the Mojave Desert when Sean Byrne noticed a black dot flying just above the foothills of the San Gabriel Mountains.

He knew what it was, as did the other workers from Northrop Grumman Corp. surrounding him.

They were waiting on this windy runway at the company's plant in Palmdale, Calif., to see the aircraft nicknamed "Lazarus" — the plane that died in a fire on the island of Guam only to be brought back to life.

The dot grew larger and larger and suddenly, the one-of-a-kind bat-winged shape of the B-2 stealth bomber came into view.

As it touched down for a landing, the crowd erupted in applause, hugs and tears.

"After all that time, it finally made it back home," Byrne said.

"In some ways, we couldn't believe we pulled it off."

The four-year operation to rebuild the military's rarest — and most expensive at $2.1 billion — aircraft involved hundreds of hard-to-find parts, thousands of hours of labor, and 300 Air Force and Northrop workers.

Many of them, mechanics such as Byrne, left their families in Palmdale and flew 6,000 miles to Guam to work seven days a week for months at a time.

They spent so much time working on the island, they started calling their temporary home "Guamdale."

The military points out that the B-2 is unlike any other aircraft in the U.S. arsenal.

Built to haul more than 20 tons of bombs, it is a huge plane that flies virtually undetected by radar.

Because of its stealth characteristics, it is the first bomber to be sent into heavily defended enemy territory to clear the way for other fighters and bombers.

The B-2 knocks out anti-aircraft defenses and radar installations.

On the first night of the NATO operation in Libya in 2011, for instance, three B-2s flew from Whiteman Air Force Base in Missouri.

They slipped into enemy territory and promptly destroyed 45 targets at an airfield before returning to the U.S.

The bombers are based in Missouri but are often sent overseas to Andersen Air Force Base in Guam.

The small island of Guam, in the Pacific Ocean south of Japan, is strategically important to the U.S. because it is near China and North Korea.

On Feb. 26, 2010, a B-2 attempted to take off from Guam for a routine training mission when a fireball flashed from a left engine, sparking an onboard blaze that heavily damaged the interior of the airplane.

Though the damage was bad, the Air Force determined that the plane could be saved, which was good news.

The Air Force had lost another plane when a B-2 crashed and burned in 2008.

The military said it couldn't afford to lose another of these aircraft.

The repairs required more than 1,000 parts ranging in size from small clips to massive sections that support the structure of the aircraft.

The project took nearly four years and cost more than $105 million.

Once the Air Force decided to rebuild the plane on Guam, getting Northrop's team on the ground was the first thing to do.

It called on expert mechanics, engineers and other technicians from the company who know the bomber best.

The B-2 bombers were originally built at Northrop's 45-acre factory in Palmdale behind razor-wire fences under tight security.

The first B-2 was completed in 1988, while the last was finished in 1997.

Every seven years, the planes fly into the facility for a full tune-up.

A few weeks after the fire, Byrne's boss called a meeting around a toolbox in Palmdale to tell the crew about the accident and Byrne, 29, was told he'd be part of the first group going to Guam.

"I had no idea where Guam was," Byrne said.

"I had to look it up on a map and saw this tiny dot in the middle of the Pacific."

In May 2010, Byrne and five other mechanics flew to the island to look at the aircraft, which was sitting in a hangar.

There appeared to be very little damage to the B-2's smooth dark-gray surface.

But then the workers looked at the plane's innards.

"The extent of the damage was surprising," said David G. Mazur, a Northrop vice president.

"It took my breath away.

Hundreds of parts would have to be replaced."

The Air Force has been criticized for decades over the costs and the extensive maintenance the B-2 requires.

Last year alone, the Air Force spent more than $1.2 billion upgrading, maintaining and overhauling the planes.

For each hour a B-2 is in the air, it spends 47 hours on the ground undergoing maintenance.

A B-2 mechanic must refer to 750 technical manuals to fix the plane.

Rebuilding the bomber depended on parts that were difficult to find, with some parts found on shelves at air bases in the U.S. Parts that were no longer made had to built again based on blueprints that were drawn when mechanics such as Byrne and McElhaney were in elementary school.

All that attention to detail paid off as the plane, named Spirit of Washington, started right up on the first attempt.

McElhaney was in Guam when the bomber took off.

"Seeing it leave the island was emotional.

It brought a tear to your eye to see it disappear over the horizon."

Once the B-2 was in Palmdale, workers stripped off the plane's paint, panels, nuts and bolts, right down to the frame, before rebuilding it with new parts and equipment.

The aircraft was fully restored in December.

