The B-2 bomber is one of the most advanced planes in the U.S. Air Force.

It is a huge plane that can carry more than 20 tons of bombs.

It is difficult to see on radar.

The Air Force has only 20 and each one cost more than $2 billion to build.

On Feb. 26, 2010, a B-2 was taking off from Guam for a training mission.

A fireball exploded from a left engine, starting a fire that heavily damaged the inside of the airplane.

Guam is a small island in the Pacific Ocean, south of Japan.

The plane was badly damaged, but the Air Force decided that it could be saved.

That was good news.

The Air Force had already lost a B-2 when one crashed and burned in 2008.

The military said it couldn't afford to lose another.

Fixing the plane required more than 1,000 parts.

The project took nearly four years and cost more than $105 million.

The B-2 bombers were originally built by Northrop Grumman in California.

The factory is behind razor-wire fences.

It is closely guarded.

The first B-2 was completed in 1988.

The last one was finished in 1997.

The Air Force looked for experts from Northrop to rebuild the plane.

It called in the mechanics, engineers and others from the company who knew the bomber best.

Sean Byrne is a Northrop mechanic.

He was told that he'd be going to Guam to work on the damaged B-2.

"I had no idea where Guam was," Byrne said.

"I had to look it up on a map and saw this tiny dot in the middle of the Pacific."

In May 2010, Byrne and five other mechanics flew to the island to look at the aircraft.

From the outside, the plane didn't seem to be damaged badly.

But then the workers looked inside.

There was a lot of damage.

They knew hundreds of parts would have to be replaced, said David G. Mazur.

He is a Northrop vice president.

Byrne and many others worked seven days a week to repair the plane.

They worked for months at a time.

Rebuilding the bomber depended on parts that were difficult to find.

Some parts were found on shelves at air bases in the U.S. Other parts were no longer made.

They had to built again based on old blueprints.

All that attention to detail paid off.

The plane, named Spirit of Washington, started right up on the first attempt.

Mechanic Tom McElhaney, 28, was in Guam when the bomber took off.

"Seeing it leave the island was emotional.

It brought a tear to your eye to see it disappear over the horizon."

Back in the U.S., Byrne saw a black dot flying above the San Gabriel Mountains.

It was early one morning.

He knew what it was.

So did the other workers surrounding him.

They were waiting on this windy runway at the company's plant in Palmdale to see the aircraft nicknamed "Lazarus."

The dot grew larger and larger.

Suddenly, the one-of-a-kind bat-winged shape of the B-2 stealth bomber came into view.

As it landed, the crowd erupted in applause, hugs and tears.

"After all that time, it finally made it back home," Byrne said.

"In some ways, we couldn't believe we pulled it off."

