The B-2 bomber is one of the rarest and most expensive planes in the U.S. Air Force.

It is huge, can carry more than 20 tons of bombs, and is almost undetectable by radar.

The Air Force has only 20 and each one cost more than $2 billion to build.

On Feb. 26, 2010, a B-2 was taking off from Guam, a small Pacific island south of Japan, for a training mission.

A fireball exploded from a left engine, starting a fire that heavily damaged the inside of the airplane.

Though the plane was badly damaged, the Air Force decided that it could be saved.

That was good news.

The Air Force had already lost a B-2 when one crashed and burned in 2008.

The military said it couldn't afford to lose another.

The repairs required more than 1,000 parts ranging in size from small clips to massive sections.

The project took nearly four years, and cost more than $105 million.

The B-2 bombers were originally built at Northrop Grumman's 45-acre factory in Palmdale, Calif., behind razor-wire fences.

The factory was guarded tightly.

The first B-2 was completed in 1988 and the last one in 1997.

When the Air Force decided to rebuild the plane on Guam, it looked for experts from Northrop.

The Air Force called in the mechanics, engineers and other technicians from the company who knew the bomber best.

Sean Byrne, a Northrop mechanic, was told that he'd be going to Guam to work on the B-2.

"I had no idea where Guam was," Byrne said.

"I had to look it up on a map and saw this tiny dot in the middle of the Pacific."

In May 2010, Byrne and five other mechanics flew to the island to look at the aircraft.

There appeared to be very little damage to the B-2's smooth dark-gray surface.

But then the workers looked inside.

"The extent of the damage was surprising," said David G. Mazur, a Northrop vice president.

"Hundreds of parts would have to be replaced."

On Guam, Northrop decided it would do the repair in two parts.

First, the crew would make the mechanical repairs that would allow the B-2 to fly to Palmdale.

Once there, the aircraft would be completely rebuilt.

Byrne and many other technicians worked seven days a week for months at a time to restore the stealth bomber.

They spent so much time working on the island, they started to call it "Guamdale."

Rebuilding the bomber depended on parts that were difficult to find.

Some parts were found on shelves at air bases in the U.S.

Some parts were no longer made.

They had to built again based on decades-old blueprints.

All that attention to detail paid off.

The plane, named Spirit of Washington, started right up on the first attempt.

Mechanic Tom McElhaney, 28, was in Guam when the bomber took off.

"Seeing it leave the island was emotional.

It brought a tear to your eye to see it disappear over the horizon."

Back in the U.S., Byrne noticed a black dot flying just above the San Gabriel Mountains early one morning.

He knew what it was.

So did the other workers surrounding him.

They were waiting on this windy runway at the company's plant in Palmdale to see the aircraft nicknamed "Lazarus" — the plane that died in a fire on the island of Guam only to be brought back to life.

(Lazarus is a character in the Bible who dies and is brought back to life by Jesus.)

The dot grew larger and larger.

Suddenly, the one-of-a-kind bat-winged shape of the B-2 stealth bomber came into view.

As it touched down for a landing, the crowd erupted in applause, hugs and tears.

"After all that time, it finally made it back home," Byrne said.

"In some ways, we couldn't believe we pulled it off."

