Like his father and grandfather before him, Lou DeRosa is a butcher.

Tucked away at Los Angeles' famous Farmers Market, his little butcher stand is selling more bacon than ever — and at prices that tip the scale toward "crazy," DeRosa said.

The Danish bacon rings up at the cash register at $8.98 a pound.

"Prices go up every six months, much more than your typical meat item, because everyone is buying it," DeRosa said.

His family has run the butcher shop, Marconda's Meats, since 1941.

Bacon has become the country's trendiest meat.

Yet, the love affair with bacon is coming at an increasing cost.

The price of bacon has risen at more than three times the rate of inflation since 2008, the most of any meat, according to the government.

Inflation is the average increase in prices over a period of time.

Contributing to soaring bacon prices is California's three-year drought, which made feed for pigs more expensive.

In addition, a new virus has killed about 7 million piglets since 2013.

The virus has caused the nation's pork supply to decrease almost 12 percent, said John Green, director of marketing for the National Pork Board.

But mainly, he said, Americans' hunger for bacon is putting the sizzle in prices.

"Our supply is static since it takes nine months to make a pig," Green said.

"That's troublesome since the real drive in bacon right now is consumer demand."

In June, shoppers paid $6.11 on average for a pound of sliced bacon in grocery stores, a record high, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Four years earlier, the average price was $4.05 a pound.

At a Ralph's supermarket in Brentwood, California, James McMenamin considered putting his bacon back after double-checking the price tag.

"It seems really expensive," McMenamin said, "but I still need that bacon fix."

Despite the soaring prices, bacon sales climbed 9.5 percent in 2013.

People bought a record $4 billion worth of bacon that year, according to Information Resources Inc., a market researcher that studies buying trends.

Bacon is deeply embedded in American culture and has become a comfort food, said Ari Weinzweig.

He is the author of "Zingerman's Guide to Better Bacon."

"There's an emotional attachment there," Weinzweig said.

"It reminds us of childhood."

Americans are using bacon in unusual ways.

They are putting it in ice cream and on sushi and sprinkle it on chocolate chip cookies.

Restaurants are also weaving bacon into menus to encourage a little impulse eating, Green said.

The salty meat can be found in the potato-bacon dish at Wolfgang Puck's Beverly Hills restaurant, Spago.

Bacon can also be found in Denny's maple bacon milkshake.

Since 2010, breakfast giant IHOP has added 23 menu items that include bacon, "everything from bacon crepes to salads," said Marie Grimm.

She is an IHOP vice president in charge of creating new food items.

And an industry first: a bacon-and-cheddar-cheese-infused waffle.

Grimm couldn't say how much IHOP has increased its prices because of rising pork costs, but did say that the high price is an issue.

Bacon's soaring prices are putting a crunch on fast-food chains.

Bacon dishes account for 30 percent to 50 percent of menu items at popular chains including Carl's Jr., Wendy's and Jack in the Box.

Drivers ordering bacon-topped burgers at drive-through windows will pay nearly $5 on average.

About $5 is about as much as people are willing to pay for fast-food burgers, according to SpenDifference, a restaurant supply company in Denver.

Its recent restaurant chain survey showed that 93 percent of the 60 chains interviewed planned to raise prices during the second half of this year.

"We are in unprecedented times, with new markets and price levels we have never seen," said DeWayne Dove, vice president of purchasing for SpenDifference.

Restaurants are starting to pass along the higher cost of bacon and charge customers more, he said.

In 2002, a Carl's Jr. bacon cheeseburger cost $1.39.

By 2013, it cost $3.29 through the double whammy of beef and bacon price increases.

In addition to paying more for bacon, Dove says customers might be getting less of it.

"A lot of chains are adjusting portion sizes.

What used to be three pieces of bacon now is two pieces of bacon for the same price," Dove said.

He noted that fast-food diners could soon be paying $6 for a bacon burger.

Plenty of bacon lovers are willing to pay.

Butcher Jim Cascone of Huntington Meats said price doesn't seem to matter when it comes to bacon.

The Los Angeles butcher shop is selling 100 cases of bacon a week and has seen a 25 percent increase in bacon sales in three years.

"No one ever questions the price," said Cascone, who charges about $7.99 a pound for applewood smoked bacon, up from $4.99 four years ago.

"One of my clients just had a bacon party.

There's just something about it that romances eaters."

It certainly has that effect for Josh Goldstein.

The 24-year-old personal trainer from Manhattan Beach says he eats half a pound of bacon every morning and wraps his Thanksgiving turkey in bacon every year.

Not even higher bacon prices would make him change those habits, he said.

"It has definitely become more expensive, and I buy so much it does add up," Goldstein said.

"But bacon is my medicine.

It makes everything better."

