Drew McDonough walked quickly past 50-pound bags of brown sugar and huge tubs of chocolate frosting.

He dressed in his bakery clothes.

Then he speed-walked toward the table where he packages cups of sticky toffee pudding.

When his boss asked him about his weekend, McDonough responded with short one-word answers.

He barely looked her in the eye.

But that was fine with Jean Kroll, who owns the Sugar & Spice Extraordinary Sweet Treats bakery near Chicago.

She simply pointed him toward the racks of golden brown cakes.

For the rest of his workday, the quiet, dark-haired 27-year-old moved so quickly he seemed set on fast-forward.

He boxed cakes, stacked them on a hand cart and labeled them for shipment.

When finished, he carefully swept the floor.

McDonough has autism.

The disability affects a person's social and communication skills.

Many people with autism do not work, so the fact that he has a job at the bakery is "probably a miracle," he said.

"It feels as happy as can be," he added.

This past summer, McDonough and two other men with autism arrived at the bakery to learn job skills.

As the men learned to measure sugar and package cakes, a student from the nearby Northwestern University's business school carefully tracked how much they got done.

Did it make good business sense to hire someone with a disability?

For Kroll, that was an important question.

"Small businesses hire based on economics," Kroll said.

Most of them are not big enough to hire an employee just to help him or her.

The story of how she offered jobs to McDonough and two other men with autism is one of luck and goodwill.

It is also, according to Kroll, a story of a logical business decision.

People always tell her hiring the men was "such a nice thing to do," Kroll said.

She answers them, "Yes it is nice, but it's also a smart thing to do."

Two years ago, Kroll's bakery moved near Have Dreams, an organization that helps people with autism.

Shortly after the move, Kroll heard that the men and women with autism needed job training.

She invited five men with autism to help her construct and label cookie boxes.

For a year and a half, the men came every week.

There was a tall, blond-haired man named Zach, who loved to talk and ask questions.

Michael was playful and cracked jokes.

Jimmy was so focused that he could label boxes as fast as any worker.

One day, someone at Have Dreams asked if Kroll might have other jobs for the men.

Kroll's answer was a firm and immediate "No."

After she went home that night, she was angry at herself.

Not long after, Kroll and Have Dreams came up with a job training program at the bakery.

If program is successful, other businesses could be convinced to hire people with disabilities.

On June 24, three men arrived at the bakery.

By the end of the six weeks, they worked almost as quickly as a regular bakery worker.

Kroll decided she could start offering them jobs.

Now, McDonough spends his day among huge kettles of buttery toffee.

Having a job, he said, "feels fabulous.

After the workday ended, Kroll stood in the bakery, a pile of orders in her hand.

"It was a great day.

A really nice, regular day," she said.

McDonough had worked independently, did his task well and cleaned up afterward.

"He has grown so much," Kroll said.

What's more, McDonough has helped the bakery grow.

As he develops more skills, she says, he will earn raises "just like everyone else."

"This is a good business decision," she said.

"It just so happens that it's also a really good social decision and a good moral decision too."

