Voters in two states will soon take part in a fight over food labels.

On Nov. 4, voters in Oregon and Colorado will decide whether to pass laws.

They would force companies to put labels on food that has been genetically changed.

They are called genetically modified foods.

GMO stands for genetically modified organism.

A GMO is any plant or animal whose genes have been changed in a lab.

Genes are the building block of all living things.

In a person, a gene will decide many things, like hair color or height.

Genes also can decide if someone develops certain diseases.

Animals, fruits and vegetables are all made of genes.

Foods are grown with GMOs to help them fight off insects and diseases.

Most processed food in the United States, like soup and soda, contains some GMOs.

Foods such as peanut butter, blueberries, wheat bread, milk, cheese and vegetables generally do not.

Scientists say there is no evidence that GMOs are dangerous.

A 2008 report by the National Academy of Sciences found no health problems from GMOs.

The Academy of Sciences is a respected group of scientists.

There are two sides in the fight over GMOs.

On one side are food companies which do not want GMO information on food labels.

These companies sometimes make products with GMOs.

They claim that GMO crops grow better.

They also say that GMOs protect crops against diseases and bugs.

For example, changing the genes of corn can protect it from worms.

Farmers who use GMO corn do not need to use as much bug spray and they can grow more corn.

On the other side are some farmers, food lovers and some companies.

They support the labeling.

They say GMOs are not safe to eat.

Voters in Oregon and Colorado could become the first to pass GMO labeling laws.

Voters in Washington and California already rejected labeling rules.

Lawmakers in Vermont have passed GMO labeling requirements.

But there is a court fight over it.

So far, food companies have successfully fought labeling.

One of the biggest is Monsanto.

It makes genetically modified seeds.

Kraft Foods and Coca-Cola are on the side of Monsanto.

They sell food with GMOs in them.

They say labels might discourage people from buying food with GMOs.

They worry that people will think the food is unsafe.

Companies also say labeling will make food more expensive.

Label supporters say people have a right to know what is in their food.

They think people should have the information to help them decide what to buy.

Companies against labels have an advantage.

They are some of the richest in the United States.

In Colorado, companies that do not want labeling have raised $12 million.

Pro-labeling groups have raised just $700,000, said Larry Cooper of Right to Know.

His group is in favor of the labels.

"It's definitely a David-versus-Goliath thing," Cooper said.

Thomas M. Helscher is a Monsanto spokesman.

He said the seed company opposes state labeling laws.

"They don't provide any safety or nutrition information."

Helscher said they will hurt businesses and people shopping for food.

He said the government in Washington, D.C., should decide if GMOs should be labeled.

In Oregon, it has become the most expensive vote fight in the state's history.

The two sides have raised $16.7 million.

Monsanto alone gave more than $4 million to defeat GMO labeling.

Companies on the other side include Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps.

It has given $1.15 million to support labeling in Oregon.

It has supported labeling in other states.

Ben &amp; Jerry's ice cream company is also for the labels.

It just renamed a popular flavor.

Chocolate Fudge Brownie is now called Food Fight Fudge Brownie.

The name change is to let people know about the vote.

