Voters in two Western states will take part next month in a fierce food fight.

On Nov. 4, people in Oregon and Colorado will go to the polls to decide whether companies must label genetically modified foods.

A genetically modified organism, or GMO, is any plant or animal that has been genetically changed.

To give them certain traits, they have been re-engineered with genes from other species, including bacteria, viruses or other plants and animals.

Companies claim that genetically modifying crops helps them to grow more of a certain fruit or vegetable.

They also say it provides protection against disease, insects or drought.

Opponents of GMOs are concerned they may not be safe.

The two ballot questions voters will decide on are Measure 92 in Oregon and Proposition 105 in Colorado.

They call for labeling foods that have been genetically changed in any way.

Oregon and Colorado could become the first to pass this kind of referendum, a proposed law decided by voters rather than lawmakers.

Washington and California rejected similar proposals after expensive campaigns in 2013 and 2012.

Lawmakers in Vermont approved the labeling, but the issue is still being fought in the courts.

The referendums pit groups of foodies, organic farmers and nutrition supporters against many of the nation's leading food manufacturers.

The food companies have so far been successful in fighting GMO labeling laws.

They include Monsanto, the leading developer of genetically modified seeds, Kraft Foods and Coca-Cola.

Opponents fear labeling will brand their products as bad.

They worry people will not buy products containing GMOs because they will think the foods are unnatural or unsafe.

Labeling opponents also warn that new labels will make products more expensive.

Labeling supporters argue that consumers have a right to know what's in their food.

They believe the information will help people decide what to buy.

The fear that GMOs are dangerous is ungrounded, say scientists who have studied the issue.

A 2008 report by the National Academy of Sciences found no health problems associated with using GMOs.

Most of the processed foods in the United States, like canned soup, soda and frozen meals, contain some GMOs.

Foods such as peanut butter, wheat bread, milk, cheese, fruits and vegetables generally do not contain GMOs.

The current battle in Colorado reflects the positions from past fights over GMOs.

"What California really did was wake up the country," said Larry Cooper, co-chairman of Right to Know Colorado.

The California labeling vote lost.

However, Cooper said the effort helped raise awareness of the issue.

In Colorado, labeling supporters have raised just $700,000 to win public support for their position, Cooper said.

Labeling opponents, many of them rich companies, have raised $12 million.

"It's definitely a David-versus-Goliath thing," Cooper said.

"If they are so proud of GMOs, why would they be opposed" to a measure that advertises them on the label?

Cooper asked.

Opponents of labels argue that labeling could hurt the people they were designed to help.

Monsanto spokesman Thomas M. Helscher said that the food company opposes state-by-state labeling laws, like the upcoming votes in Colorado and Oregon.

"They don't provide any safety or nutrition information," he said.

Helscher added that they "will hurt, not help, consumers, taxpayers and businesses.

We support a federal approach which ensures food safety and consumer choice."

In Oregon, the ballot question has become the most expensive in the state's history.

As of the weekend, the two sides have raised $16.7 million, The Portland Tribune reported.

Monsanto alone has donated more than $4 million to defeat it.

On the other side, the Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps company has given $1.15 million to promote labeling in Oregon.

The company, which uses natural ingredients, has supported similar labeling battles elsewhere.

And in a move to influence the public, Ben &amp; Jerry's ice cream, which supports labeling, renamed its popular Chocolate Fudge Brownie flavor.

It is now called Food Fight Fudge Brownie.

Its name was changed to get the word out about the labeling battle and upcoming vote.

