Voters in two Western states are caught in fierce battles over whether genetically modified food must be labeled.

On Nov. 4, Oregon and Colorado will decide the fate of labeling laws for genetically modified organisms, or GMOs.

A GMO is any plant or animal that has been genetically modified, or somehow changed with outside DNA.

Companies say that genetically modifying crops or food animals is a useful way to increase yield or provide protection against disease.

Most processed foods in the United States, like canned soup, soda and frozen meals, contain some GMOs.

Foods like peanut butter, wheat bread, milk, cheese, fruits and vegetables generally do not.

Voters will see questions on their November voting ballots — Measure 92 in Oregon and Proposition 105 in Colorado — that call for labeling food so that buyers know whether they contain ingredients that have been genetically changed in any way.

The states could become the first to pass this kind of referendum, or public vote.

Washington state and California rejected similar proposals in 2013 and 2012, respectively, after expensive campaigns.

Lawmakers in Vermont approved the labeling, but the issue is still being fought in the courts.

The referendums pit groups of foodies, organic farmers and nutrition activists against many of the nation's leading manufacturers.

These include the biotechnology company Monsanto, Kraft Foods and Coca-Cola.

Large grocery chains and some farmers have joined the fight against the labeling.

Opponents fear labeling will brand their products as bad and make them less desirable, because people will think they are unhealthy.

They also say labeling will make products more expensive for consumers.

Those in favor of the labels argue that consumers are entitled to know whether their food contains GMOs.

They say the information will allow people to make informed decisions about what they are buying.

The current GMO debate raises fears from previous GMO debates about whether there might be health problems from what some anti-GMO people call "Frankenfoods."

That is ungrounded, say scientists who have studied the issue.

A 2008 report by scientists from the National Academy of Sciences found no health problems associated with using GMOs.

The current battle in Colorado reflects the positions from past fights over GMOs.

"What California really did was wake up the country," said Larry Cooper, co-chairman of Right to Know Colorado.

Even though the California labeling vote lost, Cooper said the effort helped raise awareness on the issue.

In Colorado, the supporters of the labeling campaign are behind in raising money.

Supporters raised $700,000 versus an estimated $12 million brought in by their opponents, many of them rich companies, Cooper said.

"It's definitely a David-versus-Goliath thing," he said.

"If they are so proud of GMOs, why would they be opposed" to a measure that advertises them on the label?

Cooper asked.

Opponents of labeling argue that labeling could hurt the people they were designed to help.

Monsanto spokesman Thomas M. Helscher said the food company opposes state-by-state labeling laws, like the proposed laws in Oregon and Colorado.

"The reason we don't support them is simple.

They don't provide any safety or nutrition information, and these measures will hurt, not help, consumers, taxpayers and businesses.

We support a federal approach which ensures food safety and consumer choice."

In Oregon, the ballot question has become the costliest in the state's history.

As of the weekend, the two sides have raised $16.7 million, the Portland Tribune reported.

Monsanto has donated more than $4 million to defeat Measure 92, it was reported.

On the other side, the Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps company, which has supported similar labeling battles elsewhere, has given $1.15 million.

And in a clever move to influence the public, Ben &amp; Jerry's, the Vermont ice cream company that supports labeling, renamed its popular Chocolate Fudge Brownie flavor.

The ice cream is now called Food Fight Fudge Brownie to raise awareness of the labeling battle.

