Violent protests broke out in Baltimore Monday after a black man died in police custody.

Rioting began out on the city's west side Monday afternoon after the funeral of Freddie Gray.

His spine was severely injured on April 12 after he was arrested.

Gray died a week later.

On Tuesday morning, city workers and citizens began slowly cleaning up after a night of violence.

They hauled away the burnt remains of vehicles and swept up shattered glass.

They also put out a massive fire that burned through the night.

The rioting following Gray's funeral was the city's worst example of racial violence since 1968.

Rioting broke out in Baltimore and in other cities throughout the United States after civil rights leader Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was killed.

On Tuesday, much of Baltimore was shut down.

Schools and many offices were closed and streets blocked off.

The mayor's office said that 144 vehicles and 15 buildings had been set on fire.

Around 200 people were also arrested.

Baltimore police said 15 officers were hurt in the riots.

Several of them were treated in the hospital early Tuesday after they were hit with bricks, stones and glass bottles.

Armed troops were sent to keep peace in the neighborhoods, including West Baltimore, where the violence was especially bad.

As many as 5,000 police officers from other cities came pouring into the city.

Some of them came from as far away as Washington and Philadelphia.

"What happened last night is not going to happen again," said Maryland Governor Larry Hogan.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said public transportation would be up and running.

She also said she was working to ensure that most government services operated normally.

Rawlings-Blake spoke Tuesday at a West Baltimore drugstore that had been set on fire.

"What happened last night means that more people are struggling."

As of Tuesday morning, no decision had been made about whether a baseball game between the Baltimore Orioles and the Chicago White Sox would have to be rescheduled again.

The game had been canceled Monday night because of the violence.

The Camden Yards baseball stadium is about five miles away from an area where much of the violence occurred.

Major League Baseball officials were considering moving the game, possibly to Washington, D.C.

The protests began Monday afternoon following Gray's funeral service, which was attended by thousands of people.

No officers have been charged in Gray's death, and police officials have released few details about his arrest.

The lack of information has concerned black Baltimore residents.

Many black people in Baltimore already do not trust the police.

In the middle of the afternoon on Monday, people began throwing rocks at police officers.

By 7:30 p.m. more than 100 people broke into a local shopping mall.

Many of the people were teenagers in hoodies.

They stole PlayStations, piles of shoes and clothing.

Police helicopters hovered overhead.

"This is the first time you see black people getting together," said Dejanaira Hall, 19.

She watched as the looters, or thieves, raced away with goods.

"We don't feel like anyone is on our side."

By late Monday, angry protests and fires spread from one end of the city to the other.

Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said that the city didn't have enough officers to maintain control.

Extra officers were expected to arrive late Monday and Tuesday.

Batts said they would help the police regain control of neighborhoods and enforce a weeklong curfew that would prevent people from being out at night.

Batts said he was upset by scenes of Baltimore's teenagers looting and burning.

Batts praised one woman who was filmed hitting her teenage son on the head for rioting.

"I wish we had more parents that took charge of their kids out there tonight."

U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch condemned the violence.

Lynch is the first black woman to serve as the country's top law enforcement officer.

She promised to work with community leaders to protect the safety and civil rights of all citizens.

Justice Department officials were conducting an independent investigation into Gray's death.

Lynch said that people who commit violence to protest Gray's death are hurting Gray's family.

They also are being unfair to the "peaceful protesters who are working to improve their community for all its residents," she said.

