The umpire waved to the crowd as he walked on the field.

Maybe he was joking, or just did it out of habit.

Today, there was no crowd.

On April 29, 2015, Major League Baseball held a "ghost game" — the first in its long history.

There were no fans in the stadium to watch the Baltimore Orioles defeat the Chicago White Sox, 8-2.

No one waited in line for a bathroom, or enjoyed the bright 72-degree afternoon.

No one snacked on Maryland crab cakes or booed when the umpire made a bad call.

Only three of the 45,971 green plastic seats at Camden Yards were occupied — by three scouts, who watch and rate players.

High above the scouts, in the press box, was a large group of curious reporters.

Many were shaking their heads in shock.

"Today's official paid attendance is zero," the press box announcer said.

Baltimore has been torn apart by riots in recent days because of anger over the death of Freddie Gray.

The young black man died after being arrested by Baltimore police.

The city is just now calming down, but the league decided to hold its first fan-less game over safety concerns.

Even with the unrest in the city, the game had to go on, because of Major League Baseball's long 162-game schedule.

Every team must play the same number of games.

This makes the standings fair at the end of the season.

The game moved quickly, lasting about two hours, which is short — for baseball.

The seventh-inning stretch featured a lightning-fast version of "Take Me Out to the Ballgame."

But there were no fans to sing along, or to stretch.

Playing a professional sport with no fans watching brought up some deep questions.

If there are no fans, is it still worth playing?

And if the fans are not needed, why do we watch?

What does home-field advantage really mean?

Is it about a familiar stadium for the players?

Or is it about the emotional need of our sports heroes to bond with their community?

That last question was especially appropriate this week in Baltimore.

The game was played without fans because it was thought to be too dangerous to allow them inside the gates.

The decision caused intense debate.

Adam LaRoche, first baseman for the White Sox, said the lack of fans had certainly taken away some of the meaning of the game.

"It's a big part of why we come out here and do what we do," he said in the dugout before the game.

"It's a shame that it's come to them not being able to come out and (enjoy) the game."

White Sox pitching coach Don Cooper admitted that playing in an empty stadium was "weird" and "different."

Without the help of fans, Cooper said, the players would have to find the motivation from inside themselves.

As manager of the Orioles, Buck Showalter has a voice that matters much in Baltimore.

He said it was not his place to imagine why the city had fallen apart.

Showalter said he could not possibly get into the mind of the city's young black men and pretend he understood their experience.

But, he added, he wanted the team to rally the city.

"There are some things I don't want to be normal," he said.

"I want us to learn from some stuff that's gone on, from both sides of it."

It was certainly not normal in the ballpark.

Showalter said he was careful about the language he used in the dugout because it was so easy to hear it from anywhere in the huge empty stadium.

Peering into the stadium from outside the gates, a small group of fans provided the only cheers: "O-R-I-O-L-E-S … Let's go, O's!"

The best views were across the street from the park, in the Hilton Hotel tower, where Orioles and White Sox banners hung from the balconies.

"You're taking away from the fans, but I understand there is bigger stuff going on than baseball right now," said Benjamin Fluke, 19, a criminal justice major at the University of Baltimore who watched from outside.

Lifelong Baltimore resident Richard Messick sat on a post on the sidewalk watching the strange spectacle.

"It breaks my heart that it had to come to this," he said, speaking of the riots that had left the city bruised.

As for the decision to hold a game in an empty stadium, he said it was an overreaction.

