Fires, looting and rioting broke out in Baltimore Monday night after a black man died in police custody.

The violence first broke out on the city's west side Monday afternoon after the funeral of Freddie Gray, whose spine was severed April 12 after he was arrested by police.

He died a week later.

On Tuesday, as a brilliantly sunny morning dawned, city workers and citizens began slowly cleaning up the debris from the night of violence.

They hauled away charred remains of vehicles, swept up shattered glass and continued to put out a massive fire that burned through the night.

The rioting following Gray's funeral was the city's worst episode of racial violence since 1968, when Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated.

Much of the city was shut down, with schools and many offices closed and streets blocked off.

Officials began tallying the damage to the worst-hit neighborhoods.

The mayor's office said there were 144 vehicle fires, 15 structure fires and about 200 arrests during Monday's violence.

Baltimore police said 15 officers were hurt and that several were still being treated in the hospital early Tuesday after they were struck by bricks, stones and glass bottles.

Armed National Guard troops began gathering in heavy-duty tan-colored vehicles to watch over Baltimore.

At the same time, as many as 5,000 police officers were pouring into the city, some from as far away as Washington and Philadelphia.

"What happened last night is not going to happen again," Maryland Governor Larry Hogan told reporters as he toured damaged areas.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said public transportation would be up and running and that she was working to ensure that most government services operated normally.

Speaking Tuesday at a West Baltimore drugstore that became a battleground Monday, Rawlings-Blake said, "What happened last night means that more people are struggling."

As of Tuesday morning, no decision had been made about whether Monday night's baseball game between the Orioles and the Chicago White Sox, postponed due to the violence, would be put off for a second time.

The Camden Yards baseball stadium is about five miles away from the scene of some of the worst of the unrest.

Major League Baseball officials were considering moving the game series, possibly to Washington, D.C., if the problems persisted.

The streets erupted Monday afternoon with angry protesters after Gray's funeral service, attended by thousands of mourners.

No officers have been charged in Gray's death, and police officials have released few details about his arrest.

This has fueled concerns about transparency among black Baltimore residents who already had a fraught relationship with police.

Protesters began throwing rocks midafternoon on Monday, and by 7:30 p.m. more than 100 people began looting Mondawmin Mall.

Many of them were teenage boys in hoodies.

Rioters shattered glass windows to get into the shopping mall, and dozens of people flooded in and then left carrying PlayStations, piles of shoes and clothing.

Meanwhile, police helicopters hovered overhead, barking orders on loudspeakers to clear the area.

"This is the first time you see black people getting together," Dejanaira Hall, 19, a demonstrator who watched as looters raced away with goods.

"We don't feel like anyone is on our side."

Police in riot gear stormed the mall and cleared the area.

As they left, violence spread throughout the city and continued on and off through the night.

Arsonists continued to set cars on fire early Tuesday morning, Baltimore police said in a statement posted to Twitter.

"We are receiving reports of criminals throwing cinder blocks at passing fire engines as they are responding to fires on Fulton Ave." At least one person was shot, a 51-year-old woman who was hit in the leg near Fulton Avenue.

As looting and fires spread from one end of the city to the other late Monday, Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said that the city didn't have enough officers to maintain control.

"They just outnumbered us and outflanked us," Batts said.

"We needed to have more resources."

He said the extra officers arriving late Monday and Tuesday would help the police regain control of neighborhoods and enforce a weeklong curfew.

Batts said he was dismayed by scenes of Baltimore's teenagers looting and burning.

"This is not protesting.

This is not your First Amendment rights," said Batts, who praised one woman who was filmed smacking her teenage son on the head and pulling off his hood.

"I wish we had more parents that took charge of their kids out there tonight."

Governor Hogan said he waited until he received a request from the city before sending in the National Guard.

"I have not made this decision lightly," he said in a televised news conference Monday evening.

"The National Guard represents the last resort to restore order.

... Baltimore city families deserve peace and safety in their communities."

U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch — the first African-American woman to serve as the nation's top law enforcement officer — condemned the violence.

She promised to work with community leaders to "protect the security and civil rights of all residents," as federal officials conduct an independent investigation into Gray's death.

"Those who commit violent actions, ostensibly in protest of the death of Freddie Gray, do a disservice to his family, to his loved ones," Lynch said in a statement.

They also hurt the "legitimate peaceful protesters who are working to improve their community for all its residents," she said.

