No one has ever photographed British street artist Banksy, who goes by one name.

But that doesn't mean people all over the world don't know who he is.

Banksy began his career spray-painting buildings in Bristol, England.

Artworks placed in public areas like parks and streets without permission are called street art.

Banksy is one of the most well known street artists in the world.

In October, New Yorkers got to see Banksy's work.

That's because Banksy just ended a monthlong stay in the city.

During his visit, Banksy created a painting, a drawing or a carved object each day.

He then secretly placed them in public places.

He also used stencils and spray-painted on streets, under bridges and on buildings.

By the end of his stay, New Yorkers were wondering: Is he a fool or really talented?

Banksy is known for his stencils of people, words, shapes and animals.

He also opposes popular government ideas through his art.

In New York, Banksy put pictures of his work on a website and gave his fans clues about where to find the work.

But he never revealed a street address.

Fans had to track down his art.

Once they did, large crowds gathered to see Banksy's work.

Before he left New York, Banksy donated a painting that he drew on.

Before he put his stamp on it, the $50 painting was of mountains and a river.

Banksy added a Nazi soldier from World War II to the painting, and then re-donated it to a Manhattan charity store called Housing Works.

The charity store put Banksy's version of the painting up for sale.

It eventually sold for $615,000.

The money helped the charity.

Some New Yorkers, such as Sean Lynch, like Banksy.

Lynch thinks Banksy's visit to the city was magical.

He liked hearing people talking about art that Banksy's work inspired.

He said that people from different places with different ideas were sharing stories.

"The walls started to talk to them, in a way," Lynch said.

But some New Yorkers see Banksy as a street punk and not an artist.

They urged him to go back to England by posting on websites like Twitter.

Many New Yorkers were offended by an essay Banksy wrote.

In the essay, he called the building that replaced the World Trade Center boring.

The World Trade Center was destroyed by a terror attack in 2001.

Banksy said the new building "so clearly (says) the terrorists won."

He wanted The New York Times to print the essay, but the newspaper wouldn't do it.

So Banksy posted it on his website.

The essay upset New Yorkers like Brian Major from Brooklyn.

"Enough!"

Major said.

"Shut up, Banksy!

Go home!"

A lifelong New Yorker, Major says he understands graffiti as an art.

But he doesn't think Banksy's art is very good.

He does think that Banksy is good at selling his work.

Professor Radhika Subramaniam agrees.

She says that Banksy is amazing because of the way he can gather large groups of people to see his secretive work.

New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg wasn't a fan of Banksy's visit to New York.

He called his graffiti a sign of a city falling apart and losing control.

On his last day in New York, Banksy tagged, or signed his name, to a building.

The building is located in Queens, one of the five main parts of New York City.

But Banksy didn't use spray paint.

Instead, he spelled out his name with giant balloon letters.

The inflatable letters were stuck to one of the building's walls and later taken down by police.

The police did not think the balloons were art.

The artist joked that his farewell artwork was "full of hot air."

