Many parents do not like dolls because they can send the wrong message to children.

They may give girls the wrong feeling about their bodies because they do not look like real girls.

They look too perfect.

Dolls might also keep girls from trying activities that boys have always done.

Many dolls shop and wear high heels.

They could encourage girls just to shop and wear high heels too.  There are new kinds of dolls for sale this year.

The Lottie astronomer doll comes with a telescope, camera equipment and information about important women stargazers.  A Lego veterinarian's office comes with a mini-doll named Mia.

A GoldieBlox skydive action figure invites children to build a parachute pack.  These new dolls are for shoppers who are interested in STEM.

STEM stands for science, technology, engineering and math.

The dolls are meant to get girls interested in these subjects.

Parents are helping to make STEM dolls popular, says Jackie Breyer.

She writes for the magazine Toy Insider. Breyer said that STEM dolls are selling well.

For example, K'nex now sells a construction kit with two female dolls.

In the kit, the dolls get to build their dream house.  iBesties is a doll line that encourages girls to start a business.  I am Elemental is a line of female action figures.

One character, named Industry, can "repair anything that is broken.

"  STEM dolls are designed so that girls learn about STEM subjects at a young age.  Last summer, Purdue University announced results from a study.

It found that engineering and building toys are purchased for boys twice as often as girls.

Stores have been happy to carry STEM toys, including dolls. Toys R Us put Project Mc2 dolls on its "holiday hot toy list.

" The dolls are dressed well and know about science and technology.  Timeless Toys in Chicago sells Lottie and GoldieBlox toys.

Scott Friedland is in charge at Timeless Toys.

He said that the dolls encourage girls to learn about STEM subjects.

He also said the dolls are popular because they give a positive view of girls' bodies.

Friedland said the dolls look like kids instead of fashion models.

Lottie dolls wear bomber jackets, long-sleeve T-shirts, brown boots, cargo shorts and baseball caps.

They do not wear makeup, jewelry or heels.

Timeless Toys has sold seven times as many STEM dolls this year as it did last year, Friedland said.

GoldieBlox is the top-selling doll in the store.

Caroline Dickinson, who is 6, might find Project Mc2 dolls under the Christmas tree this year.

Each doll comes with a science experiment.

Caroline's dad, Dorian Dickinson, hoped she would play with it during Christmas and after.

"We usually lean toward STEM-based toys and even dolls for Caroline," Dickinson said.

One morning, Caroline asked if American Girl had a doctor outfit for her doll.

It doesn't.

"Finding STEM-based toys is becoming a bit easier," Dickinson said.

"We're also big fans of GoldieBlox and Legos."

Terrand Bashua is a mom in Chicago.

She is thinking about buying a GoldieBlox.

Its skydiving and zip-lining girl action figures help teach about engineering and problem-solving.

Bashua knows that there are not enough girls interested in STEM subjects.

There are even fewer African-American girls interested in STEM. Bashua wants to make sure her daughter has the confidence and support to study any subject.

Todd Mielcarz has a 10-year-old daughter.

She plays with Barbie, Monster High and American Girl dolls, and science kits.

"She used to be all about princess but has moved away from that and plays with the dolls in more of everyday-type scenarios," he said.  Mielcarz said he would rather buy a STEM doll than a Barbie doll for his daughter.

