Cuba has produced some of the world's great baseball players.

Many Cuban-born players do not play in their own country, however.

Instead, they choose to play in other countries where they can earn more money.

Officials in Cuba have made new rules to try to keep their players from leaving.

The island's national league began its 54th season on Sunday.

Cuba is a poor country and its league pays less than leagues in other countries.

As a result, some players leave Cuba with dreams of becoming rich.

Many start playing in the American and Canadian leagues, known as the major leagues.

With so many players leaving, the overall talent level of the Cuban league has gone down.

Peter C. Bjarkman studies the history of Cuban baseball.

He says that the Cuban league is in real trouble.

"There's no way that economically Cuba is going to keep enough top players in the country to have the quality of league they had five or 10 years ago," he said.

To understand the situation, there are a few things you need to know about Cuba's history.

From 1953 to 1959, there was a revolution in Cuba.

The fighters took over the government and set up a new kind of country.

Everything in Cuba changed, including its national baseball league.

Under the new system, players were paid by the government rather than by privately owned teams.

Also, the government banned players from playing outside of Cuba.

As a result, players who wanted to play in other countries had to leave Cuba illegally.

If a player wanted to play in the major leagues, for example, he would have to leave Cuba in secret.

He could never return.

In September 2013, however, some of these rules changed.

Cuba gave its players more freedom.

In exchange, it hoped that fewer players would decide to leave Cuba for good.

The new rules allow ballplayers to play in countries like Japan and Mexico.

The rules say that they have to come back to Cuba to play during the year as well.

In addition, the Cuban league has started paying players more money.

Cuban officials hoped that these changes would help keep talented players from leaving.

Overall, however, it does not seem to be working.

This summer, outfielder Rusney Castillo left Cuba.

He signed a deal with the Boston Red Sox.

The Red Sox will pay him $72.5 million over seven years.

This is even more money than Cuban outfielder Jose Abreu makes for playing on the Chicago White Sox.

Last October, Abreu was given a salary of $68 million over six years.

Such large paychecks are hard for Cuban players to say no to.

This year alone, 13 Cuban players were hired by major league teams.

Last year, only 10 were hired.

It seems that the problem for the Cuban national league is getting worse.

Money is not the only reason that players leave Cuba.

Another reason is that many people see the major leagues as the highest level in baseball achievement.

Some Cuban players want to show that they can play among the world's best players.

For example, Odrisamer Despaigne, 27, left Cuba this past February.

Three months later, he was hired by the San Diego Padres.

"I needed new challenges," he explained.

"That's why I left my country, to achieve my dream of playing with the best in the major leagues."

The rule changes have not kept players like Despaigne from leaving.

Meanwhile, young Cubans continue to dream of playing baseball in other countries.

Take 15-year-old Ernesto Medina, for example.

He dreams of being a great baseball player one day.

"To start, I'm dreaming of playing for Industriales, the greatest Cuban baseball team in my opinion," he said.

He does not want to stay in Cuba forever, though.

"Afterward of course I'd like to play in the major leagues."

