Cuba has produced some of the world's great baseball players.

Many Cuban players do not play in their own country, however.

Officials have made new rules to try to keep Cuban players from leaving.

Cuba is a poor country.

Its baseball league pays less than leagues in other countries.

As a result, some players leave Cuba with dreams of making more money.

Many start playing in the United States and Canada, commonly known as the major leagues.

As players leave, the talent level of the Cuban league goes down.

This is sad for Cuban baseball fans.

The island has a long and proud baseball history.

In fact, baseball is the official sport of Cuba.

The country continues to have great players.

The problem is that so many of them do not play in Cuba.

To understand the situation, there are a few things you need to know about Cuba's history.

From 1953 to 1959, there was a revolution in Cuba.

The fighters took over the government and set up a new kind of country.

Baseball changed a lot under the new system.

The new government banned players from playing outside of Cuba.

This was meant to keep baseball talent on the island.

In some ways, it had the opposite effect.

Ballplayers who wanted to play in other countries started to leave Cuba illegally.

If a player wanted to play in the major leagues, for example, he would have to leave Cuba in secret.

He could never return.

In September 2013, rules were changed to try to fix the problem.

Cuba gave its players more freedom.

In exchange, it hoped that fewer players would leave.

The new rules allow ballplayers to play in countries like Japan and Mexico.

The players have to come back to Cuba during the year and play there as well, though.

In addition, the Cuban league has started paying players more money.

The changes do not seem to be working.

Cuban players continue to join the major leagues.

This summer, outfielder Rusney Castillo left Cuba.

He signed a deal with the Boston Red Sox.

The Red Sox will pay him $72.5 million over seven years.

Big salaries like Castillo's are hard for Cuban players to say no to.

This year, 13 Cuban players were hired by major league teams.

Last year, 10 were hired.

It seems that the problem for the Cuban national league is getting worse.

Money is not the only reason that players leave Cuba.

Another reason is that many players simply would rather play in the major leagues.

They see it as the highest level in baseball.

Playing in the major leagues shows that you can play among the world's best ballplayers.

For example, Odrisamer Despaigne, 27, left Cuba this past February.

Three months later, he was hired by the San Diego Padres.

"I needed new challenges," he explained.

"That's why I left my country, to achieve my dream of playing with the best in the major leagues."

The rule changes have not kept players like Despaigne from leaving.

Meanwhile, young Cubans continue to dream of playing baseball in other countries.

Take 15-year-old Ernesto Medina, for example.

He dreams of being a great baseball player one day.

"To start, I'm dreaming of playing for Industriales, the greatest Cuban baseball team in my opinion," he said.

He does not want to stay in Cuba forever, though.

"Afterward of course I'd like to play in the major leagues."

