The Red Sox celebrated their winning of the World Series with a parade that stretched through Boston.

For the third time in 10 years, the Red Sox won the national baseball championship.

They carried the World Series trophy through their city in a "rolling rally" of "duck boats."

The boats have wheels so they can drive like trucks.

But, they can also float in the water.

Thousands of fans came out to watch the parade.

The most emotional moment happened early Saturday.

The vehicles stopped at the Boston Marathon finish line.

The spot was near where two explosions killed three people watching the race on April 15.

Outfielder Jonny Gomes placed the trophy on the finish line.

Then he and catcher Jarrod Saltalamacchia held Red Sox jerseys with the words "BOSTON STRONG" and the number 617.

All telephone numbers in Boston begin with those numbers.

The Red Sox hung a jersey with that message in the dugout during the season.

"That was an emotional moment," Gomes said.

"To bring the World Series trophy to the finish line."

The Red Sox had left Boston to go on a road trip the day of the Marathon.

On the way to the airport, they saw ambulances racing to the explosions.

Team Manager John Farrell remembered that moment.

"That's going to bring back a lot, and a lot of uncertainty at that moment," Farrell said, "because no one knew where to turn next."

Second baseman Dustin Pedroia said: "We played for the whole city, what the city went through."

Boston's season was stunning.

The team started in last place.

They won the World Series with a 6-1 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals in Game 6 on Wednesday.

It was the first time the Red Sox won the Series in Boston in 95 years.

But Pedroia was not surprised.

"The way we started spring training, it seemed like everybody counted us out," he said.

"We always said, 'One day closer to a parade.'

It's here."

A rally took place in Red Sox stadium before the ceremony.

Then the team got onto 25 duck boats.

The boats are normally carry tourists.

They come in pink, yellow, lime green, white and other colors.

Some even had beards made of carpet attached on the front.

Players still had their beards, which some had grown all season long.

The beards were something the team used to rally around.

They did not want to cut them while they were winning.

"Hopefully, we can all get together and shave them for a good cause," third baseman Will Middlebrooks said.

Some fans also were at rallies after the 2004 and 2007 championships.

"This may be the best parade yet," said Charles Butler, 48, of Boston.

This was his third.

"It is the best thing that could have happened to Boston right now."

There were a lot of police at the event, for safety reasons.

Many fans in the crowd wore Red Sox gear.

Some had foam beards and held signs "Papi for Mayor."

That's in honor of World Series MVP David Ortiz, who is called "Big Papi."

That is Spanish for daddy.

Ortiz hit a grand slam in the AL championship series against the Detroit Tigers.

Without that hit they might not have made it to the World Series.

When the vehicles slid into the river, the crowd cheered.

The trip leaving the stadium was delayed, however.

A truck carrying a band that had played at the ceremony became stuck in the ground.

A duck boat drove up in front of it.

A rope was attached between the vehicles.

Then the boat pulled the truck loose.

Less than three hours later, the rally was over.

"We were ready to go another lap," Gomes said.

"We didn't want it to end.

It was pretty fun."

