Nicole Giambalvo and Kathryn Dungan had met together three times, though Dungan hadn't spoken yet.

Giambalvo was worried that she wouldn't be able to connect with Dungan.

Dungan is slow to speak and express herself.

It's been a challenge for her.

Kids like her are said to have special needs.

The Rising Stars Buddy Baseball program in Wheaton, Illinois, tries to help young people with special needs.

The program lets them play sports.

Kids without special needs help them out.

The program matches the kids together and then lets them play together on the field.

The girls were paired in the program.

At the time they met, Dungan, then 13, was shy.

She liked nail polish and Disney princesses.

Baseball didn't interest her.

Today, Giambalvo and Dungan are both 18.

Now, they count down the days each week until they can see each other again on a baseball field.

The pair gets together for five Tuesdays in July and August.

They hold hands as Giambalvo leads Dungan to first base after her hit goes airborne.

Then, while waiting to make a catch, they giggle together in the outfield.

The girls' friendship doesn't end on the baseball field.

It spills over to Taylor Swift concerts, trips to go swimming and other activities.

They've been friends for five years now.

The number of "buddy" or "inclusion companion" sporting opportunities is multiplying across the country.

Supporters of children with special needs say they benefit young people.

The programs help them grow up with a better understanding and openness toward people with disabilities.

Generations before them weren't so open-minded.

Special Olympics Unified Sports is an international program.

It puts athletes with special needs on the same fields as athletes who can play normally.

Since the mid-1980s, it has grown to include 115,000 people in the U.S. and 700,000 around the world, said Amie Dugan.

She works for Special Olympics North America.

"Being a teammate and playing together on a team is one of the fastest shortcuts to friendship and understanding," Dugan said.

In Wheaton, the Buddy Baseball program is now in its 23rd season.

Many of the 80 players and 100 buddies keep returning after many years.

They're surrounded by family and friends, who cheer them on.

Every player bats once in each inning.

The teams, which are more interested in having fun than keeping score, play until the games end at a set time.

Dungan struggles to express herself.

During the buddies' first several meetings, she stayed quiet.

However, in time, Giambalvo learned how to motivate her new friend.

She would pretend they were princesses, not baseball players.

She listened to the way Dungan spoke with her parents and two brothers.

Then she used similar phrasing to prompt her to talk, she said.

MK Dungan, Kathryn's mother, said she searched for years to find meaningful activities for her daughter.

Then she found Buddy Baseball.

It thrilled her to see Kathryn enjoying the weekly baseball outing.

Kathryn even talked about it for days beforehand.

"As a parent, you just want your kids to be happy," she said.

"But when your kid clicks with someone who really cares about them and wants to make them happy … there is nothing like it."

She's "so thankful that this exists for them."

Some pairs have been together for several years.

They return home from college and even full-time jobs to be back on the field with their old friend.

Giambalvo is now a student at Elmhurst College.

She said she plans to keep returning each summer for as long as she can to spend time with Dungan.

Giambalvo now counts her among her closest friends.

"She's taught me probably more than I've taught her," Giambalvo said.

