The first three times they were together, Nicole Giambalvo wasn't sure she'd be able to make a connection with Kathryn Dungan.

The girls were paired in the Rising Stars Buddy Baseball program in west suburban Wheaton, Illinois, which matches students with special needs with partners on the field.

But Dungan, then 13, was shy and preferred nail polish and Disney princesses to running bases and wearing a batting helmet.

Today, Giambalvo and Dungan, both 18, count down the days each week until they can see each other again on a baseball field for five Tuesdays in July and August.

They hold hands as Giambalvo leads Dungan to first base after her hit goes airborne, and they giggle together in the outfield while waiting to make a catch.

Organizers say the girls' five-year friendship — which spills over from the baseball field to Taylor Swift concerts, trips to the local swimming pool and other activities — is an inspiring example of the meaningful bonds formed in programs like Buddy Baseball, in which young people with special needs are exposed to sports with the help of kids without similar challenges.

And as the number of "buddy" or "inclusion companion" sporting opportunities continues to proliferate across the country, advocates for children with special needs say young people today are growing up with a better understanding and openness toward people with disabilities than the generations before them.

Special Olympics Unified Sports, an international program that puts athletes with special needs on the same fields as typically functioning athletes, has grown to include 115,000 people in the U.S. and 700,000 around the world since the mid-1980s, according to Amie Dugan, director of marketing and communications for Special Olympics North America.

"What we have learned over the past decades is that being a teammate and playing together on a team is one of the fastest shortcuts to friendship and understanding and inclusion," Dugan said.

In Wheaton, the Buddy Baseball program is now in its 23rd season, with many of the 80 players and 100 buddies returning after many years.

Surrounded by family and friends, who pull up lawn chairs and pack coolers to cheer them on, buddies and players on eight teams compete against each other on four makeshift baseball fields at Briar Patch Park.

Every player bats once in each inning.

The teams, which are more interested in having fun than keeping score, play until the games end at a designated time.

"It is awesome," said Becky Herbold, chairman of the Wheaton Junior Women's Club Buddy Baseball program.

"Even as the participants get older and could move on, they keep coming back."

Giambalvo, who was inspired to become a buddy at the Wheaton program after watching her older brother participate, recalls being unsure of how to gain the trust of Dungan when they were introduced.

Dungan has cognitive and expressive delays and was quiet during the buddies' first several interactions.

But in time, Giambalvo learned she could motivate her new friend by pretending they are princesses, not baseball players.

She listened to the way Dungan interacted with her parents and two brothers, then used similar phrasing to invoke a response, she said.

MK Dungan, Kathryn's mother, said after years of searching for meaningful activities for her daughter, she was thrilled to see Kathryn not just enjoying the weekly baseball outing, but talking about it for days beforehand.

"As a parent, you just want your kids to be happy no matter what their needs are," she said.

"But when your kid clicks with someone who really cares about them and wants to make them happy … there is nothing like it.

You're just elated and so thankful that this exists for them."

In the decades since Wheaton's buddy program started, head coach Gregg Bettcher has been heartened to see friendships formed on the field continue as the participants grow up.

Some pairs have been together for several years, returning home from college and even full-time jobs to be back on the field with their old friend.

There is no age limit for participants.

"It's just not about baseball.

It's about everything else that comes with it," Bettcher said.

Giambalvo, now a student at Elmhurst College, said she plans to keep returning to Briar Patch Park in Wheaton each summer for as long as she can to spend time with Dungan, whom she now counts among her closest friends.

"She's taught me probably more than I've taught her," Giambalvo said.

