Before the basketball team existed, Silas Hardiman would have punched a kid.

A classmate last month made an offensive comment about the boy's appearance.

However, the 11-year-old considered the consequences before making his next move.

"If I would have hit him," Silas said, "I would have been kicked off the team or benched."

A new program is helping sixth-graders across Akron, Ohio, learn to behave and believe in themselves.

It uses their love of basketball to achieve the community's desire to see these boys grow into respected and respectful men.

Silas is among 76 students at seven Buchtel and East elementary schools who participate in the extracurricular character-building program.

Basketball and other sports normally aren't available until seventh grade.

School administrators see promise in putting more resources in middle school, where disciplinary actions rise sharply as boys undergo problematic physical and emotional changes.

They also see the benefit in focusing on East and Buchtel.

Those schools together enroll 23 percent of the public school system's students, but account for 36 percent of its out-of-school suspensions.

The basketball program costs less than $10,000 and is funded in part by a $1,540 grant from Akron-based DC Heating & Cooling Inc.

The program already is paying off, said student support director Dan Rambler.

"Honestly, I don't know that there is a perfect answer," Rambler said of Akron's above-average student discipline problems.

Those problems are concentrated in Akron neighborhoods where police tell him there is more crime.

"I think we all connected on the idea of combining mentoring and athletics to positively impact school climate.

It was really a perfect marriage of all the things we want to do in student service," Rambler said.

Students in the program gather once a week after school.

They normally spend 15 minutes on the basketball court and then 105 minutes in a classroom helping each other catch up on homework and assignments while listening to mentors, or experienced people who can give advice.

These mentors specialize in minority youth.

Each Saturday, the seven teams play.

The first game tipped off in early December with more than 200 students, parents and educators crossing the city.

The weekly practices began in October and the final match is set for March 5.

As the six-month program progresses, student-athletes are coming to realize that if they get into  trouble or fail to meet weekly academic goals they don't get to play.

Teachers and testing software set the academic goals.

The boys are behaving and excelling in reading and math, school administrators said.

"I decide if they're eligible to play," said Kyle Earley.

He reviews weekly progress reports and makes the students run tough drills for bad behavior.

The youth pastor at Mount Calvary Baptist Church graduated from an Akron high school in 1998.

He coached middle school basketball in the city after high school.

Having witnessed truancy and other behavioral problems last year as a mentor, Earley bounced the idea of creating a sixth-grade basketball league off Angela Harper, the principal at Crouse school.

She passed the notion along to Rambler and others in charge of student discipline, programs and athletics.

Earley brought in his sister, Ciara Dennis, a psychologist at Minority Behavioral Health Group.

Dennis' plan helps the mentors teach the boys to take responsibility for their own actions, to redirect anger, to understand and respect others and to be proud of who they are, liberating them from situations that keep many inner-city youth from their dreams.

Most of the mentors are counselors and case workers at the mental health group.

The health agency focuses on the needs of underserved populations by providing training and support to children and adults in churches, schools, homes and throughout the community.

"We want to touch what they touch and be where they are," Dennis said of a sincere, holistic approach to mental health.

The after-school basketball program is part of a larger effort to get mentors, especially black men, in a position where they can positively influence students at a critical age.

This year and last, experts have been sent out daily to develop meaningful relationships that can help student behavior.

The relationships ultimately improve learning.

During the school day at Crouse, the friendly John Hafford inspires students who get off-track.

After school at Leggett Elementary, he leads children in a basketball program that is not part of Earley's project.

On top of the strategically placed mentors in schools where discipline rates have dropped, the district has embraced a broader iCare Mentoring program led by Jonathan Greer, the founder of the faith-based Man-Up movement.

Greer has been training mentors monthly.

He aims to recruit 500 mentors by May.

He's got 183 so far.

