Silas Hardiman would have punched the kid, before was on the basketball team.

A classmate last month made a mean comment about the boy's appearance.

However, the 11-year-old considered what would happen before making his next move.

"If I would have hit him," Silas said, "I would have been kicked off the team or benched."

A new program is helping sixth-graders across Akron, Ohio, learn to behave and believe in themselves.

It uses their love of basketball to achieve the community's desire to see the boys grow into respected and respectful men.

Silas is among 76 students at seven Buchtel and East elementary schools who participate in the character-building program.

Basketball and other sports normally are not available until seventh grade.

School administrators see promise in focusing more on middle school.

This is where disciplinary actions jump as boys undergo problematic physical and emotional changes.

They also see the benefit in focusing on East and Buchtel.

Those schools together have 23 percent of the public school system's students, but account for 36 percent of its out-of-school suspensions.

The basketball program costs less than $10,000 to run.

It is funded in part by a $1,540 grant from Akron-based DC Heating & Cooling Inc.

The program already is paying off, said student support director Dan Rambler.

"Honestly, I don't know that there is a perfect answer," Rambler said of Akron's above-average student behavior problems.

Those problems are mostly in Akron neighborhoods where police tell him there is more crime.

"I think we all connected on the idea of combining mentoring and athletics" to make things better at the school, he said.

"It was really a perfect marriage of all the things we want to do in student service."

Students in the program gather once a week after school.

They normally spend 15 minutes on the basketball court and 105 minutes in a classroom helping each other catch up on homework and assignments while listening to mentors, or adults who can give advice.

These mentors specialize in minority youth.

Each Saturday, the seven teams play.

The first game tipped off in early December.

More than 200 students, parents and educators crossed the city for the game.

The weekly practices began in October.

The final match is set for March 5.

As the six-month program progresses, student-athletes are coming to realize that if they get into  trouble or fail to meet weekly academic goals they don't get to play.

Teachers and testing software set the academic goals.

The boys are behaving and excelling in reading and math, school administrators said.

Kyle Earley decides who can play.

He reviews weekly progress reports.

Early makes the students run tough drills for bad behavior.

Earley is the youth pastor at a local church.

He graduated from an Akron high school in 1998.

He coached middle school basketball in the city after high school.

Having witnessed truancy and other behavioral problems last year as a mentor, Earley suggested the idea of creating a sixth-grade basketball league to Angela Harper, the principal at Crouse school.

She passed the notion along to Rambler and others in charge of student behavior, programs and athletics.

Earley brought in his sister, Ciara Dennis.

She is a psychologist at Minority Behavioral Health Group.

Dennis' plan helps the mentors teach the boys to be responsible for their own actions, to redirect anger, to understand and respect others and to be proud of who they are.

Doing these things frees them from the situations that keep many inner-city youth from their dreams.

Most of the mentors are counselors and case workers where Dennis works.

The health agency provides training and support to children and adults in churches, schools, homes and throughout the community.

"We want to touch what they touch and be where they are," Dennis said.

The basketball program is part of a larger effort.

The idea is to get mentors, especially black men, in a position where they can positively influence students at a critical age.  This year and last, experts have been sent out daily to develop meaningful relationships that positively affect student behavior.

The relationships ultimately improve learning.

The district has also become involved with a broader iCare Mentoring program led by Jonathan Greer, the founder of the faith-based Man-Up movement.

Greer has been training mentors monthly.

He aims to have 500 mentors by May.

He has 183 so far.

