A disease called "white nose syndrome" has killed a large number of little brown bats in New Jersey.

Surprisingly, another species called the big brown bat appears to be benefiting and even growing.

The population of little brown bats has dropped about 90 percent since 2008.

Back then, their hibernating numbers were about 30,000 in New Jersey.

There are so few now that the species might die out altogether, experts say.

Birth rates cannot keep up since the females produce only one baby bat, or pup, a year.

Big brown bats have also been infected by the disease.

They have actually thrived since white nose struck for a number of reasons, including the way they hibernate and even their body size.

In fact, there are so many more that they have begun to take over spots once occupied by little brown bats.

Federal officials estimate that 7 million bats of various species have died across the country since white nose was first detected in a cave near Albany, New York, in 2006.

The disease has now spread to 25 states.

Little brown bats become infected while hibernating for the winter.

The fungus leaves a white powder on their muzzles, ears and wings.

It causes the bats to move around while sleeping, which uses up a lot energy.

Since bats don't eat when they hibernate, they die of hunger.

The loss of bats can affect humans too.

Bats eat vast quantities of insects that carry diseases and damage crops.

Bats eat so many insects that they save U.S. farmers $4 billion worth of fruits and vegetables every year.

Researchers in New Jersey see some hope for the little brown bat.

Even though their overall population is still declining, the number who live after hibernation has gone up a bit each year.

The survival rate was 66 percent in 2010, and 71 percent last winter, according to a study by New Jersey's Department of Environmental Protection and Brooke Maslo, a wildlife ecologist at Rutgers University.

That's not enough to save the bats.

All of the little brown bats would have to live through the winter to start replacing the thousands lost to the disease.

"At some point we may not have enough bats left to replace those being lost," Maslo said.

Researchers across the country are close to finding treatments.

Some are looking to see if a certain bacteria that fights off fungus could help the bats battle infection.

Others are studying a fungus that might be more powerful than the white nose fungus but would not kill any bats.

Still another group is looking at substance that fights fungus called "chitosan."

It's found in the shells of sea creatures.

Jeremy Coleman works at the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service and is in charge of the government's effort to fight white nose.

He says if scientists sprayed an entire cave of hibernating bats with the treatments it might hurt other animals living in caves.

As a result, he says entire caves will not be treated for a while.

Even if the bats could fight off the disease, it could take hundreds of years for them to reach their population numbers before white nose, he said.

White nose does not affect all bats the same way.

A species called the tricolored bat and one called the northern long-eared bat have also been dying rapidly.

At the same time, the Virginia big-eared bat has survived.

They have been found alive in caves where other types of bats have been found dying all around them, said DeeAnn Reeder, an expert on white nose syndrome at Bucknell University.

In New Jersey, big brown bats have actually increased in numbers, even though they are sometimes infected with white nose syndrome.

MacKenzie Hall is a biologist at the Conserve Wildlife Foundation of New Jersey.

According to a recent report by Hall, the population has grown 50 percent since white nose first appeared.

Reeder says one reason is that big brown bats are larger.

They lose less heat during hibernation.

This means when the fungus makes them move around, they burn fewer calories and do not starve to death like the little brown bats.

Big brown bats also hibernate a month later and emerge a month earlier than little brown bats.

Because they hibernate less, the disease affects them less.

In addition, they hibernate in very small groups or alone.

Little brown bats hibernate close together in large groups, making it easier for the white nose to spread.

Finally, unlike many bat species, big brown bats produce two pups a year.

Having more babies makes it easier for them to increase their overall numbers.

