It's been a big news year for bears, especially in Maine.

Voters there face a question on Nov. 4 that has troubled other states with large numbers of bears.

Maine wants to keep its bear population low.

Yet at the same time animal rights groups are trying to outlaw certain hunting methods that would help it do just that.

Maine voters will decide on a hunting ban, which will appear on the November voting ballot.

The fight to change Maine's hunting laws has shined a light on its special position.

It is the only state other than Alaska where hunters may use bait, traps and dogs to nab bears.

Voters are being asked whether these methods should be banned.

With a ban in place, they would only be allowed in cases of protecting property, public safety, or for research.

"The fact is, you don't need to use these methods to hunt the animals," said Wayne Pacelle of the Humane Society, an animal rights group.

"Hunting is supposed to give the animals a chance."

The Humane Society supports Mainers for Fair Bear Hunting.

It is the group leading the fight to change Maine's hunting rules.

On the other side of the battle is a group called Save Maine's Bear Hunt.

They say the Humane Society's involvement shows that this is a fight being paid for by outside groups.

They suspect it is part of a larger goal of ending hunting for sport across the nation.

Save Maine's Bear Hunt supporters include Maine's wildlife department.

It estimates that Maine has more than 30,000 black bears.

"We have one of the largest bear populations in the country, certainly on the East Coast," said James Cody of Save Maine's Bear Hunt.

Cody said 93 percent of the kills in last year's bear hunt involved one of the three methods that could be banned.

State wildlife officials said bait was used in 72 percent of kills.

The bait is usually buckets filled with junk food and sweets.

Stopping the methods would send bear numbers soaring.

It would also destroy the state's bear-hunting business, Cody said.

Also on the "no" side fighting the ban are the National Rifle Association, labor unions and Governor Paul LePage.

They face a large amount of money being spent by the Humane Society, the ASPCA and other animal rights groups to promote the ban.

People against the ban would seem to have recent news on their side.

Incidents have occurred in states with big bear numbers.

The most well-known of these happened last month in New Jersey, where a 22-year-old hiker was attacked and killed by a black bear.

Officials killed the bear.

A police report described it as a large male weighing 250-300 pounds.

Also last month, a Santa Barbara County, California, woman fought off a black bear.

It attacked her while she was out walking her dogs.

Not all the stories have been so grim.

Smokey Bear celebrated his 70th birthday and took his message of fire safety onto social media.

But the Maine debate highlights a national problem: Black bear populations have increased, thanks to conservation efforts to protect the species.

At the same time, there have been more encounters between bears and humans in many areas.

In Ridgewood, New Jersey, police last month captured a black bear wandering near an elementary school.

Wildlife officials there say reports of bear sightings have increased 23 percent over last year.

The bear in Ridgewood had climbed a tree and was shot with a tranquilizer gun.

It was released back into the wild.

The latest surveys show the "no" side that is fighting the ban is ahead in Maine by a few percentage points.

However, the "yes" side is still hopeful.

