Bears have had a big year in the news, especially in Maine.

Voters there face a question on Nov. 4 that has troubled other bear-heavy states: how to keep the species' population low in the face of pressure from animal rights groups to ban certain hunting methods.

The battle in Maine focuses on a hunting ban, which will appear on the voting ballot.

The fight has shed light on Maine's unique place in the wildlife world.

It remains the only state other than Alaska where hunters may use bait, traps and dogs to nab bears.

Voters are being asked whether these methods should be banned.

There would only be exceptions to protect property, public safety, or for research.

"The fact is, you don't need to use these methods to hunt the animals," Humane Society Chief Executive Wayne Pacelle said.

"Hunting is supposed to give the animals a chance, and this stacks the deck so badly."

The Humane Society supports Mainers for Fair Bear Hunting.

It is the group leading the fight to change Maine's hunting rules.

Opponents are led by a group called Save Maine's Bear Hunt.

They say the Humane Society's involvement shows that this is a fight being paid for by outside groups.

They suspect there is a larger plan to end sport hunting nationwide.

Save Maine's Bear Hunt supporters include the state's Department of Inland Fisheries and Wildlife, which estimates Maine has more than 30,000 black bears.

"We have one of the largest bear populations in the country, certainly on the East Coast," said James Cody, the campaign manager for Save Maine's Bear Hunt.

Cody said 93 percent of the kills in last year's bear hunt involved one of the three methods that could be banned.

State wildlife officials said bait was used in 72 percent of kills.

The bait is usually buckets filled with junk food like donuts and sweets.

Eliminating the methods would send bear numbers soaring, and it would destroy the state's bear-hunting business, Cody said.

Heavy-hitters on the side saying "no" to the ban include the National Rifle Association, the AFL-CIO and Governor Paul LePage.

They face a massive amount of money being spent by the Humane Society, the ASPCA and other animal rights groups to promote the ban.

Opponents of the hunting ban would seem to have recent events on their side, given some incidents in states with big bear numbers.

The most well-known of these occurred last month in New Jersey.

A 22-year-old hiker there was attacked and killed by a black bear.

Officials killed the bear.

A police report described it as a large male weighing 250-300 pounds.

Also last month, a Santa Barbara County, California, woman fought off a black bear.

It attacked her while she was out walking her dogs.

Not all the stories have been so grim.

Smokey Bear celebrated his 70th birthday and took his message of fire safety onto social media.

But the Maine debate highlights a national problem: Black bear populations have increased, thanks to conservation efforts to protect the species, and so too have encounters between bears and humans in many areas.

In New Jersey, Ridgewood police last month captured a black bear roaming near an elementary school.

Wildlife officials there say reports of bear sightings have increased 23 percent over last year.

The bear captured in Ridgewood was released back into the wild after it climbed a tree and was shot with a tranquilizer gun.

The latest polls show the "no" side ahead in Maine by a few percentage points.

Supporters of the ban are hoping for last-minute help from a judge.

The state's wildlife department is against the ban and wants to use state money to fight the ballot measure.

Supporters of the ban hope the judge rules to prevent the use of state money.

That ruling is expected this week.

