Three years of drought have dried up California streams, rivers and wetlands.

One animal, the beaver, might be able to help the water flow again.

With their strong buck teeth and flat tails, beavers protect rivers against drought.

"This state has lost more of its wetlands than all other states," said Rick Lanman of the Institute for Historical Ecology in California.

Wetlands are swampy lands often alongside rivers or other bodies of water.

"Beavers can rebuild those wetlands."

To start a dam, they drag a tree across a shallow stream.

The beavers carry rocks and mud with their paws, and branches with their big front teeth.

The dams in beaver ponds block the water so it does not flow away.

Beaver dams help the environment in ways that humans cannot easily copy.

They turn land into a sponge that soaks up water.

Their dams create richer soil in which plants can grow.

They slow the flow of streams and keep bushes alongside streams healthy.

The bushes keep river banks from wearing away.

The dams help create wetlands that birds and deer like.

They also help the endangered fish and the California red-legged frog.

Beaver dams are good at helping drain ground water.

Because of that, they can help streams flow during the summer months.

Otherwise, the streams could dry up in the heat.

Besides California, other Western states are suffering drought.

It is not surprising that they also are turning to the beavers for help.

Michael M. Pollock is with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

Scientists are becoming interested in using beavers to bring back wetlands, he said.

"They create good wetland habitat much more cheaply" than other ways.

Beaver ponds are good for the environment, Pollock said.

"They also create a lot of wetland that provides a lot of food for fish."

Beaver dams create deep pools that have warmer water at the top and cooler water at the bottom.

High temperatures can hurt fish.

In the beaver pools, "fish are able to find the temperature that is ideal for them," Pollock said.

The California Department of Fish and Wildlife is starting to welcome the beaver.

Beaver experts support the change.

Kevin Shaffer works for the department.

He said it is looking into how beavers improve wildlife habitats and water flow.

This is not the first time people are using beavers to help the environment.

Beavers once lived in most of California.

In the 1800s, fur traders nearly wiped them out.

From the 1920s to 1940s, California used beavers to prevent river banks from wearing away.

During that time, the number of beavers grew from fewer than 1,000 to 20,000 by 1950.

No one knows how many beavers now live in California.

A beaver family can improve damaged streams more cheaply than humans.

Fixing streams, though, is more complicated than just moving in a family of beavers.

Beavers can cause serious damage to underground pipes and farmland.

Beaver dams can also flood homes.

That is why California allows beavers to be hunted.

They can also be moved or killed if they cause trouble.

The Fish and Wildlife Department is trying out man-made beaver dams in streams.

The department hopes they will work as well as the real thing.

Using man-made dams will mean the department will not have to move beavers to new areas.

These dams will also help avoid the damage beavers can cause.

