Three punishing years of drought have dried up California's streams, rivers and wetlands.

One animal, the beaver, may be able to make the water flow again.

Some environmentalists are considering bringing in beavers as a defense against drought.

With their strong buck teeth and flat tails, beavers are known as ecosystem engineers.

They once lived throughout California until fur traders nearly wiped them out in the 19th century.

"This state has lost more of its wetlands than all other states, and beavers can rebuild those wetlands," said Rick Lanman.

He is with the Institute for Historical Ecology in Los Altos.

Beavers begin their dams at night.

They start by dragging a tree across a shallow stream.

They then fill it in with rocks and mud carried with their paws, and branches dragged by using their big front teeth.

The dams keep water from flowing away.

The beaver dams help the environment in ways that humans cannot easily copy.

They alter land into a sponge that soaks up water.

Their gnawing and nesting habits promote richer soil and slow down water flow, improving endangered fish habitats.

Their dams raise the level of underground water.

This feeds bushes alongside streams that help keep river banks from washing away.

It also creates habitats for birds and deer, and even the endangered California red-legged frog.

Because beaver dams are so good at helping drain ground water, they can help streams flow during the summer months.

Otherwise, the streams could dry up.

It's no surprise that thirsty Western states are turning to the beavers with open arms.

"There's a growing interest in using beaver as a habitat restoration tool," Michael M. Pollock said.

He is an ecosystems expert with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Seattle, Washington.

"They create good wetland habitat much more cheaply" than other methods.

"Beaver ponds are beneficial," Pollock said.

"They also create a lot of wetland that provide a lot of food for fish."

Beavers can also help reverse the rising temperatures of water, which can harm fish.

Their dams create deep pools that have cooler water at the bottom and warmer water at the top.

Because of the different temperatures, "fish are able to find the temperature that is ideal for them at a given time," Pollock said.

The California Department of Fish and Wildlife is starting to welcome the beaver.

Supporters of beavers applaud the change.

"Our effort now is to show its many sides, sides that have always existed," said Kevin Shaffer, a fisheries manager for the department.

He said it is investigating how beaver dens improve wildlife habitats and water conservation.

The department is collecting information about beavers, their role in the environment, and current rules and laws affecting beavers.

Other dry states in the West have rules for managing beavers.

California allows beavers to be hunted and killed or moved if they cause trouble.

Utah has a beaver management plan, and New Mexico recently ordered its Fish and Wildlife department to come up with a plan.

Oregon, Washington and Idaho also have programs to move beavers.

"It would be great if we could recognize the benefit of the beaver," said Kate Lundquist.

She is the director of the Occidental Arts and Ecology Center's Water Institute, a group that is drafting plans for how beavers can help.

California used beavers to prevent erosion from the 1920s and 1940s in 58 counties, including those in the Bay Area around San Francisco and Santa Cruz, according to a recent study.

It proves that beavers are native to nearly all of California.

The beaver population grew from fewer than 1,000 to 20,000 by 1950.

No one knows how many beavers are currently in California.

A beaver family can improve damaged land more cheaply than humans, but repairing a habitat is not as simple as moving in beavers.

They can seriously damage underground pipes and farmland.

Beavers can also flood homes.

The Fish and Wildlife Department is experimenting with artificial beaver dams.

The man-made dams would mean the department would not have to move beavers, avoiding the damage beavers can cause.

