One-third of the food we eat depends on pollination by honeybees.

But many of these tiny workhorses in our food system are dying and no one is sure why.

Beekeeping groups have held conferences.

Researchers have organized task forces.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) recently reported that a range of factors -- from stress to pesticides -- may be responsible for the mysterious deaths.

Now agricultural and chemical companies are getting involved.

Missouri-based Monsanto Co. bought an Israeli bee research company two years ago and is hosting an industry conference on the problem.

Bayer CropScience, another big company, is building a 5,500-square-foot "bee health center."

Chemical giant Syngenta joined Bayer in developing a "comprehensive action plan" for bee health.

Bee expert Jerry Hayes was hired by Monsanto to run its bee research efforts.

"Now we have this very large company involved that knows how important bees are to agriculture," he said.

The industry's interest in finding a solution is financial.

Bees pollinate up to $20 billion in American agricultural crops.

Monsanto owns one of the country's largest fruit and vegetable seed producers, and many of those seeds depend on bees.

But some scientists and environmental groups argue that these companies are the culprits because of the pesticides they use.

In 2006, beekeepers started noticing that bees were abandoning their hives, a phenomenon scientists call  Colony Collapse Disorder.

Since then, the American bee population has dropped by an average of 30 percent every year.

Researchers, beekeepers and farmers are trying to figure out the cause.

Some researchers believe the agricultural system relies too heavily on chemicals and monocultures.

The planting of single crops such as corn and soybeans in the Midwest crowds out other plants and flowers.

The bees lose their source of pollen, the mainstay of their diet.

Marla Spivak, a University of Minnesota entomologist, said, "We have been systematically eliminating flowers that bees require for nutrition and survival."

Insecticides used to kill crop pests can be deadly to bees at high doses, Spivak added.

A class of insecticides called neonicotinoids are considered less toxic to mammals, so they are widely used.

In fact, neonicotinoids are used to coat most of the corn and soybean seeds planted in the U.S.

Huge numbers of bees died in the spring just when planters were spraying neonicotinoid on their corn crops.

Purdue University researcher Christian Krupke found high levels of the chemical in the bee tissue.

"I know, definitively, that there's a relationship between treated seed and spring die-offs," said Krupke.

He added that the chemical gets in the air and lands on dandelions and even on the bees themselves.

But the industry disputes a link between bee health and the neonicotinoids it produces.

"There's no scientific evidence linking neonics with bee health — period," said Dave Fischer.

He is director of environmental toxicity and risk assessment at Bayer CropScience.

He explained that Bayer relies heavily on bees for pollination, particularly in its canola fields in Canada.

"It would be a poor business model if we were poisoning the bees we depend on," he said.

Some researchers question whether neonicotinoids are even necessary.

The industry claims it boosts crop yields by 6 to 12 bushels an acre.

Krupke has done tests to see if that's true.

"We have not found any difference in yield or root damage — nothing," he said.

"It doesn't mean it never works.

But it means we certainly don't need to be putting it on every kernel of corn."

Union of Concerned Scientists president Doug Gurian-Sherman calls the bee deaths very serious.

He would like to see insecticide use discontinued as soon as possible.

Missouri's beekeepers would seem to agree.

Neal Bergman runs one of the state's largest bee operations.

He remembers a seven-year stretch in the 2000s when crop planes doused cotton fields with the insecticide malathion.

"They sprayed 400,000 acres of cotton every week," he said.

"It didn't matter how the wind was blowing or what time of day it was.

They sprayed over people, over animals, over beehives — everything."

Bergman says his bee population plunged, costing him $1 million and almost putting him out of business.

Since then, he's been wary of insecticides.

He'd like to see more coordination among farmers so they don't spray chemicals when the bees are around a particular crop.

Bergman and others in the beekeepers association are working to keep their bees healthy by using medicines and protein supplements.

Still, some say that time is running short to find out why so many bees are dying.

