After surviving years of drought and watching the U.S. cattle herd reach its lowest level in more than 60 years, Texas cattleman Bob McCan would just as soon steer clear of the U.S. government's latest meat-labeling rules.

For many U.S. consumers, it's a popular idea: Label packages to let them know what country the meat comes from.

But McCan's herd of roughly 4,000 includes cattle from Mexico.

There's no good reason to separate the animals when he sells them, he said.

All it would do is create hundreds of millions of dollars of extra handling costs that would get passed on, driving up the price at grocery stores.

"We don't want beef to become a luxury item," said McCan, a fifth-generation rancher from Victoria, Texas.

McCan, now the president-elect of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, is among a group of cattle producers and meat companies that has sued the U.S. Department of Agriculture for moving ahead in late May with new labeling rules.

The rules would require that the country where the cattle came from be included on beef packages.

In a lawsuit filed July 8 in U.S. District Court in Washington, the producers and companies claim the labels will hurt beef exports, and are unconstitutional as "compelled speech" that does not advance a government interest.

Backers of the new rules, who say labeling can be done at a minimal cost, are braced for another battle with cattle producers.

"They're totally wrong — consumers have the right to know where products are from," said Joel Joseph, chairman of the Los Angeles-based Made in the USA Foundation, a group that promotes labeling and products manufactured in the United States.

"It's just consumer information, the same kind of information that's on a label of a new car that says where an engine's from."

He offered some advice for McCan: "If he doesn't want to segregate his cattle, then he shouldn't get cattle from Mexico."

McCan said labeling is about how to sell the product, and should be left to the private sector.

"We're not anti-labeling at all," he said.

"We just kind of feel like the government doesn't really need to be in our marketing system.

It doesn't have to be dictated to us."

Marketing is everything that goes into selling a product, including packaging and advertising.

Cattle producers aren't the only unhappy ones.

The new labeling rules also could ignite a trade war with Canada, which is threatening to retaliate.

Last month, the Canadian government said the new rules discriminated against foreign competition.

Ottawa said it might respond by imposing tariffs on a long list of products, including pork, pasta, chocolate, cheese, office furniture and many more.

The Canadian government fears that its beef exports to the United States would decline under the new rules.

Canadian officials immediately complained to the World Trade Organization.

The WTO hears trade arguments between countries.

Labeling has become tortuous for the Agriculture Department.

Groups that favor labeling sued the department last year, accusing the government of dragging its feet on adopting new rules.

For consumer groups, labeling has become the dispute that never goes away, even though it wins strong backing in polls.

"I thought we were done with it, and all of a sudden it's still going on," said Chris Waldrop of the Consumer Federation of America.

Industry groups have opposed country-of-origin labeling since it first appeared in Congress' farm bill more than a decade ago, he said.

"They've been trying to delay it ever since," Waldrop said.

"This is just another effort to do that, but the public is not on their side on this."

A Consumer Federation poll in May said that 90 percent of Americans back mandatory labeling of meat products, he said.

McCan is not convinced.

"They might say they care, but most of them really don't care what country it comes from.

Beef is beef," he said.

John Masswohl, director of government and international relations for the Canadian Cattlemen's Association, said consumers put a higher value on price when they understand that labeling could result in a higher grocery bill.

He estimated that the new U.S. rules would cost Canadian cattle producers from $90 to $100 per animal.

Under the new rules, the labels will provide information detailing what countries the animals were born in, and where they were raised and slaughtered.

U.S. government officials say the new rules are legal and comply with WTO concerns.

But critics say the new rules did nothing to end discrimination against foreign cattle, which they say will continue the forced segregation of animals.

Cattle producers say the new rules will be particularly hard for ranchers and meat companies in border states such as Texas, the nation's top beef-exporting state.

With his ranch just three hours from the Mexican border, McCan said he has long included cattle from Mexico in his business.

"They've been tested and treated for everything under the sun before they come across the river, so they're clean animals and their health is good," he said.

"And usually they're just ready to go when we get them.

There's no safety concerns with those cattle coming in from Mexico.

If anything, they're even safer."

But Joseph, whose Made in the USA Foundation urged the USDA to pass the new rules, said labeling is both a health and safety concern for American consumers, who put more faith in U.S. products.

"You're getting a better product when you get American goods of any type," he said.

"And concerning food products, you're getting a safer, cleaner product.

Sanitation is better in the United States than it is in Mexico."

McCan worries that a prolonged labeling spat could sour trade relations with Canada and Mexico.

And they're the top two destinations for U.S. beef exports, which declined by 12 percent worldwide in 2012 from the year before, according to the U.S. Meat Export Federation.

