Texas cattleman Bob McCan wants nothing to do with the U.S. government's latest meat-labeling rules.

A lot of people say that they want shoppers to know where their meat comes from.

They want it to be on a label on the package.

But McCan's herd of roughly 4,000 includes cattle from Mexico.

If the beef has to be labeled, he has to split up the animals when he sells them.

There is no good reason for that, he said.

It would just cost him and others millions of dollars more to handle the cattle.

Those costs would get passed on.

Beef would cost more at the grocery store.

"We don't want beef to become" a very expensive item, said McCan.

He comes from a long line of ranchers.

McCan is with a group that speaks for cattle producers.

The ranchers and meat companies have sued the U.S. government about the new labeling rules.

The rules would mean that the country where the cattle came from has to be included on beef packages.

The groups claim the labels will make it harder to sell beef outside the country.

The rules are also unconstitutional, the producers and companies said.

People who like the new rules say the labeling will not cost too much.

They are ready to fight the cattle producers.

"Consumers have the right to know where products are from," said Joel Joseph.

He is with the Made in the USA Foundation.

That group is for labeling and products made in the United States.

Saying where meat comes from on the label is the same as saying where a new car's engine comes from, he said.

If McCan does not want to have to split up his cattle, "then he shouldn't get cattle from Mexico," he said.

McCan said whether the beef is labeled should be up to ranchers and meat companies.

"We're not anti-labeling at all," he said.

But the government should not  be involved., he added.

Cattle producers aren't the only unhappy ones.

The new labeling rules also could start a fight with Canada.

The neighbor to the north is threatening to fight back.

The Canadian government said the new rules make it harder to sell things in the United States.

It worries that it will sell less beef here.

It said it might make people in Canada pay more for products that come from America.

It would do this by putting a tariff on things like pork, chocolate and a lot of other stuff from the United States.

A tariff is a fee on something from outside of the country.

Canada complained to the World Trade Organization.

The WTO hears trade fights between countries.

The Agriculture Department is caught in the middle.

Groups that favor labeling sued the department last year.

They said the government was too slow to put the new rules in effect.

Consumer groups say Americans want labeling.

Nine of 10 people think packages should have to say where meat comes from, one pole said.

McCan is not convinced.

"They might say they care, but most of them really don't care what country it comes from.

Beef is beef," he said.

John Masswohl,  director of government and international relations for the Canadian Cattlemen's Association, said consumers care more about price.

The new rules would cost Canadian cattle producers $90 to $100 per animal, he said.

The new labels will say what countries the animals were born in, raised and killed.

McCan said he has sold cattle from Mexico for a long time.

His ranch is just three hours from Mexico.

"They're clean animals and their health is good," he said.

Cattle from Mexico is heavily tested and treated.

"If anything, they're even safer."

But Joseph said labeling is both a health and safety concern for Americans.

They trust U.S. products more.

His Made in the USA Foundation had urged the USDA to pass the new rules.

"You're getting a better product when you get American goods of any type," he said.

U.S. food is safer and cleaner, he added.

