Texas cattleman Bob McCan has survived years of drought and watched the U.S. cattle herd fall to its lowest level in more than 60 years.

He would just as soon not have to deal with the U.S. government's latest meat-labeling rules.

Labeling packages to let shoppers know what country their meat comes from is a popular idea with a lot of consumers.

But McCan's herd of roughly 4,000 includes cattle from Mexico.

There's no good reason to separate the animals when he sells them, he said.

All it would do is create hundreds of millions of dollars of extra handling costs.

Those expenses would get passed on, raising prices at the grocery store, he said.

"We don't want beef to become a luxury item," said McCan, a fifth-generation rancher.

McCan, now the president-elect of the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, is among a group of cattle producers and meat companies that has sued the U.S. Department of Agriculture for moving ahead in late May with new labeling rules.

The rules would require that the country where the cattle came from be included on beef packages.

The groups claim the labels will hurt beef exports and are unconstitutional.

Backers of the new rules, who say labeling can be done at a small cost, are ready for another battle with cattle producers.

"They're totally wrong — consumers have the right to know where products are from," said Joel Joseph, chairman of the Los Angeles-based Made in the USA Foundation.

The group promotes labeling and products manufactured in the United States.

Labeling where meat comes from is the same as labeling where a new car's engine comes from, he said.

He offered some advice for McCan: "If he doesn't want to segregate his cattle, then he shouldn't get cattle from Mexico."

McCan said labeling is a marketing tool that government should leave alone.

Marketing is everything that goes into selling a product, including advertising and packaging.

"We're not anti-labeling at all," he said.

"We just kind of feel like the government doesn't really need to be in our marketing system.

It doesn't have to be dictated to us."

Cattle producers aren't the only unhappy ones.

The new labeling rules also could ignite a trade war with Canada, which is threatening to fight back.

Last month, the Canadian government said the new rules discriminated against foreign competition.

Canada said it might respond by putting tariffs on a long list of U.S. products, including pork, pasta, chocolate, cheese, office furniture and many more.

The Canadian government fears that its beef exports to the United States would decline under the new rules.

Canadian officials immediately complained to the World Trade Organization.

The WTO hears trade arguments between countries.

Labeling has become difficult for the Agriculture Department.

Groups that favor labeling sued the department last year.

They accused the government of dragging its feet on adopting new rules.

For consumer groups, the labeling fight never ends, even though people back it in polls.

"I thought we were done with it, and all of a sudden it's still going on," said Chris Waldrop of the Consumer Federation of America.

Groups have fought labeling since proposals came up in congress more than a decade ago, he said.

A Consumer Federation poll in May said that 90 percent of Americans back mandatory labeling of meat products, he said.

McCan is not convinced.

"They might say they care, but most of them really don't care what country it comes from.

Beef is beef," he said.

John Masswohl, director of government and international relations for the Canadian Cattlemen's Association, said consumers care more about price when they understand that labeling could result in a higher grocery bill.

The new rules would cost Canadian cattle producers $90 to $100 per animal, he said.

Under the new rules, the labels will provide information about what countries the animals were born in, raised and slaughtered.

U.S. government officials say the new rules are legal and comply with WTO concerns.

But critics say the new rules did nothing to end discrimination against foreign cattle.

Cattle producers say the new rules will be particularly hard for ranchers and meat companies in border states such as Texas.

It exports the most beef of any state.

McCan said he has long included cattle from Mexico in his business.

His ranch is just three hours from the Mexican border.

"They've been tested and treated for everything under the sun before they come across the river, so they're clean animals and their health is good," he said.

"There's no safety concerns with those cattle coming in from Mexico.

If anything, they're even safer."

But Joseph said labeling is both a health and safety concern for American consumers, who trust U.S. products more.

His Made in the USA Foundation urged the USDA to pass the new rules.

"You're getting a better product when you get American goods of any type," he said.

"And concerning food products, you're getting a safer, cleaner product.

Sanitation is better in the United States than it is in Mexico."

McCan worries that a prolonged labeling spat could sour trade relations with Canada and Mexico.

And they're the top two destinations for U.S. beef exports.

