The pregnant cow, her belly bulging, nosed around rancher David Strawn's pickup.

She was hoping to find something good to eat on the floor of the truck.

For many years, Strawn's family raised cows, lambs and pigs on this lakeside property.

It is located about 40 miles north of Orlando, Florida.

But when his father died in 2002, Strawn shifted the family business to grass-fed cattle.

He eventually eliminated the other animals.

Strawn loves a good steak, but he insists on knowing that the creature it came from led the best life possible.

That means no antibiotics or hormones, which are used to help cattle grow larger.

It also means no grains and no confinement.

"These guys enjoy our pastures, the lakes," Strawn, 79, said recently as he gave a tour of his Deep Creek Ranch.

"They get gentle treatment.

Their bad moments are very short — at the end."

Supporters of grass-fed meat say it has less fat and is healthier than the traditional kind.

The American Grassfed Association also says the meat is better for the environment, provides jobs in smaller communities and is kinder to the animals.

"Those animals that are raised in a pen are the cow equivalent of a couch potato," said Strawn.

Not everyone agrees.

The National Cattlemen's Beef Association represents beef producers.

The group defends the use of feedlots, where cattle are fattened on grain in their final months after an initial diet of grass.

Other experts say there's little evidence that grass-fed beef is healthier.

One thing is clear: Grass-fed meat is usually more expensive and sometimes costs twice as much.

That's because small producers need more pasture land.

They also have higher costs to run their ranches than large commercial farms, which have more money and can raise cattle more cheaply.

Grass-fed cattle also grow to their final weight more slowly and provide less meat.

This requires higher prices to make a profit, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the government agency responsible for farming.

At Strawn's 700-acre ranch, each of the 150 or so animals eats about 25 pounds of food a day.

All of it is pesticide-free.

No one is sure how much grass-fed meat people are buying.

It is estimated to be a small fraction of the entire market.

It amounts to less than 5 percent of the meat sold in the U.S., experts say.

Not all brands are certified by the American Grassfed Association, which has strict rules.

To qualify for certification, animals must be fed only grass and graze for food most of their lives.

They must never be confined to feedlots, or be given antibiotics or growth hormones.

Also, they must be born and raised on U.S. family farms.

Deep Creek Ranch is not certified.

Strawn says it requires too much paperwork.

Emily Rankin is the owner of Local Roots farm store in Orlando.

She said grass-fed meat has grown more popular in the past few years, mostly among people concerned about health, the well-being of animals and eating locally produced food.

Elementary-school teacher Erika Maier has been buying grass-fed beef from Deep Creek Ranch for several years and said it is worth the long trip from her home.

This month she and several other families bought a 935-pound cow.

They split the $2,571 cost.

Maier freezes her portion and makes dog food out of the tongue, liver and heart for her German shepherd mix, Buddy.

She picks up her meat, already packaged, at a small slaughterhouse.

Strawn used to sell his meat to restaurants in South Florida.

Then he decided to sell directly to customers so he could get to know them better.

Strawn's love of the business extends to preserving the trees and wildlife that share the land with the cows, steers and bulls.

"I really like growing things," said Strawn, whose boyhood jobs on the ranch were to drive mules and wagons and slaughter cattle.

"I like caring for things."

It takes some people a while to get used to the firmer texture and reduced fat that grass-fed beef often has, but Maier said it is delicious and she feels healthier since she and her family have been eating it.

"We need to keep our money in the community," said Maier, a mother of a 10-year-old and a 12-year-old.

"We need to help the local farmer, and we need to do what's right for the animals."

