The humble bee — whose buzz and sting can be both nuisance and threat — is actually a critical piece of the American food chain.

Now though, the insect has won over the leader of the free world.

President Barack Obama is intervening on the bee's behalf as its habitat dwindles.

On May 19, the Obama administration announced the first National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honeybees and Other Pollinators.

The plan is to save bees, other small winged animals and their breeding grounds.

Scientists say Obama's attention to these creatures and their habitats is critical.

While bee colonies regularly die off during winter because of stressful conditions, their sharp decline has been called a potential ecological disaster by some environmentalists and academic experts.

Conservative Republican Representative Ted Yoho of Florida described the bee loss as "an essential thing (that) we need to pay attention to."

Obama's strategy will seek to protect the environment in a number of ways.

First, it will try to manage the way forests burned by wildfire are replanted.

It will also improve the way offices are landscaped and attempt to protect roadside habitats where bees feed.

For years, Obama has been fascinated by the bee and worried about the fate of the important inset.

"I have to say that it is mighty darn lovely having the White House acknowledge the indigenous, unpaid and invisible workforce that somehow has managed to sustain all terrestrial life ... for the past 250 million years," said Sam Droege, a U.S. Geological Survey wildlife biologist and an expert on native bee identification.

Bees — along with birds, bats and butterflies — play a key function in our food supply.

These creatures pollinate many different types of food, including fruit and vegetable crops, alfalfa and clover, nuts, seeds and fruits.

In addition to humans, cows, grizzly bears and delicate songbirds are some of the other species that rely on these pollinators to do their jobs.

Some estimates put the economic value of their pollinating activities at roughly $15 billion a year.

But over the past five years, there has been a rapid decline in the number of honeybee colonies.

A group of universities and research laboratories announced last week that beekeepers lost 42 percent of their colonies between April 2014 and 2015.

That is an 8 percent increase in loss compared with 2013.

John Holdren, assistant to the president for science and technology, said that Obama is concerned about this problem for many reasons.

In addition to the economic impact, colony loss may hint at larger, more widespread issues.

"If honeybee colonies are collapsing for a reason we don't understand," he said, "what is that telling us about our overall impacts and understanding of the ecosystems on which we depend?"

Obama has even agreed to have a beehive placed on the South Lawn of the White House grounds, along with a pollinators' garden.

When National Medal of Science winner May Berenbaum thanked him for caring about bees last November, he replied, "I do care about bees — and we're going to fix them!"

In 2013, Obama launched the White House Pollinator Health Task Force, which is providing the Obama administration with recommendations.

The federal government has undertaken two plans in the past: a 2007 action plan on honeybee colony collapse disorder and 2008 North American recovery strategy for monarch butterflies.

But this one, which has drawn on the work of 14 government agencies as well as private companies, is more ambitious.

The aim of this new initiative is to reduce honeybee colony losses during winter and increase the Eastern population of the monarch butterfly.

The government and private groups will also restore or improve 7 million acres of land for pollinators over the next five years.

The land will make it easier for pollinators to thrive in the wilderness.

Environmental groups have been pressuring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to outlaw certain pesticides that are toxic to bees.

In March, the EPA issued a ban on approving any new permits to use certain kinds of chemicals.

It is also accelerating its review of the effects that pesticides have on pollinators.

Not everyone thinks the administration is going far enough to protect the bees.

Simon Fraser University biology professor Mark Winston said Obama's team is not pushing big agricultural producers hard enough to grow diverse crops.

He also suggests large farms should dramatically cut the amount of toxic pesticides they put on crops.

"If you don't change farming and you don't change pesticide use, you're not going to make substantial changes in the health of pollinators," Winston said.

But others describe these efforts — especially on habitat — as significant.

W. Atlee Burpee &amp; Company has donated more than 1 million seed packets to the program.

The White House, National Park Service and Agriculture Department are distributing the seeds to Americans to plant in their yards.

The goal of the seed packets is to help grow gardens that will attract and support pollinators.

George Ball, the company's chief executive, explained they called the packets a butterfly and bee garden because "there are people who are afraid of bees, so we had to shade it a little bit to ensure it was widely distributed."

