The humble bee is most famous for its buzz and sting.

While both a nuisance and threat, this insect is actually a very important piece of the American food chain.

Many have been dying as they cannot find food to eat.

Now, the president is stepping in to protect the creature as its habitat disappears.

On May 19, the Obama administration announced the first National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honeybees and Other Pollinators.

The president hopes this plan will help save bees and other small winged animals.

These creatures live in areas that are being destroyed by humans through construction, agriculture and pollution.

The result is that bee colonies are disappearing fast.

Some environmentalists and experts say the decline in bees could become a disaster for our food supply.

Obama's plan aims to protect the environment in a number of ways.

First, it will try to manage the way forests burned by wildfire are replanted.

It will also improve the way offices are landscaped and attempt to protect roadside habitats where bees feed.

For years, Obama has been fascinated by the bee and worried about the fate of the important insect.

Sam Droege, a U.S. Geological Survey wildlife biologist and bee expert, is surprised that Obama cares so much about the nation's bees.

But he is grateful and knows the attention is warranted.

He called bees the "unpaid and invisible workforce" in America that has sustained all life on the planet for the "past 250 million years."

Bees — along with birds, bats and butterflies — are important parts of our world's food supply.

These creatures pollinate many different types of food, including fruit and vegetable crops, alfalfa and clover, nuts, seeds and fruits.

Humans are not the only ones who benefit.

Cows, grizzly bears and songbirds do as well.

All of these species — along with humans  — rely on pollinators to do their jobs.

Some estimates put the value of pollinating activities at roughly $15 billion a year.

However, over the past five years, there has been a rapid decline in the number of honeybee colonies.

In fact, it is estimated that beekeepers lost 42 percent of their colonies between April 2014 and 2015.

That is 8 percent more than was lost in 2013.

According to Obama's assistant for science and technology, John Holdren, the president realizes how important it is to find a solution for colony decline.

In addition to the economic impact, colony loss may hint at larger, more widespread issues.

"If honeybee colonies are collapsing for a reason we don't understand," he said, "what is that telling us about our overall impacts and understanding of the ecosystems on which we depend?"

Obama has even agreed to have a beehive placed on the grounds of the White House, along with a pollinators' garden.

This bee plan has two goals: reduce honeybee colony losses during winter and increase the population of the monarch butterfly.

In addition, the government will help protect 7 million acres of land across the country for pollinators over the next five years.

This land makes it easier for pollinators to thrive in the wilderness.

Habitat loss is not the only threat to bees.

Another danger is the use of toxic pesticides sprayed on plants.

Environmental groups have been pressuring the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to outlaw certain pesticides that are toxic to bees.

In March, the EPA banned the approval of any new permits for using certain kinds of chemicals.

The EPA will also speed up its review of the impact pesticides have on pollinators.

Not everyone thinks this is enough.

Mark Winston, a professor at Simon Fraser University, said Obama needs to push agricultural producers as well.

Winston believes these companies should find ways to grow crops that do not require pesticides that are harmful to bees.

Many people describe these efforts — especially protecting bees' habitats — as a step in the right direction.

In fact, W. Atlee Burpee &amp; Company has donated more than 1 million seed packets to the plan.

The White House, National Park Service and Agriculture Department are distributing the seeds to Americans to plant in their yards.

George Ball, the company's chief executive, explained they called the packets a butterfly and bee garden because "there are people who are afraid of bees."

The company hopes these gardens will attract and feed the pollinators that we all rely on.

