There are many reasons not to smoke cigarettes.

In Beijing, the capital of China, there is now one more.

If you are caught smoking in no-smoking areas in Beijing, you might be "shamed" on the Internet.

Shaming is when attention is put on someone for doing something wrong.

Some groups use shaming to keep people from breaking the rules.

Though there are others who use it just to be mean.

This week, China's government passed new smoking laws.

People are no longer allowed to smoke in indoor public places and work areas.

The city also increased fines for people caught smoking in restricted areas.

The day the new laws were announced, the city put up giant "Stop Smoking" banners.

It also encouraged people to use a complicated set of hand signals to tell others to stop smoking.

Beijing began trying to limit smoking in 2008.

That summer, the city hosted the Olympic Games.

It changed the smoking rules before the Olympics.

It required public places like restaurants, bars and hotels to have smoke-free areas or rooms.

Back then, there were fines for businesses that did not follow the rules.

Businesses could be fined as much as $725.

But fines for people who smoked in non-smoking areas were only about $1.40.

That has now changed.

The government said it would increase the fine for people to more than $30.

That's not all.

If someone breaks the smoking rules three times, his or her name will be posted online for all to see.

Naming smokers online may not sound like a big deal.

Yet this kind of shaming can have a big effect.

If a person's name appears online, friends and family might see it.

The person might feel embarrassed.

Others might start to treat the person differently.

Shaming can have different results in Asia.

In 2005, a woman in South Korea refused to clean up after her dog.

She was caught in photos that were posted online.

Internet users quickly figured out who she was.

She then became a target.

She was treated so badly that she left her university.

Online shaming has been used in China, too.

For example, citizens have exposed government bosses who steal money.

They have also used the Internet to find people who cause car accidents.

China tightly controls what it allows its citizens to see online.

The Chinese government has used other kinds of shaming.

Sometimes, people have to publicly confess if the government has accused them of a crime.

Prisoners often appear on television from jail to apologize.

Shaming is one of the many ways the government pushes people to follow its rules.

Now, officials are using the tactic to try to stop smoking.

China has the most smokers in the world.

There are more than 300 million people in China who smoke.

That is almost as many people as live in the United States.

The government says that 740 million more Chinese are exposed to second-hand smoke.

Second-hand smoke is when people breathe in the smoke from other people's cigarettes.

Smoking is putting millions of Chinese people at risk.

The government believes that more than 1 million people in the country die from smoking-related diseases each year.

