The Chinese government recently passed laws to cut down on smoking in the capital city of Beijing.

People who break the laws will be fined, but repeat offenders will face a more personal kind of punishment: they will be publicly shamed on the Internet.

This week, Beijing banned smoking in indoor public spaces and workplaces.

The city unfurled giant "Stop Smoking" banners over Beijing's famous Bird's Nest sports stadium.

The city also advised people to use an elaborate set of hand signals to tell others to stop smoking.

Fines for people caught smoking in restricted areas were also increased.

Beijing began efforts to limit smoking in 2008.

That summer, the city hosted the Olympic Games.

As part of its clean-up campaign, it required public places such as restaurants, bars and hotels to provide smoke-free areas or rooms.

Back then, there were harsh fines for businesses that did not follow the rules.

Fines for businesses could be as high as $725.

The rules for individuals, though, were less strict.

Fines for individuals who smoked in non-smoking areas were only about $1.40.

That has now changed.

The government has announced it will increase the fine for individuals to 200 yuan.

That is more than $30.

People who break the smoking ban three times will face another punishment.

Their names will be posted online, for all to see.

Outing lawbreaking smokers online may not sound like a big deal.

But the response of online citizens to inappropriate behavior can be harsh, especially in Asia.

In 2005, a woman in South Korea refused to clean up her dog's waste and was caught in photos that were posted online.

Internet users quickly figured out who she was and the woman was harassed so badly that she reportedly left her university.

In China, shaming has actually been used by citizens to punish wrongdoing of all kinds.

For example, citizens have exposed and shamed government officials online who steal money, and have used the Internet to identify hit-and-run drivers.

China heavily censors what its citizens can see on the Internet.

The government has expressed concerns that shaming on the Internet could lead to bullying, or worse.

Now it looks like it has have changed its policy, at least when it comes to smokers.

But this is not the first time the China's Communist government has used public shaming as a control tactic.

For years, people who got on the government's bad side have been forced to write essays criticizing themselves for betraying the country.

Television stations run by the state feature interviews with prisoners expressing regret for their misdeeds.

These displays of shame are one of the many ways the government pushes people to follow its rules.

Now officials are using the tactic to try to reduce smoking.

With more than 300 million smokers — nearly as many people as live in the United States — China is the world's largest tobacco consumer.

The government estimates that another 740 million of its citizens are exposed to second-hand smoke.

All told, the government believes that more than 1 million people in the country die from smoking-related diseases each year.

