Ever since Mount St. Helens erupted 34 years ago this month, scientists have been tracking the volcano's explosive energy.

The goal: to better understand how Washington's most active volcano works.

This summer, the scientists will be the ones setting off the explosions.

Scientists are preparing to set off explosions in two dozen wells.

The 80-foot deep holes have been drilled around the mountain.

Volunteers traveling by car, on foot and on horseback will place thousands of small seismometers near the mountain.

They'll record the seismic energy of the explosions.

The goal is to better understand how molten rock, or magma, makes its way to St. Helens' crater.

Some 60 miles beneath the surface tectonic plates shift.

It's also where magma is created.

Sometimes the plates collide and cause earthquakes.

If an earthquake happens below a volcano, magma can bubble up from underground.

"We've been looking at what's beneath the volcano through very fuzzy glasses," said Seth Moran, a seismicity expert with the Cascade Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Washington.

The new experiments "should make things quite a bit clearer."

The explosive experiments are scheduled for this summer.

They're one of several experiments that are part of iMUSH, or "Imaging Magma Under St.

Helens."

Scientists say it is one of the most complete series of experiments ever conducted on any volcano.

The $3 million project involves scientists from several universities.

In addition to the explosive testing, scientists are using special sensors to measure seismic activity that occurs naturally.

They'll also examine the magnetic and electrical properties of rock deep beneath the volcano.

Scientists say it could help identify magma.

The goal is to "see" deep below St. Helens to the area where a tectonic plate from the Pacific is forced under the North American plate.

When a plate slides under another plate it's called subduction.

This Cascade "subduction zone" is an area that can produce magnitude-9 earthquakes when the plates slip or break.

Magma from this zone comes to the surface in Northwest volcanoes.

Exactly how that happens remains a mystery.

Scientists have a good sense of what's beneath the volcano down to about a depth of 6 miles, Moran said.

No one is exactly sure what's going on any deeper.

Does the magma form a pool near the crust?

Does it make its way upward in a single, narrow pipelike passage?

Or does it collect in underground ponds along the way?

Finding answers is important, scientists say.

They hope it will enable them to better understand when magma is moving.

That knowledge, they say, will help them predict eruptions at other volcanoes around the world.

It might save thousands of lives.

Scientists have studied volcanoes using different methods.

All of them have their own problems, Moran says.

"By throwing multiple things at this, we'll have a better sense of the whole," he said.

Moran and other U.S. Geological Survey scientists confirmed last month that St. Helens remains active.

An eruption is not near, they decided.

Yet, the research showed magma is slowly building pressure beneath the mountain.

Steve Malone, now a professor at the University of Washington, helped predict the St. Helens eruption 34 years ago.

He is involved in the iMush studies.

Scientists did not foresee St. Helens' unusual sideways blast on May 18, 1980.

But thanks to Malone and others, they were able to roughly predict when the eruption would occur.

They saved many lives.

Still, 57 people died in the eruption.

About 150 square miles of southwestern Washington were ruined.

The volcano launched an eruption cloud into the stratosphere.

Malone and other scientists are designing 70 seismic stations.

They would be installed up to 30 miles from the mountain to measure natural seismicity.

The 2,600 smaller seismometers that will be used in the explosive testing are smaller than a can of tennis balls.

"You can put 15 of them in a backpack," he said.

Even so, installing seismometers close to the volcano will be extremely difficult.

The land nearby is rugged and has no roads.

An "army of volunteers," will be needed, said Carolyn Driedger.

She's a scientist at the Cascades Volcano Observatory.

The public's involvement as volunteers in the project is valuable, Driedger said.

"Here in the Pacific Northwest we are literally living on the edge," she said.

"We have land being shoved beneath us, right under our feet.

We have magma being formed right now.

We have rocks that are crunching together that will eventually slip and create earthquakes."

She added, "Getting people out there helps them to recognize that these changes are happening."

