Ever since Mount St. Helens' eruption 34 years ago this month, scientists have been tracking the volcano's explosive energy.

The goal: to better understand how Washington's most active volcano works.

This summer, the scientists will be the ones setting off the explosions.

Scientists are preparing to set off explosions in two dozen wells.

The 80-foot deep holes have been drilled around the mountain.

Volunteers traveling by car, on foot and on horseback will place thousands of small seismometers near the mountain.

They'll record the seismic energy of the explosions.

The goal is to see more clearly how molten rock, or magma, makes its way to St. Helens' crater.

It bubbles up from the area where tectonic plates collide and the magma is created, some 60 miles beneath the surface.

"We've been looking at what's beneath the volcano through very fuzzy glasses," said Seth Moran, a seismicity expert with the U.S. Geological Survey's Cascade Volcano Observatory in Vancouver, Washington.

The new experiments "should make things quite a bit clearer."

The explosive experiments scheduled for this summer are one part of experiments called iMUSH for "Imaging Magma Under St.

Helens."

Researchers say it is one of the largest series of imaging experiments ever conducted on any volcano in the world.

The $3 million project involves scientists from several universities.

In addition to the explosive testing, scientists are preparing for experiments using enhanced receptors for naturally occurring seismic activity.

They'll also examine the magnetic and electrical properties of rock deep beneath the volcano, which scientists say is a useful guide to identifying magma.

The goal is to "see" deep below St. Helens to the area where a tectonic plate from the Pacific is forced under the North American plate.

When one plate slides under another it's called subduction.

This Cascade "subduction zone" also is the area that can produce magnitude-9 earthquakes when the plates slip or break.

Magma from this zone makes its way to the surface in Northwest volcanoes.

Exactly how that happens remains a mystery despite more than 30 years of research.

Scientists have a good sense of what's beneath the volcano down to a depth of about 6 miles, Moran said.

No one is exactly sure what's going on in deeper reaches.

Does the magma pool in a reservoir at the crust?

Does it make its way upward in a single, narrow pipelike passage?

Or does it collect in one or more underground ponds along the way?

Finding answers is important, scientists say.

They hope it will enable them to better know when magma is on the move.

That knowledge, they say, will help them predict eruptions not only at St. Helens but also at other volcanoes around the world — and possibly save many thousands of lives.

Scientists have been studying volcanoes using different methods, Moran said.

All of them have their own problems, he says.

"Plus they're all measuring different kinds of things."

Now they'll be combining the strengths of the various imaging methods.

"By throwing multiple things at this, we'll have a better sense of the whole," he said.

Moran and other Geological Survey analysts confirmed last month that St. Helens remains active.

While an eruption is not near, the research showed a new supply of magma is slowly building up beneath the mountain.

Steve Malone, now a professor at the University of Washington, was a seismicity superstar when St. Helens erupted 34 years ago.

He is involved in the iMush studies.

Scientists did not foresee St. Helens' unusual sideways blast on May 18, 1980.

However, thanks to Malone and others, they were able to roughly predict when the eruption would occur and thereby saved many lives.

Fifty-seven people died in the 1980 eruption, which ruined 150 square miles of southwestern Washington.

The volcano launched an eruption cloud that reached the stratosphere.

Malone and his colleagues are designing 70 seismic stations.

They will be installed up to 30 miles from the mountain to measure natural seismicity.

The thousands of smaller seismometers that will be used in the explosive testing are slightly smaller than a can of tennis balls.

"You can put 15 of them in a backpack," he said.

Even so, installing 2,600 seismometers in the rugged areas close to the volcano will be extremely difficult.

An "army of volunteers," will be needed, said Carolyn Driedger, a scientist and spokeswoman at the Cascades Volcano Observatory.

The public's involvement in the iMUSH project is valuable, separate from science, Driedger said.

"It's good because it involves people in studying the world in which they live," she said.

"Here in the Pacific Northwest we are literally living on the edge.

It's not a stable place.

We have land being shoved beneath us, right under our feet.

We have magma being formed right now.

We have rocks that are crunching together that will eventually slip and create earthquakes."

She added, "Getting people out there helps them to recognize that these changes are happening."

Driedger and others draw comparisons between Mount Rainier in Washington and Nevado del Ruiz in Colombia, where 23,000 people were buried in a volcanic mud flow, or lahar, when the mountain erupted in 1985.

Rainier is considered the most dangerous volcano in America.

What makes it truly dangerous is not its eruptive force, but the lahars its eruptions are almost certain to generate.

