In June 2009, U.S. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl was captured while on combat duty in Afghanistan and held captive by the Taliban.

For nearly five years, he was hailed as a hero.

But in the days since Bergdahl's high-profile release Saturday — celebrated as "a happy day" by Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel — an alternate narrative has emerged.

In this version, the 28-year-old Idaho native is not a hero but a deserter.

Bergdahl was not taken prisoner on patrol, as some of the early versions of his 2009 capture seemed to imply, but voluntarily left his unit, say several fellow soldiers who were stationed with Bergdahl in eastern Afghanistan.

They are demanding that Bergdahl be punished for what they say was his decision to abandon his post.

They claim that by leaving he risked the lives of soldiers who had to go looking for him.

"He walked away from his duty as an American soldier — he deserted," said Joshua Cornelison, the platoon medic.

"People are calling him a hero, and that is absolutely wrong."

Another platoon member, Evan Buetow, 27, said Bergdahl had spoken to fellow soldiers about "walking across the mountains on his own" or walking to India.

They thought he was joking, Buetow said.

Army officials have said their interviews with Bergdahl will enable them to determine what happened.

"Our first priority is assuring his well-being and his health and getting him reunited with his family.

Other circumstances that may develop and questions, those will be dealt with later," Hagel said.

Questions of how and why Bergdahl disappeared from the outpost have shadowed him during the five years he was held.

He was freed after U.S. authorities arranged a prisoner swap in which they agreed to free five Taliban commanders being held at the military detention center at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.

The Taliban is an Islamic fundamentalist movement in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan), which was overthrown by U.S.-led forces and has been fighting against them ever since.

Now that he is free, members of his unit who obeyed orders not to discuss him have decided to tell what they know, Cornelison said.

The 30 soldiers of 2nd Platoon, Blackfoot Company regarded Bergdahl as an outsider.

He was quiet, reserved, unwilling to share the personal details other soldiers eagerly volunteered during endless hours of free time.

Bergdahl slept in a one-man tent at the observation post, a tiny patch of scrub in Paktika province, near the Pakistan border in eastern Afghanistan, and carried a notebook everywhere.

The sergeant disappeared before dawn June 30, 2009.

At the time, some of his platoon mates said they quickly suspected that he hadn't been snatched from the outpost by the Taliban.

Bergdahl was "upset at the way the Army was handling the war effort in Afghanistan," said Buetow.

Gerald Sutton, a former fellow platoon member, said Bergdahl had expressed frustration with the Army, and had casually wondered aloud what it would be like "to be left out on his own."

Like several other former platoon members, Sutton is calling for the Army to hold him legally accountable.

"He's a deserter — 100 percent — in every definition of the word," Buetow said.

"We want him to answer for that."

Bergdahl could face a court-martial, a trial in military court, if the military determines that he abandoned his post, said Eugene Fidell, who teaches military law at Yale Law School.

The allegations of desertion have come on the heels of a heated political controversy over the Obama administration's decision to trade the five Taliban prisoners for Bergdahl.

Critics accuse President Barack Obama of caving in to Taliban demands, which could raise the ransom price for any future U.S. servicemen and women captured by the Taliban.

They also say he failed to properly notify Congress, which is supposed to get more notice when a prisoner is released from Guantanamo.

The lack of clarity surrounding Bergdahl's release was underscored Saturday at Bagram air base in Afghanistan.

When Hagel triumphantly announced, "This is a happy day.

We got one of our own back," he was greeted with near silence by U.S. troops.

Bergdahl, then 23, returned from a guard shift at the outpost the night he disappeared, Cornelison said.

Cornelison said he was awakened by his platoon leader, who asked him, "Doc, you seen Bergdahl?"

A search of Bergdahl's tent turned up his rifle, helmet, armored vest, night-vision goggles and other gear, but missing was Bergdahl's notebook and possibly his compass.

Cornelison said he believes Bergdahl left behind his weapon and gear so that he could leave the post in the middle of the night without guards hearing him.

When the platoon mounted a search of the area that morning, Cornelison said, they spoke to a boy at a village school who said he had seen an American soldier crawling through the weeds nearby.

Radio intercepts quoted the Taliban as saying that Bergdahl was captured unarmed while sitting on a makeshift toilet.

In 2012, Rolling Stone magazine quoted emails that Bergdahl allegedly sent to his parents suggesting that he had become disillusioned with the U.S. effort in Afghanistan.

The emails quoted him as saying he was "ashamed to be an American" and implied that he was considering desertion.

Bergdahl is now undergoing medical and psychological evaluation at a U.S. military hospital in Germany and will soon be sent for long-term therapy in San Antonio, Texas.

Only then may all the questions be answered, his fellow soldiers say.

Although Sutton said he wants to see Bergdahl face a court-martial, he considered him a good soldier until he disappeared.

"I'd like to talk to the man and find out what was going on with him," Sutton said.

"I mean, he was my friend.

I want to know."

