In June 2009, U.S. Army Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl was captured in Afghanistan and held prisoner by enemy fighters.

For nearly five years, he was called a hero.

But since Bergdahl was released Saturday, another story about him has come out.

In this version, the 28-year-old soldier from Idaho is not a hero.

He is a deserter, who left his post without permission.

Early reports suggested that Bergdahl was taken prisoner while he was out on patrol.

But several soldiers who were stationed with Bergdahl say he walked away on his own.

In the Army, it's a crime for a combat soldier to abandon his post.

Now the soldiers are demanding that Bergdahl be punished.

He risked the lives of soldiers who went looking for him, they say.

"He walked away from his duty as an American soldier — he deserted," said Joshua Cornelison, who served with Bergdahl in Afghanistan.

"People are calling him a hero.

And that is absolutely wrong."

Another former soldier, Evan Buetow, said Bergdahl had talked about "walking across the mountains on his own."

They thought he was joking, Buetow said.

Army officials have said they are talking with Bergdahl.

They plan to figure out what happened.

Bergdahl was freed after U.S. officials reached an agreement with the Taliban.

In exchange for Bergdahl, five Taliban commanders were released from jail.

The Taliban is an Islamic fundamentalist group in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

They once controlled Afghanistan.

After the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the Taliban was overthrown by U.S.-led forces.

They have been fighting ever since.

Since Bergdahl disappeared, there have been questions about what really happened.

But members of his unit had obeyed orders not to discuss him.

Now that Bergdahl is free, they have decided to tell what they know, Cornelison said.

The 30 soldiers of 2nd Platoon, Blackfoot Company saw Bergdahl as an outsider.

He was quiet.

He didn't talk much about himself unlike other soldiers.

He carried a notebook everywhere.

Bergdahl disappeared before dawn on June 30, 2009.

At the time, some soldiers quickly suspected that he hadn't been taken by force.

Bergdahl was "upset at the way the Army was handling the war effort in Afghanistan," said Buetow.

Like other soldiers, Buetow wants the Army to hold him accountable.

"He's a deserter — 100 percent — in every definition of the word," Buetow said.

"We want him to answer for that."

President Barack Obama has been attacked for giving in to Taliban demands.

Some people don't like that he released five dangerous fighters in exchange for Bergdahl.

They also say he didn't give Congress enough notice of the deal.

On Saturday, U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke to U.S. soldiers at Bagram air base in Afghanistan.

He announced: "This is a happy day.

We got one of our own back."

The troops responded to him with almost complete silence.

After Bergdahl disappeared, a search of his tent turned up his rifle, helmet, armored vest and night-vision goggles.

Missing was Bergdahl's notebook.

His compass also was possibly gone.

Soldiers looked all over the area for him.

Cornelison said a village boy told them he had seen an American soldier crawling through the weeds.

In 2012, Rolling Stone magazine quoted emails that seem to be from Bergdahl saying he was "ashamed to be an American."

It sounded like he was thinking of leaving.

Bergdahl is now at a U.S. military hospital In Germany.

He will soon be back in the United States.

Only then may questions be answered, said fellow soldiers.

One of them is Gerald Sutton.

He said he wants to see Bergdahl face a military trial.

But he said Bergdahl was a good soldier until he disappeared.

"I'd like to talk to the man and find out what was going on with him," Sutton said.

"I mean, he was my friend.

I want to know."

