!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/Thefalloftheberlinwall1989.JPG)KLEINMACHNOW, Germany — After losing World War II, Germany was cut in half.

The Americans ran the West Germany.

The Soviet Union (now Russia) ran East Germany.

It separated the people of Germany.

People in East Germany could not see people in West Germany.

Berlin is the capital of Germany.

The Berlin Wall was built to divide it.

It separated the city for almost 30 years.

It split West from East.

Life was very different on different sides of the wall.

West Germany was capitalist.

People there had the right to own homes and buy and sell things as they liked.

They also had the freedom to say what they wanted.

East Germany was communist.

The government there controlled and owned almost everything.

East Germans didn't have much freedom during this time.

They couldn't travel freely or speak out against their government.

Klaus-Jurgen Warnick was one of those East Germans.

He remembers November 1989, when crowds of East Germans came to the wall, demanding to be let through.

The East German guards let them go.

The Berlin Wall fell as people broke through it with hammers.

The world changed forever.

Warnick says that the people crowding around the wall 25 years ago weren't trying to change the world.

They just dreamed of a better life.

Today, Germany is unified — it's now one country.

Things are better in the East: people can travel freely, and they don't face government spying.

Still, things are not equal between East and West.

Former East German people — known as Ossies — face a lot of problems.

Ossies are paid less and have less money saved than former West Germans.

It's harder for Ossies to find jobs.

One of the hardest things for the Ossies of East Germany has been losing their homes.

Here in Kleinmachnow, many Ossies had the same problem: they didn't own their houses.

In East Germany, people didn't really own homes.

Their government owned them.

Warnick was given a piece of land by the East German government in 1969.

He built a house on the land and started a family there, having four children.

"I planted trees," Warnick said, "So that my grandchildren's grandchildren would know their grandfather's grandfather had put down these roots."

In 1990, Warnick was planning to add a second storey to his house.

That's when the former West German owner of the house showed up.

He told Warnick he had six months to find a new place to live.

Warnick had to fight to save the house he had built and lived in for 20 years.

In the end, Warnick got to stay in the house — after paying $180,000 to the owner.

Still, it was worth it to him to keep his house and the trees he'd planted: his dream of the future.

Warnick is not alone.

Many people had the same problem.

Eight thousand of Kleinmachnow's 11,000 residents lost their homes after reunification.

In total, about 4 million of East Germany's 17 million people were forced to move.

