!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/Thefalloftheberlinwall1989.JPG)KLEINMACHNOW, Germany — Riding an electric bike, Klaus-Jurgen Warnick rolls up to the rusted remains of the Berlin Wall's Checkpoint Bravo.

He remembers being here in 1989, when East Germans crowded around the wall, trying to get to the West.

In the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, the Berlin Wall divided Berlin, and Germany, in half.

On one side were the Americans, on the other, the Soviet Union, now Russia.

The wall was a symbol of the conflict between these two global superpowers — the Cold War.

World War II (1939-1945) saw the most powerful countries in the world fighting in an all-out war.

On one side were the Allies, led by the United States, the United Kingdom, France and the Soviet Union.

On the other side were the Axis powers, led by Germany, Japan and Italy.

When Germany lost the war, it was split in half, with the Americans and their allies taking over the western half and the Soviet Union taking over the eastern half.

Berlin, the capital of Germany, was split in half.

The United States was capitalist, focusing on free markets and trade.

The Soviet Union was communist, hoping to build a completely equal society where the government owned and controlled most things.

These two systems clashed, and the Cold War began.

It was called the Cold War because the United States and the Soviet Union didn't fight each other directly.

Still, it was tense.

Threats were made and both countries had nuclear weapons.

In communist East Germany, there was little freedom — East Germans couldn't criticize their government, travel, or buy many goods.

West Germans enjoyed most of the freedoms of the capitalist West.

Berlin was split by a wall running through its middle.

The Berlin Wall, built in 1961, became a symbol of the division between the capitalist West and the communist East.

When the Berlin Wall fell in November 1989, the world changed.

Germany reunified, and the Cold War was ending.

But Warnick says that East Germans like him who crowded around the wall in 1989 weren't trying to change the world — they just had dreams that life could be a little better.

In many ways, life is better today for Germans who live in former East Germany.

They have free speech and elections, the ability to travel, and freedom from being spied on by the government.

Still, in many other ways, Germany remains divided.

Today, Ossies, as former East German residents are called, suffer from higher unemployment, are paid less, have far less in savings, and receive less money in retirement than Germans in the former West.

Germany's two former halves are seen as unequal.

The minimum wage is lower in eastern Germany than in western Germany.

Employees at a shopping mall in eastern Berlin make $1,400 less each year than workers at a mall across the street in western Berlin.

Here in Kleinmachnow, near Berlin, it's easy to see the inequalities between the eastern and western sections, even 25 years later.

In Kleinmachnow, the problem arose because of a basic difference between capitalism and communism — the idea of personal property.

Under capitalism, personal property is very important.

Under communism, though, it's the opposite: the government owns almost everything and personal property is not allowed.

People who lived in East Germany didn't really own the houses they lived in.

When Germany was reunified, these East Germans often lost their homes when the original owners returned.

Eight thousand of Kleinmachnow's 11,000 residents were forced to leave their homes after reunification.

Nationwide, about 4 million of East Germany's 17 million people lost their homes.

Even 25 years later, the effects, and some legal cases, continue.

Because they had no property, Ossies have less money and less ability to borrow money than people in the former West Germany.

As communism took over East Germany in the 1950s, many people moved to West Germany.

Some made plans for their homes, but many just abandoned them.

Even though the East German government didn't believe in personal property, it kept all the land records.

All of the abandoned houses became the property of the East German government, which gave the houses to people who stayed in the East.

Because of a housing shortage, people were even encouraged to build houses on garden plots.

Warnick received a garden plot in 1969 and began building a house, gathering stones and concrete for the foundation.

He met the love of his life, and they had four children.

"I planted trees, so that my grandchildren's grandchildren would know their grandfather's grandfather had put down these roots," he said.

But when the wall fell, Warnick and others like him were left with a problem.

In East Germany, the government owned everything.

Now that the East German government was gone, what would happen?

Unfortunately for the Ossies, the land records had been maintained and West Germans could now return and take back land they abandoned decades ago.

"I remember the first time the former owner from West Germany showed up," Warnick said.

It was April 1990 and Warnick was planning to add a second story to his house.

The man was nice, at first, and said that Warnick didn't have to leave right away — he could have six months to find a new place.

It was a scene repeated thousands of times in Germany.

Warnick won the right to stay after paying about $180,000 to the previous owner and lawyers.

It was worth it, in the end, to keep the home he built and to be able to dream about his great-grandchildren someday staring up at the trees he'd planted.

"I spent years kicking myself for not changing the land records," he said.

"It was a nation with no concept of land ownership, and who believes that their nation, their way of life, will collapse?"

