Jay-Z and Beyonce's trip to Cuba four weeks ago raised some eyebrows.

But it has also raised interest in traveling to the forbidden island.

More Americans are now seeking similar "people-to-people" culture tours.

Insight Cuba says public inquiries and bookings have grown by 10 to 15 percent since the couple's tour in early April.

Insight Cuba is the first and largest group leading cultural tours of Cuba.

"It's had a huge impact.

Everything from our call center to our website to our blog to our Facebook page just lit up," said Tom Popper, president of Insight Cuba.

"People were Googling it and curious.

The debate got heightened, and also people's awareness of this kind of tour was heightened."

The rapper/singer celebrity couple popularized a small but growing travel phenomenon that taps a pent-up demand to visit Cuba.

The exotic time-locked land lies just 93 miles from the Florida coast but is still mostly off-limits to U.S. tourists.

The two countries have been at odds for more than 50 years since Cuba's revolution.

The U.S. imposed a trade embargo five decades ago, which bars Americans from doing business with Cuba.

While Americans are officially allowed to travel to Cuba, the rules don't make it easy, unless you are Cuban-American.

U.S. tourists who go to Cuba without permission can face heavy fines when they return.

U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida, and other Cuban-American leaders sharply criticized the pair's high-profile visit.

But others in Congress want to make it easier for Americans to legally visit Cuba.

Roughly 400,000 Cuban-American passengers went to Cuba last year.

They did so because of a 2009 rule change by President Barack Obama that allows unlimited visits to family members.

Another rule change in 2011 allows groups licensed by the U.S. Treasury Department to lead cultural tours of Cuba.

The idea was to put more Americans in contact with the Cuban people.

Some supporters hoped this closer contact would build pressure for democratic changes on the island nation.

Cuba has one-party rule.

An estimated 90,000 Americans made these "people-to-people" visits last year.

That's up slightly over previous years.

Insight Cuba expects its bookings will increase to 5,000 this year from about 3,000 in 2012.

But the rules are strict for these tours, including the three-day one taken by Beyonce and Jay-Z.

They arranged their trip through New York-based Academic Arrangements Abroad.

It's one of more than 230 organizations licensed to sponsor travel to Cuba.

At the insistence of Rubio and other embargo defenders, all such tours must have a schedule heavy on "purposeful" activities.

These must include visits to places such as senior centers, schools and artist studios.

It's not supposed to be a day at the beach.

Beyonce and Jay-Z reportedly stuck to the tour, even as they celebrated their five-year anniversary.

They visited a school, a children's theater group and a jazz club while meeting musicians.

Rubio and other embargo defenders say all these trips put money in the hands of a government that restricts Cubans' freedoms.

For that reason, they even want to sharply limit family visits.

Rubio last year stalled Senate confirmation of Obama nominee Roberta Jacobson.

He held it up until the State Department agreed to impose tighter rules on tour groups.

Jacobson was later confirmed as assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere affairs.

Under the new rules, applications to obtain or renew "specific" tour licenses went from about six pages to as many as 600 pages.

And they can take weeks or months to process.

"Every day has to be chock-full of approved activities, pretty much from 9 to 5," Popper said.

"It's a rigorous day.

People are mentally and physically exhausted, but incredibly stimulated and inspired.

"Not everybody wants to travel that way," he acknowledged.

But, Popper added, Beyonce and Jay-Z's trip helped overcome the biggest hurdle to travel to Cuba.

It is making Americans aware that they can visit Cuba legally through these culture tours.

Hoping to further ease travel, 59 Democrats in the House of Representatives wrote Obama in April.

They urged him to let anyone go to Cuba on their own without prior approval by the U.S. government.

The House members — led by Sam Farr, a Democrat from California — want to allow travelers to go under a "general" license.

Visitors could book their trip through a charter airline and sign a statement proving they have an acceptable purpose, just as Cuban-Americans do.

Administration officials have not responded.

They have been reluctant to make further changes in policy until Cuban authorities release Alan Gross, of Maryland, who was jailed in December 2009.

He allegedly committed "crimes against the state" for bringing satellite-communications equipment to the island.

But supporters of expanded travel hope that recent reforms in Cuba will spur Obama to further loosen U.S. travel rules.

Such reforms include a new policy this year which allows Cubans to leave the island.

They can do so on a passport without prior approval.

"The Cuban government remains repressive.

They have serious human rights issues," said U.S. Rep. Kathy Castor, D-Tampa, after returning from Havana in April.

"But I think the policy of embargo and isolation over 50 years hasn't improved that situation.

We need to try something new."

