Can you have a library with no books?

The people in San Antonio do.

Their newest public library is book-free.

Six months ago, the BiblioTech became the country's first public bookless library.

The name comes from the word "biblioteca."

That means library in Spanish.

Readers can download e-books from wherever they are.

Even our soldiers in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) can borrow something to read.

Don't have a computer?

No problem.

People in San Antonio can check out tablets or e-readers.

It's free.

They can also use the library's computers.

Kids can get tablets loaded with 150 children's books.

In Washington, D.C., the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library cleared shelves of books.

It created a huge area without books.

The library calls this area "Digital Commons."

It's part computer lab.

It's also part reading room.

There's a giant touch screen for teaching classes.

It also has a machine to make a book.

The children's section has a touch-screen table.

The book has been around for more than 500 years.

And it's not going away anytime soon.

But new technology is slowly taking over.

Several digital projects scan in records and books.

They also scan in rare treasures.

Anyone with a computer can see them online.

These projects are great for students, teachers and lifelong learners, said James H. Billington.

He works at the Library of Congress in Washington.

It's the country's top library.

Billington said he's pleased to see that the project keeps growing.

Nelson Wolff got the idea for BiblioTech.

It is located in a poor part of San Antonio.

Wolff collects books -- real books.

"I had refused to read e-books," he said.

Now?

"I don't read hardcover books," Wolff said.

"I buy them, but I don't read them."

That kind of thinking may be spreading.

People from around the world go to BiblioTech online.

"The main thing is people are using it," he said.

In Washington, all kinds of people visit the MLK library.

Its the only way some poor people can go online.

They don't have money to buy computers.

Nick Kerelchuk is in charge of MLK's Digital Commons.

He said the space is about "people connecting and sharing together."

