A library without books may once have been unthinkable.

But the new public library on San Antonio's south side has gone completely book-free.

Six months ago, the BiblioTech in South Central Texas became the nation's first totally digital public library.

The name plays off the word "biblioteca," which is Spanish for library.

The virtual library lets Bexar County readers check out books on their devices over the Internet from wherever they are.

U.S. soldiers can even download the latest bestseller from [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

No computer?

No problem.

Local residents can check out tablets or e-readers for free.

They can also use the library's 48 iMac desktop computers.

Children are able to take home any of the 200 Nook readers already loaded with 150 books appropriate for their age.

In Washington, D.C., the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library cleared the shelves in one area last June to open a vast, bookless area.

The library calls the section "Digital Commons," and it's part computer lab, part design center and part reading room.

The bound book has been around for more than 500 years and doesn't look like it's going away anytime soon.

But the digital age, which has crept into libraries through new technology, is slowly taking over.

A number of ambitious projects are happening in the U.S. and other countries.

They focus on scanning in records, manuscripts and books, and making them available online.

The Digital Public Library of America and the World Digital Library make treasures, such as early 16th-century religious writings from Ethiopia, available to the world.

The Digital World Library just reached its 10,000th entry last week.

"This project is of enormous benefit to students, teachers, scholars and lifelong learners," said James H. Billington, who is the librarian of the Library of Congress in Washington.

Billington added he was pleased to see that it continues to grow.

At the MLK library, there's a giant touch screen for teaching classes and a 3-D printer.

A 3-D printer creates three-dimensional objects from plans.

The library also has a sound studio, a book printer machine that will print and bind a book, as well as small work areas.

In the children's section, children can read and play on a touch-screen table.

There are even computers that visitors without library cards can use.

At North Carolina State University's new library, the 1.5 million books are stored underground.

That leaves lots of space for research and study groups.

Students can check out books from a robot-driven system known as a bookBot that delivers books in five minutes or less.

"There are a lot of libraries that are shifting that way," said Barbara Stripling, president of the American Library Association.

She added that one of the biggest worries of libraries is providing equal access to all people.

Nelson Wolff came up with the idea behind BiblioTech in San Antonio.

Wolff was the top county official.

"It all started with my reading Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs," said Wolff, who's in his 70s.

Wolff was fascinated with the technology developed by the late co-founder of Apple Inc.

So, within about a year, Wolff came up with a revolutionary idea -- a no-books library in a poor part of San Antonio.

The library was up and running by last September.

It just added another branch in the jury room of the Bexar County Courthouse.

It had only 10,000 e-books at first.

But the library has since added another 10,000 and hopes to build the collection with 10,000 e-books each month.

Wolff personally collects first edition 20th-century books.

"I had refused to read e-books," he said of the time before he began working on a digital library.

Now?

"I don't read hardcover books," Wolff said.

"I buy them but I don't read them."

That kind of thinking may be spreading.

The BiblioTech attracts a steady flow of online visitors from around the world.

But Wolff is pleased that the local Latino community uses the library in person.

"The main thing is people are using it," he said.

He's especially tickled that the jury duty branch is taking off.

"It's been a big hit with all the jurors sitting around," he said.

County residents can sign on and download books on-site.

The library has gotten back the e-readers and tablets it loaned out.

"We've had a 100 percent return rate," said Laura Jesse, Bexar County's public information officer.

Downloaded e-books simply disappear from devices after two weeks.

That means no library late fees.

In downtown D.C., the MLK library attracts all kinds of visitors, rich and poor, and lots of kids and teens.

Its computers are the only way many people have a chance to use the Internet.

The libraries help bridge the divide between those who can afford home computers and those who can't.

Digital Commons Manager Nick Kerelchuk described the MLK library scene in this way: as "a culture of people connecting and sharing together."

