On Nov. 23, China set up a restricted flying zone over part of the East China Sea.

It said any planes flying over the zone must file a flight plan with China.

This made Japan nervous.

The zone is set up over tiny islands in the East China Sea.

China and Japan have been arguing for a long time over which country controls the islands.

On Wednesday, China said the United States was taking Japan's side.

The United States refuses to accept China's rules about flying in the zone.

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden was in China on Wednesday.

He was meeting with the country's leaders.

But Biden has avoided calling publicly for Beijing to change its mind about the zone.

He did not want to make demands that China was likely to ignore.

Instead, the vice president hoped to persuade China not to enforce the zone.

He also hoped to get China to agree not to set up similar zones over other territories where the ownership was being fought about.

Biden had a private meeting with President Xi Jinping.

The meeting went a lot longer than scheduled.

When he came out, Biden appeared serious and quiet.

He spoke briefly with reporters.

But he did not go into details on differences over the restricted flying zone.

Instead he spoke about major countries working together.

U.S.-China relations depend on trust, he said.

Earlier Wednesday, Biden met with young Chinese waiting to get travel papers processed at the U.S. Embassy.

He urged them to think differently and challenge the usual way of doing things.

Neither Biden nor Xi mentioned the clash over disputed territory publicly.

That fight has pitted China against the United States and its friends in Asia.

But the China Daily said that Washington was ignoring Japan's attempts to anger China.

China Daily is a newspaper run by the Chinese government.

Biden told reporters after his initial talks with Xi that the relationship between the China and the U.S. will significantly affect the course of the 21st century.

If the United States and China can get that relationship right, anything can happen, he said.

Biden said he came to Beijing because involved relationships require continuing contact between top officials.

He said Xi was open and constructive.

Openness leads to trust, Biden said.

"Trust is the basis on which real change — constructive change — is made."

The two leaders had a second meeting.

More people were to be involved in that meeting.

A working dinner was also planned for later Wednesday.

Biden did not say anything public about U.S. concerns over China's new air defense zone.

Only a day earlier, Biden pledged to talk about the concerns with Xi and other Chinese leaders.

China's move to declare the air defense zone made the region more tense, he said.

It also "increased the risk of accidents and miscalculation," Biden said in Tokyo on Tuesday.

He met there with Japanese President Shinzo Abe.

After meeting with Biden, Xi said the U.S.-China relationship had gotten off to a good start this year.

But he said the global situation is changing.

Tougher challenges and regional problems keep cropping up, he said.

"The world as a whole is not" calm and peaceful, Xi said through a translator.

He also said that the U.S. and China carry important responsibilities for upholding peace.

Biden's comments to the young Chinese at the U.S. Embassy were not immediately reported by Chinese state media.

They were not likely to be widely known in China.

A one-minute portion of his speech posted by the Sina news website included a comment from Biden about challenging the way things are.

It left out a comment about challenging the government.

Biden went later to the Great Hall of the People.

It is a ceremonial building steps away from Tiananmen Square.

Any problems between the United States and China were ignored.

Chinese Vice President Li Yuanchao welcomed him with an elaborate honor guard.

A military band played the two countries' national anthems as Biden and Xi stood in the huge hall, which had marble floors and crisscrossing red carpets.

