China accused Washington on Wednesday of taking Japan's side in a tense clash over disputed islands in the East China Sea.

Japan has been on edge for the past two weeks since China declared that any planes flying through what it called the air defense zone must file flight plans with Beijing.

The airspace sits above tiny islands that are at the center of a long-running territorial dispute between China and Japan.

The United States refuses to recognize the zone.

U.S. Vice President Joe Biden was in China on Wednesday, meeting with the country's leaders.

But Biden has avoided calling publicly for Beijing to retract the zone, wary of making demands that China is likely to snub.

Rather, the vice president hoped to persuade China not to enforce the zone or declare similar zones over other disputed territories.

Biden appeared somber and subdued after he emerged from a private meeting with President Xi Jinping that went considerably longer than scheduled.

In a brief appearance before reporters, Biden did not go into details on differences over the zone.

Instead, he spoke of a "new model of major country cooperation."

U.S.-China relations must hinge on trust and a positive notion of each other's motives, he said.

Earlier Wednesday, Biden urged young Chinese citizens to challenge the status quo and think differently.

The vice president's description of the United States' liberal culture of free thinking contrasted with the Chinese government's strict rule, which favors unquestioning obedience from its citizens.

Neither Biden nor Xi made public mention of the clash over disputed territory.

That fight has pitted China against the United States and its Asian allies.

An editorial in the state-run China Daily charged, however, that Washington "is turning a blind eye to Tokyo's provocations."

It said that "the United States is wrongly pointing an accusing finger at China for single-handedly changing the 'status quo' in the East China Sea."

Biden told reporters after his initial talks with Xi that the relationship between the two major powers will significantly affect the course of the 21st century.

If the United States and China can get that relationship right, the possibilities are limitless, he said to reporters.

Biden said he came to Beijing because complex relationships require ongoing interactions at high levels.

He said Xi's candor and constructive approach had left an impression on him.

"Candor generates trust," Biden said.

"Trust is the basis on which real change — constructive change — is made."

The two leaders had a second meeting involving larger groups of officials.

A working dinner was also planned for later Wednesday.

Absent from Biden's public comments was any discussion of U.S. concerns over China's new air defense zone.

Only a day earlier, Biden pledged to raise those concerns with Xi and other Chinese leaders, adding that China's move was deeply concerning.

"This action has raised regional tensions and increased the risk of accidents and miscalculation," Biden said in Tokyo Tuesday.

He met there with Japanese President Shinzo Abe.

After meeting with Biden, Xi said the U.S.-China relationship had gotten off to a good start this year.

But he said the global situation is changing.

More pronounced challenges and regional hot spots keep cropping up, he said.

"The world as a whole is not tranquil," Xi said through a translator, adding that the United States and China shoulder important responsibilities for upholding peace.

"To strengthen dialogue and cooperation is the only right choice facing both of our countries."

Added Biden: "The way I was raised was to believe that change presents opportunity."

Biden spoke earlier to young Chinese citizens waiting at the U.S. Embassy to get visitor visas processed.

He said: "I hope you learn that innovation can only occur where you can breathe free, challenge the government, challenge religious leaders."

"Children in America are rewarded — not punished — for challenging the status quo," he said.

Biden's comments were not immediately reported by government newspapers and networks.

They were not likely to be widely known in China.

A one-minute excerpt of his speech posted by the Sina news website included Biden's comment about challenging the "status quo," but left out the one about challenging the government.

When Biden arrived later at the Great Hall of the People, a ceremonial building steps away from Tiananmen Square, any tensions between the United States and China were papered over.

Chinese Vice President Li Yuanchao welcomed him with an elaborate honor guard.

A military band played the two countries' national anthems as Biden and Xi stood amid the massive hall's marble floors and crisscrossing red carpets.

