20-year-old woman in Taiwan has become the first patient known to get sick with a rare strain of bird flu.

It's called H6N1.

Bird flu is a type of influenza that jumps from birds to humans.

It rarely affects humans.

But it is scary because a strain called H5N1 typically kills more than half of the people who are infected with it.

Luckily, only 638 people have caught it in the world ever.

In recent years there have been outbreaks in Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.

Millions of birds have been killed to prevent its spread in the past.

The woman, who became ill in May, appears to have gotten completely better, according to a report published this week by the journal Lancet Respiratory Medicine.

But her case raises important questions that investigators are still trying to answer, including: How did she contract the flu?

And: Does this make humans more likely to be affected by a bird flu pandemic?

A pandemic is a disease that can spread through people over long distances — even across continents.

Let's start with what researchers do know.

The unidentified woman was in good health before she came down with a fever and a cough on May 5, according to the journal report.

The next day, she went to a hospital emergency room after her fever spiked.

She was sent home.

The day after that, her high fever prompted a visit to another hospital E.R., and once again she was sent home.

Later that evening, she returned to the second E.R.

because she was having trouble breathing.

She was admitted to the hospital in the early hours of May 8.

X-rays revealed that she had a lower respiratory infection.

But tests of her throat failed to turn up signs of known influenza strains.

Tests showed that it wasn't any other type of disease.

Doctors treated her with drugs that prevent the spread of infections.

Her symptoms began to improve by May 9.

She was discharged from the hospital two days later.

A follow-up X-ray taken May 17 showed that her respiratory infection had cleared up.

The woman may have returned to her normal life.

But, researchers from Taiwan's Centers for Disease Control in Taipei and several hospitals and medical schools continued to investigate her case.

They used a genetic test and got a match for H6N1 influenza.

Scientists did a more detailed genetic test of the eight genes that make up the H6N1 virus.

It revealed that seven of the genes were closely related to a flu strain found in Taiwanese chickens this year.

The eighth gene was most closely related to another strain found in Taiwanese chickens in 2002.

Versions of the H6N1 that sickened the woman have been infecting chickens in Taiwan since 1997.

It is still not clear how the virus was able to jump from chickens to the 20-year-old woman.

She was a clerk at a deli and didn't have any contact with chickens, live or dead.

She hadn't been traveling in the three months before she got sick.

The researchers identified 36 of her close contacts, including family members, co-workers and the people who treated her in the two hospitals.

Six of these people became ill with fevers or respiratory infections.

A doctor who treated her and several other patients with respiratory infections was one of those who got sick.

None of the people who got sick tested positive for influenza.

A family that lived near the woman kept a flock of 60 ducks, chickens and geese.

The woman said she hadn't been in contact with the birds for at least a year, but the researchers tested eight samples of bird stool anyway.

All of them were negative for flu.

The researchers will keep looking for clues.

"The investigation of the transmission pathways that caused the patient's infection did not reach a clear conclusion," they wrote Wednesday in Lancet Respiratory Medicine.

Because understanding how a new influenza virus gets transferred "is of major importance to public health, further field and laboratory investigations are warranted."

Seasonal flus, the kind you can protect against with a flu shot, are of the H1, H2 or H3 varieties.

Other flus with H5, H7, H9 and H10 genes have turned up in humans too.

Now an H6 strain joins the list.

"Each person infected with an animal influenza virus is judged a threat to public health, because the influenza pandemics of the past 100 years have all emerged from animals," wrote Marion Koopmans in an explanation that accompanies the report.

Koopmans studies viruses at the National Institute for Public Health and the Environment in the Netherlands.

"The question again is what would it take for these viruses to evolve into a pandemic strain?"

