20-year-old woman in Taiwan has become the first person to get sick with a certain bird flu.

It's known as H6N1.

Bird flu is a type of flu that jumps from birds to humans.

It rarely affects humans.

But it is scary because a type called H5N1 is very dangerous.

It has killed half of all people who got it.

Luckily, only 638 people have caught it in the world ever.

But, in the past few years there have been outbreaks in Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.

The woman became ill in May.

She appears to have gotten completely better, says a report published this week.

But her case raises important questions that scientists are trying to answer, including: How did she get the flu?

And does this make humans more likely to be affected by a big outbreak of bird flu?

Let's start with what scientists do know.

The woman was in good health.

But, then she came down with a fever and a cough.

The next day, she went to a hospital emergency room after her temperature increased.

She also had trouble breathing.

X-rays showed that she had an infection that affects the throat and lungs.

But tests failed to turn up signs of the flu.

Doctors checked her for other diseases.

Nothing came up.

Doctors treated her with drugs that prevent the spread of viruses.

Viruses attack the cells in the body.

The flu is a virus.

She began to improve.

She was sent home from the hospital two days later.

A follow-up X-ray was taken.

It showed that her infection had cleared up.

But, doctors and scientists in Taiwan continued to look into her case.

They did a test and got a match for H6N1 flu.

Scientists did a closer test of the eight genes that make up the H6N1 virus.

Genes are the building blocks of living things.

It showed that the genes were like a type of flu found in Taiwanese chickens.

It is not clear how the virus was able to jump from chickens to the woman.

She worked at a deli and didn't touch any chickens, alive or dead.

She hadn't been traveling in the three months before she got sick.

The scientists identified 36 people close to her.

They included family members, co-workers and the people who treated her.

Six of these people became ill with fevers or infections.

A doctor who treated her and several other patients with infections was one of those who got sick.

None of the people who got sick had the flu, though.

A family that lived near the woman kept a flock of 60 ducks, chickens and geese.

The woman said she hadn't touched the birds for at least a year.

But the scientists tested the birds anyway.

None of them had the flu.

The scientists will keep looking for clues.

The scientists who wrote the article said it's not clear how the new flu was spread.

Understanding how a new flu virus moves is very important.

They say that more tests should be done.

Winter flus are the H1, H2 or H3 types.

A flu shot can protect you against them.

Marion Koopmans studies viruses in the Netherlands.

Each person infected with an animal virus is seen as "a threat to public health," Koopmans said.

In the past 100 years, all the big flu outbreaks have come from animals.

The big question now is if this flu could spread to more people.

