Evan Neal isn't your typical 16-year-old.

For one thing, he contributes a few        hundred dollars toward his father's monthly electric bill to cover the cost of running his energy-hungry computer equipment.

It's all part of the latest business venture launched by the tech-savvy high school junior.

Evan uses his high-powered computers to get newly created bitcoins through a process known as bitcoin mining.

Bitcoin is a paperless and coin-less currency that is earned and spent over the Internet.

Bitcoin miners earn bitcoins by using special computer software to solve complex math problems.

"It's definitely entertaining," Evan said.

"I see it as an experience."

A profitable experience, that is.

Evan figures he has made more than $2,000 in profits even after paying some hefty expenses.

Among those costs, are buying special computer hardware and contributing $200 to $300 each month to his dad's electric bill.

He's also giving part of his profits to his co-investors, who include four high school friends who each gave him $125 or more to buy equipment.

Bitcoin mining isn't Evan's first business venture.

When he was 11, Evan started a business called Dream Programming.

For $25, he would remotely log on to people's computers, which were running too slow, and help them perform better.

Since then, Evan has started a series of businesses.

They include a power-washing and deck-refinishing service and buying electronic devices in bulk and reselling them on Amazon.com.

He also repairs computers for another business.

Evan's father, Dave Neal, described a recent busy weekend of work for Evan.

He did bitcoin mining, a power-washing job and a computer repair job.

Dave Neal has been involved in seven startups.

Today, he's managing partner at The Startup Factory, which helps companies to grow.

He's impressed by how much his son has immersed himself in the ins and outs of bitcoin.

Evan has taught himself about the business and legal details, as well as the technical angle.

"It's really interesting to watch somebody in your own household participate in such a cutting-edge thing," Dave Neal said.

"He's 16, but it feels to me he is pretty much an expert in the field."

Bitcoins aren't backed by any government or controlled by a central agency.

Critics are wary of bitcoin and say it say it isn't based on anything.

The digital currency has become controversial because people who use it aren't identified by name, and the secrecy makes it attractive for criminals and drug dealers.

But the digital currency became more accepted after federal officials said there are actual uses for bitcoins.

It also has attracted big investors.

Bitcoins are accepted as payment by businesses such as Overstock.com and online game company Zynga.

The value of a bitcoin has varied considerably, soaring above $1,000 last year.

As of Tuesday afternoon, a bitcoin was worth $625, according to Preev, a website that tracks its value.

Evan dipped his toe into bitcoin mining about a year ago.

He heard about it from some friends, but soon discovered that if he wanted to make money at it, he would need more computer power.

To understand why, you need to know how bitcoin works.

Bitcoin traces its beginnings to a scientific paper published in 2008.

No one has come forward as its creator, but he or she — or they — operate under the name Satoshi Nakamoto.

Because bitcoins are all-digital, security is a prime concern.

Digital currencies are worthless if they can be copied, which is where mining comes in.

Miners use specialized computer hardware to confirm purchases.

More importantly, they add a new layer of security to what is known as the block chain.

The block chain is a record of every bitcoin sale and makes sure they can't be copied.

Campbell Harvey is a business professor at Duke University.

He compares the block chain to a series of vaults that are linked together.

Miners, said Harvey, "are sealing off this vault with a computer program."

Harvey explained, "The reason you have to do this is so that nobody can hack it.

You would need 25,000 of the world's fastest supercomputers to get into this block chain," something he said is just not possible.

Miners who manage to solve a difficult mathematical puzzle and create the vault first are rewarded with newly created bitcoins.

Miners face heavy competition to be the first to solve puzzles.

Currently, 25 bitcoins are handed out as rewards about every 10 minutes.

Many miners, including Evan, join online pools of miners who combine their computing power and share in the rewards.

Evan estimates he has mined about 4.5 bitcoins so far.

The competition among bitcoin miners has pushed some to spend money on better computer equipment.

Better computers solve the math problems faster, which is why Evan is about to start on his third round of computer upgrades.

Evan admits that the ever-rising cost of hardware may end up pushing him out of the bitcoin mining business.

On the other hand, he said, "I could also expand in a way that I'm the person pricing other people out."

