Black holes are regions of space with a very strong gravitational pull.

The gravity is so strong that everything around gets sucked into the black hole, including light.

Astronomers have known for years that black holes also shoot matter into the universe.

These high-speed streams of matter are known as relativistic jets.

However, nobody knew exactly what type of material was in the jets.

Now, that mystery may have been solved.

A team of scientists says it found traces of nickel and iron in the powerful jets shooting out of a black hole called 4U 1630-47.

This small black hole is just a few times the mass of our sun.

Their discovery may help solve a long-standing scientific puzzle.

"It was one of the unsolved questions about relativistic jets produced in the vicinity of black holes," said astronomer Avi Loeb.

The question is what are the jets made of, he said.

Everyone agreed that the jets would contain electrons, which have a negative charge.

But the jets did not have a negative charge overall.

That suggested there was something else in there with a positive charge that canceled the electron out.

Some models of the jets suggested they were shooting lightweight electrons and positrons from the black hole into the universe.

Positrons are positively charged and are the opposite of electrons.

Unlike electrons, they are not found in normal matter.

Instead, they are a part of so-called antimatter.

They can also exist on their own, as can electrons.

But other scientists were not convinced.

They thought the jets were made of much heavier normal matter.

Until now, it wasn't clear what was causing the positive charge, said study coauthor James Miller-Jones.

Was it positrons, the "antimatter 'opposite' of electrons?"

Or was it positively charged atoms of normal matter?

The researchers' discovery of nickel and iron in the jets seems to have settled that question.

"We now know that ordinary matter must be providing the positive charge," Miller-Jones said.

It takes much more energy to move normal matter than to move lightweight electrons and positrons.

This made the scientists realize something important: The high-speed jets must be carrying more energy away from the black hole than was previously known.

The study also sheds light on another set of questions.

Where do the jets come out of?

Are they caused by the spin of the rotating black hole?

Or do they come from the disk of matter that surrounds the black hole?

The recent discovery suggests that the jets are coming from the disks.

"We are planning further observations" to prove this, Miller-Jones said.

To figure out what was in the jets, the researchers looked at radio waves and X-rays given off by black hole 4U 1630-47.

Different things have their own radio wave and X-ray patterns.

These are known as their signatures.

These signatures fall within the complete range or spectrum of possible wave and ray patterns.

The first time the researchers looked, the radio wave spectrum suggested the jets were not on.

The X-ray spectrum did not show anything unusual.

"The jets are not always on," Miller-Jones said.

"It depends a little bit on how fast the black hole is feeding."

Black holes can grow — or "feed" — by sucking in matter around them.

But the second time the team looked, the radio waves seemed to show the jets were on.

At the same time, the X-ray spectrum picked up the signatures of iron and nickel.

That signal, however, was off just a bit.

The scientists believe they know why the signal was off.

It was because of something similar to what is called the "Doppler effect."

In the Doppler effect, "a sound wave gets higher as it moves toward you and lower as it moves away from you," Miller-Jones said.

The researchers saw the same kind of effect in space.

"The energy was shifted a little bit to higher energies when it was moving toward us, and lower when it was moving away from us."

And there was one especially cool result of this effect: It allowed the researchers to figure out how fast the material in the jets was moving.

Their finding?

A whopping 123,000 miles per second, or about two-thirds of the speed of light.

