Charde Nabors would prefer to spend Thanksgiving Day in her mother's kitchen.

But the Sears department store cashier may instead spend the day working at her store in Chicago.

Sears is among the many retailers that will be open on Thanksgiving Day.

"We really don't want to work that, but who would say no when you need the money?"

said Nabors, 22, of Chicago, who works part time for $9 per hour and is a single mother to an infant and a 3-year-old.

Whether she volunteers or not, she may be chosen to work that day anyway.

"To me, that's what Thanksgiving does, it brings you and your family together," Nabors said.

"And this is just taking it away."

The taboo of mixing turkey and shopping has been blown away this year.

The holidays are creeping ever closer to ring in the potential deaths of both Black Friday and the family Thanksgiving dinner.

The prime example among retailers might be Kmart.

It has long been open for some hours on Thanksgiving.

This year it will be open for 41 hours straight, starting at 6 a.m. on Thanksgiving.

Macy's will break a 155-year-old tradition of closing on Thanksgiving and will open at 8 p.m. Thursday, as will Sears, which will then stay open through the night until 10 p.m. Friday.

Wal-Mart, Target, J.C. Penney, Toys R Us, Best Buy and many others will also have Thanksgiving hours this year.

"Thanksgiving used to be the one day retailers took a breather," said Bill Martin, who advises major shopping chains.

"We find it an unusual tactic for the retailers.

They're trying to get to the consumer's wallet as early as possible."

It's part of an escalating race among retailers, leading Black Friday to morph into Black Thursday.

Blame it on this year's holiday calendar crunch.

Or copycat retailers scared to death of losing sales to a competitor.

Or technology that has conditioned the gimme-it-now consumer who shops on an iPad at home at 3 a.m. "The culture shock of, 'Oh, my goodness, they're opening on Thanksgiving!'

is starting to wear off," said Marshal Cohen, who studies the shopping market for the NPD Group.

Several retailers, including Kmart and Macy's, claim they are simply giving their customers what they want.

But experts say that just is not true.

"The biggest piece of bull is that consumers are asking for this," said Darrin Duber-Smith, marketing professor at Metropolitan State University of Denver.

Martin calls the trend a "sad event."

He said, "We don't think it's the consumer saying, 'Open up earlier, open up more.'

We think it's really the retailers trying to get at the wallet and pull them into the store — to get to the money before it's all spent."

But a small portion of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended Black Friday, Duber-Smith said.

He calls them adventure shoppers who are "stimulated by the hunt."

Last year, 23 percent of holiday shoppers said they would shop on Thanksgiving Day, up from 17 percent in 2011, according to a shopping survey by Deloitte.

A different poll found nearly 1 in 7 shoppers admitted to skipping Thanksgiving dinner, rushing through it or starting early to participate in Black Friday sales that started late that night.

Some chose not to travel to a relative's house for the holiday so that they could shop instead, according to a poll conducted by Harris Interactive.

David Gladney, 38, of Chicago, said he prefers early Thanksgiving Day store openings, where he can get his deal hunting out of the way in the beginning of the day — this year scouting comforters and large flat-screen televisions — and then get back to food, family and football.

"I would come out — just because it's that early," he said.

The stigma of doing something besides being with family on Thanksgiving has been fading, and shopping is only the latest alternative activity, said Randy Allen, a management professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

Other events such as Turkey Trot running races and deer hunting on Thanksgiving morning pull people away from family, Allen said.

And, of course, sports fans are often loafing in front of televised football games, so what's the harm in non-sports fans participating in the most American of all sports, competitive shopping?

"It's not like the whole family is necessarily together the whole day, anyway," Allen said.

And shopping can be a distraction for those who find spending time with family stressful, Cohen said.

"The meal takes three hours to prepare, 25 minutes to eat, and after 45 minutes of sitting with your Aunt Tilly, you can't wait to get away from the table," Cohen said.

"This gives you an excuse to go do something."

Tahiya Ismat, 25, of Oak Park, Ill., plans to visit open stores on Thanksgiving between catching the McDonald's Thanksgiving Parade downtown and having dinner with friends.

"Yeah, probably I'll come shopping since I don't have anything to do," she said.

Still, some retailers refuse to open on Thanksgiving.

"Some things are more important than a sale or the almighty dollar, which is family," said Jim von Maur, president of Von Maur department stores.

He called the trend toward opening on Thanksgiving "pathetic."

He said, "We think holidays are there for a reason, so families can be home."

Von Maur will be closed on Thanksgiving — in fact, its stores will close at 4 p.m. Wednesday — and open only during normal business hours on Black Friday.

