At a workshop here recently, 20 high school students were asked if they planned to go to college.

They all raised their hands.

Then they were asked if they planned to go into teaching.

All the hands dropped.

These students from Pittsburgh are a small example of something happening nationwide: Only two out of 100 teachers in the United States are African-American males, according to Robert Millward, an education professor at Indiana University of Pennsylvania.

Millward created the Black Men Teaching Initiative to encourage more African-American students, especially young men, to become teachers.

Four colleges in Pennsylvania are working together on the initiative.

One idea they have is hosting workshops for high school students.

The program has two related goals.

The first: to encourage black men to go to college.

The second: to persuade them to become teachers.

The second goal is more difficult than the first, Millward explained.

"They say that teachers don't make much" money, he said.

"They see teaching as a woman's profession.

They say, 'I didn't have a good experience in school, so why would I want to spend life teaching?'"

The lack of black teachers is an issue with historical roots.

Until the 1950s, many American public schools were segregated.

There were separate schools for black children and white children.

Officials at the time claimed the schools were "separate but equal."

In 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in a groundbreaking case, Brown v. Board of Education, that separate schools could never be equal.

Black students were being treated unfairly, the court said.

Through the 1950s and '60s, American schools began to desegregate.

Meaning schools that were once only for white students would now also enroll black students.

The government began sending some black students on buses to white schools.

With fewer students, some black schools had to close, causing many black teachers and principals to lose their jobs.

The number of African-American teachers in the United States was cut nearly by half, going from 80,000 in 1954 to only 42,000 in 1965.

Before 1954, teaching was one of the three main professions that allowed African-Americans to move into the middle class.

The others were nursing and church leadership.

Teachers were seen as community leaders beyond the walls of the classroom, according to Rich Milner, an education professor at the University of Pittsburgh.

When the number of black teachers dropped, the number of positive male role models dropped with it.

Walter Lewis, who works with students through the Black Men Teaching Initiative, said many of the families that he works with do not have father figures.

"A lot of the students call me 'dad' or 'uncle,'" he said.

"I am often the positive male role model.

They need someone who can say, 'Don't do that' — someone who is not afraid of them."

The Black Men Teaching Initiative hopes that providing African-American middle and high school students with role models will create a snowball effect that continues to grow.

The initiative is different at different schools.

Some schools are recruiting more math and science teachers and persuading teacher assistants to go back to school to become certified teachers.

A local community college is helping students take the classes they need at low cost so they can transfer to a four-year college.

While education experts support the effort, they warn against viewing more black male teachers as the only solution.

Poor schools and under-trained teachers can also hurt black students, regardless of the number of black male teachers, Milner said.

"Black male teachers can serve as role models, especially for black male students," Milner said.

"But what are we going to do to support black male teachers who take on these other layers of responsibility?"

he asked.

