Charde Nabors would prefer to spend Thanksgiving in her mother's kitchen.

But the Sears department store cashier may spend the day working instead.

Sears is among the many retailers that will be open on Thanksgiving Day.

"We really don't want to work that, but who would say no when you need the money?"

said Nabors, 22, of Chicago.

Nabors is a single mother with an infant and a 3-year-old.

She works part time for $9 per hour.

She may be chosen to work that day even if she does not volunteer.

Thanksgiving "brings you and your family together," Nabors said.

"And this is just taking it away."

The holiday shopping season has been moving up earlier.

It used to start the day after Thanksgiving.

The day became known as Black Friday.

Now Black Friday may be dead and the family Thanksgiving dinner may be, too.

Kmart might be the best example.

It has long been open for some hours on Thanksgiving.

This year, it will be open for 41 hours straight.

It will open its doors at 6 a.m. on Thanksgiving.

Macy's will break a 155-year-old tradition of closing on Thanksgiving.

It will open at 8 p.m. Thursday.

So will Sears, which will then stay open through the night until 10 p.m. Friday.

Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy and many others will also have Thanksgiving hours this year.

"Thanksgiving used to be the one day retailers took a breather," said Bill Martin.

He is the founder of  ShopperTrak.

His company helps retailers.

"We find it an unusual tactic for the retailers.

They're trying to get to the consumer's wallet as early as possible."

Retailers have been racing to start the holiday season earlier.

Now Black Friday has become Black Thursday.

Why?

There could be many reasons.

This year there are not as many days between Thanksgiving and Christmas as there were last year.

Hannukkah also comes very early.

Retailers may be scared of losing sales to a competitor.

Shoppers also can just shop on an iPad at home whenever they want.

"The culture shock of, 'Oh, my goodness, they're opening on Thanksgiving!'

is starting to wear off," said Marshal Cohen.

He is chief industry analyst at market research firm NPD Group.

Several retailers claim they are simply giving their customers what they want.

But experts say that just is not true.

Martin calls the trend a "sad event."

He said, "We don't think it's the consumer saying, 'Open up earlier, open up more.'"

Martin said.

Instead, retailers want to get shoppers in the store "to get to the money before it's all spent."

But a small segment of deal-seeking consumers will be glad for the extended Black Friday, Darrin Duber-Smith said.

He calls them adventure shoppers.

Those shoppers are "stimulated by the hunt."

Duber-Smith is a marketing professor.

He teaches at Metropolitan State University of Denver Last year, 23 percent of holiday shoppers said they would shop on Thanksgiving Day.

That was up from 17 percent in 2011, according to a survey by Deloitte.

A different poll found nearly 1 in 7 shoppers admitted to skipping Thanksgiving dinner, rushing through it or starting early to participate in Black Friday sales that began later that day.

Some chose not to travel to a relative's house in favor of shopping.

The poll was released by PromotionalCodes.com and conducted online by Harris Interactive.

David Gladney said he prefers early Thanksgiving Day store openings.

That way he can get his deal hunting out of the way in the beginning of the day and get back to food, family and football.

"I would come out — just because it's that early," he said.

It does not seem as bad anymore to be doing something besides being with the family on Thanksgiving.

Shopping is only the latest alternative activity, said Randy Allen.

He is a management professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

Other events such as Turkey Trot running races and deer hunting on Thanksgiving morning pull people away from family, Allen said.

And, of course, sports fans are often watching football games.

So what's the harm in non-sports fans participating in the most American of all sports, competitive shopping?

"It's not like the whole family is necessarily together the whole day, anyway," Allen said.

