In Easton, Maryland, a new history about African-Americans is being dug right out of the ground.

Before the Civil War, most African-Americans were held as the property of white people.

But experts here are examining evidence of a free black community during the early years of the American republic.

Archaeologists and historians are uncovering the story of an area called The Hill.

They are digging up glass, pottery and other objects to give them clues about the past.

They believe The Hill is the earliest settlement of free African-Americans in the United States, dating to 1790.

Dale Green is a professor at Morgan State University.

He said that this project is not just a story about black people.

It's a story about America.

The Hill was founded by freed slaves.

Some slaves were able to buy their freedom, while others were freed by some religious groups.

In communities like The Hill, they had the freedom to own property and trade goods.

According to the 1790 census, a population count, about 410 free African-Americans lived on The Hill.

This is much more than the 250 free African-Americans who lived in the port city of Baltimore at the time.

Researchers and students are in the middle of a three-week dig.

They are working in 5-by-5-foot squares.

The deeper they dig, the further back in history they go.

In the first few inches of soil, the team found 20th-century objects such as toys, marbles and pipe stems.

A little deeper, they discovered evidence of 19th-century life.

Stefan Woehlke is in charge of the dig.

He showed off part of an olive-green glass bottle that was decorated with a cluster of grapes.

Woehlke said the bottle was probably used to hold wine.

He believes it was made in the late 18th or early 19th century.

The diggers also found a 1-cent coin featuring Lady Liberty, dated 1794.

Professor Green said that the free African-Americans lived alongside white families at The Hill.

In 1790, this property belonged to James Price, a white man.

Records show that Price and three free African-Americans lived on the property.

The records don't include very much information about the African-Americans.

The work at The Hill promises to give up lots of new information.

But the researchers say they're only scratching the surface.

"It's sort of piecing together a puzzle, but you don't have all the pieces," Woehlke said.

The group will spend at least five more years working at Easton.

Since the dig began, more than 500 people have visited the site.

Some visitors have been on organized tours.

But others have just wandered in after seeing signs posted around the block.

Priscilla Morris has family roots in Easton that date back to the 1600s.

She is a regular visitor to the area.

She said she finds the dig "thrilling" because no one knows how people lived here two hundred years ago.

Professor Green said the work at The Hill could change the way American history is told.

At the moment, the story of free blacks is usually ignored.

In the past, history was always told by the slave owners rather than the African-Americans.

There are big plans to get the word out about The Hill.

These include work by students and new museums.

There might even be a movie made about the African-American community at Easton.

The Hill already is part of the National Register of Historic Places.

That information will soon be updated to include the black history of the area.

About 75 researchers and students are working on The Hill project.

Tracy Jenkins is a graduate student in archaeology at the University of Maryland.

He said that the local community has been very interested in the dig and friendly to the archaeologists.

Jenkins said this is encouraging and unusual as it doesn't often happen in archaeology.

He said that he sometimes has to dig in lonely places in the countryside where there is no one else around.

At The Hill, which is in the middle of town, the researchers and local people are getting to know each other.

Jenkins is excited about working on the project.

He's glad to have the chance to write what he called a paper that really matters, and not something that just "sits on a shelf."

He added, "I like the opportunity to tell stories that haven't been told."

