Lonnie Bunch's job has been to make people believe.

Bunch is the director of the new National Museum of African American History and Culture.

Many had doubted that the museum would ever be built.

Now it has a growing shape and promise.

Bunch is standing outside a trailer not far from the White House.

He looks down on a building site, the museum's future home.

It has taken him nearly nine years to get to this point.

"It's humbling," said Bunch.

As Black History Month ends, construction on the museum is halfway done.

The museum will be a permanent symbol of African-Americans in U.S. history.

The grand opening of the museum is expected by the end of next year or in early in 2016.

Perhaps it will take place during February, Black History Month.

But for Bunch, "every month is Black History Month."

It will be a national museum.

Officials say that they have raised about $400 million.

The museum will cost $500 million to build.

Television superstar Oprah Winfrey gave $12 million the museum.

A theater inside it will be named in her honor.

"I want to help ensure that we both honor and preserve our culture and history...

The stories of who we are will live on for generations to come," Winfrey said.

President Barack Obama is the first African-American president.

He attended a ceremony when construction began two years ago.

But Bunch had to make sure people believed that the museum would be built.

"I get very emotional when I come here," he said.

Phil Freelon is an African-American architect from Durham, North Carolina.

He designed the building.

The building will have 10 stories — five above ground, five below.

The outside will be covered with bronze to make it gleam.

The idea comes from ironwork created by more than 150 years ago by slaves.

The museum wants to give people a sense of the struggles and successes of African-Americans.

Museum-goers will enter the building across a body of water.

This represents the experience of slaves crossing the ocean to come to America.

Some large museum objects already have been put in place.

The building will be built around them.

Visitors will be able to walk through a 1918 Southern Railway car.

Comfortable seating for whites is up in front.

A divider kept African-Americans in the plain seating in the back.

The railroad car shows how segregation laws separated blacks and whites.

Under segregation, black people and white people couldn't go to the same school, drink from the same water fountain or sit together in a restaurant.

The rail car is from America's long years of segregation.

These objects are rare, said Peter Claussen.

He works for Gulf &amp; Ohio Railways.

The company gave the rail car to the museum.

"The separate water fountains are gone.

The black and white sections of movie theaters are gone.

There are very few objects that allow people to see what segregation was like.

And this is one of them," Claussen said.

The museum includes a 21-foot guard tower from a Louisiana state prison.

To Bunch, the tower is a powerful symbol.

It represents the unfair way African-Americans were treated.

The guard tower and the railway car will be part of the museum's first exhibit.

It is called "Defending Freedom, Defining Freedom: Era of Segregation 1876-1968."

A slave cabin from a plantation on Edisto Island, S.C., was built in the early 1800s.

It tells of life during slavery.

The small wooden cabin was taken apart piece by piece.

It was shipped to Washington last May.

Bunch began planning the museum in 2005.

He had just two staff members and no museum objects.

Now, his goal is within reach.

"You want people to go into this museum and be changed," he said.

