More than a year ago, Jeramey Winfield graduated from Colby-Sawyer College in New Hampshire.

He still does not have a full-time job.

In fact, he said, he has rarely been called back for an interview.

"I had this vision of helping my mom out, since she struggled to raise five of us.

I wanted to give her some relief," Winfield said.

He is the first in his family to attend college.

Employment is higher than it has been in years.

However, recent college graduates across the country are struggling to find work.

For young black men and women with college degrees, the job search has been especially tough.

According to a new study, they are having a harder time than whites finding a job.

They are more likely to work in a job where their college degree is not needed.

Also, they are being paid less than white workers with the same experience.

Even blacks who have studied science, technology, engineering and math had a hard time finding work, said John Schmitt.

He co-authored the new report, "A College Degree is No Guarantee."

"We are looking at a group of people who did everything right," Schmitt said.

"They graduated high school like they were told.

They went to college and graduated.

They entered the labor market, but they are more likely to be unemployed than their white counterparts."

Like Winfield, many of these graduates were the first in their family to attend college.

They may face pressure from family and friends who expect them to be successful and help support the family.

All of this has made their search for work very urgent.

There are many reasons for the gap between whites and blacks.

Black college graduates may not know people who can help them get interviews and jobs.

More important, according to Schmitt, they can face discrimination.

Employers are more likely to offer a job to a white person than a black person, Schmitt said.

Black graduates were more than twice as likely to be jobless as whites.

"You have someone who went to the right school, worked really hard and was told they can be anything they want," said Robert Hawkins.

He studies poverty at New York University's Silver School of Social Work.

"Then they realize that isn't true."

Anita Jenke, with the Career Transitions Center of Chicago, said that some of the black gradates come from poor communities.

They do not have the money to get to interviews.

Sometimes they lack a working cellphone or Internet connection.

"These kids have so much to give," Jenke said.

"They are so motivated, so personable and committed to making it.

They are accomplished and often they want to work helping to contribute to society.

They just need an opportunity."

At Colby-Sawyer College, Winfield was a top student who created the school's first gospel choir.

"Jeramey is just a wonderful person who made our campus a better place," said the college's president, Tom Galligan.

Winfield's success in college is part of the reason he cannot understand why he is having trouble finding a job.

"I feel like I'm a sharp and confident person," he said.

"I've always gone above and beyond.

It does make me think, 'Am I not good enough?

What's wrong with me?'"

Now, Winfield scrapes by earning money from working with kids at his former high school and working as a substitute teacher.

The rest of the time, he volunteers as a youth leader at his church and searches for work.

"Being rejected by the professional world has pushed me to go harder working at my high school and my church," he said.

Although he cannot find a job in his field, "I know I can come back to where I came from and use it here.

I'm still a success to the people here."

