In Easton, Maryland, an untold story of free African-Americans is being dug right out of the ground.

Archaeologists and historians from two universities and the local area are uncovering the history of The Hill through bits of glass, shards of pottery, and oyster shells.

They believe this is the earliest settlement of free African-Americans in the United States, dating to 1790.

Treme, in New Orleans, is recognized as the oldest free black community in the nation, dating to 1812.

But researchers say that could change based on findings from the Easton dig.

Dale Green, a Morgan State University professor, explained that this project is "not just a black story," it is also an "American story."

Former slaves founded such settlements, where they enjoyed early emancipation and the chance to own property and trade freely.

The slaves who likely formed The Hill had probably bought their freedom.

Others may have been freed by Methodists and Quakers, who were religiously opposed to slavery.

Historians say this group could have been the largest community of free blacks in the Chesapeake Bay region.

During the first census in 1790, some 410 free African-Americans were recorded living on The Hill.

This is much more than the 250 free African-Americans who lived in Baltimore at the time.

Researchers and students are in the middle of a three-week dig at one of The Hill properties, a site owned by the Talbot County Women's Club.

They are working in 5-by-5-foot squares, and the deeper they dig, the further back in history they go.

The first few inches of soil revealed 20th-century objects such as toys, marbles and pipe stems.

A little deeper, the team unearthed evidence of 19th-century life, said Stefan Woehlke, a University of Maryland graduate student and director of the site.

Woehlke showed off part of an olive-green glass bottle, decorated with cluster of grapes, that he said was probably used to hold wine.

The bottle was hand-blown using a mold, which dates it to the late 18th or early 19th century.

Other artifacts include bits of a blue glass pitcher from the 1800s and a 1-cent coin featuring Lady Liberty, dated 1794.

More importantly, researchers have found evidence of making nails and raising chickens on the land.

These activities were far more likely to have been carried out by free blacks who lived on the land than by the property owner.

Woehlke described his work as a matter of "piecing together all of the evidence."

Professor Green said that in Easton, free African-Americans lived alongside white families.

In 1790, this property belonged to James Price, a white man.

The census recorded Price and three free African-Americans living on the property, though it lacked detail about the African-Americans.

The excavations on The Hill promise to reveal lots of new information, especially when they are combined with document research and oral histories passed down through the generations.

But the researchers say they're only scratching the surface.

"It's sort of piecing together a puzzle, but you don't have all the pieces," Woehlke said.

The team has committed to spending at least five more years working at The Hill.

Since the dig began, more than 500 people have visited.

Some have come on organized tours, but others have just wandered in after seeing "public archaeology excavation" signs posted around the block.

Priscilla Morris has family roots in Easton that date back to the 1600s, and she is a regular visitor to the site.

Morris is intrigued by the role Quakers and Methodists played in freeing their own slaves and calling for an end to slavery well before the Civil War.

She said she finds the dig "thrilling" because no one quite knows or understands how people lived at The Hill two hundred years ago.

Most written histories skip over the experiences of free African-Americans, said Morris.

Morris explained that in the past, history was always told by slave owners rather than African-Americans.

"Nobody ever told us there was this extraordinary, large, free community," she said.

Professor Green said the work on The Hill could change the way American history is told because at the moment, the story of free blacks is usually overlooked.

There are ambitious plans to get the word out about The Hill.

These include work by graduate students, museum exhibits, updated tourist attractions, and even a screenplay that's being financed by a local business owner.

The Hill already is part of the National Register of Historic Places that includes Easton's historic district, but that listing will be revised to include information about the African-American history.

"So when you read it, it's not just about white Easton," Green said.

About 75 researchers and students are contributing to The Hill project.

Tracy Jenkins is a graduate student in archaeology at the University of Maryland writing about the site.

He said the Easton community's interest and warm reception has been encouraging and unusual.

"That doesn't happen so much in archaeology.

Sometimes, archaeologists are digging off in a cornfield somewhere," Jenkins said.

At The Hill, in the middle of town, researchers and residents are building a bond, he said.

Jenkins is excited about working on the project and said he wants to write something that really matters.

"I like the opportunity to tell stories that haven't been told," he said.

