Black holes are strange and mysterious regions of outer space.

Gravity in black holes is very strong.

Everything around black holes gets sucked into them, even light.

Scientists have known for years that black holes also send stuff back into the universe.

This stuff is carried along in fast-moving space streams called jets.

But nobody knew what was in those jets.

Now, the mystery may have been solved.

Scientists studying jets from a black hole called 4U 1630-47 found bits of nickel and iron.

Their discovery may solve an old puzzle.

Everyone has always agreed that jets contain electrons.

These are tiny subatomic pieces with a negative charge.

But the jets do not have a negative charge overall.

That means there must be something else in there.

There has to be something with a positive charge.

So where is the positive charge coming from?

Some scientists suggested the jets might contain positrons as well as electrons.

Positrons are positively charged and are the opposite of electrons.

Unlike electrons, they are not found in normal matter.

Instead, they are a part of so-called antimatter.

They can also exist on their own, as can electrons.

But other scientists were not convinced: They thought the jets were made of much heavier normal matter.

Until now, it wasn't clear what was causing the positive charge, said scientist James Miller-Jones.

Was it positrons?

Or was it positively charged atoms of normal matter?

The new discovery of nickel and iron in jets has settled that question.

"We now know that ordinary matter must be providing the positive charge," Miller-Jones said.

It takes a lot of energy to move normal matter.

It takes much more energy than it it does to move lightweight electrons and positrons.

So the high-speed jets must be carrying a lot of energy away from the black hole, the scientists thought.

The study also helps answer another set of questions: Where do the jets come out of?

From the spinning black hole?

Or from the disk of matter that surrounds the black hole?

The new discovery suggests that the jets are coming from the disk.

Miller-Jones said scientists are planning further study to prove this.

How did scientists spot the nickel and iron?

They studied radio waves and X-rays in the streams coming out of black hole 4U 1630-47.

Different things have their own radio wave and X-ray patterns.

The patterns are known as their signatures.

The scientists were hoping to spot a signature they recognized.

The first time the researchers looked, the jets were not on.

The jets are not always on, Miller-Jones said.

"It depends a little bit on how fast the black hole is feeding."

Black holes can grow — or "feed" — by sucking in matter around them.

But the second time the team looked, the jets were on.

Then they  looked at the X-rays.

They saw the signatures of iron and nickel.

But that was not the only amazing discovery the scientists made.

They also figured out just how fast the jets were moving: a whopping 123,000 miles per second.

