In Easton, Maryland, a little-known story of free African-Americans is being dug right out of the ground.

Before the Civil War, most African-Americans were forced to work on plantations and held as the property of white people.

But experts here are examining evidence of a black community that was not enslaved when the United States was a young republic.

Archaeologists and historians from two universities and the local area are uncovering the history of The Hill.

They are digging up glass, pottery and other objects to give them clues about the past.

The experts believe The Hill is the earliest settlement of free African-Americans in the United States, dating to 1790.

Treme, in New Orleans, is recognized as the oldest free black community in the nation, dating to 1812.

But researchers say this could change based on findings from the Easton dig.

"It's not just a black story.

It's an American story," said Dale Green, a professor at Morgan State University.

Former slaves founded settlements like The Hill where they could enjoy being free and the chance to own property and to trade.

Slaves who had bought their freedom and others freed by religious groups likely formed The Hill.

Historians say this group could have been the largest community of free blacks in the Chesapeake Bay region.

In 1790, the United States took its first official count of the population.

This census recorded some 410 free African-Americans living on The Hill.

This is much more than the 250 free African-Americans who lived in Baltimore at the time.

Researchers and students are in the middle of a three-week dig at one of The Hill properties, a site owned by the Talbot County Women's Club.

They are working in 5-by-5-foot squares, and the deeper they dig, the further back in history they go.

The first few inches of soil revealed 20th-century objects such as toys, marbles and pipe stems.

A little deeper, the team unearthed evidence of 19th-century life.

Stefan Woehlke is a University of Maryland graduate student and director of the site.

He showed off part of an olive-green glass bottle, decorated with cluster of grapes, that he said was probably used to hold wine.

This bottle was made in the late 18th or early 19th century.

Other artifacts found by the team include bits of a blue glass pitcher from the 1800s and a 1-cent coin featuring Lady Liberty, dated 1794.

Researchers have also found evidence of nail-making and raising chickens on the land.

These activities were probably carried out by free blacks who lived on the land rather than the property owner.

Woehlke described his work as a matter of "piecing together all of the evidence."

Professor Green said that free African-Americans lived alongside white families at the site.

In 1790, this property belonged to James Price, a white man.

Records show that Price and three free African-Americans lived on the property, though there isn't much detail about the African-Americans.

The excavations on The Hill promise to reveal lots of new information.

Knowledge from the dig will be combined with other research and spoken history passed down through the generations.

But the researchers say they're only scratching the surface.

"It's sort of piecing together a puzzle, but you don't have all the pieces," Woehlke said.

The team has promised to spend at least five more years working at The Hill.

Since the dig began, more than 500 people have visited the site.

Some visitors have been on organized tours.

But others have just wandered in after seeing "public archaeology excavation" signs posted around the block.

Priscilla Morris has family roots in Easton that date back to the 1600s.

She is a regular visitor to the site.

Morris is interested by the role religious groups, like the Quakers and Methodists, played in freeing their own slaves.

She said she finds the dig "thrilling" because no one quite knows how people lived at The Hill two hundred years ago.

Most history books skip over the experiences of free African-Americans, said Morris.

Professor Green said the work on The Hill could change the way American history is told.

At the moment, the story of free blacks is usually overlooked.

In the past, history was always told by the slave owners rather than the African-Americans.

There are ambitious plans to get the word out about The Hill.

These include work by students, museum exhibits and tourist attractions.

There might even be a film made about the African-American community at Easton.

The Hill already is part of the National Register of Historic Places, but that information will be updated to include the black history of the area.

"So when you read it, it's not just about white Easton," Green said.

In total, about 75 researchers and students are working on The Hill project.

Tracy Jenkins is a graduate student in archaeology at the University of Maryland.

He said that the local community has been very interested in the dig and friendly to the archaeologists.

Jenkins said this is encouraging and unusual as it doesn't often happen in archaeology.

He said that he sometimes has to dig in lonely places in the countryside where there is no one else around.

At The Hill, which is in the middle of town, the researchers and residents are building a bond.

Jenkins is excited about working on the project and said he wants to write something that really matters.

"I like the opportunity to tell stories that haven't been told," he said.

