For the last eight and a half years, it has been Lonnie Bunch's job to make people believe.

Not far from the Washington Monument, the director of the new National Museum of African American History and Culture is standing on a deck outside a trailer.

He looks down at what for two years has been a construction site on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.

Many had doubted that the museum would ever be built.

Now it has an emerging shape and promise.

"It's humbling," said Bunch.

As Black History Month comes to an end, construction is at the halfway point.

The museum will be a permanent symbol of the role of African-Americans throughout U.S. history.

The grand opening of the museum is expected by the end of next year or in early in 2016.

Perhaps it will take place in February, during Black History Month.

But for Bunch, "every month is Black History Month," he said.

Officials of the museum, which will be part of the Smithsonian Institution, say they have raised about $400 million.

The museum will cost a total of $500 million to build.

A major contribution — $12 million — came from media superstar and actress Oprah Winfrey.

A theater inside the museum will be named in her honor.

"I want to help ensure that we both honor and preserve our culture and history.

So ... the stories of who we are will live on for generations to come," Winfrey said.

President Barack Obama, the first African-American commander-in-chief, attended the groundbreaking two years ago.

But Bunch, who raised the money and found the objects, had to make sure people believed that the museum would be built.

"I get very emotional when I come here," he said.

It could very well be the last building to go up on the mall, sometimes referred to as the "nation's front lawn."

Mall advocates, from Congress to the National Park Service to arts experts, seem to agree that nothing more can be placed along the nearly 2-mile corridor from the U.S. Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial.

They believe that would take away from the green space and the array of museums and memorials.

Phil Freelon is the African-American architect from Durham, N.C., who designed the building.

He imagined a boxlike structure with 10 stories — five above ground, five below.

The outside of the building will be layered with 3,600 bronze grid panels to make it gleam.

The idea is inspired by the decorative ironwork created by slaves in Charleston, S.C., and New Orleans.

"The skin of the building," Bunch said, who called the overall design a tribute "to those hiding in plain sight."

One of the museum's goals is to provide a sense of the struggles and successes of African-Americans.

Entering the building, for instance, museum-goers will cross water to remember the experience of slaves crossing the ocean to come to America.

Some large objects already have been put in place so that the building can be built around them.

One of them is a railroad car with different compartments for whites in the front and a sign for "colored" in the back.

"Colored" is the word once used to describe African-Americans.

The railroad car is an example of how segregation laws separated blacks and whites in public places.

Visitors will be able to walk through the 1918 Southern Railway car, used from 1940 to 1960.

They will see the comfortable seating for whites and the divider that kept African-Americans in the basic seating in the back.

This railcar is a physical piece of history "from America's long years of segregation," and that is rare, said Peter Claussen, chairman and CEO of Gulf &amp; Ohio Railways.

His company donated the rail car to the museum.

"The separate water fountains are gone.

The black and white sections of movie theaters are gone.

There are very few objects that allow people to see what segregation was like, and this is one of them."

The museum includes a 21-foot concrete guard tower from Angola, the Louisiana state prison that was built in the 1930s.

To Bunch, the guard tower serves as a powerful symbol of the unjust treatment of African-Americans.

Many African-Americans were rounded up as tramps and were hired out to work for residents.

The practice, which began at the turn of the 20th century, became a way to re-enslave African-Americans, Bunch said.

The guard tower and the railway car will be featured in the museum's Segregation Gallery.

It will be part of the first exhibit called, "Defending Freedom, Defining Freedom: Era of Segregation 1876-1968."

A slave cabin from Point of Pines Plantation on Edisto Island, S.C., tells a similar tale of life during slavery.

The small wooden cabin, which dates to the early 1800s, was taken apart piece by piece and shipped to Washington.

It will be put together for an exhibition called "Slavery and Freedom" when the museum opens.

For Bunch, who started out in 2005 with just two staff members and no museum objects, a longed-for goal is within reach.

"You want people to go into this museum and be changed," he said.

