They tried to stop him.

But Harry S. McAlpin made history anyway.

In February of 1944, McAlpin achieved a breakthrough: He became the first black journalist to report on a presidential news conference at the White House.

Presidential news conferences are a big deal: At them, the president of the United States speaks to a select group of reporters.

They are allowed to ask him questions.

Time magazine and The New York Times noted the breakthrough.

President Franklin Delano Roosevelt greeted the reporter: "Glad to see you, McAlpin," he said.

But McAlpin's fellow reporters did not show him the same friendliness.

They were members of the White House Correspondents' Association, or WHCA.

The WHCA controlled which reporters could work at the White House.

For 10 years, that group had blocked black reporters from the White House.

McAlpin was only there because Roosevelt had invited black reporters to attend.

African-American newspapers had been asking him to let them in since 1933.

Roosevelt's invitation did nothing to change the thinking of WHCA members.

One member suggested to McAlpin that if he did attend, "someone" could get hurt.

If McAlpin stayed away, though, he'd share his notes with him.

McAlpin "ever so politely declined the offer," said reporter George Condon.

Instead, he stepped boldly into the White House.

These days, the WHCA is looking to make up for its past mistakes: It is setting aside money for black students who want to study journalism in college.

They will receive a scholarship in McAlpin's name.

McAlpin will be honored by the WHCA on May 3.

"Harry McAlpin was a remarkable man," said Steven Thomma.

He is the current president of the WHCA.

Thanks to Harry McAlpin, and others who followed, the WHCA today has many kinds of faces and voices, Thomma said.

"The country is better for it."

McAlpin's son, Sherman, is proud of what his father did.

"He has been and continues to be my hero," Sherman said of his father.

McAlpin faced much discrimination, his son said.

As a young man, McAlpin hoped to study journalism at the University of Missouri.

He was barred because of his race.

McAlpin ended up at the University of Wisconsin instead.

Similarly, trying to get into the White House as a black reporter was a "hard road," Sherman said.

His father told him of the warning he had received: Show up at the White House, and "someone might step on your foot."

Then, a fight would break out.

McAlpin replied: "I always thought the White House press would be the cream of the crop.

I can't imagine that would happen.

But if it did, it would be the story of the year and I wouldn't want to miss it.'

" McAlpin achieved another first: He was part of the press train traveling to the 1944 Democratic National Convention.

He was also one of the few reporters allowed to report on the White House funeral services when Roosevelt died.

And McAlpin made his mark with President Harry S. Truman: At the new president's first news conference, McAlpin asked a bold question: Could Truman promise African-Americans he'd consider their views as Roosevelt had?

"He was a good writer," Condon said.

And he was "a good reporter who paid attention to what his community cared about."

But McAlpin was never invited to join the WHCA.

"The president could break the color line for his press conferences," Condon said.

However, he couldn't change the WHCA.

McAlpin stopped attending White House press conferences in 1945.

He later served as a war reporter before moving to Kentucky.

There, he worked as a lawyer.

McAlpin worked on civil rights as president of the Louisville NAACP.

Sherman said that his father had taught him that all men were created equal.

Nonetheless, his father often had to struggle against the racism of others.

During the 1950s, McAlpin spoke of his struggles with racism.

"I have found it necessary to develop patience, to build courage, to pray for wisdom," McAlpin said.

