At a workshop here, a graduate school student stood in front of 20 high school students.

He asked how many planned to go to college, and all hands shot up.

But when he asked how many planned to go into education, the hands dropped.

The scene at Pittsburgh Westinghouse 6-12 echoes national statistics.

Fewer than 2 percent of teachers in the United States are African-American males, according to Robert Millward, an education professor at Indiana University of Pennsylvania.

Millward hopes to increase those numbers through the Black Men Teaching Initiative, which  brings together four colleges and universities to persuade young black men to pursue higher education and to become teachers.

The first task is easier than the second, Millward explained.

"They say that teachers don't make much," he said.

"They see teaching as a woman's profession.

They say, 'I didn't have a good experience in school, so why would I want to spend life teaching?'"

Millward traces the lack of black teachers to the 1950s, when public education in the United States was desegregated.

Before 1954, many U.S. schools were segregated — there were separate schools for black and white students, under a policy called "separate but equal."

The U.S. Supreme Court, in its landmark 1954 case Brown v. Board of Education, declared school segregation unconstitutional.

The court said separate schools could never be equal.

The government began sending black students on buses to white schools.

With fewer students, some black schools had to close, causing many black teachers and principals to lose their jobs.

The number of African-American teachers was cut almost by half, going from 80,000 nationwide in 1954 to 42,000 in 1965, he said.

Of the few black educators who were offered jobs at white schools, the positions open to them were often less prestigious or lower paid than the ones they previously had held, he added.

Before 1954, teaching was a common way for African-Americans to move into the middle class, according to Rich Milner, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh who specializes in urban education.

Teaching was not just a steady paycheck, it created community leaders beyond the walls of the classroom.

When the number of black teachers dropped, the number of positive male role models dropped with it.

Walter Lewis, who works with students through the Black Men Teaching Initiative, sees many families that do not have father figures.

"A lot of the students call me 'dad' or 'uncle,'" he said.

"I am often the positive male role model.

They need someone who can say, 'Don't do that' — someone who is not afraid of them."

The organizers of the Black Men Teaching Initiative hope that providing African-American middle and high school students with mentors and role models will create a snowball effect.

Stanley Denton, the professor in charge of the initiative at Point Park University, remembers being stared at as he walked the halls of Pittsburgh schools.

"Our children were aware that someone like me was a rarity and that someone like me was an asset," Denton said.

The initiative is different at different schools.

Point Park has a focus on recruiting math and science teachers and persuading teacher assistants to go back to school to become certified teachers.

At a community college here, students can pay less tuition, making it easier to transfer to a four-year education program.

The initiative is funded by the Heinz Endowments, which has given $360,000 over the past three years through its African-American Men and Boys Task Force.

The Heinz fund also pays for some African-American college graduates to visit schools as mentors and work on master's degrees though its fellows program.

While outside education experts applaud the effort, they also warn against viewing an increase in the numbers as the only solution.

"It can't be seen as a panacea," or cure-all, Milner said.

He mentioned unequal funding, inadequate resources and under-qualified teachers as hurdles that can trip up black students, regardless of the number of black male teachers.

"Black male teachers can serve as role models, especially for black male students, but what are we going to do to support black male teachers who take on these other layers of responsibility?"

he asked.

Nina Esposito-Visgitis, president of the Pittsburgh Federation of Teachers, also admires the program.

"We need a diverse population of teachers, but we need to make sure that all our teachers get the special training that urban teachers need," she said.

