!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20150602-AMX-SOCCER63.png) Sepp Blatter, the longtime president of world soccer's governing body, announced his resignation Tuesday.

It was a stunning about-face that came just days after he celebrated his re-election and defiantly criticized U.S. law enforcement agencies leading a corruption investigation.

While it remains unclear what led to Blatter's resignation, a federal law enforcement official and another person familiar with the investigation said Tuesday that Blatter remains a focus of the investigation into Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).

Blatter will remain FIFA president until a new election, and no date has been set.

Federal prosecutors hope to get evidence from those already arrested to secure further indictments.

No new charges were announced Tuesday.

In a news conference in FIFA's Zurich headquarters, Blatter admitted no wrongdoing but acknowledged he had lost the support of "the entire world of football" and called for an election to select a new president.

Until he steps down, Blatter said he will focus on imposing "far-reaching, fundamental reforms" in FIFA.

He spoke about term limits for leadership and changing FIFA's powerful executive committee, which decides on the dates and locations of soccer tournaments.

"I cherish FIFA more than anything, and I want to do only what is best for FIFA and for football," said Blatter, 79, who has served as FIFA president since 1998.

"FIFA needs a profound overhaul."

The admission of a need for massive change represented a startling reversal for Blatter.

On Friday, he told the delegates of FIFA's member nations that "we don't need revolutions; we just need evolutions."

A years-long U.S. criminal inquiry into FIFA erupted into public view last Wednesday.

In Zurich, Swiss authorities arrested several FIFA officials, including two vice presidents, in a dramatic early-morning raid.

Hours later, American law enforcement agencies unsealed a 47-count indictment that named 14 officials at FIFA and global sports marketing companies in a number of criminal schemes.

They involve bribery, fraud and money-laundering.

FIFA officials took bribes from countries bidding to host the World Cup, the indictment asserted, and from companies competing for profitable media deals for other soccer tournaments.

While Blatter at first said he welcomed the U.S. investigation, after his re-election he said something very different.

In interviews over the weekend, Blatter said "there is something that smells" about the timing of indictments two days before FIFA's presidential election.

Blatter said American law enforcement should not have made arrests outside the United States.

He also criticized comments by Attorney General Loretta Lynch, who described corruption in FIFA as "rampant, systemic and deep-rooted."

Those interviews made Tuesday's announcement all the more stunning.

Blatter has not been charged with a crime.

However, federal authorities believe his second-in-command, FIFA secretary general Jérôme Valcke, was involved with the transfer of $10 million from FIFA to accounts controlled by another FIFA official in 2008, according to a person briefed on the case.

That money was part of a bribe paid by South African officials to secure the 2010 World Cup, law enforcement documents state.

Valcke's possible involvement was first reported Monday evening by the New York Times newspaper, which noted he might not have known the money was part of a bribe.

South African officials have denied paying bribes to land the 2010 World Cup.

Valcke has not been charged with a crime.

Tuesday's announcement means the beginning of the end of a long career for Blatter, who joined FIFA in 1975.

In 1981, he was appointed FIFA general secretary and became president in 1998.

Under Blatter's leadership, FIFA has been plagued by rumors of corruption, bribes and backroom deals, usually involving its presidential elections and its votes on World Cup sites.

Blatter's resignation calls into question whether the 2022 World Cup will go on as planned in Qatar.

Its winning bid might be the most controversial in FIFA's history.

Blatter's announcement was welcomed by government officials, players, and experts across Europe and the Americas.

U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati called it "an exceptional and immediate opportunity for positive change within FIFA."

"Today is an occasion for optimism and belief for everyone who shares a passion for our game," Gulati said.

In Latin America, players and officials celebrated Blatter's departure and expressed hope of cleaning up the sport.

Brazilian soccer legend and current senator Romario de Souza Faria wrote on Facebook that it was the "best news in ages" and "begins a new era for world football."

Argentine soccer god Diego Maradona told an Argentine radio station that "today the truth is out and I am enjoying it."

"They hate soccer," Maradona said of FIFA officials.

"They hate transparency.

Enough shady dealings.

Enough lying to the people."

Britain's sports and culture secretary, John Whittingdale, said Blatter's resignation was "only the beginning of the process of change we need to see from FIFA."

Others cautioned that Blatter's decision to resign was just the first step in improving soccer's image.

Vincent Kompany, captain of the Manchester City soccer club, wrote on Twitter that soccer still needs "transparency and voting reform, then we move on and bring back ethics."

In Germany, the news of Blatter's resignation was met with relief, even ecstasy, with street graffiti in Berlin likening FIFA to the Mafia.

Hans Sarpei, a German-Ghanaian former professional soccer player, tweeted, "I'll go to my office now and dance with joy."

"This is the absolutely right decision, and it is overdue," the president of the German Football Association, Wolfgang Niersbach, told German media.

"It is a tragedy, actually, that he did not spare himself and all of us by doing this earlier."

