Alan Brint was born blind, but that has not stopped him.

The teen is a fast swimmer and wants to be seen no differently than anyone else.

Brint is in his last year at Highland Park High School in Illinois.

He spent the last four years training with swimmers who can see.

Recently, Brint took part in a swimming competition.

He competed in all four of the events for athletes with disabilities from around the state.

A disability is when someone has a problem that puts certain limits on what they can do.

Brint did not win any of the four swim matches.

But in all four races, he swam faster than he ever did before.

He finished third in two races and fourth in two others.

But the four personal-best times made the meet a good ending to his high school swimming career.

"I would have liked to have gone a little faster," said Brint.

He began swimming as a young child.

He will go to college next year and study business.

"But you can't be too disappointed in setting" personal records.

"I like that I had good competition in every race," he said.

"In all the races, there was someone who I barely beat or who barely beat me."

He added, "That makes it worthwhile."

Brint treats swimming like he does everything else in his life.

It is one of the reasons he is so successful.

For Brint, getting better is the only choice.

For Brint, that has meant countless 4:45 a.m. wake-up calls.

It also means a lot of hard work.

Tim Sirois is Brint's high school swim coach.

"He counts strokes, absolutely," said Sirois.

"At a meet, we'll tap him to let him know when to turn, when to finish."

This year's swim competition has been on Brint's calendar since last summer.

He has been training hard ever since.

Other people may be amazed at what Brint has accomplished.

It comes as no surprise to those who know him.

"The thing with Alan is that he can swim so well," said teammate Eddie Hochman.

He has known Brint since sixth grade.

"He's always looking for more ways to challenge himself."

Hochman added, "it's important to him that people treat him the same as everyone else."

Before he started high school, Brint spent hours wandering the halls.

He learned how to find his way around the school by counting his steps.

He gets around the school's maze of hallways without a second thought.

At the pool, he is just one of the guys.

"I've been swimming for a long time and it gives me a lot of pleasure," Brint said.

"But the (friendship) with my teammates is the most important thing to me.

I couldn't appreciate my teammates more."

One person who has been there every step of the way is Brint's father, David.

"He's learned an interesting balance between advocating for himself and being respectful as a good teammate," David Brint said.

"Something every child should learn how to do is push themselves to see how good they can be.

He's figured out ways to do that.

"When a kid has a disability like Alan does and he finds ways around it, it's pretty special.

I'm really proud of him," his father said.

