Alan Brint was born blind.

Yet, the Illinois teen always has a clear vision of how he wants others to view him — no differently than anyone else.

This attitude is especially clear at the swimming pool.

There, Brint has spent the last four years training with and swimming against competitors with full vision.

Brint, a senior at Highland Park High School, branched out recently at the boys swimming state meet.

He competed in all four of the events for athletes with disabilities.

He didn't win any of the four but he set personal-best times in each race.

He finished third in two and fourth in two others for a fulfilling conclusion to his high school career.

"I would have liked to have gone a little faster, especially in the breaststroke, but you can't be too disappointed in setting" personal records, said Brint, who began swimming as a young child.

"I like that I had good competition in every race.

In all the races, there was someone who I barely beat or who barely beat me and that makes it worthwhile," he said.

One of the reasons for his success in the sport is that he treats swimming like he does everything else in his life.

For Brint, swimming is not an obstacle but an activity in which getting better is the only option.

That has meant countless 4:45 a.m. wake-up calls and honing the details of his craft.

He works on swimming as straight as possible, for instance, and learning when he's approaching the wall to turn.

"He counts strokes, absolutely," said Tim Sirois, his high school swim coach.

"At a meet, we'll tap him to let him know when to turn, when to finish."

Brint decided not to compete in the state meet last year.

However, he had Saturday's event circled on his calendar since last summer, when he kicked his training into high gear.

"Last year I wasn't the most motivated swimmer, but this year that all changed," said Brint, who will study business next year at Beloit College in Wisconsin.

"I trained hard through club last summer and went into the high school season in great shape."

While others may marvel at what Brint has accomplished, it comes as no surprise to those who know him.

"People are always amazed that he can swim, but the thing with Alan is that he can swim so well," said teammate Eddie Hochman, who has known Brint since sixth grade.

"He's always looking for more ways to challenge himself, and it's important to him that people treat him the same as everyone else."

Despite this insistence, Brint does receive some basic accommodations to ensure his safety.

He holds a cane to help guide him around the pool at meets.

At the state swim competition, he relied on assistant coach Adam Washburn to help him navigate the unfamiliar territory.

Before starting high school, Brint spent hours roaming the halls, learning how to find his way around by counting his steps.

He maneuvers through the school's maze of hallways without a second thought.

On the pool deck at Highland Park, he is just one of the guys.

"I've been swimming for a long time and it gives me a lot of pleasure," Brint said.

"But the camaraderie with my teammates is the most important thing to me.

I couldn't appreciate my teammates more."

Brint's swimming at the state meet seemed smooth, but his journey hasn't been without pitfalls.

One person who has been there every step of the way is Brint's father, David.

"He's learned an interesting balance between advocating for himself and being respectful as a good teammate," David Brint said.

"He started working no-nonsense throughout this past year.

Something every child should learn how to do is push themselves to see how good they can be.

He's figured out ways to do that."

He added, "When a kid has a disability like Alan does and he finds ways around it, it's pretty special.

I'm really proud of him."

