Alan Brint was born blind.

He cannot see, but that has not stopped him.

Brint is a fast swimmer.

He works hard to be able to race at swim meets.

He is also a great teammate and student.

Brint is in his last year at Highland Park High School in Illinois.

He will go to college next year.

Brint spent the last four years training with his high school swim team.

The other swimmers are able to see.

Recently, Brint took part in a swim meet.

Athletes came from around the state.

He competed in all four of the events for athletes with disabilities.

A disability is a problem like being blind.

It limits what someone can do.

In all four races, he swam faster than he ever did before.

It was a good end to high school.

"I would have liked to have gone a little faster," said Brint.

But he was happy to have his fastest times ever.

Swimmers call these personal bests.

"That makes it worthwhile," he said.

Brint treats swimming like he does everything else.

Getting better is the only choice.

That means getting up early in the morning to practice.

It also means a lot of hard work.

Other people may be amazed at Brint.

His success is no surprise to his friends and family.

"The thing with Alan is that he can swim so well," said teammate Eddie Hochman.

He has known Brint since sixth grade.

"He's always looking for more ways to challenge himself.

Hochman added, "It's important to him that people treat him the same as everyone else."

At the pool, he is just one of the guys.

"I've been swimming for a long time," Brint said.

"It gives me a lot of pleasure."

His father is named David Brint.

He has been with his son every step of the way.

David Brint said his son has learned a good skill.

On one hand, he stands up for himself.

On the other, he is respectful and a good teammate.

All children should push themselves, David Brint said.

They need to see how good they can be.

"He's figured out ways to do that," his father said.

"It's pretty special," his father said.

"I'm really proud of him."

