Fourth-grader Richie Tienter won his school's spelling bee.

He beat his final opponent, a fifth-grader, by spelling "magician" correctly.

He heard the applause when he won.

He felt joy.

He couldn't see his mother in the crowd.

He missed the looks of delight she and his teachers gave each other as the kids clapped and cheered.

Richie is blind.

Richie's mom, Ann Tienter, said she sometimes forgets that her son is blind.

"He takes in so much from his other senses," she said.

When he was 6 months old, Richie's parents learned he was blind.

His optic nerves, which are at the back of the eyes, are smaller than those of sighted people.

That hasn't stopped his love of learning, and reading.

Richie especially likes books about European royalty and World War II.

His mom began reading to Richie when he was a baby.

She continued to read to him after they found out that he was blind.

Except then she started using books with raised bumps for the letters.

They were written in Braille.

Richie is 9.

He goes to Westridge Elementary School near St. Louis.

Teachers there say Richie reads at the level of a student in high school.

He knows more words than his classmates, too.

Richie doesn't think about the challenges of being blind, much.

At the spelling bee, he thought of his disability in a different way.

"I think if I had sight, I would have been able to see all of those people who were there at the spelling bee," Richie said.

That would have "just made things worse," he said.

Just before the holiday break, Westridge students took home sheets with spelling words to study.

Richie's list was in Braille.

He studied during the days off from school, but not every day.

Richie said he would "only study on non-holiday weekdays."

Richie has been in other contests.

Last summer, he came in third at the National Braille Challenge.

Students from first grade through high school participate in reading, spelling and other areas.

His parents expect no less of him than they would of a sighted child, Richie's mom said.

"We wanted him to have a regular kid experience," she said.

Richie uses Braille to read worksheets, textbooks and other materials at school.

Recently, Richie and his class were matching subjects with verbs.

While the other kids used papers and pencils, Richie read a Braille sheet with the words prepared ahead of time.

He then typed out the answers using the six keys on a Braille notetaker.

To use the machine, Richie learned different codes for the letters of the alphabet.

He also had to learn 180 contractions, like "don't."

Richie will now move on to compete in the written semi-finals of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch Spelling Bee.

He will battle other school winners from across the region.

The champion of the final oral bee will represent the St. Louis area in the 2015 Scripps National Spelling Bee.

A spokesman for Scripps said other kids who are blind have bee in the national bee.

One was a girl from Oklahoma a few years ago who made it to the third round.

Officials from the St. Louis regional spelling bee say they have no record of another recent competitor who was blind.

But the contest has done things to assist other children with disabilities in the past.

What will be done to assist Richie on the written test is still being worked out.

Someone might write his answers for him, or he could use his Braille machine to type them out.

