Growing up blind, the closest Ann Kwong came to a competitive sport was a marshmallow-eating contest.

Judith Lung, another blind woman, never learned how to throw a ball.

"I never knew what it was like to block a ball and take one for the team," said Kwong, a student at the University of California, Berkeley.

Now she does.

It is a nearly 3-pound rubber ball with bells inside that comes bouncing and jingling toward her as fast as 30 miles per hour.

Right now, it is rare for disabled people to play on college sports teams, but the university hopes to open the door with goalball.

The new sport is a rough game played by sightless — and sighted — players.

They rely on sound, touch and speech to get the ball into their goal.

This fall, the university became the first in the nation to establish a competitive goalball team.

It's been less than two years since it began teaching students how to play.

Fans of goalball hope that disabled people will get equal opportunities to play sports, like women now have.

In 1972, Congress passed the Title IX law requiring school sports to give women and girls equal access to teams.

Before Title IX, fewer women were involved in college sports.

As late as the 1960s, women played basketball on a half court, instead of a full court.

Supporters of the disabled playing sports hope for a similar law.

Between 35 and 50 blind students attend the university, said Matt Grigorieff.

He is a student who started Cal's Athletics for All, a program that gets people with disabilities involved in different kinds of sports.

At a recent game, a referee reminded everyone to be quiet.

Silence is an important rule, since the athletes need to be able to hear what's happening on the court.

The referee rolled the ball to the team's star, Will Slason, and blew the whistle.

As his two teammates crouched beside him, Slason whipped the ball to the other end of the court.

With a thump, it hit the chest of Jessica Adams, who blocked the ball from going into the goal.

Adams is the only player on the goalball team with full vision.

Each team can have one player who is not blind.

Like everyone else, though, she wears dark eyeshades and can see nothing during the game.

The court lines are marked by string covered in tape.

The players can feel where they are, although they can't see.

"For sure, the first time you play it's scary.

It's easy to get disoriented," Adams said.

"It's also scary playing against Will."

Known for his power and skill, Slason was a high school wrestler before going to college.

Slason has enough vision to get around.

He said he just can't see well enough to play sports where "I have to catch a ball flying at my face."

Goalball players have hip, elbow and knee pads to protect them from all the diving and sliding in the game.

Nothing, though, shields their eyes or noses.

Players quickly learn to guard their faces with their arms during games.

If they let your guard down for a moment, they can get a bloody nose.

"People with disabilities are seen as these fragile people, which isn't the case at all," Kwong said.

The team also has an adorable service dog, Van Dyke, who wears a team uniform.

Goallball was invented after World War II for disabled veterans.

The best goalball players throw the ball at up to 50 miles per hour.

Matches have two halves, each lasting 12 minutes.

Besides Berkeley, two other universities are building teams.

Grigorieff dreams of a university league for sports like goalball.

The league would include athletes with and without disabilities.

"It's easy to say it's going to be too complicated," Grigorieff said.

"We're showing that it can be done."

