The word was "magician" and fourth-grader Richie Tienter spelled it correctly.

By doing so, he beat out his final opponent, a fifth-grader.

He had just become spelling bee champion at Westridge Elementary School in suburban Ballwin, Missouri.

He heard the applause.

He felt joy and happiness.

He couldn't see his mother in the crowd, beaming.

He missed the looks of delight she and his teachers gave each other as the kids clapped and cheered.

"I sometimes forget that Richie is blind because he takes in so much from his other senses," said Ann Tienter, his mom.

"He was pretty much grinning from ear to ear."

When he was 6 months old, Richie's parents learned he was blind.

His optic nerves, which are at the back of the eyes, are smaller than those of sighted people.

He can tell light and shadows, and nothing else.

That hasn't stopped his love of learning, and reading, especially histories of European royalty and World War II.

His mom began reading to Richie when he was an infant and she continued to read to him after they found out about his visual impairment, though she started using books with raised bumps for the letters.

They were written in Braille.

Now at age 9, his teachers say Richie reads at the level of a student in high school.

His vocabulary is well above that of his classmates, too.

Richie doesn't dwell on the challenges of his vision impairment.

At the spelling bee, he thought of his disability in a different way.

"I think if I had sight, I would have been able to see all of those people who were there at the spelling bee," Richie said.

That would have "just made things worse," he said.

Just before the holiday break, Westridge students took home sheets with spelling words to study.

Richie's list was in Braille and he studied during the days off from school, but not every day.

"I said I will not study on either the eves of the holiday days or the weekends.

I will only study on non-holiday weekdays," Richie said.

He is used to competition.

Last summer, he placed third at the National Braille Challenge.

Students from first grade through high school compete in up to five areas.

There is reading, speed, accuracy, comprehension and spelling.

There is also a section for reading charts and graphs in Braille.

"No matter what was going on with him, we weren't going to expect any less of him than we would a sighted child.

We wanted him to have a regular kid experience," Ann Tienter said.

During his school day, Richie uses Braille to read worksheets, textbooks and other materials.

On a recent school day, Richie and his class were matching subjects with verbs.

While the other kids used papers and pencils, Richie read a Braille sheet with the words prepared ahead of time.

He then typed out the answers using the six keys on a Braille notetaker.

To use the machine, Richie learned different codes for not only the letters of the alphabet, but 180 contractions, like "he's."

His classroom teacher, Katy Schulte, said having Richie in class has been both a challenging and rewarding teaching experience.

"Anytime I get scared or nervous about how I'm going to teach him something, he goes beyond my expectations every time," she said.

"He is unlike any kid I've ever met."

Richie will now move on to compete in the written semi-finals of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch Spelling Bee.

He will battle other school winners from across the region.

The champion of the final bee will represent the St. Louis area in the 2015 Scripps National Spelling Bee.

A spokesman for Scripps said the competition periodically has participants who are blind.

One was a girl from Oklahoma a few years ago who made it to the third round.

Officials from the St. Louis regional spelling bee say they have no record of another recent competitor who was blind.

But the contest has done things to assist other children with disabilities in the past.

What will be done to assist Richie on the written test that comes before the final is still being worked out.

It could be that someone will write his answers for him, or he could use his Braille machine to type them out.

Winners at Rockwood School District's Westridge Elementary spelling bee typically earn a trophy.

Along with that trophy, the school ordered Richie a plaque.

It has enough room to mark his win with printed letters — and also in Braille.

