Ryo Hirosawa, who is blind, tried to figure out what was in front of him.

Was it a house, a car, a hedge, a fence, a tree or open space?

Hirosawa pushed the tip of his tongue to the top of his mouth, and made a sharp click.

As its echo came back, he could not quite decide what it sounded like.

Did it sound scattered, as if it hit leaves?

Was it a pulse bouncing off a solid wall?

Was it hitting many different objects?

Hirosawa kept clicking, and the landscape began to emerge as a picture in his mind.

"There is a tree, I think, here, which is tall, and I see a house behind," Hirosawa said.

Hirosawa stepped into the yard to find out whether he was right.

Brian Bushway, his teacher, tapped his cane against a tree trunk, and reached up to grab a branch and shake the leaves.

Bushway then knocked against a wooden wall.

"A house," Bushway said.

"Awesome, very good."

This quiet street in Long Beach, California, is the home of World Access for the Blind.

The group teaches blind people to find their way using tongue clicks.

Their students learn to send out sonar, as dolphins or bats do, to know where they are.

Clicking is a human form of echolocation.

Sonar is a way of finding objects by sound.

The creatures make a noise, and then use its sonar to listen to the echo to figure out where an object is.

Daniel Kish, who is blind and began the group, has worked with scientists to study how the brain does this.

Scientists found that when people use sonar, they use the part of the brain that has to do with seeing.

They do not use the part people usually use with hearing.

When Kish was small, he began made clicking noises with his tongue to navigate.

Many blind children often do this.

Unlike other parents, who worried that their child might sound weird, his mother and father did not discourage him from clicking.

He rode bikes and climbed trees but did not understand how the clicking was helping him until he was 11.

A friend pointed out that he was doing what bats do.

"I hadn't thought about it," Kish said.

"I was just a squirrelly kid who liked to be active."

Bushway, who is also blind, could see columns in his school hallway, and even count them.

When he met Kish, he told him about this.

Kish told him that his brain was forming an image from the sound reflecting off the columns.

"The brain creates images whether you send it patterns of light or patterns of sound," he said.

Kish showed Bushway how to skateboard.

With the help of another teacher, who could see, they started mountain-biking on trails and roads in the mountains.

In 2001, Kish started the group to teach the clicking method.

Since then his team has traveled to more than 34 countries.

Some blind people worry that the clicking would seem strange to people.

The National Federation of the Blind said all blind people use echolocation to an extent.

"Mr. Kish has a unique way of doing it that seems to work for him and others," said Chris Danielson, a spokesman for the group.

He said many blind people tap their canes for the same reason.

Brandon Shin, 17, came to Kish for help two years ago after slowly losing his sight.

Now he clicks all the time and recently hiked a canyon by himself.

"Just the cane and my clicking," Shin said.

He says some kids at school made fun of him, but others have been really interested.

Shin's father said he watched his son get around obstacles as though he could see them.

"Sonar has given Brandon self-esteem and courage," Michael Shin said.

"From a parent's point of view, we're worried he'll get hurt, but we're proud.

He's doing it better than we expected."

