Scientists call it "the blob," and say it's responsible for the dead seabirds and starving sea lion pups washing up on California beaches.

But where the blob comes from and what it means is another story.

The blob is a 500-mile-wide, 300-foot-deep mass of unusually warm seawater.

A year ago, it began spreading along the Pacific Coast of North America.

In recent months, some experts have argued that it may signal an epic change in the Pacific Ocean.

They said it could possibly bring huge rains to Southern California this winter and accelerate the rise in global temperatures.

Climate scientists and oceanographers disagree over just what this blob means, but they are intensely interested.

At the center of this debate is a poorly understood pattern of wind, ocean current and temperature variations.

Scientists say that for decades at a time the Pacific Ocean can stay in either a warm or cold phase, switching between the two suddenly and unexpectedly.

Each phase has unique and far-reaching effects on sea life and global climate, they argue.

Scientists call these phases Pacific Decadal Oscillation, or PDO.

The phenomenon mirrors the warm and cool tropical cycles known as El Nino and La Nina, but over a longer period of time.

El Ninos occur when changes in tropical wind patterns allow sun-baked seawater to slosh eastward across the Pacific Ocean and up against the Americas.

This unusually warm water releases heat into the air and triggers severe storms and flooding.

It also alters polar and tropical air currents, sending storms on a path through Southern California and the southern United States, experts say.

Scientists believe that the Pacific Ocean began a cold phase in the late 1990s, which was largely responsible for an unexpected slowdown in global temperatures.

A warm phase could reverse that, they say, by accelerating the increase in global temperature and creating wetter weather for Southern California and the American South.

"I think we may be shifting from a cool, dry phase to a warm, wet phase, which is usually the drought-buster," said William Patzert, a climatologist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California.

In the simplest sense, a warm spell is El Nino-friendly, whereas a cool shift is El Nino-repellent, according to Patzert.

Patzert notes that such a temperature shift occurred in the 1970s, when the state was struggling through several years of drought.

In 1977, snowpack levels in California's Sierra mountains, which provide water to the state, were just 25 percent of what they usually are on average, while in contrast, after four years of drought, this year's snowpack levels are just 5 percent of average.

Then there was another shift, Patzert said.

"What followed were the three wettest consecutive years in Los Angeles history."

One of the hallmarks of a warm PDO is the gathering of warm waters along the Pacific Coast of North America, a situation very similar to the blob.

"We've definitely entered a warm phase," said Nicholas Bond, a climatologist for the state of Washington and the scientist who coined the "blob" nickname.

"The question now is, how long is it going to last?"

Despite its name, a shift in the PDO can sometimes last for much shorter than a decade — just one to several years.

Scientists do not know why this is the case.

Scientists first described the PDO in 1997, after investigating the question of why Pacific salmon populations could flourish for years on end, then mysteriously disappear.

They identified a recurring pattern that either cooled waters along the Pacific Coast, or warmed them.

Cooler waters contained fatty, nutrition-packed plankton — tiny sea creatures that form the base of the marine food chain that bigger fish feed on— and contributed to greater numbers of salmon.

Warmer waters brought leaner, less-nutritious plankton.

"It's like the difference between eating rice cakes and potato chips.

You're just not getting the same calories," Bond said.

Although climatologists and oceanographers agree that PDO shifts are a fact of life, not all agree that the blob means the weather will change immediately.

Earlier this year, Penn State University climatologist Michael Mann and his colleagues published a paper in Science, a magazine for scientists.

They argued that a cool phase in the PDO had helped to produce a slowdown in warming over the last decade.

They said this trend would reverse itself and add to man-made global warming in the coming decades.

However, Mann says that he is not prepared to declare the arrival of a warm phase just yet.

"It's premature to say," he said.

Matt Newman, a climate scientist at the University of Colorado, studies PDO and says the blob does not fit the pattern.

He believes the warm mass of water is better explained by a region of high pressure over the northeast Pacific Ocean.

The ridge has affected wind and current patterns in a way that prevents deeper, colder and nutrient-rich waters from rising up to the ocean's surface, he said.

He also doubts that the blob could help bring about El-Nino events saying: "I tend to take the view that most of the year-to-year changes in El Nino are due to chance."

At Scripps Institution of Oceanography, climate researcher Dan Cayan said he was not sure what the blob signaled about the future.

Cayan said there is no doubt the blob is meaningful, but he could not predict what would happen next.

"The thing that history tells us is that every situation is somewhat different," he said.

