Scientists call it "the blob."

It is actually a huge mass of very warm seawater.

The warm water began spreading along the Pacific Coast a year ago.

Late last year, dead sea creatures began washing up on California beaches.

Seabirds and sea lions were some of them.

Experts say the blob is to blame.

Some experts said the blob could bring huge rains to Southern California this winter.

It could also make the Earth warm up even faster.

Experts do not agree on where the blob comes from and what it means.

But they are paying close attention to it.

It is caused by a pattern of wind, ocean current and temperature.

Scientists do not completely understand it.

Yet they think the pattern is the key to understanding the blob.

The Pacific Ocean can be warmer for many years, or colder for many years.

Then the ocean might switch temperatures suddenly.

Warmer water and colder water affect sea life and the climate differently.

It is somewhat like the warm and cold ocean temperatures called El Nino and La Nina, but it happens over a longer period of time.

El Ninos happen when winds near the equator push seawater across the Pacific Ocean.

The water from the equator is very warm.

The water washes up against North and South America.

The warmer water releases heat into the air.

It causes powerful storms and flooding.

Scientists believe that the Pacific turned especially cold in the late 1990s.

The cold water made temperatures drop around the world.

But things could flip.

Warmer ocean water could heat up the temperature.

It could also bring wetter weather for Southern California and the American South.

William Patzert studies the climate at NASA in California.

He thinks the climate is switching again.

It is going from being cool and dry, to wet and warm again.

California has had very little water for four years.

If Patzert is right, California's drought could be almost over.

Patzert said this kind of temperature change happened in the 1970s.

At the time, the state was struggling through several years of drought.

Then there was a weather change.

The water along the coast heated up.

The warmer water caused the three wettest years in Los Angeles history, Patzert said.

Warmer waters are like the blob, scientists say.

"We've definitely entered a warm phase," said Nicholas Bond.

He is a scientist who studies climate.

He also made up the "blob" nickname.

He says: "The question now is, how long is it going to last?"

Scientists first discovered the water temperature change in 1997.

Pacific salmon can thrive for years.

Then they would mysteriously disappear.

Scientists wanted to know why.

They found that there were healthier plankton in cold water.

Plankton are tiny sea creatures that salmon eat.

Warmer waters brought skinnier, less healthy plankton.

"It's like the difference between eating rice cakes and potato chips.

You're just not getting the same calories," Bond said.

Calories are a unit of energy in food.

Unhealthy plankton could be one reason that sea birds and sea lion pups are dying in the ocean.

Dan Cayan is a climate scientist in California.

He said he had no doubt the blob is important.

Yet he could not say why or what would happen next.

"The thing that history tells us is that every situation is somewhat different," he said.

