Around the country, many police departments are buying body cameras for their officers.

The cameras are worn when officers are patrolling.

They record video and take pictures.

However, the cameras are very expensive.

The cost makes it difficult for some departments to use the technology.

One camera can cost anywhere from less than $100 to more than $1,000.

Departments also must pay to store the videos.

President Barack Obama wants the government to spend $75 million on police body cameras.

That would buy 50,000 cameras.

They would be given to different police departments across the country.

Many states are struggling to pay for the cameras.

The cameras can be a great tool.

The hard part is using them correctly.

It is more difficult than just sticking cameras on officers and sending them out to work.

In New Jersey, a new law makes some police officers wear cameras.

Or cars that are used during traffic stops must have a camera.

The car camera is placed on the dashboard.

The cameras record video of officers and people the police stop.

Many states are trying to find money to pay for the cameras.

It has not been easy since cameras are expensive.

Government leaders in South Carolina are looking for $21.5 million to buy cameras.

In April, Walter Scott, an African-American man, died there.

He was shot in the back by a white police officer.

Scott was running from the officer.

The shooting was recorded on a cellphone video by someone standing nearby.

Many people were angry about the shooting.

They want the police to buy the cameras.

Body cameras can help record situations when no one else is watching.

Paying for the cameras can be tough.

There are many other costs of the programs.

Buying the cameras is one problem.

But other costs continue even after the departments own the cameras.

Departments also have to pay to store the recorded videos.

These cameras record many videos a year.

They cannot be deleted right away.

They might be needed in court.

It can be very expensive to download, record, handle and store all of that video.

Clearfield, Utah, is a city north of Salt Lake City.

The police department there has used body cameras since 2010.

It is hard for them to store the video taken with the body cameras.

Recently, they faced serious storage problems.

They did not know where to keep the videos.

For awhile, the department had to use DVDs to store the videos.

They had run out of space on their computers.

New camera models may help with some problems.

They do not break as easily as older models.

They also can store more footage.

However, newer cameras record high-definition video.

These video files are much larger.

Larger videos are difficult to store because they take up more space on computers.

It is not clear "what's going to happen in the future," a police chief from Utah said.

"There's a lot of work to be done."

