Many police departments across the country are under pressure from the public to give their officers body cameras.

The cameras would be worn and record video when officers are patrolling.

However, while the idea is popular with some, there is one serious challenge: the cost.

The price of a single camera ranges from less than $100 to more than $1,000.

In addition to buying the cameras, departments also must pay for storing the videos.

President Barack Obama recently recommended that the government spend $75 million on police body cameras.

The money would help pay for 50,000 devices for departments across the country.

Yet many states are struggling with the cost of the cameras.

It is difficult for police departments to start using new technologies like body cameras.

Many people have different opinions on how often the cameras should be worn and what should happen with the videos.

According to one expert, the cameras can be a great tool.

The hard part is using them correctly.

She said it is more difficult than just sticking a camera on an officer and sending them out to work.

In New Jersey, a law passed last fall requires some officers to wear cameras.

If they do not wear them, then patrol cars that are used during traffic stops must have a camera on the dashboard.

The law only applies to new vehicles.

Police officers who spend most of their time at a desk doing work, or who do not regularly conduct traffic stops do not need to wear a camera.

For many states, finding money to pay for the cameras has not been easy.

A possible law in Texas would spend $50 million in state money to require that officers across the state wear cameras.

Some lawmakers in South Carolina are trying to find $21.5 million to pay for cameras.

In April, Walter Scott, an African-American, was shot in the back by a white police officer in South Carolina.

The shot killed Scott.

He was running from the officer and the shooting was captured on a cellphone video by someone close by.

The incident is putting pressure on state lawmakers to find a better way to hold officers accountable for their actions.

One survey found most agencies spent between $800 and $1,200 per camera to purchase them.

That can be a huge cost for departments that are already struggling to pay for equipment and police salaries.

While paying for the cameras can be a challenge, there are many other costs that come along with these programs.

Buying the cameras is a one-time cost, but other costs continue even after the departments own the cameras.

These costs can be difficult for agencies.

The New Orleans Police Department plans to purchase 350 body cameras.

But it is planning to spend $1.2 million over five years.

Most of that money is for storing the videos.

Many states are facing the challenge of video storage.

Officers could record millions of videos a year.

These clips could be used as part of a court case, a public records request or for another official purpose.

The cost of downloading, logging, handling and storing all that video can be very expensive.

Clearfield, Utah, is a city located just north of Salt Lake City.

It has a population of about 30,000.

The local police department has struggled to figure out how to manage all of the video recorded on the police cameras.

The police department in Clearfield has been using body cameras since 2010.

But they recently found themselves facing storage problems.

It got so serious that the department had to temporarily use DVDs to store the videos.

They had run out of space on computer servers.

New camera models may help with some problems.

They typically last longer and have greater storage capacity.

However, newer cameras record high-definition video.

These video files are much larger, which adds to the storage problem.

"It's just become pretty muddy about what's going to happen in the future," said Mike Stenquist, assistant police chief in Clearfield.

"There's a lot of work to be done."

