In an unexpected move, House Speaker John Boehner said on Friday that he would resign from Congress at the end of October.

He will give up his top leadership post and his seat in the House of Representatives.

Boehner announced his decision in a closed-door session attended by Republican party members.

The resignation came in the face of opposition from conservative members of the Republican party.

He later announced his decision at a news conference.

The conservative, or more traditional, members of the Republican party have disagreed with Boehner on several issues.

Conservatives have threatened a government shutdown because they want the government to stop giving money to the group Planned Parenthood.

They demand that funding to the group stop or the government will stop running during the shutdown.

More mainstream Republican lawmakers have rejected the conservatives' argument.

They do not want to force a government shutdown.

Funding for Planned Parenthood has been controversial because not everyone agrees with the organization.

Its mission is to help all individuals manage their own fertility and birth control choices regardless of age, gender, or whether they are married.

Planned Parenthood gets 40 percent of its funding from the U.S. government.

Planned Parenthood clinics also provide abortions.

Some people believe it should not receive any government money.

The dispute has threatened Boehner's role as House Speaker and shaken the Republican party.

Boehner has been a focus of conservatives' complaints.

Boehner "just does not want to become the issue," said Representative John Mica, a Republican from Florida.

"Some people have tried to make him the issue both in Congress and outside," Mica said.

Some conservatives welcomed his announcement.

Many of these were members of the very conservative "Tea Party" caucus.

Representative Tim Huelskamp of Kansas said "it's time for new leadership."

According to Representative Tom Massie of Kentucky, the speaker was damaging the U.S. "I think it was inevitable," Massie said.

"This is a condition of his own making right here."

But more mainstream Republicans said the victory for conservative Republicans was not a victory for the party as a whole.

There are "members who seek to continually divide us," said Representative David Jolly of Florida.

Boehner's decision to resign on his own removes the possibility of a vote to take away his speakership.

This scenario grew more likely as conservatives threaten to shut down the government.

Boehner took over the speakership in January 2011.

He was first elected to the House in 1990 and soon established a strongly conservative record.

He was part of the team of Republicans who took over the House in 1995 for the first time in four decades by winning a Congressional election.

Boehner won a 2006 race to become the second most powerful person in the House, the majority leader.

He took over as the top Republican in the House in 2007.

As speaker, his career has been defined by his early struggles to reach agreements with President Barack Obama on government spending.

He has also fought with conservatives who demanded a more confrontational approach with President Obama.

In 2013, conservatives drove him to unwillingly adopt a partial government shutdown in hopes of delaying the start of the new health care law.

Now, conservative lawmakers have been pressing him to try the tactic again to take away government funding from Planned Parenthood.

