John Boehner announced on Friday he will quit his job as speaker of the House of Representatives.

He has the top job in the House.

The House, along with the Senate, make up Congress.

The two chambers of Congress make laws in the U.S. Boehner is a member of the Republican party.

The other main political group in the U.S. is the Democratic party.

Boehner first made his surprising announcement in a meeting with Republican party members.

He resigned due to the many problems he has had with conservative members of the Republican party.

The conservatives are more old-fashioned and traditional.

Conservative lawmakers do not want government money to go to groups they disagree with.

They have threatened to shut down the government if they can get enough votes from other lawmakers in Congress.

During a shutdown, the government does not have the money to run as usual.

Some government services like parks will be closed.

Also, some government workers will not get paid and not go to work.

Still, some very important government services would continue like usual.

In 2013, conservatives pressured Boehner to accept a government shutdown.

They wanted to stop the new health care law.

As House Speaker, Boehner plays a very important job in deciding if a shutdown will happen or not.

Now, conservative lawmakers were again pressuring Boehner to agree to a shutdown, and Boehner did not want it.

He is worried that voters will blame Republicans if the government shuts down.

Boehner made the decision to quit on his own.

Even if he did not quit, it was possible he would have been voted out of his leadership position.

Some conservatives are glad he is quitting.

Republican Representative Tim Huelskamp of Kansas said "it's time for new leadership."

Yet Republicans who are less conservative thought the resignation was not good for the Republican party as a whole.

There are "members who seek to continually divide us," said Representative David Jolly of Florida.

Boehner was first elected to the House of Representatives in 1990 and became House Speaker in January 2011.

His time as speaker will be remembered for his clashes with conservatives.

He also had disagreements with President Barack Obama over how to spend government money.

