Asiana Airlines Flight 214 crashed at San Francisco International Airport Saturday.

The aircraft was a Boeing 777, a type of plane that has long been seen as one of the safest.

Boeing, the maker of the plane, rolled out its first 777 to a huge crowd at its factory in 1994.

Since then, more than 1,100 have been built.

Before Saturday, only one had been in a major accident.

No one died in that crash.

The Asiana plane crashed after touching down on the runway.

The aircraft had taken off from Seoul, South Korea.

Two passengers were killed and dozens were injured.

The airline website Seatguru shows the plane has 295 seats in economy class.

There are also 24 business-class sleeper seats.

Asiana Airlines is South Korea's second-largest airline.

It is ranked as one of the top airlines in the world, both for service and safety.

The airline started in 1988 with a single plane flying short hops to cities within South Korea.

It flies 12 Boeing 777-200ER aircraft.

Asiana Airlines' pilots have a reputation for being "cowboys," says one aviation expert.

Many of the pilots trained in the South Korean military.

Boeing made a statement Saturday after the crash.

It said the company "extends its concern for the safety" of those aboard the aircraft.

"Boeing is preparing to provide technical assistance to the National Transportation Safety Board as it investigates the accident," the statement said.

The NTSB investigates all U.S. plane crashes.

The last time passengers were killed on a major U.S. airline was in 2001.

American Airlines Airbus A300 crashed after taking off from New York in 2001.

Smaller airlines have had crashes since then.

The last deadly U.S. crash was a flight flown by Colgan Air.

The plane crashed into a house near Buffalo, N.Y., on Feb. 12, 2009, according to the AP.

All 49 people on board and one man in the house were killed.

The Boeing 777 has been seen as one of the safest aircraft in the skies today.

Nearly all of the world's large airlines fly 777s on long-haul routes.

It has been a major workhorse for carriers flying from the U.S. to Europe and Asia.

More than 1,1000 are in service.

Richard Aboulafia studies aerospace for the Teal Group Corp.

He said the 777 is very reliable.

"With its track record, it's as good as it gets when it comes to aircraft design."

However, the 777 does not have a perfect record.

In 2008, a British Airways 777 crash-landed in London with 152 on board.

An investigation found the plane had lost power because a buildup of ice had stopped fuel from flowing into the engines.

Robert Herbst is a retired American Airlines 767 pilot.

The pictures from Saturday's wreck make him think the Asiana Airlines plane may have had the same engine problem.

"This is very obvious what happened," Herbst said.

"They landed short of the runway.

They were too low for the flight path and the tail of the aircraft hit the sea wall."

When approaching the runway, Herbst said, "the nose is pretty high up in the air just before touchdown.

They weren't high enough and the tail hit the sea wall."

Jet fuel in the wings of the 777 then likely caught fire, said Herbst.

He flew commercial airliners for 41 years.

Last May, Boeing notified airlines operating 777s of a problem.

A faulty part was causing an automatic shutdown in the 777's engines.

General Electric Co. manufactured the engines.

In a span of about four months, there were two incidents in which engines shut down in midflight.

There were 26 airplanes in service with the GE engines.

It was not immediately clear whether Asiana Airlines, which operates nine of the planes, was one of the affected airlines.

Boeing makes six versions of the twin-aisle, twin-engine aircraft.

The 777 involved in the incident in San Francisco, a 777-200ER, costs around $260 million.

It made its first passenger flight in 2006.

"It could very easily have the safest record for that size of aircraft," Herbst said.

