The type of aircraft that crash-landed at San Francisco International Airport on Saturday has long been regarded as one of the safest passenger jets.

Boeing rolled out its first 777 to a huge crowd at its manufacturing facility in Everett, Wash., in 1994.

Since then, more than 1,100 have been built and only one had been in a major accident, with no fatalities.

On Saturday, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 from Seoul, South Korea, crashed after touching down on the runway.

Two passengers were killed and dozens were injured.

The airline website Seatguru said the plane had 295 seats and was recently updated with 24 business-class sleeper seats.

Asiana Airlines is South Korea's second-largest carrier.

Asiana consistently ranks as one of the top airlines in the world in terms of service and safety.

The airline started in 1988 with a single plane flying short hops to cities within South Korea.

It operates 12 Boeing 777-200ER aircraft.

Asiana Airlines' pilots have a reputation for being "cowboys" because many of the pilots are former South Korean military pilots, according to an aviation analyst.

Boeing made a statement Saturday afternoon, saying it "extends its concern for the safety" of those aboard the downed aircraft.

"Boeing is preparing to provide technical assistance to the National Transportation Safety Board as it investigates the accident," the statement said.

The NTSB is the U.S. government agency responsible for investigating all aviation accidents.

It also investigates major incidents occurring on U.S. highways, railways, waterways and pipelines.

Tom Captain, aerospace analyst with the financial firm Deloitte, said it was the first time in three years that passengers have died on a commercial airliner.

The last time a major U.S. airline lost a plane in a fatal crash was an American Airlines Airbus A300 taking off from JFK in 2001.

Smaller airlines have had crashes since then.

The last fatal U.S. crash was a Continental Express flight operated by Colgan Air, which crashed into a house near Buffalo, N.Y., on Feb. 12, 2009, according to the AP.

The crash killed all 49 people on board and one man in the house.

"Although tragic, commercial air transportation has had a stellar safety record — something like 40 times safer than driving," he said.

The Boeing 777 has been seen as one of the safest aircraft in the skies today.

More than 1,100 of the planes have been delivered, and nearly all of the world's most important airlines fly 777s on long-range routes.

It has been a major workhorse for carriers flying from the U.S. to Europe and Asia.

"It has a remarkable level of reliability," said Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace analyst with Teal Group Corp., a Virginia research firm.

"With its track record, it's as good as it gets when it comes to aircraft design."

However, it has not been incident-free.

In 2008, a 777 operated by British Airways crash-landed in England at Heathrow Airport's southern runway with 152 on board.

An investigation into the crash found the plane had lost power because a buildup of ice had restricted fuel flowing into the engines.

The images of Saturday's Boeing 777 wreckage suggested a similar explanation of what caused the Asiana Airlines 777 to crash as it tried to touch down at SFO's Runway 28L, Herbst said.

"This is very obvious what happened," said Robert Herbst, a retired American Airlines 767 pilot and aviation industry consultant in South Carolina.

"They landed short of the runway.

They were too low for the flight path and the tail of the aircraft hit the sea wall."

When approaching SFO, Herbst said, "the nose is pretty high up in the air just before touchdown.

They weren't high enough and the tail hit the sea wall."

Jet fuel in the wings of the 777 then likely caught fire, said Herbst, who flew commercial airliners for 41 years before retiring three years ago.

Last May, Boeing notified airlines operating 777s of a problem involving a faulty part that caused an automatic shutdown in the 777's engines.

General Electric Co. manufactured the engines.

In a span of about four months, there were two incidents in which engines shut down in midflight.

There were 26 airplanes in service with the engines.

It was not immediately clear whether Asiana Airlines, which operates nine of the planes, was one of the affected airlines.

Boeing makes six versions of the twin-aisle, twin-engine aircraft.

The 777 involved in Saturday's crash-landing in San Francisco, a 777-200ER, costs around $260 million and made its first passenger flight in 2006.

"It could very easily have the safest record for that size of aircraft," Herbst said.

