In Nigeria, more than [200 girls were kidnapped](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Nigerian+schoolgirls) on April 14 by an Islamic terror group.

The group, called Boko Haram, released a video it said was of the girls.

The video showed more than 100 girls.

Some of them were praying, saying they had converted to Islam from Christianity.

The girls' parents desperately searched the video Tuesday.

They were looking for the faces of their daughters, who had been kidnapped at school.

But while one mother recognized her daughter, many others did not.

Nigeria has been struggling for years with Boko Haram without success.

The group's name translates to "Western education is a sin."

It wants to force strict Islamic laws on the country's people living on the northeast side.

Nigerian newspapers reported that some parents raised doubts about the video released by the kidnappers.

They said that some of those pictured in long dark hijabs didn't look like teenage students.

They looked more like adults in their 30s and 40s.

Mallam Zannah Chibok told a Nigerian newspaper that he could not identify his kidnapped daughters in the video.

Other parents agreed, saying they couldn't find their daughters either.

Dumoma Mpur is the head of the parent-teachers association of the school where the girls were kidnapped.

Mpur told another newspaper that one mother recognized her child.

In the video, Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau said he was willing to make a deal.

He would exchange some of the girls for Boko Haram prisoners held by Nigeria.

The Nigerian government has said it will do everything necessary to free the girls.

Still, it did not say whether it would be willing to release prisoners to the terror group.

Parents of the girls have complained that Nigerian security forces didn't act on their reports.

Some parents tried to tell them where they thought the gunmen were holding the girls.

It took weeks for President Jonathan to respond to the abduction.

He only spoke out after a global Twitter campaign took off, asking him to "#BringBackOurGirls."

The campaign had been supported by President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle.

Hollywood celebrities participated as well.

Jonathan's government is in an uncomfortable position.

Some argue that a prisoner exchange would only encourage further kidnappings.

But a rescue operation is very risky and could lead to many deaths.

In the video, Shekau said he carried out the kidnappings as revenge for the imprisonment of Boko Haram members, as well as women and children associated with the group.

He said his group was holding many other people but gave no number.

"There are some of my brethren who have spent five complete years without seeing their wives, without seeing their children.

For God's sake, even for ensuring their release, will I not kidnap?

After all God says I should kidnap," Shekau said in the video.

Shekau said he would sell the girls into slavery unless they become Muslims.

He said they would not be released until the Boko Haram prisoners were also released.

