More than 200 girls were kidnapped on April 14 at a school in Nigeria.

[The girls were kidnapped](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Nigerian+schoolgirls) by an Islamic terrorist group.

Now people around the world are demanding their release.

They are speaking out on social media using the Twitter hashtag "#BringBackOurGirls."

The kidnappers are from a group called Boko Haram.

The group released a video it said was of the girls.

The video showed more than 100 girls.

Some of the girls were praying, saying they had converted to Islam from Christianity.

The girls' parents desperately searched the video on Tuesday.

They were looking for the faces of their daughters, who had been kidnapped at school.

But while one mother recognized her daughter, many others did not.

Nigeria has been struggling for years with Boko Haram.

The group's name means "Western education is a sin."

It wants to force strict Islamic laws on Nigerians living in the northeastern part of the country.

Nigerian newspapers reported that some parents doubted the video released by the kidnappers.

They said that some of those pictured in long dark hijabs didn't look like teenage students.

They looked more like adults in their 30s and 40s.

Mallam Zannah Chibok told a Nigerian newspaper that he could not identify his kidnapped daughters in the video.

Other parents agreed.

Many said they couldn't find their daughters either.

Dumoma Mpur is the head of the parent-teachers association of the school where the girls were kidnapped.

Mpur told another newspaper that one mother recognized her child.

In the video, Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau spoke.

Shekau said he was willing to make a deal.

He would give back some of the girls but only if Nigeria let go some of the Boko Haram prisoners.

The Nigerian government has said it will do everything necessary to free the girls.

But it did not say whether it would release prisoners to the terror group.

Parents of the girls have complained about the way the government handled the kidnapping.

They say the government didn't act on their reports.

Some parents tried to tell them where they thought the gunmen were holding the girls.

It took weeks for President Goodluck Jonathan to respond to the kidnapping.

He only spoke out after an global Twitter campaign took off.

The tweets asked him to "#BringBackOurGirls."

The campaign had been supported by President Barack Obama and his wife, Michelle.

Famous actors and actresses participated as well.

Some say that releasing Boko Haram prisoners would only lead to more kidnappings.

But it would be challenging for the government to rescue the prisoners without risking a lot of bloodshed.

The choice leaves Jonathan's government in an uncomfortable position.

In the video, Shekau said he carried out the kidnappings in revenge.

He said it was because Nigeria imprisoned members and friends of Boko Haram.

He said his group was holding many other people but gave no number.

