Luckily, Shandeep Dhillon's cousin had recently gotten married.

That meant Shandeep alone could prepare much of Fowler High School for its first Bollywood night.

His uncle's regal sherwani coat went to the Central Valley school's principal, Hank Gutierrez.

The outfit Shandeep, 13, had worn in the past went to Gutierrez's son, Jordan.

Shandheep wore another cousin's, on down the line of his extended family's wedding clothes.

The Punjabi girls at school all had outfits they could lend to their Latina, Armenian and Swedish classmates.

"We go to lots and lots of Indian weddings and you dress up and feel like a princess," said Manpreet Shaliwal, 16, dressed in silky blue.

Even girls she had never talked to before had been introducing themselves over the last month, hoping to borrow one of her colorful dresses for the school's Bollywood night.

Bollywood is the nickname of India's movie industry.

The cafeteria's ceiling was transformed by a parachute of tulle fabric, which had cost more than $200.

But Harcoover Singh Bhatti, the Punjabi club president, argued that it would be worth it for the gasps now being emitted as students entered.

More students than he had dared expect bought $10 tickets to the dance.

The 18-year-old ran about in a happy panic, checking the supply of samosas.

"This was three years in the making.

Three years!"

he shouted as he sped past in his usual black turban.

"It's a first!"

Gutierrez, wearing slippers that curled up at the toes, watched the barely contained chaos.

"This is my favorite moment of being principal," he said.

"I grew up in this small town.

The son of a single mother.

I wanted this school to have what she gave me — a sense that we're family."

A study by independent researchers, presented to Congress last month by the Sikh Coalition, found that Sikh children in Central California face some of the highest rates of bullying in the country.

Sikhism is the religion and Punjab the region of India where many Sikhs come from.

Fifty-four percent of students ages 12 to 18 reported harassment.

For turbaned youth it was 67 percent — more than double the national average.

Strictly observant Sikhs don't cut any hair, believing that everything about a person's body is sacred.

Men and boys often wear their long hair wrapped in turbans.

The report's findings were unsettling in a place where turbans are as common as John Deere truck caps.

Gurdwaras — Sikh temples — sit amid grape fields and farm towns, always open to anyone.

Sikhs have lived in the San Joaquin Valley for more than 100 years, and it's home to more than 30,000 Punjabi people.

"People saw us differently after 9/11," said Simran Kaur, a nursing student serving food at the Nanaksar Sikh temple in Fresno, Calif.

Although many of the interviews included in the Sikh Council report were conducted here, Kaur said she's never experienced bullying or harassment.

Kaur has adapted to American culture, but is proud of her husband for not bowing to the norms.

He still wears a turban, but hasn't experienced abuse.

Sometimes at the convenience store where he works, men call him a terrorist, but he just ignores it, she said.

Bhatti, the force behind the Bollywood dance, was born in America.

But at age 6, his parents sent him to a boarding school in the Himalayas.

There was one letter a month from home, and a weekly five-minute phone call.

"It was just like Harry Potter, but without the magic," he said.

When Bhatti came home to go to high school in Fowler, a town of 6,000 near Fresno, he had studied English grammar and passed a written test into an honors English class, but he couldn't speak or understand it.

Over the summer he taught himself English and later learned to swim.

The swim team was largely white, and he wanted to do something people least expected a Punjabi student to do: He made the team.

The next year he joined the drama club.

He has been accepted at a string of big-name universities and plans to go to medical school someday.

At the end of his junior year, he was volunteering at a Fresno hospital when they brought in Piara Singh, an 82-year-old Sikh man who had been beaten with a steel pipe outside a temple in what police said was a hate crime.

The older man told Bhatti he hadn't thought anything like that could happen in the Central Valley.

Later in his senior year, Bhatti vowed to make the dance that they'd talked about for years happen at the school, where 51 of the 680 students are Punjabi.

"They said it was going to be lame because they worried people would make fun of it," Bhatti said.

"I kept quiet.

But I knew it was going to be epic," he added.

The night of the event, after a Sikh dance troupe took the floor to perform, those boys and Bhatti's friends from the swim team packed themselves against the back wall of the cafeteria.

The costumed dancers drummed their feet and swirled as students took photos and clapped along.

The boys at the back, beneath a "Go Redcats!"

sign, threw their heads back and whooped, thumping Bhatti on the shoulders.

When the performances ended, a DJ who also plays at many Indian weddings, dimmed the lights and pumped Jazzy B, a popular Punjabi singer known as the Crown Prince of Bhangra, a mashpup of traditional Punjabi music, hip-hop, house and reggae.

The rush to the dance floor was immediate.

Somehow the boys from the back got there first, Bhatti's black turban bopping up and down in the middle of them.

Chandler Collins, 17, waved hands covered with henna tattoos.

Bhatti's best friend from the swim team, Caleb Savoia, pogoed into the circles of girls dancing together.

The only one dancing with more enthusiasm was Harjinder (J.J.) Kalirai, a tall, quiet boy who wears a turban.

While they danced, teacher Anika Arya, the Punjabi club's faculty adviser, sneaked off to a corner and cried.

She wasn't sure why, she said, but it was something about seeing a shy Sikh boy who usually walked with his head down, joyfully dancing as classmates cheered him on.

