Shandeep Dhillon was lucky that his cousin had recently gotten married.

That meant he could be one of the biggest helpers for the first Bollywood night at Fowler High School.

He gave traditional coats for school principal Hank Gutierrez and his son to wear.

Shandheep himself had a coat from another cousin to wear.

The Punjabi girls at school all had traditional dresses they could lend to their classmates.

"We go to lots and lots of Indian weddings and you dress up and feel like a princess," said Manpreet Shaliwal.

She was dressed in bright blue.

Many girls at the school had come to her over the last month, asking to borrow one of her many dresses for the school's Bollywood night.

Bollywood is the nickname of India's movie industry.

The cafeteria's ceiling was transformed for the party.

The preparations cost more than $200.

But Harcoover Singh Bhatti, the president of the Punjabi Club, said the money was not a problem.

More students than expected bought $10 tickets to the dance.

"This was three years in the making.

Three years!"

he shouted.

Gutierrez watched all the preparations.

He was wearing sparkling slippers that curled up at the toes.

"This is it," he said.

"This is my favorite moment of being principal.

I grew up in this small town.

The son of a single mother.

I wanted this school to have what she gave me, a sense that we're family.

And it's not about what the outside world says, but what we create."

A recent survey showed that in Central California, Sikh children are bullied more times than kids in many other parts of the country.

Sikhism is the religion of many people who come from the Punjab, a region in India.

More than half of students age 12 to 18 reported harassment, the study found.

The ones wearing a turban were the most bullied.

Many Sikh men and boys wear turbans because Sikhs don't cut any hair.

For them, everything about one's body is important.

The bullying is troublesome for the Sikhs in California.

The Sikhs have lived in the area for more than 100 years.

They have built temples that can be seen near roads and towns.

Sikh temples are always open and they help the poor and the hungry.

The 18-year-old Bhatti was born in America.

But when he was little, his parents sent him to a school in the Himalayan mountains.

When he was at the school, he received one letter a month.

He talked to his parents on the phone only once a week for five minutes.

"It was just like Harry Potter, but without the magic," he said.

When Bhatti came back to United States to go to high school in Fowler, he couldn't speak or understand English.

But over the summer he studied the language by himself and later learned how to swim.

He joined the swim team.

Bhatti plans to go to a university and study to become a doctor.

He had wanted to make a Bollywood party happen in his high school for a long time.

There are 608 students in Fowler High School.

Only 51 of them are Punjabi.

"They said it was going to be lame because they worried people would make fun of it," Bhatti said of his Sikh classmates.

"I kept quiet," he said.

But Bhatti knew the Bollywood party was going to be great.

The night of the party, students took photos and clapped along, watching the dancers drum their feet and swirl.

Bhatti's friends thumped him on the shoulders.

Later, a DJ who also plays at many Indian weddings, dimmed the lights and played the songs of a popular Punjabi singer.

The singer is famous for mixing several types of music together.

Everybody rushed to the dance floor.

Chandler Collins, 17, waved hands covered with washable tattoos.

Bhatti's best friend from the swim team, Caleb Savoia, pogoed into the group of girls dancing together in a circle.

The only one dancing more lively was Harjinder (J.J.) Kalirai, a tall, quiet boy who wears a turban.

While they danced, teacher Anika Arya, the Punjabi club's teacher adviser, sneaked off to a corner and cried.

She said she wasn't sure why.

But the reason had something to do with seeing a shy Sikh boy suddenly happy.

Usually he walked with his head down, but now he was dancing with joy as his classmates cheered him on.

