Even before he started school, Jason Borders collected unusual objects.

One thing he collected was animal bones.

He found them while exploring his neighborhood in Lexington, Ky. Years later, Borders still collects bones.

These days, though, Borders is an artist who covers those bones with drawings.

His bone artwork is becoming famous.

It sells for a lot of money.

The pieces are animal bones, mostly skulls.

Into each Borders has engraved and then inked detailed designs.

The designs are based on lines and dots.

They can look like old maps or fancy patterns.

Borders says he doesn't start a piece with any set plan.

He just lets the design guide him.

Frequently, he is surprised by the results.

When he is done with a design, he colors the bone.

When Border first started doing art, he worked with paper and clay.

A few years ago, he found a dead elk.

Elk are similar to deer, but larger.

He loaded the elk into his car, Borders said, laughing.

"I almost got arrested doing this."

At home, after cleaning the bones, he noticed a grinding tool he had.

Someone gave him the tool for Christmas.

"I picked it up and started working on" the bones, Borders says.

At first, Borders says, the bones were just something he played with.

Soon, they became important to his artwork.

Borders also makes paintings.

His bones are still his most famous work.

Some people find the bones disturbing.

Other people find it daring and cool.

Borders doesn't like either view.

It annoys him "when people just see them as carved bones."

They "aren't actually paying attention to the art."

Borders' style is visible in all his pieces: the bones, his paintings and his other work.

"I always work in the same way, have the same approach," he says.

In addition, one bone is not the same as another.

A question he frequently gets: How does he get the bones?

Often, Borders says, he trades with farmers.

He might "do a couple hours work."

He might also "trade them a small piece of art for a bunch of bones."

He says he once tried to count all the skulls in his house.

He lost track at about 40.

His wife is cool with that.

"We've been together 12 years," Borders says.

She's used to it by now.

