Even before he started school, Jason Borders tended to collect unusual objects.

Among them were animal bones that he found while exploring his neighborhood, the Henry Clay Estate in Lexington, Ky.

He always had a little cabinet of unusual objects in his room, and in the garage, Borders recalls.

Years later, Borders still is collecting bones and other curiosities.

These days, though, Borders covers them with his own detailed designs.

They hang in galleries, where they sell for hundreds and thousands of dollars each.

Borders now lives in Portland, Oregon, with his wife, Elizabeth Sumney Borders.

But he was back in Lexington this month to open a show of his work at the downtown shop Mulberry &amp; Lime.

Shop owner Mary Ginocchio said she decided to show Jason Borders' work after Lexington artist Bob Morgan suggested it.

When she saw the work, she said, she was impressed by the unique form and detailed craftsmanship.

The pieces consist of animal bones, mostly skulls, into which Borders has engraved and inked complicated designs of lines and dots.

These resemble the patterns found in the traditional mehndi tattoos of India and the Arab world.

The designs usually are not symmetrical.

Instead, they take on forms that can look like old maps or paisley patterns, among other things.

Borders says he doesn't go into a piece with any intention — he lets the design guide him, and is frequently surprised by the results.

When done, he usually inks and puts a finish on the bone, often giving it a particular color.

Borders says he remembers always making things with his hands and recalls taking classes presented by the Lexington Art League.

Eventually, he began working with Lexington artist and gallery owner Gayle Cerlan.

After graduating from high school in 2005, Borders went to the Columbus College of Art and Design in Ohio.

Shortly after graduation, he moved with Elizabeth to Oregon.

Border at first worked only in traditional mediums, including paper and clay.

Then, a few years ago, he happened to come across the carcass of an elk.

"I loaded most of it in my Honda Civic," Borders says, laughing.

"I almost got arrested doing this."

At home, after cleaning the bones, he noticed his Dremel, a rotary grinding tool that his in-laws had given him for Christmas.

"Looking at the Dremel and looking at the bones next to each other, I picked it up and started working on it," Borders says.

"The garage was right underneath my house, and I ended up filling the house with bone dust, and made myself really sick and made my wife really angry."

He adds, "Then I did it another four years, but I'm much more careful these days."

At first, Borders says, the bones were something he dabbled with, trying to learn how to best work with them.

While they became more and more central to his work over time, he also continues to paint.

Mulberry &amp; Lime has several of Borders' paintings for sale, in addition to the bones.

But the bone pieces have become a signature.

He says they draw a wide range of responses from "little old housewives who think they're really disturbing" to "people closer to my age who are like, 'Oh, that is so hard-core, bro.'"

He said, "Those are the ones that actually irritate me the most, when people just see them as carved bones and aren't actually paying attention to the art."

There is a distinct Borders style at work in the bones, his paintings and his other work.

"I always work in the same way, have the same approach," he says.

"With bones, they may be similar in shape, but there are all different kinds you could imagine, and beyond that, there's" the hardness and thickness "of the bone, how long it was left outside, the age of the animal when it died — they all affect the way I work and the way it looks at the end.

It's a nice way" to end up with "different results.

Nothing's ever quite the same."

A question he frequently gets: How does he get the bones?

"I'm an opportunistic hunter," Borders says.

"I will often go trade with local farmers, like do a couple hours work or trade them a small piece of art for a bunch of bones."

He adds, "I find them.

I keep a bunch of trash bags in my car.

I go out to the woods a lot.

Nowadays, though, I'm the bone guy.

People bring me bones, a lot."

He says he tried to count all the skulls in his house and lost track at about 40.

His wife is cool with that.

"We've been together 12 years," Borders says.

She's used to him by now.

