The Florida bonneted bat is such a rare animal that scientists know of only one group of them in the wild.

It is one of the state's most endangered species, and they fly high in the sky, making them even harder to spot.

Luckily, they are very chatty.

Thanks to some citizen scientists, it is now easier to hear them, even if they can't be seen.

Volunteers have recorded the bats' songs and found out many new details about them.

Luck also had a part, because the bats happen to feed near the backyard of a famous bat researcher.

"Who would have thought?"

said volunteer Alfonso Perez, who is also raising money to support more research.

"If we just sit back and smell the roses, there's a lot of things going on."

All the attention has generated some star treatment for the bats: their own Facebook page, and parties thrown to study them.

Much of that can be credited to biologist Kirsten Bohn, an expert in bat songs.

She began organizing outings that were part party and part expedition to collect information about the bats, which have dropped to a few hundred in Florida.

Her group of volunteers found a group of bats near the Gables Granada Golf Course.

They used iPads and phones programmed to hear the bats' chirps and recorded more than 20,000 calls.

They found that the pug-nosed bats feed and sing like no other bat in the United States.

Frank Ridgely, a veterinarian, recently released the first bonneted bat raised at Zoo Miami.

If all goes well, a tracker attached to the bat could let Ridgely follow it in the wild.

The new research could help government officials who are now considering conservation plans for the bat.

The U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service added the bat to the endangered species list in 2013, the first bat in 25 years.

It is expected to propose a critical habitat, an area where the bats will live without being disturbed.

The habitat could help avoid problems like one at the Granada golf course.

The city of Coral Gables trimmed trees and removed grass at the course, which could affect how the bats feed.

Ridgely said tougher steps must be taken to help the bats survive, and that other parks in the county should be studied to replace the lost habitat.

The forest is never coming back in most of Miami-Dade County, he said.

Conservation of bats has become more urgent in recent years.

Up to 2 million bats die each year from disease or getting caught in wind turbines.

Their deaths threaten food production.

Some bats pollinate plants and others, including the bonneted bat, eat large amounts of insects.

Because they are large and fly high, bonneted bats need plenty of room to maneuver.

Their numbers could be low because very little open space remains in South Florida.

In 2014, Bohn helped write a study about bat singing.

It found out the clicks and chirps bats make may sound like change jingling in your pocket, but are actually more like a chorus of songbirds.

The study found that bats don't chirp just to get their bearings or find food; they also sing to flirt, fend off other males and call to their young.

They sing from their nests and they sing when they fly.

Like humans, they may have a language.

Bohn set up recorders on the Granada golf course.

Amazed at the number of calls, she began recording in other areas.

The bats typically lived in pine rockland, a type of woods where they can fly easily among the trees.

Yet now most rockland is gone, so the bats became urban bats, living in whatever open space they could find, such as the parking lot around Zoo Miami.

Florida scientists knew the Granada golf course was a bat feeding ground.

Bohn was lucky to move to the neighborhood in 2012.

Within a few weeks she heard the bat songs and began recording them.

Neighbors read about the study and contacted Bohn, who formed the Bat Squad to help collect information.

At their first bat night at the golf course, hundreds of volunteers wandered around or sat in lawn chairs gazing into the night sky.

In the past year, Bohn and volunteers studied calls and the comings and goings of bats.

The information helped paint a new picture of the bats.

The bats call differently than other bat species plentiful in South Florida, which could make it easier to count them.

Bohn picked up bat calls all over southern Miami-Dade County, but in very low numbers.

This suggests the bats travel far to find food.

Bohn also found that the bats were sensitive to temperature, flying out only on warm nights.

Surveying during colder months could give wrong information, she said.

Without enough money, Bohn was unable to complete more thorough research.

She hopes volunteers in Florida will carry on, to provide more information so she can continue her research.

