Aaron Sacharow is glad when his son — 7-year-old Tyler — puts down his video games and picks up a book instead.

He will even settle for the book being a guide to the popular video game "Minecraft."

"I don't want to say it tricks them into reading," says Sacharow, who lives in Miramar, Florida.

"But there are books kids are reading for schools and books that they hopefully like in their free time — and if 'Minecraft' books are a motivation to read, that's a good thing, right?

At the very least, they're developing skills, reading skills."

The game "Minecraft" was originally released in 2011 and has sold more than 50 million copies worldwide.

Since last November, the illustrated "Minecraft" guides have become one of the most successful book series.

Three guides — "Minecraft: Essential Handbook," "Minecraft: Redstone Handbook" and "Minecraft: Construction Handbook" — have already sold more than 6 million copies combined.

The publisher, Scholastic Inc., plans to release "Minecraft: Combat Handbook" in late September and a boxed set in October.

"We first heard from kids themselves about 'Minecraft,'" said Debra Dorfman, a vice president at Scholastic.

"We started watching a lot of YouTube videos to see what the buzz was about."

She said, "Kids, parents and teachers were all saying 'Minecraft' was good for you.

Kids are given free rein to play, build and watch YouTube videos of other people playing.

Teachers were talking about the educational aspects of creative thinking, geometry, geology and problem solving so parents were agreeing to let them play for hours at a time."

Bookstore manager Kira Porton says the guides could well become as popular as such top-selling series as "The Diary of a Wimpy Kid" and "Percy Jackson."

Porton initially ordered just a few copies of the guides for her store.

She soon found herself repeatedly asking for more.

"They're in the process of just exploding," Porton says.

"What's amazing is that we usually have to personally recommend books for them to sell that well — these books just fly off the shelf without our having to say anything."

"Minecraft" is set in a blocky world whose trees, terrain and bodies of water can be mined for resources, such as dirt, stone, metals, water and tree trunks.

Once mined, resources are used to build things like shelters, tools and armor to protect players from the zombies, skeletons and creepers who come out at night.

The game's simple mix of survival gameplay and Lego-like digital construction has captured the imagination of countless players.

Fans have recreated buildings and sites like Walt Disney World, the White House and Westeros from "Game of Thrones" across the game's sprawling landscape.

"Minecraft" was originally released by creator Markus "Notch" Persson almost three years ago and went on to become a phenomenon.

Amazon.com book editor Chris Schluep notes that other game-related releases have succeeded.

Last year, "The Legend of Zelda: Hyrule Historia" was a surprise best seller, and books tied to the games "Halo" and "World of Warcraft" have also done very well.

"People really want to know more" about the games, Schluep says, and so they end up turning to books.

At the Brandywine Wallace Elementary School in Pennsylvania, second-grade teacher Elizabeth H. Madarang learned of the "Minecraft" games because her students kept referring to them in their weekly writing reports.

Earlier this year, she ordered the first "Minecraft" manual, and afterward her students formed a book club.

"I definitely see 'Minecraft' manuals encouraging students to read," Madarang says.

"Not only are they reading text, they are studying and analyzing the manuals.

They use critical reading and analytical skills then apply their new learning to their 'Minecraft' games."

