Like many kids, 7-year-old Tyler Sacharow is crazy about video games.

Sometimes, though, Tyler puts down his video games and picks up a book to read instead.

Seeing that makes his dad Aaron happy.

Aaron will even settle for the book being a guide to "Minecraft," the popular video game.

"I don't want to say it tricks them into reading," says Aaron, who lives in Florida.

"But there are books kids are reading for schools and books that they hopefully like in their free time — and if 'Minecraft' books are a motivation to read, that's a good thing, right?

At the very least, they're developing skills, reading skills."

The game "Minecraft" was originally released in 2011 and has sold more than 50 million copies worldwide.

Since last November, the "Minecraft" guides have become one of the most successful book series.

Three guides — "Minecraft: Essential Handbook," "Minecraft: Redstone Handbook" and "Minecraft: Construction Handbook" — have already sold more than 6 million copies combined.

The publisher, Scholastic, plans to release "Minecraft: Combat Handbook" in late September.

"We first heard from kids themselves about 'Minecraft,'" said Debra Dorfman, a vice president at Scholastic.

"We started watching a lot of YouTube videos to see what the buzz was about."

She said, "Kids, parents and teachers were all saying 'Minecraft' was good for you.

Kids are given free rein to play, build and watch YouTube videos of other people playing.

Teachers were talking about the educational aspects of creative thinking, geometry, geology and problem solving so parents were agreeing to let them play for hours at a time."

Bookstore manager Kira Porton says the guides could well become as popular as such top-selling series as "The Diary of a Wimpy Kid" and "Percy Jackson."

Porton initially ordered just a few copies of the guides for her store.

She soon found herself repeatedly asking for more.

"They're in the process of just exploding," Porton says.

"What's amazing is that we usually have to personally recommend books for them to sell that well — these books just fly off the shelf without our having to say anything."

"Minecraft" is set in a world made of blocks, where the land can be mined for useful materials, like dirt, stone, metals, water and tree trunks.

The materials are used to build Lego-like shelters, tools, armor and other things to protect players from various monsters.

The game has captured the imagination of countless players.

Fans have recreated famous buildings and sites like Walt Disney World, the White House and Westeros from "Game of Thrones" across the game's sprawling landscape.

Amazon.com book editor Chris Schluep notes that other game-related books have succeeded as well.

Last year, "The Legend of Zelda: Hyrule Historia" was a surprise best seller, and books tied to the games "Halo" and "World of Warcraft" have also done very well.

"People really want to know about more" about the games, Schluep says, and so they end up turning to books.

At the Brandywine Wallace Elementary School in Pennsylvania, second-grade teacher Elizabeth H. Madarang learned of the "Minecraft" games because her students kept referring to them in their weekly writing reports.

Earlier this year, she ordered the first "Minecraft" manual.

Her students have since formed a book club.

"I definitely see 'Minecraft' manuals encouraging students to read," Madarang says.

She says they also study the manuals.

"They use critical reading and analytical skills then apply their new learning to their 'Minecraft' games."

