Keiler Roberts sat with her 6-year-old daughter, Xia, last week at a playground in Evanston, near Chicago.

The two read together.

Behind them, kids ran around in a game of hide-and-seek.

On Roberts' lap was a library book, "Thumbelina."

On Xia's were two Barbie dolls sitting positioned to listen along to the tale.

As Roberts turned the page to display a glowing illustration, Xia's eyes widened, her lips forming an "oh" of surprise.

"Wouldn't that be something?"

Roberts said, "If you opened up a flower and a little girl was inside?"

The mother and daughter were among park visitors delighted by Evanston Public Library's new book bike.

It's a motorized bicycle with a bright yellow cart attached to it.

The cart is filled with about 50 books of various genres.

Librarian Jill Skwerski rides the bike to parks and community centers.

People can come up to the bike to sign up for library cards, check out books and register for programs on the spot.

The cart's books include popular authors such as Malcolm Gladwell, John Green and James Patterson, as well as titles on politics, history and self-help books.

The cart has a more playful selection, too: children's fairy tales, the "Animorphs" series and "The Hunger Games" novels.

"I've also got this," Skwerski said, tugging a book out from the cart.

"I promised my daughter I'd bring along the One Direction book."

The process is fast and simple.

It's even easier for families who already have library cards.

When 6-year-old Sophie Levy peered into the cart of books, she instantly caught sight of her favorite book, "Happy Pig Day!"

by Mo Willems.

Sophie's mom, Christine, then pulled out a library card and gave it to Skwerski.

The librarian opened her laptop, set it on the seat of the bike, and entered the card number.

She had Sophie read aloud the book's call number.

In less than a minute, Sophie was able to return to the playground with her prized book.

The library hopes the book bike will increase outreach to the community.

They're aiming to reach nonusers, particularly on the south and west sides of Evanston, which have the fewest cardholders, Skwerski said.

"The more people hear about the book bike, the more excitement it can generate," she said.

The bike was donated to the library by Evanston Bicycle Club's Benjamin Schapiro.

The program is still new, and from its first few runs, Skwerski said she realized the bike needs some adjustments.

She wants to add a ledge or stool for young children to stand on to see into the cart.

Other possible changes include a shelf to display books, so people can recognize the book bike from several feet away, she said.

She'd also like to add a docking station to charge phones and electronic devices.

Parkgoer Margaret Lo's two sons, Onyx, 3, and Alarik, 2, also checked out Mo Willems books.

Lo said the bike is easier for her than a trip to the library.

"They're constantly in demand of new books," she said as her sons clambered onto a tire swing.

"I love going to the library, but I'm afraid they'll tear it apart."

The book bike hopes to stop by a local open-air market in the coming weeks and possibly nearby schools once the school year starts, Skwerski said.

But for now, Skwerski is enjoying the trips to playgrounds in the warm weather.

It gives her the chance to witness children's eager excitement to read.

"What a gift, that this is my job," Skwerski said.

