On a windy day in southern Arizona's remote borderlands, Glenn Weyant had everything he needed to make music — a cello bow and a mallet.

But, his instrument wasn't a cello.

It was the miles-long fence dividing the United States and Mexico.

His method, like his music, was improvisational and low-tech: He inserted electronic equipment into an Altoids tin, turning it into a microphone.

Weyant filled the tin with magnets and pressed it against the fence a few inches off the ground.

Wires attached to the tin led to an amp to increase the volume and several effects pedals — the kind electric guitarists use — which allow him to alter the sound.

Desert scrub, mesquite and sun-bleached rocks were his audience.

Sometimes he even records the sounds he gets from playing the fence.

"Nobody thought of the border wall as possibly anything other than something to separate people," he said.

The fence was built to keep out people who try to enter the United States often in search of better jobs — even if they aren't allowed to.

Worries about terrorism have led to the fence getting built up even more.

For eight years, Weyant has tapped, banged and stroked the fence to produce haunting sounds in a region he has called practically a "militarized zone."

Compositions can last a minute — or more than half an hour.

"What I'm saying is you don't need to be afraid of the wall," said Weyant, a 50-year-old Tucson, Ariz., resident.

Weyant moved to Tucson 19 years ago when much of the border fence in southern Arizona was barbed wire.

It seemed forbidden and he didn't know whether he could even touch it.

Though people tend to stay away from the fence — at least on the northern side — it's not against the law to touch it.

The New Jersey native had been drawn to unusual sounds his whole life — as a boy he enjoyed listening to the hypnotic pattern of his grandfather's electric fan.

One day in 2005, he decided that he wanted to hear what sounds the fence could make.

Weyant said the fence was a symbol of fear and that he wanted it change it into "an instrument so that people on both sides can have open dialogue and communication."

He experimented with drumsticks, mallets, violin bows and cello bows — even using sticks found on the ground.

In Nogales, he played a fence made of re-purposed helicopter landing pads.

He'd capture the noise from birds landing on top of the fence, and the sounds of cars and people passing through the port of entry.

In Sasabe, he created a delicate raspy sound when he played his bow on rusty mattress wires.

Ranchers had stretched the wires between fence posts to keep their cattle from straying into Mexico.

Weyant is more interested in creating effects than melodies.

His recordings can sound like wind chimes or have the flutelike breathiness created by blowing across a bottle top.

Other sounds resemble moans, whistles and clicks.

"Some people describe it as nails on a chalkboard," he said.

It can create a spooky feeling or be something otherworldly, he says.

People who stumble across Weyant sometimes look on from afar, unsure of what he's doing.

Others have approached him and stayed for a private concert.

"Making the inhumane, humane and human," one person commented on a YouTube video of Weyant making music.

"Bravo.

Beautiful.

Inspiring."

In this recording, Weyant rarely touched the wall.

He mostly just picked up the sound the wind created blowing across rocks and through the fence.

At one point, Weyant played a cello while wearing a zebra-head mask.

He once tried out a moose call, blowing into the whistlelike contraption while standing next to the fence.

For the most part, Border Patrol agents have left him alone.

"I'm a white male playing the border wall," Weyant said, adding that he is aware that his skin color gives him a privileged access that others would not have enjoyed.

Some agents have greeted him with friendly curiosity.

"Why are you playing a wall?"

one asked.

Another radioed his superiors: "There's a guy playing the wall.

Is he allowed to do that?"

A few agents have warned him about people on the southern side of the fence saying they sometimes throw rocks.

"Usually," Weyant said, "when you play in a venue, you don't have people with guns watching you and one guy telling you that people on the other side want to hurt you."

Still, he's never had any dangerous run-ins with people on either side of the fence.

Weyant, a former professor of journalism who is now a stay-at-home dad, said he gets to the border wall as much as he can, often once a month.

He has given lectures about his music at various universities and collaborated with musicians who have added his border sounds into their works.

He sells his compositions, but has given some away to humanitarian aid associations.

In recent years, people throughout southern Arizona have seen the buildup in border security.

They've seen sections of the fence change from flimsy barriers into tall, strong structures that dot the Sonoran Desert.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, crews installed a fence near Sasabe made of solid steel columns set a few inches apart.

Few have heard the border change, but Weyant has.

The sounds, like the fence itself, are often harsher than before.

Weyant said the border wall was an appropriate place to make music because it's haunted with stories.

"This section is where hundreds of people die," he said.

"Did they come from Guatemala?"

Dusty handprints stood out against the rust of the fence near Sasabe.

"Was it just a kid who jumped the fence?

So many stories," Weyant said.

"There's a lot of mojo here."

