Glenn Weyant was in Arizona near the border between the United States and Mexico.

He had everything he needed to make music.

He had his cello bow and a hammer.

But he doesn't play an instrument.

He plays the fence that separates the U.S. and Mexico.

For eight years, Weyant has tapped, banged and stroked the fence.

He doesn't make songs exactly.

Instead, he makes haunting sounds.

Weyant's music is low-tech.

He turns a tin can into a microphone.

He presses it against the fence.

The can is attached to wires.

Then he uses electricity to make the sound louder.

He records the noise from birds landing on top of the fence.

Or, the sounds of cars passing through the border checkpoint.

His songs can last a minute.

Or, they can be more than half an hour.

He doesn't have an audience.

There's just grass, trees and rocks near him.

But, videos of his music are on YouTube.

"Nobody thought of the border wall as possibly anything other than something to separate people," he said.

He hopes his music will get people on both sides of the border to talk more.

He thinks people fear the fence.

It was built to keep people from coming into the U.S.

Some people try to enter even if they aren't allowed to.

Often, they are looking for better jobs.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks the fence was built up even more.

Now it's made of solid steel in some places.

It's not against the law to touch it.

Though, people usually stay away from the fence.

For the most part, border police have left him alone.

Some police are curious about him.

"Why are you playing a wall?"

one asked.

Another radioed his boss: "There's a guy playing the wall.

Is he allowed to do that?"

Police have warned him about people on the Mexican side of the fence.

But, he's never had any run-ins with people on either side of the fence.

Weyant said the border wall is the right place to make music.

It's haunted with stories.

"This section is where hundreds of people die," he said.

The people die of starvation or because they have no water.

Dusty handprints could be seen on the fence near Sasabe.

"Was it just a kid who jumped the fence?

So many stories," Weyant said.

