Last summer, a huge number of children from Central America tried to enter the United States on their own.

Now, far fewer children are attempting to come here without permission.

Meanwhile, another fight over who can come and stay in the country is causing a debate in the government.

On Friday, President Barack Obama said he would order changes to some immigration rules.

The order would let him pass a law without approval from Congress.

Usually the president needs Congress to approve his decisions.

No one knows exactly what changes Obama would make.

Experts think he may try to allow more than 5 million people who came to the United States illegally to continue living here without being sent back to their home countries.

Like the children who tried to come to the United States last summer, they are not U.S. citizens.

Right now they are living in the United States without permission from the government.

Republican lawmakers have promised to fight the president.

They argue that the order would ruin Obama's already testy relationship with Congress.

In elections earlier this month, the Republican Party won control over both the Senate and the House of Representatives.

The two groups are full of lawmakers from each state in the country.

Together, they help make and pass laws.

Republican lawmakers disagree with Obama, a Democrat, about running the country.

They especially do not agree over what to do with 11 million people living in the United States without permission.

In general, Democrats argue that the people should be allowed to stay.

Republicans insist that first, the border security must be tightened.

On Friday, U.S. Customs and Border Protection announced that the number of children trying to cross the border on their own is much lower.

For every five children who tried to cross the border into the United States in October 2013, there were only three children this October.

The number of families trying to enter the country illegally also went down.

The numbers have been going down for some time, Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson said last month.

He is also the head of U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

The government department is in charge of protecting the borders.

Johnson said that for 15 years, the number of people stopped at the border with Mexico has been declining.

Now, is at its lowest level since the 1970s, Johnson said.

Last summer, the largest number of children ever were caught trying to cross the border in the Rio Grande Valley on their own.

The valley is located along the southern tip of Texas along the Rio Grande River.

Johnson said the immigrants were were searching for family members.

They also wanted a better life in this country.

In October, Johnson said the government took several steps to reduce the number of people trying to sneak into the country.

Hundreds of border guards were moved to the Rio Grande Valley.

The government also increased its efforts to stop criminal groups that took people over the border.

It added more flights to send people back home.

It also persuaded Mexico to stop people from crossing Mexico on their way to the United States.

Most of them came from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras in Central America.

Last year, the Senate passed a bill that would would have allowed at least some of the illegal immigrants to stay.

The Republican-controlled House never voted on it.

On Friday, Obama said that since Congress did not solve the problem, he would.

He said that he "would use all the lawful authority that I possess to try to make the system work better."

The president promised that he would take action by the end of the year.

Republicans are angry about Obama's promise.

We are going to fight the president if he does this, said Representative John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio.

This is not the right way to govern, he said.

