San Francisco 49ers linebacker Chris Borland is leaving football to avoid the long-term damage that head injuries can cause.

Not even the promise of stardom and piles of money can change his mind.

After one outstanding rookie season, Borland is retiring at age 24.

The 49ers announced his decision Monday night, without offering an explanation.

Earlier in the day, however, Borland told the ESPN television program "Outside the Lines" that he wants to do "what's best for my health."

The repeated blows to the head that football players experience can cause permanent damage to their brains.

Damaging blows to the brain are known as concussions.

Following concussions, players can suffer memory loss, confusion and moodiness, among other symptoms.

Many of these go away with time, but multiple concussions can lead to long-term problems.

Borland led the 49ers in tackles during his one season, so he certainly had plenty of opportunities to injure himself.

"From what I've researched and what I've experienced, I don't think it's worth the risk," Borland said during Monday's interview.

"I feel largely the same, as sharp as I've ever been," he said.

However, he added, "I'm concerned that if you wait till you have symptoms, it's too late."

San Francisco 49ers general manager Trent Baalke said the team was surprised by his move, but he added that the team respects Borland's decision.

Borland's big announcement comes less than a week after linebacker Patrick Willis left the team.

Willis suffered a severe toe injury in October that ended his season.

The National Football League (NFL) said it respects Borland's decision, adding that "playing any sport is a personal decision."

The league stressed that "football has never been safer."

It noted that rule changes, better equipment and improved medical care have all led to progress.

NFL vice president Jeff Miller said the changes have led to real improvements throughout the NFL.

Concussions were down 25 percent last year, he said.

"We are seeing a growing culture of safety," Miller said.

While "there is more work to do," player safety will continue to be the league's major focus, he added.

The retirements of Willis and Borland are big blows to the 49ers, who have suffered a series of other recent losses.

The team lost coach Jim Harbaugh and defensive coordinator Vic Fangio after the season ended.

It then watched Frank Gore, Mike Iupati, Chris Culliver and Perrish Cox leave for other teams this past week.

"While unexpected, we certainly respect Chris' decision," Baalke said.

"From speaking with Chris, it was evident that he had put a great deal of thought into this."

Borland, he said, was a complete "professional from Day One and a very well-respected member of our team and community."

He added, "Chris is a determined young man that overcame long odds in his journey to the NFL.

We are confident he will use the same approach to become very successful in his future endeavors.

We will always consider him a 49er and wish him all the best."

