Hundreds of grumpy commuters cram into South Station — Boston's main transport hub — waiting to see whether their trains will be canceled or delayed.

They vent to each other about the snowy winter that has paralyzed the city's transportation systems.

Just weeks ago, Boston beat out other cities — Los Angeles, San Francisco, Washington — to make the U.S. bid for the 2024 Olympic Games.

Now residents are wondering, if Boston's infrastructure can't handle a snowy winter, can it handle hosting the 2024 Summer Olympic Games in just nine years?

Nor'easters — strong storms that can bring blizzards and flooding — have frustrated Bostonians and exhausted patience for mass disruptions.

It's another argument against holding the Olympics in Boston, adding to concerns over the financial costs and the difficulties of planning a large-scale event in of one the nation's smallest major cities.

"We're already crazy," said Debbie Jones, an executive assistant whose 45-minute commute to work had been taking 2 1/2 hours.

"I can't imagine the Olympics, with 10 times more people."

Winter will end, eventually.

The snow will melt, but Olympic supporters wonder if distrust of the city's planning abilities will melt with it.

Boston's icy reception to the Games may reveal something deeper about the city that likes to call itself the Hub of the Universe.

Boston is already a leader, they say, in medicine, higher education — with schools like Harvard and MIT — and biotechnology.

In sports, too, Boston is home to the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots football team and the successful Red Sox baseball team.

Though the city is home to tons of sports fanatics, many reject the idea that Boston needs validation on the international stage, the way Atlanta, or Sochi, Russia, might.

"We don't need the Olympics to do that," said Pat Shaughnessy, a paralegal also awaiting a train.

"People already know where Boston is."

Many in Boston are also asking why the city should take on a multibillion-dollar project just a few years after another one had gone far over budget.

The Big Dig was a major transportation project that tore up central Boston for more than a decade to build highways, bridges and tunnels and ran billions of dollars over what its cost was budgeted to be.

Organizers pushing for the Olympics in Boston promise that the Olympics' $4.7 billion budget would be covered by private money — not taxpayers in Boston.

The federal government would pay $1 billion to $2 billion in security costs.

State officials are already planning to spend $5.2 billion on transportation projects, organizers say.

In a February survey, 44 percent of Boston-area voters supported bringing the Olympics to the city, and 46 percent opposed it.

Other cities that have hosted the Games have had much stronger local support, as much as 70 or 80 percent of residents.

Still, Boston is two years away from the final bidding process.

A group of business leaders led by the city's wealthiest construction builder are leading the bid to bring the Olympics to Boston.

They know the challenge ahead of them.

Voters in Denver, Colorado, as well as those in European cities Munich, Germany, and Krakow, Poland, have rejected hosting the Olympics in the past.

If supporters of Boston hosting the games can overcome people's doubts, the city could have a shot at hosting the first U.S. Summer Games since Atlanta in 1996.

The International Olympic Committee will chose the 2024 host in 2017.

"There's a real appetite, a real hunger from the IOC members I've talked to for the United States to get its act together and have the Games again," said Ed Hula, editor of Around the Rings, a website that covers the Olympics.

Hula said Boston's main competition to host the games would come from Europe.

Richard Davey, chief executive of Boston 2024 — the private group behind Boston's bid to host the Olympics — says the city can save money by using college and university sites to host events.

The Games could be "the most walkable in history," Davey said.

That definition of walkable is fairly loose.

Early rounds of baseball, soccer and basketball could be held as far away as Washington, Chicago and New York.

The bid also includes construction of a $400 million temporary main stadium in an area that is arguably the least walkable section in Boston: a collection of meat and fish processing plants and warehouses between a rail yard and highway overpasses leading into downtown.

It's hard to imagine 80,000 spectators flocking to a spot that is now covered in mounds of gray snow and reeking of seafood.

Olympic boosters see an opportunity to develop an underused piece of the city and knit together the thriving neighborhoods around it.

Mayor Martin Walsh said the Olympics would allow the city to accelerate planning for a host of improvements to coincide with Boston's 400th anniversary in 2030.

"It allows an incredible legacy factor," Walsh said.

He said that Boston won the right to be the U.S. Olympic Committee's choice in the global competition to host the Olympics "because of the city we are.

We're going around the world now marketing that."

Walsh said opposition to the Olympics was inflamed by accounts of other countries that spent far more than they planned.

Still, doubts persist.

Experts say that Olympic supporters in Boston are underestimating the cost of the Games.

"It will bring a lot to the economy," said Suzanne Scanlon, a 53-year-old office worker headed home on a recent evening.

"My concern is whether it will make enough money to repay what we put into it."

