Hope Phelan is a competitive distance runner with a new goal.

Phelan wants to bring back the joy of the Boston Marathon.

She plans to use another one of her talents, painting, to help make it happen.

Phelan has created a series of paintings that celebrate all the best parts of Boston's yearly marathon.

She intentionally left out everything that had to do with the deadly bombings that ruined the 2013 race.

Instead, she focused on the scenes that make the Boston Marathon so special.

The painting called "Wellesley Scream Tunnel" shows the women of Wellesley College.

Every year, they cheer on passing athletes.

''Heartbreak Hill" shows runners conquering the toughest part of the race.

"The Home Stretch" shows runners passing Boston's famous Citgo sign as they get close to the finish line.

"I was trying to bring it back to the way I remember it," Phelan said.

The 26-year-old is a professional painter and art teacher.

She grew up south of Boston and visited every April to watch the race.

"I wanted to bring the fun back," she said.

On April 15, 2013, Phelan had finished her first Boston Marathon in just over three hours.

She was a few blocks away celebrating when she heard the explosions and saw people running and screaming.

To help her deal with those difficult memories, Phelan made a dark, serious painting she titled simply "Boston Marathon 2013."

She threw splashes of red paint at it to show the violence of that day.

"It was really emotional and expressive," she said.

One year after the 2013 marathon, Phelan was inspired to raise money for the people hurt by the bombs.

She created pieces that looked quite different from her first marathon painting.

They were bright, colorful scenes of runners and fans interacting along the famous 26.2-mile run that ends in Boston.

One playful piece, "The Finish Line," was painted on one of the shiny pieces of foil that runners use like blankets after the race.

Another one was painted onto a collage of Phelan's race numbers.

Phelan's paintings are sold under her maiden name, Hope Rathnam, online.

Her work is also being featured at Marathon Sports, a running shop along the race route.

The paintings will be on display there through the April 20 running of this year's race.

Now that two years have passed since bombs killed three people and wounded more than 260 others, runners are eager to see the race the way it looks in Phelan's paintings.

They want America's most beloved marathon to return to its roots.

They want to go back to the simple goal the race's founders had in mind 119 years ago.

It is a race for everyday people.

Tom Derderian is a Greater Boston Track Club coach and author of "The Boston Marathon: A Celebration of the World's Premier Race."

Derderian says the race is an important part of springtime in Boston.

He describes the event as a "celebration," and points out that it takes place, "at that time of year when there is hope again."

Derderian is making a new movie about the marathon.

He says that, eventually, the bombing will just be one horrible incident in the history of the race.

"A terrible crime was committed," he said.

"But as the years go by, the Boston Marathon will be more and more of a footrace and less and less of a crime scene."

Phelan wants to help bring the race "back to normal."

She hopes her art will encourage others to reconnect with the race's fun attitude and sense of community.

"The Boston Marathon is like a parade.

People are screaming and it's loud and there's water being thrown at you," she said.

Caitlin Marquis is a Boston-based runner and fan of Phelan's art.

She says Phelan's personal connection to her work is what makes it so special.

"There is so much joy that leaks into the paintings that couldn't get there any other way except for her love of running," she said.

Marquis says Boston is determined to make sure the marathon goes back to being the fun race everyone remembers.

"These paintings are definitely in keeping with that joy," she said.

