The plant world could become a mystery in the coming decades as fewer college students take botany, or the study of plants, and U.S. universities close their plant collections.

Since 1988, the number of research universities offering botany degrees has dropped by half, according to National Science Foundation data.

And the National Center for Education Statistics reports that fewer than 400 botany degrees were awarded in 2012.

Educators say that's because students are being pushed into more modern, technology-related majors.

Current botanists fear that will lead to having fewer people able to teach about, identify and use plants.

This lack of botanists could harm conservation efforts and make it harder to develop alternate fuels and important medicines.

At the same time, universities and states with less money due to budget cuts are getting rid of the expensive task of maintaining herbaria — collections of plant species that botanists can reference or use for genetic material.

"We aren't going to understand what we have in the world.

By some estimates only 20 percent of the (plant and animal) species in the world have been identified," said Joe Miller of the National Science Foundation's Division of Environmental Biology.

In a clearing on the side of a rural Arkansas highway, about a dozen researchers scoured the rocky area.

They were looking for a threatened plant called the Missouri bladderpod, which blooms with clusters of small yellow flowers.

Only 75 groups of the threatened species exist in the world, and all are close enough to cities to be in danger, Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission botanist Theo Witsell said.

The 39-year-old, carrying a small shovel and a handful of large plastic bags, plucked a few purple flowering plants from the ground by the root.

"I think one of the things that's happening in this field of study is there aren't a lot of open jobs," Witsell said.

"But as people get older and they retire, you then have fewer people who are qualified for those jobs."

Witsell hopes to conserve some of the open spaces, or glades.

He said scientists are still finding new species of plants in the glades.

That's where botanists' skills are irreplaceable, Miller said.

If scientists can name a plant, he said, then they understand how it behaves and what it is made of, or its biology.

If they understand its biology, then they can "understand and predict how it could be used," he said.

For example, Quinine is a treatment for the tropical disease malaria.

Quinine occurs naturally in cinchona trees.

Witsell said if botanists identify plants with similar biology that react similarly to their surroundings, plant biologists could do genetic research to find medical uses.

Herbaria are a major reference source for botanists.

However, increasingly such collections are dwindling as several states and universities have closed or consolidated their collections.

Researchers acknowledge the bulky collections of plant specimens that are mounted, dried, dated and tagged with important information can be hard to maintain.

They require temperature and moisture control and space for the preparation process.

The University of Missouri announced May 18 that it would donate its more than 200,000 plant specimens to the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis.

"The facility on campus that was housing them, it outlived its lifespan," said Jordan Yount, a spokesman for the university.

"Regulating the humidity and temperature was critical and getting to be a problem.

And we reached a point where we had to decide, do we spend a lot of money renovating this facility or find another home for the collection."

From his 14th-floor office in downtown Little Rock, Witsell is fighting the trend.

After the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville herbarium narrowly escaped closure in 2003 and the University of Arkansas at Little Rock closed its collection a few years later, he decided the commission needed its own.

A handful of commission workers and Witsell have combed the state over the past 12 years.

They have been finding, collecting and preserving more than 70,000 native plant species.

The commission's herbarium is now the most actively growing in Arkansas.

"This is the physical record of the plant life of the planet, of this state," he said.

"You can't get all of the information from a photograph."

