Scientists are starting to worry that not enough students are studying plant life.

Several colleges are also closing their collections of plants.

This means fewer people will know things about plants in the future.

A lot fewer colleges offer degrees for becoming a plant scientist now.

The government says that 30 years ago, twice as many did.

Plant scientists study botany.

They are called botanists.

Educators say students are being pushed to study technology instead of botany.

Botanists are worried.

They think that if there are not enough botanists, it will be harder to protect nature.

Also, important medicines come from plants.

It could even make it harder to develop medicine.

At the same time, universities and states are closing their plant collections.

They are doing this to save money.

An example of what botanists do happened in Arkansas.

Scientists were looking for a certain plant in a clear spot next to a highway.

The plant is called the Missouri bladderpod.

The plant has small yellow flowers.

It is in danger of dying out.

There are only 75 groups of the plant in the world.

All the groups are close enough to cities to be in danger, said botanist Theo Witsell.

He works for the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission.

Witsell said there were not enough jobs in botany.

People are studying other sciences so they can find jobs.

He is worried about the future.

He wondered what would happen as botanists get older and stop working.

There might not be enough new botanists to take their place, he said.

Understanding plants and what they are made of is important, said Joe Miller.

He works for the government.

A plant's biology is what it is made of and how it lives.

If you understand the plant's biology, you know how the plant can be used, he said.

For example, Quinine is used to treat a disease called malaria.

Quinine is found in certain trees.

Miller said if botanists find other plants that are like those trees, those plants could be used in medicine, too.

Botanists use plant collections to get information about plants.

However, some of those collections are closing.

Scientists know collections of plants can be hard to take care of.

The temperature and water around the collections have to be kept just right.

There also needs to be space to prepare the plants.

The University of Missouri said in May that it would give its plants to the Missouri Botanical Garden.

The university has more than 200,000 plants.

The building where the plants were kept was getting too old, said Jordan Yount.

He works for the university.

Yount said the school had a choice.

It could spend a lot of money to fix the building or find someplace else for the collection.

Witsell is fighting to keep the collections open.

The University of Arkansas at Little Rock closed its collection a few years ago.

After that, Witsell decided the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission needed its own collection.

Witsell and a few other people have searched through the state over the past 12 years.

They have collected more than 70,000 different types of plants.

The collection is a record of plant life in the state and on the planet, Witsell said.

It is information you cannot get from a picture, he said.

