Fewer college students are studying plant life, or botany, these days.

Several universities are also closing their plant collections, which are called herbaria.

This could become a problem, as fewer people will know things about plants in the future.

Only half the number of colleges offer botany degrees now compared with the number that offered them in 1988, says the National Science Foundation.

Meanwhile, the government said fewer than 400 students received botany degrees in 2012.

Educators say that's because students are being pushed to study technology subjects instead.

People who are experts in plants are called botanists.

The botanists working today worry that there won't be enough botanists in the future.

They believe this will hurt efforts to protect nature.

It could even make it harder to develop important medicines which come from plants.

At the same time, universities and states are closing their plant collections.

They are doing this to save money.

The collections of plants are sometimes expensive to keep.

An example of what botanists do happened recently in a clearing on the side of a highway in Arkansas.

It is known as a glade.

Scientists were looking for a threatened plant in the glade.

It is called the Missouri bladderpod.

The plant has small yellow flowers.

There are only 75 groups of the plant in the world.

All the groups are close enough to cities to be in danger, said botanist Theo Witsell.

He works for the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission.

Witsell said there were not enough jobs in botany to attract people to study the science.

He worried about what would happen as people with the jobs get older and stop working.

There might not be enough new botanists to take their place, he said.

Witsell hopes to save some glades, like the one near the highway.

He said scientists are still finding new types of plants in the glades.

Understanding plants and what they are made of, or their biology, is important, said Joe Miller.

He works for the National Science Foundation.

If you understand the plant's biology, you know how the plant can be used, he said.

For example, Quinine is used to treat a disease called malaria.

Quinine is found in certain trees.

Miller said if botanists find other plants that are like those trees, they could be used in medicine, too.

Botanists use herbaria for information about plants.

However, some of those collections are closing or being combined.

Scientists know that the collections of plants can be hard to take care of.

The temperature and water around the collections has to be controlled.

There also needs to be space to prepare the plants.

The University of Missouri announced May 18 that it would give its collection to the Missouri Botanical Garden.

The collection has more than 200,000 plants.

The building where the plants were kept was getting too old, said Jordan Yount.

He works for the university.

Yount said the school had to decide whether it should spend a lot of money to fix the building or find someplace else for the collection.

Witsell is fighting to stop the collections from closing.

The University of Arkansas at Fayetteville collection was almost closed in 2003 and the University of Arkansas at Little Rock closed its collection a few years later.

After that, Witsell decided the Arkansas Natural Heritage Commission needed its own collection.

Witsell and a few other people have searched through the state over the past 12 years.

They have been collecting more than 70,000 different types of plants.

"This is the physical record of the plant life of the planet, of this state," Witsell said.

"You can't get all of the information from a photograph."

