The Boy Scouts should allow gay adults as leaders, its president said.

Scouting must keep up with the times, said Robert Gates.

He spoke at a meeting in Atlanta, Georgia,  on Thursday.

If not, it could mean the end of the Scouts.

Two years ago, the Boy Scouts said gay young people could join the Scouts.

Adults who are gay still are not allowed to be leaders.

Gay people are attracted to people of their own sex.

"We must deal with the world as it is, not as we might wish it would be," said Gates.

He was once the U.S. secretary of defense.

He was in charge when the U.S. military decided to let gay people serve as soldiers.

Before, gay people were by law not allowed to become soldiers.

Gates' speech comes at an important time for the Boy Scouts.

There is a lot of pressure on it to change.

Gay rights supporters were pleased by Gates' speech.

It sent a signal that the Boy Scouts would allow gay leaders soon.

Perhaps, it could happen within the year, they said.

The Boy Scouts have not permitted gay leaders in part because of religious groups.

Some groups believe that gays are forbidden by the Bible.

Churches sponsor Scout troops.

More than half of the Boy Scouts belong to troops connected to a church.

Gates said every Boy Scout group should make its own decision about gay leaders.

His solution may make both sides happy.

It would please those who want to allow gay leaders.

At the same time, groups that do not want gay leaders would not have to have them.

The Boy Scouts may face lawsuits around the country involving gay leaders.

Lawsuits are challenges in courts.

Some Scout leaders were fired because they were gay.

Others could not get a job.

They may ask judges to force the Scouts to change their rules on gay leaders.

Pascal Tessier is a gay Scout leader in New York.

The scouting troop hired him there even though it isn't allowed.

He has hired lawyers in case he is fired.

His lawyers have already started a court case against the Denver Boy Scouts over gay leaders.

There are also cases in Ohio, Oklahoma and other states, said Josh Schiller.

He is one of the lawyers for Tessier.

Next month, the U.S. Supreme Court is expected to decide whether same-sex couples can marry.

Same-sex marriage is when two men or two women get married.

It is also called gay marriage.

More and more, gay rights and same-sex marriage have been accepted in America.

There are people in the Boy Scouts who also do not like the rule about gay leaders.

Twenty Boy Scout councils have passed rules allowing gay leaders, said Zach Wahls.

He is the head of Scouts for Equality.

The group works for gay rights within the Boy Scouts.

On Thursday, Gates made another important announcement.

He said the Boy Scouts would not punish local councils that hire gay leaders.

He said that the Scouts must not avoid the issue.

"The one thing we cannot do is put our heads in the sand and pretend this challenge will go away," Gates said.

"Quite the opposite is happening."

