With movie-star looks, a supermodel wife and four Super Bowl championship rings, quarterback Tom Brady has been an NFL golden boy, But even a golden boy has to play by the rules.

The NFL delivered that message loud and clear Monday, suspending the New England Patriots star without pay for the first four games of next season.

The punishment comes days after the league announced the results of an investigation that found Brady was "likely generally aware" that equipment assistants had conspired to deflate the Patriots' footballs for last season's American Football Conference (AFC) championship game.

Letting the air out of the balls made them easier to throw and catch.

The Patriots team was fined $1 million — equaling the largest in league history.

They also were stripped of their first-round draft pick next year and a fourth-round selection in 2017.

John Jastremski and Jim McNally, the equipment workers who deliberately deflated the balls, were suspended indefinitely.

McNally had referred to himself as "the deflator" in text messages, according to investigators.

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said he issued the penalties based on "the critical importance of protecting the integrity of the game."

Unless Brady's suspension is reduced on appeal, he will not be eligible to return until an Oct. 18 game at Indianapolis.

In January, the Indianapolis Colts became aware that something was not right with the balls during the championship game and blew the whistle on the Patriots.

In his 243-page report released by the NFL last week, attorney Ted Wells concluded it was "more probable than not" that a Patriots employee deflated the team's footballs before the Colts game.

The report stated that Brady was at least generally aware that the footballs were being prepared to his liking.

The Colts alerted the NFL to their suspicions and the footballs were tested at halftime.

Most of them registered under the league minimum of 12.5 pounds per square inch.

The Patriots won that game, 45-7, and two weeks later defeated the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl.

Brady's agent, Don Yee, called the Wells report "an incredibly frail exercise in fact-finding and logic" and said Brady would appeal.

Team owner Robert Kraft released a statement saying that the Patriots had intended to accept the league's punishment.

But it had "far exceeded any reasonable expectation" and was not based on hard or conclusive evidence, he said.

Kraft called the investigation "one-sided" and complained that scientific evidence showing that cold weather caused the deflation had been dismissed.

"Tom Brady has our unconditional support.

Our belief in him has not wavered," Kraft added.

Brady's suspension is twice as long as what was originally imposed last year on Baltimore Ravens running back Ray Rice, who struck and knocked unconscious his then-fiancee in an elevator.

When video surfaced of the attack, Rice was suspended indefinitely.

Reaction to the penalties for what has been dubbed "Deflategate" was mixed.

"It's a good thing the @nfl suspended Tom Brady now everyone knows that NOBODY is above the system," former NFL linebacker Shawne Merriman wrote on Twitter.

Former NFL tight end Jake Ballard thought differently: "4 games??

What a joke!"

he wrote.

He said Brady's crime does not match the punishment, and the suspension was too severe.

He ended his tweet with #lostmorerespectfortheNFL."

The Patriots have been accused of cheating in the past.

In 2007, they were caught breaking league rules by videotaping the sideline hand signals of New York Jets coaches.

That incident, nicknamed Spygate, cost New England coach Bill Belichick $500,000 and lost the Patriots a first-round draft pick.

The $1 million fine imposed on the Patriots matches that given to San Francisco 49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo for a failed gambling scheme.

However, not all NFL rule breaking results in a large penalty.

Last season, during a 12-degree game in Minneapolis, Vikings sideline assistants were captured on camera using heaters to warm the footballs, which is against the rules.

The league issued the Vikings a verbal warning.

In 2012, the San Diego Chargers were fined $20,000 for failing to immediately surrender illegal, grip-improving "Stickum" towels when officials asked for them.

In the Deflategate scandal, Brady refused to give investigators access to his email and text messages.

His unwillingness to fully cooperate — along with the team's past incident of cheating — likely led to a heavier penalty.

"Each player, no matter how accomplished and otherwise respected, has an obligation to comply with the rules," NFL Executive Vice President Troy Vincent wrote to Brady in a letter explaining the punishment.

A player "must be held accountable for his actions when those rules are violated and the public's confidence in the game is called into question."

This latest scandal comes after the most tumultuous NFL season on record.

The headlines were dominated by the domestic violence incidents involving star running backs Rice and Adrian Peterson.

By every indication, the incident has not dimmed Brady's star among Patriots' fans.

He was cheered enthusiastically last week, one day after the Wells report was released, when he spoke at an event at Salem State University in Massachusetts.

There were loud boos when journalist Jim Gray, asked whether the deflation controversy tainted New England's Super Bowl championship.

Brady smiled broadly before answering, "Absolutely not," to more cheers.

To some, that highlighted the arrogance of the Patriots, although others argued both sides.

"If you hate the Patriots you're going to say, 'Those guys always cheat,' " said Rich Gannon, a former NFL quarterback and league Most Valued Player.

"But if Tom Brady had 12.5 pounds of pressure in those footballs or 11, what difference does it make?

He's still one of the greatest quarterbacks ever.

But the bottom line is, the rules were violated and there's a price to pay."

