Tom Brady has been one of the NFL's greatest quarterbacks.

Even star quarterbacks have to play by the rules.

The NFL delivered that message loud and clear Monday.

Brady will not be allowed to play the first four football games of next season.

A report said he might have known about cheating.

On Jan. 18, Brady's team, the New England Patriots, played against the Indianapolis Colts.

The Colts told the NFL that something was not right about the footballs.

The footballs were tested at halftime and were low on air.

Letting the air out, or deflating, the balls makes them easier to throw and catch.

Letting out too much air on purpose is cheating.

The Patriots won the game against the Colts, 45-7.

Two weeks later, the Patriots won the Super Bowl, the championship game in football.

Last week, the NFL found that the Patriots cheated.

Brady probably knew that workers had let the air out, a report said.

The Patriots were fined $1 million.

Also, the Patriots will not get their first-round draft choice next year or their fourth-round choice in 2017.

NFL teams take turns choosing college players to play on their teams.

This system is called the draft.

The two workers who let the air out of the balls were suspended.

They cannot go back to work until the NFL says they can.

One of the workers called himself "the deflator" in text messages.

Roger Goodell is the NFL commissioner.

He said it is important that football teams are honest.

Brady's agent, Don Yee, said the NFL report was weak.

He said Brady would try to get the suspension lifted so he could play.

Patriots' owner Robert Kraft said the decision was not based on facts.

He also said the punishment was too severe.

Kraft complained that he had evidence that cold weather caused the problem, but it was ignored.

If you take a ball from a warm place to a cold place, it loses some of the air.

The footballs were inflated in a warm room.

Then they were used in the game, which was on a cold day, Kraft has argued.

Kraft said Brady has the team's complete support.

There have been mixed feelings about the punishments in the world of football.

Shawne Merriman is a former player.

He approved that Brady was benched.

"It's a good thing the @nfl suspended Tom Brady now everyone knows that NOBODY is above the system," he wrote on Twitter.

Former NFL tight end Jake Ballard thought differently.

"4 games??

What a joke!"

he wrote.

He said what Brady did was not that serious.

Troy Vincent is the NFL Executive Vice President.

He said every player must follow the rules.

When they break the rules, they should be punished like anyone else.

Brady is still as popular as ever among Patriots' fans.

He was cheered last week, one day after the report came out.

During an interview at Salem State University last Thursday, Brady was asked if the deflated footballs made the Super Bowl win matter less.

Brady smiled.

Then he answered, "Absolutely not," to more cheers.

Rich Gannon is a former NFL quarterback and Most Valued Player.

"If you hate the Patriots you're going to say those guys always cheat," Gannon said.

He said it does not matter how much air was in the footballs.

"What difference does it make?"

Gannon asked.

"He's still one of the greatest quarterbacks ever."

The point is that the rules were broken, and there is a price to pay, he said.

