Most musicians probably remember the first time they could play without thinking about the notes.

Scientists who study the brain are discovering why this happens.

They are learning that separating the brain from thinking and action can help people learn faster.

Children learn some things faster than adults.

The scientists wanted to know why.

The scientists gave people music to learn for a few weeks.

Then they looked at the people's brains inside a machine.

They wanted to see how different parts of the brain worked together.

In the beginning, people had to read the music to play slowly.

But soon, people could play without looking at the music.

Studying different parts of the brain can tell us why some people learn faster than others.

When you begin playing music, you have to see the notes on the page.

Then you play the notes with your fingers.

The part of the brain that tells the fingers to move is called the motor module.

The part of the brain that tells the eyes to see is called the visual module.

The visual module and the motor module have to work together to play music.

There are other parts of the brain, too.

The pieces of the brain work together as a team.

They can choose each other, come together and change teams.

But the fast learners were different from the slow learners by something they did more quickly.

They separated the parts of the brain used for thinking from the parts used for doing.

The "doing" part of the brain started working independently of the "thinking" part of the brain.

Scott Grafton is a scientist who worked on the research study.

He said it's OK to think when you're practicing.

If you want to be really good, however, you have to separate the part of the brain that is always thinking from the part of the brain that's responsible for doing things.

The fast learners are able to separate more quickly the part of the brain that thinks from the part of the brain that does things.

The motor module and the visual module start to become more separate.

In the beginning, when you are learning to play an instrument, the two modules work together.

But once you are better at playing the instrument, the modules don't work together like they used to.

This explains why children learn some things faster than adults.

Some areas of the child's brain are not fully developed or grown yet.

The parts of a child's brain do not work together like they do in adults.

This helps explain why children learn music more quickly than adults.

The scientists have a lot more things they want to learn.

They want to see how the brains of younger people work.

They also want to look at different kinds of learning besides music.

And they wonder if some parts of the brains in adults could be separated using magnets.

The next step is to take what has been learned and practice it in schools.

The scientists hope that the research will help in the design of classrooms that let children learn faster.

