Enthusiasm is soaring for products that train the brain.

From older people fearing memory loss to college students wanting a mental boost, it seems everyone is interested in sharper mental ability.

Yet among leading scientists, there is some doubt.

Last year 70 researchers signed a statement speaking out against computer games that promise better brain performance.

They said there was no scientific evidence to back such claims.

Now, that might be changing.

At least two companies have committed to strict testing of their digital products to treat specific health conditions.

Akili Interactive Labs of Boston, Massachusetts and Posit Science in San Francisco, California are preparing to conduct large studies in order to have their games approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.

The FDA, the government agency that oversees medical products, must approve medical devices that doctors give to patients.

The road to FDA approval is long and expensive.

Still, both companies have been encouraged enough by promising early studies of their games to move forward.

Akili Interactive Labs recently presented results from a small study of its video game, Project: EVO.

It showed some positive results in children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).

Approximately 6.4 million children in the United States and one-tenth of children worldwide suffer from the condition.

They struggle with paying attention and controlling their impulses.

The company paid scientists at Duke University School of Medicine and Florida Clinical Research Center to run a four-week study.

It involved 80 children ages 8 to 12.

Forty of them had ADHD and were not taking medications and 40 of them had normal brain function.

Participants played the game 30 minutes a day for five days a week.

The adventure game has modern graphics.

Players tilt their tablet devices to steer a raft down a winding icy river and tap their screens to catch aliens and other objects while avoiding interruptions.

As the players improve, the game gets harder.

The game's developers say players must make quick decisions and continuously perform a motor skills task.

This helps strengthen brain functions such as attention and working memory, which is the type of memory you use on a daily basis to follow instructions and hold onto information.

Typically, these brain functions are a problem in people suffering from ADHD.  Eddie Martucci is the co-founder of Akili.

He says the hope is that "when you engage in the game pretty intensely for long periods of time, it actually reconditions how the brain processes information."

But, the pilot study was not meant as a final test of the game's effectiveness.

"We had to make sure the game is safe and well tolerated — to see that kids would not get bored and throw the iPad against the wall," says psychologist Scott Kollins.

He directs Duke's ADHD program and helped run Akili's pilot study.

Participants did not get sick of the game.

Nor did it make anyone nauseous, like some actions games can do.

Furthermore, certain measures of attention, working memory and impulse control improved in the ADHD group.

The benefit seen was similar to what might be observed in kids taking some ADHD drugs.

ADHD experts who were not involved in the study urge caution.

They warn that improvements seen in these tests might not carry over into improved functioning in daily life.

Lawrence Scahill is a professor at Emory University who studies children with ADHD.

He says that although the study showed certain promising effects, "what that means in the real world is anyone's guess."

In the coming months, Akili plans to launch a larger ADHD study.

In the study, some kids would be taking their ADHD medications while playing the game.

Another group would be taking a sugar pill, called a placebo, but would not know it was not their usual medication.

Then the two groups would be compared. In addition, the company is testing its video game on people with with other brain disorders.

They include Alzheimer's disease, autism, depression and brain injury.

All of these conditions are believed to share a common weakness in the brain.

Posit Science has also completed a small study of its computerized training program for ADHD.

The study was conducted in India by Jyoti Mishra, a neurobiologist from the University of California, San Francisco (U.C.S.F.)

Based on Mishra's research, Posit's program targets processes in the brain that are responsible for ignoring distraction.

The Posit study enrolled 31 children with ADHD in New Delhi, the capital of India.

The results showed similar effects as Akili's ADHD group, and the positive results were still there when measured six months later.

Posit already sells products that claim to improve cognition.

But, to make a claim about treating a specific disease, the company needs FDA approval.

Doctors who treat ADHD are taking a wait-and-see attitude.

Lawrence Diller is a children's doctor in San Francisco.

He has some doubts about the games but supports the companies' attempts to seek approval from the agency.

"They're going about it in a proper fashion," he says.

