A New Orleans brass band created at a Catholic high school for girls is still going strong nearly 25 years later.

Known as the Original Pinettes Brass Band, it is the only all-female group of its kind.

"They were certainly the first — and as far as I know, they're the only one," said Michael White, a clarinetist and music historian.

The Pinettes played at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival this spring.

Brass bands evolved out of a mixture of styles, White said.

They combined influences from military marching bands, classical music and jazz.

"Around the turn of the century, brass bands became part of jazz," he said.

At the time, many musicians were needed for festivals, funerals and other kinds of events.

Bands began improvising because some players could not read music, but had a good ear and could make up parts, White said.

The groups combined European and West African traditions that had always been part of New Orleans life.

West African traditions include the second-line dance in which a crowd follows the band, and the use of umbrellas and handkerchiefs to dance with, White said.

Musical elements were taken from black church singing, the blues and work songs.

These days, only a few older brass bands still play in the jazz style.

The Pinettes, like most groups, play funk.

According to music historian Jason Berry, the Pinettes have a good, tight ensemble sound.

They play together as a unit, rather than emphasizing solos.

Berry first heard the group at a previous Jazz Fest.

"They have a strong sense of melody," he said, and they "swung at the right places."

The Pinettes won the Red Bull Street Kings brass band competition in 2013.

At the time, judges said the group's cohesion — the way players blended tightly together — was a big factor.

"We're not here to blow out each other — we are playing together," said drummer Christie Jourdain, the group's leader.

"It's an individual effort for the team."

The group was created in 1991 by St. Mary's Academy band director Jeffery Herbert, who was also a member of the popular Pinstripes Brass Band.

The Pinstripes were being offered more gigs than they could play.

At the same time, the parents of some future Pinettes members were having trouble paying St. Mary's fees, Herbert said.

He figured that a students' brass band might be able to play at some of the events the Pinstripes could not make it to, allowing members to earn a bit of cash.

In any case, they could certainly earn money playing for tips on the streets of the French Quarter in New Orleans.

The all-female Pinettes, which was formed shortly afterward, were named after the Pinstripes.

Herbert said some people would not take a girls' band, but the Pinettes got jobs at conventions and festivals.

When the members graduated, they wanted to keep the band, an idea that had Herbert's blessing.

As with many bands, membership has changed over the years.

The 10 current members graduated from high schools all around the city.

"I just wanted to help some young ladies stay in St. Mary's Academy," Herbert said.

"God had a bigger picture."

