The Original Pinettes Brass Band is special.

It was formed at St. Mary's Academy about 25 years ago.

St. Mary's is a Catholic high school for girls.

Today, the New Orleans band is still going strong.

The Pinettes are probably the only all-female brass band in the world.

"They were certainly the first, and as far as I know, they're the only one," said Michael White, a clarinetist and music historian.

The Pinettes played at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival this year.

Before they played, the Pinettes led one of the festival's five daily parades.

White said brass bands developed out of a mixture of styles.

They drew from military marching bands, classical music and jazz, he said.

Brass band music originally developed in Europe.

In the early 1900s, "brass bands became part of jazz," White said.

They blended in many African-American musical styles and practices.

Groups drew not only from jazz, but from black church singing, the blues and work songs as well.

Brass band concerts added certain West African customs that were part of New Orleans life.

One example is the second-line dance, in which a crowd follows the band.

Another is the way dancers dance with umbrellas and handkerchiefs.

These days, only a few older brass bands still play in the jazz style.

The Pinettes play funk, like most groups.

In 2013 the Pinettes won the Red Bull Street Kings brass band contest.

Judges praised the way the players blended tightly together.

Some groups have star players who hog the spotlight.

The Pinettes are not like that.

They try to blend into one unit.

"We're not here to blow out each other, we are playing together," said drummer Christie Jourdain, the group's leader.

"It's an individual effort for the team."

The group was created in 1991 by Jeffery Herbert, head of the band program at St. Mary's.

Hebert was also a member of the popular Pinstripes Brass Band.

The Pinstripes were then being offered more jobs than they could take.

At the same time, some students badly needed extra money to help pay for their schooling at St Mary's.

Herbert figured that a students' brass band might be able to play at some of the events the Pinstripes could not make it to.

The all-female Pinettes was formed shortly after Herbert came up with his idea.

The group was named after the Pinstripes.

Herbert said some paying customers did not want a girls' band.

However, the Pinettes still did well.

When the members graduated, they decided to keep the band going.

Since then, the group has changed over the years.

The 10 current members graduated from high schools all around the city.

These days the group is more popular than ever, which makes Herbert happy.

"I just wanted to help some young ladies stay in St. Mary's Academy," Herbert said.

"God had a bigger picture."

