A New Orleans brass band created to help students pay tuition at a Catholic high school for girls is still going strong nearly a quarter-century later.

Known as the Original Pinettes Brass Band, it is apparently the only all-female group of its kind.

"They were certainly the first — and as far as I know, they're the only one," said Michael White, a clarinetist and music historian.

White chose the selections and wrote an essay about the history of brass bands for a Smithsonian Folkways album of brass band music published in February.

The Pinettes' played in their funk style at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival this spring.

White, who started his musical career in brass bands, said they evolved out of a mixture of styles.

They combined influences from military marching bands, classical music and jazz, which was both music and "a symbol of the life, the affirmation, the hopes and dreams of the people."

"Around the turn of the century, brass bands became part of jazz," he said.

With festivals, funerals and many other functions calling for a multitude of musicians, bands began improvising because players who could not read music but had a good ear could make up parts, White said.

The groups combined European and West African traditions that had always been part of New Orleans life.

West African traditions include the second-line dance in which a crowd follows the band, and the use of umbrellas and handkerchiefs to dance with, White said.

He said musical traditions include the way vibrato is used, multiple rhythms and "bent" tones — "the emotional characteristics that come from the black singing of spirituals, the blues and, most importantly, work songs."

These days, only a few older brass bands still play in the jazz style — the Pinettes, like most, play funk.

The Pinettes have a good, tight ensemble sound, said Jason Berry, whose book "Up from the Cradle of Jazz" has an large section on brass bands.

Berry first heard the group at a previous Jazz Fest.

"They played with a nice, rolling cohesion.

They have a strong sense of melody," he said, and they "swung at the right places."

When the group won the Red Bull Street Kings brass band competition in 2013, judges said the group's cohesion was a big factor.

"We're not here to blow out each other — we are playing together," said drummer Christie Jourdain, the group's leader.

"It's an individual effort for the team."

The group was created in 1991, when Jeffery Herbert was band director at St. Mary's Academy and a member of the Pinstripes Brass Band.

The Pinstripes were being offered more gigs than they could play and some band members' parents were having trouble paying school tuition, he said.

He figured that a students' brass band might be able to play at some of the events the Pinstripes could not make it to, and that they could certainly earn money playing for tips on the streets of the French Quarter.

The all-female Pinettes, which was formed shortly afterward, were named after the Pinstripes.

Herbert said some paying customers would not take a girls' band, but the Pinettes got jobs at conventions and festivals.

When the members graduated, they wanted to keep the band, an idea that had Herbert's blessing.

As with many bands, membership has changed over the years.

The 10 current members graduated from high schools all around the city.

"I just wanted to help some young ladies stay in St. Mary's Academy," Herbert said.

"God had a bigger picture."

