At the toy design center at MGA Entertainment, an idea board features some of today's biggest celebrities: model Cara Delevingne, rapper Nicki Minaj and singer Selena Gomez.

Toy artists are brainstorming how to turn these stars into dolls.  The toys are Bratz dolls, recognizable for their big heads, pouty lips and sassy attitudes.

Fifteen years after their debut, Bratz dolls are making a comeback.  Bratz dolls were once wildly popular, however legal debates and changing tastes have made them less of a hit with kids in recent years.

Now, the dolls have returned to stores with a different look and an updated vibe.

This time, the dolls are more conservative.

Today's Bratz are wearing more clothes and less makeup.

They also are more modern, coming with doll smartphones and accessories printed with emojis.

Girls and their tastes have changed since 2001,  said Isaac Larian, chief executive of MGA Entertainment, the company that makes Bratz.

And the Bratz brand is changing too.

According to Larian, girls demand a lot more than they did before. Bratz today is more Taylor Swift than Britney Spears, he said.

Bratz is trying to refresh their brand image and the product they sell.

The relaunch is one way the company is attempting to complete with their major competitor, Mattel Inc., the maker of Barbie dolls.

The new Bratz line is trying to appeal to the modern day girl.

Their new #SelfieSnaps doll is cutting-edge as far as dolls go.

It comes with a tiny camera and a shirt that says "Selfie."

MGA also introduced Bratz YouTube videos and an app that lets kids create digital Bratz characters.  As more and more kids start using technology, toys are becoming more complex.

According to Larian, children now "demand digital innovation.

"  This current Bratz refresh is not their first comeback attempt.

In 2010, MGA tried to revamp the line by making the dolls taller and introducing fresh logos.

However, the initiative was not successful and they stopped in 2014.

Bratz has struggled with designing and marketing the dolls over the years.

At one point, they used cheaper doll hair and put fewer accessories in each box, which resulted in dolls that did not have the right feel.

Bratz dolls have a rebel attitude and that is an important part of the brand.  Larian said in the past, the company tried to design Bratz dolls to look like other popular girl toys, including mermaids and princesses.

But it did not work.

Bratz dolls are not Disney princesses.

They have a different attitude and vibe.

While Bratz is still important to MGA, it is not as crucial to the company's success as it used to be.

At the height of its success in 2006, Bratz raked in $1 billion a year in sales.

That accounted for about 70 percent to 80 percent of MGA's total revenue.

The number has dropped significantly.

Now, Larian predicts Bratz doing annual sales of up to $150 million, or about 15 percent of overall sales.

Bratz competes with Mattel Inc. in the doll market.

Bratz's success has cut into Barbie sales and over the years, the companies have been battling legally.  Mattel maintains that MGA stole the idea for Bratz from them.

There have been many series of lawsuits, countersuits, trials and appeals around this debate.

Today, the legal fight still rages on.  Then last year, MGA accused Mattel of stealing their company secrets.

They claimed that Mattel sent spies with fake business cards into private MGA showrooms from 1992 through at least 2009.  However, Mattel has said this never happened.

Despite these legal issues, toy analysts say that Bratz is facing a tough market.

There is heightened competition for toys.

Plus young consumers have an increasingly short attention span.

Bratz was one of the first brands that made ethnically diverse dolls and that set them apart from competition.

Now other toy makers are catching on.

Girls want more than blond-hair and blue-eye dolls.  Another challenge is technology. Girls have many more distractions than they used to as smartphones and tablet computers have become the hottest playthings.

Even popular toys have a shorter life span and shorter period of time to attract girls before they outgrow them.

"Kids at younger ages are steering away from physical dolls and physical toys," said Jason Moser, a toy analyst.

Even in the wake of these challenges, Larian said he is confident that Bratz will succeed.

"It's a super brand," he said.

"It will be around forever."

