At MGA Entertainment's toy design center, an idea board features some of today's biggest celebrities: model Cara Delevingne, rapper Nicki Minaj and singer Selena Gomez.

The logo in neon cursive in the middle of the board is less recognizable in today's pop culture world:  Bratz.

But fifteen years after their debut, the dolls with big heads, lips and attitudes are making a come back.  Bratz dolls were once wildly popular, but courtroom warfare and changing tastes sent them diving for cover.

Now, the dolls have returned to stores with a different look and an updated vibe.

This time, the dolls are more conservative, wearing more clothes and less makeup, and more modern, coming with doll smartphones and accessories printed with emojis.

Girls and their tastes have changed since 2001, said Isaac Larian, chief executive of MGA Entertainment, the company that makes Bratz.

The Bratz brand is evolving to keep up with those changes.

According to Larian, girls demand a lot more than they did before. Bratz today is more Taylor Swift than Britney Spears, he said.

The relaunch of Bratz is one way the company is trying to grow the popularity of its marquee brand after an 11-year battle with Mattel Inc, the maker of Barbie dolls.

The new Bratz line is trying to appeal to the modern day girl, with their new #SelfieSnaps dolls.

The selfie dolls come with tiny cameras and shirts that say "Selfie."

MGA also rolled out Bratz YouTube videos and an app that lets kids create digital Bratz characters.  Children now "demand digital innovation," Larian said.

"More and more kids are watching content online, whether it's YouTube or Netflix, and Bratz has its own YouTube channel."

In fact, this isn't Bratz's first comeback attempt.

In 2010, MGA tried to revamp the line by making the dolls taller and introducing fresh logos, but they pulled back in 2014 after lackluster customer interest.

Larian said that Bratz has struggled with designing and marketing the dolls over the years.

At one point, they used cheaper doll hair and put fewer accessories in each box, which inadvertently gave the dolls a look that did not match Bratz's rebel attitude.  "We basically made Bratz similar to what was comparative in the market at the time — mermaids and princesses," he said.

"And Bratz is not Disney princesses."

Bratz is still important to MGA, which was a little known company until it launched the doll brand that captured the interest of older girls.

But even Larian acknowledges that the brand is not as crucial to MGA's success as it once was.

At the height of its success in 2006, the franchise raked in $1 billion a year in sales.

That accounted for about 70 percent to 80 percent of MGA's total revenue.

Now, Larian predicts Bratz doing annual sales of up to $150 million, or about 15 percent of overall sales.

MGA's biggest moneymaker is Little Tikes, a line that includes playhouses, swing sets and cars that kids can ride in.

They have also rolled out other doll lines such as Lalaloopsy, Moxie Girlz and Project Mc2 (with a TV show in collaboration with Netflix).

The company intends to introduce toys for boys next year.

Bratz's success, which cut deeply into sales of Barbie, also began years of legal disputes with rival Mattel.

Mattel has long argued, in court and out, that MGA stole the Bratz concept.

There was a long series of lawsuits, countersuits, trials and appeals and today, the legal battle still rages on.  Last year, MGA accused Mattel of stealing trade secrets.

They claimed that Mattel sent corporate spies armed with fake business cards and a "how to steal" manual into private MGA showrooms from 1992 through at least 2009.  However, Mattel has denied the allegations.  Legal issues aside, toy analysts say that Bratz is facing a tough market.

There is heightened competition and young consumers have an increasingly short attention span.

Although Bratz was a trailblazer with a line of ethnically diverse dolls, other toymakers are catching on.

Girls want dolls beyond the blond-hair and blue-eye variety that used to dominate store aisles.

Mattel launched a line of Barbies this year with different skin tones and eye shapes.

Dolls and other merchandise based on "Doc McStuffins," a popular cartoon featuring an African-American girl who plays doctor to her stuffed animals, have been big sellers.

Girls also have many more distractions as smartphones and tablet computers have become the hottest playthings, analysts said.

Even popular toys have a diminished life span and shorter period of time to attract girls before they outgrow them.

"Kids at younger ages are steering away from physical dolls and physical toys," said Jason Moser, a toy analyst at Motley Fool.

"If you're just introducing new fashions on dolls, but it's not changing the dynamic of the actual toy, it will lose its luster much faster."

But Larian said he's confident that Bratz will succeed.

"It's a super brand," he said.

"It will be around forever."

