About a million people gathered in the streets of 100 cities in Brazil last week.

The mostly young Brazilians were protesting dishonesty and greed by government officials.

They demanded that more people share in Brazil's wealth.

Things started peacefully.

But they turned bad and two people died.

Violence broke out in more than 10 cities late Thursday and early Friday.

An 18-year-old man was killed and three people injured when they were hit by a car.

The vehicle was trying to drive around a barrier set up by protesters.

On Friday, Brazilian news reported a second person died.

She suffered a heart attack when a tear-gas canister exploded near her.

Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff put off a trip to Japan because of the protests.

She called an emergency meeting Friday morning.

Late Friday, she went on television to tell the country about a number of changes she plans to make.

Public transportation will be improved, she said.

Money earned from the country's oil will be directed into education, she said.

Doctors from other countries will come to treat Brazilians living in the countryside.

She also promised to meet with peaceful protest leaders.

Things turned ugly late Thursday and Friday.

Hundreds of people were injured.

The peaceful protests became violent.

Clashes broke out as some protesters threw stones.

The police responded by firing rubber bullets and tear gas to break them up.

Brazil has not had such large protests in 20 years.

The protests began more than a week ago against a rise in bus fares.

But that's not the only thing angering the protesters.

They are mad about the way some government officials take advantage of their powers.

They complain of bribes and schemes to buy votes.

Soccer is also a topic of the protests.

Brazil is known as a soccer-crazy country.

The World Cup soccer tournament will take place in Brazil next year.

However, protesters are mad that the country is spending a lot of money to host that event.

Ingrid Munique, 18, joined the protests in Rio de Janeiro.

She came with dozens of her neighbors.

"I'll give up the World Cup.

I want money for health and education," they chanted.

"The Brazilian people are not against the World Cup" said Edgar Reinoso on Thursday in Rio.

But they are against the amount of money being spent on stadiums, said the 61-year-old.

"For Brazilians to come to the streets this way, it means a lot is wrong," he said as he coughed on tear gas.

Brazil has grown richer in recent years.

The country has made more money selling natural resources like soybeans, oil, coffee and iron ore.

Since 2003, about 40 million Brazilians have become middle class.

The rich have been buying apartments in Miami.

Even the middle class had begun to enjoy shopping trips to Florida.

"Those 40 million who have entered the middle class have seen the promised land and they have liked it very much," said Paulo Sotero.

He's the director of the Brazil Institute in Washington, D.C. "There has been boasting about Brazil being the world's sixth-largest economy."

But, he added, "People say, 'OK, why am I wasting four hours of my life commuting on these terrible buses?

And then they want to raise the fare.'"

Brazil has been praised for its Bolsa Familia program.

It offers cash payments to families who keep their children in school.

But, the schools are often below average.

In a recent study, Brazil ranked 108 out of 144 countries for quality of education.

"Now society is saying we have been paying attention.

We're not just these happy soccer lovers," said Sotero.

The government announced on Wednesday it will cancel the higher bus fares.

But the protests continued anyway.

