Not many people reject an invitation to dinner at the White House.

But the president of Brazil did just that.

She canceled after learning that the United States spied on her and other Brazilian officials.

The broken date is another sign that relations between Brazil and the White House are growing distant and tense.

President Dilma Roussef was supposed to come to  Washington on Oct. 23.

The trip was to be an official state visit which would include a White House dinner in her honor.

Rousseff called it off on Tuesday.

A White House spokesman tried to suggest the decision was not a big deal.

He said it was made by both sides.

But postponing the meeting without rescheduling was an insult by an important U.S. ally and trading partner.

The White House said that Rousseff and President Barack Obama had agreed it would be better to have the visit later.

It could happen when the two nations were getting along better.

Obama "understands and regrets" the concern that reports about U.S. spying has caused in Brazil, the White House said.

Obama is set on working with Rousseff and her government to move past the issue, it said.

A statement from the Brazilian president's office was tougher.

The U.S. had not explained the spying or agreed it would stop.

That's why the visit was canceled, Brazil said.

Brazil called the illegal collection of information on citizens, companies and members of the Brazilian government "a grave matter."

It said it was not something that countries do to friendly nations.

There have been three news reports in Brazil based on classified papers since July.

The information was leaked by Edward Snowden.

He used to be a computer expert for the National Security Agency, a U.S. government spying group.

One report said that the agency had picked up messages between Rousseff and her staff.

The NSA also spied on other top officials, the report said.

Rousseff quickly blasted the eavesdropping.

Obama tried to make amends.

He added a meeting with Rousseff to his schedule at a gathering of nations in Russia this month.

He offered to talk about her concerns.

National security adviser Susan Rice met with Brazil's top security official last week.

But it did not work.

The two leaders spoke by phone Monday.

They agreed to delay the visit.

A state visit has a lot of ceremony.

They did not want it to be overshadowed by one issue between the countries, "no matter how important or challenging the issue may be," the White House said.

Snowden had already led to another canceled meeting.

Only then it was Obama doing the canceling.

He canceled a planned meeting in Moscow with Russian President Vladimir Putin last month.

Putin let Snowden stay in Russia temporarily.

But the two leaders met informally during a meeting of top countries later in St. Petersburg.

Both governments have since worked together on a plan to take away Syria's chemical weapons.

The invitation to Rousseff was the only state visit the White House had planned this year.

It was supposed to big for  Brazil.

It was seen as showing that the country was rising on the world stage.

But Rousseff appears to have decided that scolding Washington over spying was more important for her audience at home than a sit-down in the Oval Office.

"Slapping Obama in the face, standing up to the big neighbor in the North" could make her more popular as she faces next year's elections, said David Fleischer of the University of Brasilia.

"The issue of spying would have dominated the Washington visit," said Peter Hakim.

He is president emeritus at the Inter-American Dialogue.

The Washington group focuses on relations with Latin America.

"And Rousseff must have been nervous that something more could come out (from Snowden) before then."

Rousseff plans to speak about spying next week at the United Nations.

The White House dismissed the step back in relations.

But it could affect U.S. businesses.

A multibillion-dollar contract to sell Boeing aircraft and letting U.S. companies work Brazilian oil fields were probably going to be talked about at the state meeting, said Carl Meacham.

He runs the Americas Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

"This signals a different kind of environment for the U.S.," said Meacham.

