About a million people took to the streets of 100 Brazilian cities last week to protest corruption and social and economic injustice.

The week-long movement saw its first two deaths.

Violence broke out in more than 10 cities late Thursday and early Friday.

An 18-year-old man was killed and three people injured when they were hit by a car.

The vehicle was trying to drive around a barricade erected by protesters in Ribeirao Preto, 185 miles north of Sao Paolo.

On Friday, a second person died of a heart attack after a tear-gas canister exploded near her, according to Brazilian news agencies.

In response to the protests, Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff postponed a trip to Japan.

She called an emergency meeting Friday morning in Brasilia, the nation's capital.

From there she presented a series of reforms in a televised speech to the nation late Friday.

A plan to improve public transport would be drafted.

And all royalties from the country's oil resources would be invested in education, she said.

Doctors would be brought in from overseas to work in rural areas.

She also promised to meet with peaceful protest leaders.

Hundreds of people were injured as the protests turned ugly after getting off to a peaceful start.

Clashes broke out after some protesters threw stones.

The police responded by firing rubber bullets and tear gas to disperse them in a number of cities.

The demonstrations are the largest Brazil has seen in two decades.

Ingrid Munique, 18, joined the demonstrations in Rio de Janeiro with dozens of her neighbors from a favela, which is a poor neighborhood.

They chanted, "I'll give up the World Cup.

I want money for health and education."

The demonstrations began more than a week ago to protest higher fares for bus and subway riders.

But the protesters' complaints have multiplied to take on corruption by greedy and dishonest public officials.

The demonstrators have also criticized the costs of hosting the Confederations Cup, an international soccer tournament which is currently being played.

Brazil is set to host the 2014 World Cup of soccer and the 2016 Olympics.

Both costly events are also the target of the protesters.

"The Brazilian people are not against the World Cup, but they are against the exorbitant expenditures on stadiums," said Edgar Reinoso.

The 61-year-old said this as he coughed on tear gas during the Thursday night protest in Rio.

"For Brazilians to come to the streets this way, it means a lot is wrong — mainly, corruption."

The Brazil is a major producer of many natural resources such as soybeans, coffee, iron ore and oil.

As prices for these resources have boomed in the past decade, so has the Brazilian economy.

Since 2003, about 40 million Brazilians have moved into the middle class.

The rich have demonstrated their buying power by snapping up luxury condos in Miami.

And even the middle class had begun to enjoy shopping trips to Florida.

"Those 40 million who have entered the middle class have seen the promised land and they have liked it very much," said Paulo Sotero.

He's the director of the Brazil Institute at the Wilson Center in Washington, D.C. "The agenda of the protestors is a middle-class agenda."

Despite Brazil's economic progress, Brazilians are increasingly struck by the persistence of the problems of underdevelopment, Sotero said.

He said this from Sao Paulo, where he is visiting.

"All this boasting about Brazil and its being the world's sixth-largest economy, and people say, 'OK, why am I wasting four hours of my life commuting on these terrible buses?

And then they want to raise the fare,' " Sotero said.

Brazil has been praised for its Bolsa Familia program, which offers cash payments to families who keep their children in school.

However, the schools the children attend are often poorly performing.

In the World Economic Forum's most recent Global Competitiveness Index, Brazil ranked 108 out of 144 countries for quality of education.

"Now society is saying we have been paying attention.

We're not just these happy soccer lovers," said Sotero.

"I think the politicians are absolutely perplexed by this, and what their response should be."

The largest demonstration of Thursday night was in Rio de Janeiro, where 300,000 people turned out.

Most of them demonstrated peacefully as they marched in the center of the city towards the mayor's office.

It escalated, however, as the police fired tear gas grenades.

Clashes broke out between police and rioters.

The rioters set fire to cars and plastic awnings, and ripped up fences.

Police on horseback and in armored vehicles were called in to fight back the protesters.

"The police completely lost control, and are incapable of dealing with such demonstrations," said a television station employee.

He had been hit in the head by a rubber bullet.

Clashes occurred in at least 10 other cities, including the capital, Brasilia.

There, 30,000 people marched through the government quarter.

Police in Brasilia also fired tear gas and rubber bullets.

Thousands moved towards the Foreign Ministry and built a large fire outside it.

More than 100,000 people took to the streets in Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city.

The protests there were mostly peaceful.

In Ribeirao Preto, the driver of the Land Rover that hit the four people drove away from the scene without stopping, according to media reports.

One of the injured was in a serious condition.

The protesters argued that the money for the soccer events and the Olympics should have been used elsewhere.

It should have been invested in education, health care and other social programs instead.

Officials announced on Wednesday that the transportation fare hike would be rolled back.

Still, the protests continued to grow.

"Corruption is the central issue, and we are dealing here with a national movement," historian Francisco Carlos Teixeira said.

