About a million people gathered in the streets of 100 Brazilian cities last week.

They were protesting greed and dishonesty by government officials.

They demanded more equality for the poor and middle class.

Two people died in the demonstrations.

Violence broke out in more than 10 cities late Thursday and early Friday.

An 18-year-old man was killed and three people injured when they were hit by a car.

The vehicle was trying to drive around a barrier set up by protesters.

On Friday, a second person died of a heart attack when a tear-gas canister exploded near her, Brazilian news agencies reported.

Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff postponed a trip to Japan in response to the protests.

She called an emergency meeting Friday morning in Brasilia, the nation's capital.

From there she presented a series of changes on television to the nation late Friday.

Public transportation will be improved, she said.

All money earned from the country's oil will be directed into education, she said.

Doctors from other countries will come to treat Brazilians living in the countryside.

She also promised to meet with peaceful protest leaders.

Things turned ugly late Thursday and Friday.

Hundreds of people were injured as the peaceful protests became violent.

Clashes broke out as some protesters threw stones.

The police responded by firing rubber bullets and tear gas to break them up.

The demonstrations are the largest Brazil has seen in two decades.

They took place in a number of cities.

The protests occur just when Brazil is coming onto the world stage.

The country will host the 2014 World Cup, the top soccer tournament in the world.

It will also host the 2016 Olympics.

Ingrid Munique, 18, joined the demonstrations in Rio de Janeiro.

She came with dozens of her neighbors from a favela, which is a poor neighborhood.

They chanted, "I'll give up the World Cup.

I want money for health and education."

The protests began more than a week ago against a raise in bus fares.

But, they are now taking on corruption.

And the protests are challenging the costs of hosting the Confederations Cup soccer tournament, which is currently being played.

Anger is also directed at the costs of the next year's World Cup and the Olympics.

"The Brazilian people are not against the World Cup" said Edgar Reinoso.

But they are against the money being spent on stadiums, said the 61-year-old.

He said this while coughing on tear gas during the Thursday night protest in Rio.

"For Brazilians to come to the streets this way, it means a lot is wrong — mainly, corruption."

For Brazilians, corruption can mean a police officer who demands a bribe or a politician who pays money to get votes.

Brazil has grown richer in recent years.

The country produces many natural resources such as soybeans, oil, iron ore and coffee, all of which are rising in price.

Since 2003, about 40 million Brazilians have become middle class.

The rich have been snapping up luxury condos in Miami.

And even the middle class had begun to enjoy shopping trips to Florida.

"Those 40 million who have entered the middle class have seen the promised land and they have liked it very much," said Paulo Sotero.

He's the director of the Brazil Institute in Washington, D.C. "The agenda of the protestors is a middle-class agenda."

"All this boasting about Brazil and its being the world's sixth-largest economy and people say, 'OK, why am I wasting four hours of my life commuting on these terrible buses?

And then they want to raise the fare,' " Sotero said.

Brazil has been praised for its Bolsa Familia program.

It offers cash payments to families who keep their children in school.

However, the schools the children attend are often below average.

In the World Economic Forum's most recent rating, Brazil ranked 108 out of 144 countries for quality of education.

"Now society is saying we have been paying attention.

We're not just these happy soccer lovers," said Sotero.

The largest demonstration of Thursday night was in Rio de Janeiro.

Roughly 300,000 people turned out.

Most of them peacefully marched in the center of the city towards the mayor's office.

It got worse when the police fired tear gas grenades.

Clashes broke out between police and rioters.

The rioters set fire to cars and ripped up fences.

Police were sent to fight back the protesters.

They rode on horseback and in armored vehicles.

"The police completely lost control, and are incapable of dealing with such demonstrations," said a television station employee.

He had been hit in the head by a rubber bullet.

Clashes occurred in at least 10 other cities, including the capital, Brasilia.

There, 30,000 people marched through the government quarter.

Police in Brasilia also fired tear gas and rubber bullets.

More than 100,000 people took to the streets in Sao Paulo, Brazil's largest city.

The protests there were mostly peaceful.

On Wednesday the rise in bus and subway fares was canceled.

But the crowds still grew.

"Corruption is the central issue," said Francisco Carlos Teixeira, a Brazilian historian.

"And we are dealing here with a national movement."

