Food experts say skipping breakfast can make you fat.

Is that really true?

Several years ago, scientists tested the idea, and what they found might surprise some people.

The U.S. Dietary Guidelines, the government's food advice book, recommends having breakfast every day.

Not eating breakfast can cause weight gain.

As with many food tips, though, this one is based more on guesswork than the facts.

It might even be completely false, as an experiment showed.

In the experiment, one group of people got oatmeal at 8:30 in the morning for four weeks.

Another group got frosted corn flakes.

A third got nothing.

The only group to lose weight was the group that skipped breakfast.

Other experiments, too, have shown that the book is wrong.

They showed that people who skipped breakfast lost weight or showed no change at all This year, the Dietary Guidelines book is being updated.

The Dietary Guidelines are important because school lunches are based on them.

Also many people look to them for advice on healthy eating.

In 2010, the committee that puts together the book collected information on skipping breakfast.

Some of it suggested breakfast skippers might be more likely to gain weight.

One of the key pieces of evidence was a study that looked at 20,000 men who worked in health care.

The breakfast eaters were less likely to gain a lot of weight.

There was a problem about how the study was carried out, though.

The experiment is what is called an "observational study."

In these kinds of studies, scientists observe what people do.

The problem is there might be other causes of the observed outcomes.

In observational studies, scientists try to adjust for things they can measure.

These may include age, exercise and what kind of job someone has.

The health care workers who skipped breakfast tended to drink alcohol more.

They also smoked more and exercised less.

The scientists knew this.

Yet, the groups also might be different in other ways the scientists did not realize.

Observational studies generally cost less than traditional experiments.

Their results, however, often cannot be depended on.

In traditional experiments, people are put in groups.

One group will eat breakfast every morning.

Another group will not eat breakfast.

At the end of the experiment, everyone will be weighed to see if there is any change.

Scientists say observational studies are not good science.

S. Stanley Young is a former director at the National Institute of Statistical Sciences.

He said nearly all observational medical studies have a problem.

When other scientists check them, they often get different results.

"Wow.

Is this really science?"

Young said.

"Every observational study could be challenged."

The Dietary Guidelines committee did mention one traditional experiment.

The experiment did not find a connection between not eating breakfast and gaining weight.

The committee also paid attention to several observational studies.

The studies were hardly proof, but they were enough for the committee.

Eating breakfast became part of the 2010 Dietary Guidelines.

It is in the section about losing weight.

