Brian Williams, the anchor of NBC "Nightly News," has been taken off the air for six months.

He was suspended without pay for embellishing his role in a helicopter incident in Iraq.

It marks the first time a network news anchor has been discharged of his duties.

The punishment on Tuesday was a shocking fall from grace for Williams, who hosted America's top-rated newscast for a decade and helped lead it to numerous Emmy and Peabody journalism awards.

On Feb. 4, Williams made an on-air apology for his false remarks.

In his original news report in 2003, Williams said that a helicopter in which he was flying had come under fire.

He made similar false statements while telling the story on talk shows and at other events.

Stars and Stripes, a newspaper covering the U.S. armed forces, reported that veterans involved in the incident disputed Williams' version.

The apology was widely perceived as insufficient by a chorus of media critics and war veterans.

The damage to the anchor's credibility proved too extensive to keep his job.

"Brian has jeopardized the trust millions of Americans place in NBC News," Steve Burke, president of NBCUniversal, said in a statement.

"His actions are inexcusable and this suspension is severe and appropriate."

NBC News staff members were shaken and depressed by the events that have befallen their division.

They received further information in a memo that weekend anchor Lester Holt would for now continue to handle the weekday broadcast.

NBC News investigations editor Richard Esposito was leading an internal review of Williams' actions.

Specifically, NBC News President Deborah Turness confirmed in the memo that Williams "misrepresented events" in his original report from Iraq.

She did not refer to Williams' remarks about his experience covering Hurricane Katrina in 2005, which helped win the anchor a Peabody journalism award.

He described seeing a body floating through the French Quarter of New Orleans and fending off gangs at the hotel where he stayed.

Both accounts have been disputed by local news media and authorities.

Turness said the network still had "concerns about comments that occurred while Brian was talking about his experiences in the field."

The question now is what happens during the six months Williams is off the air.

One NBC News executive, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, said it would be "a period of reflection" for Williams.

His future beyond that will most likely be decided by viewers.

Joe Klein, a former top executive for CNN and CBS News, thinks there is a chance Williams can win back his job and continue his career.

"There is a hope that the audience misses Brian so much that they want him to come back," he said.

"That can happen because he has a reservoir of goodwill among the audience."

The blow of losing Williams for a while will be felt in the morale at NBC News.

While other programs at NBC news have experienced ratings declines in recent years, Williams' broadcast has held steady in its leadership position.

It actually gained viewers in recent months.

In December, Williams was rewarded with a five-year contract that pays him about $10 million a year.

What probably prevented Williams from being fired outright was his ratings success and overall track record at the network.

The NBC News executive confirmed there were two distinct groups within the company on what needed to be done with Williams.

One group thought the network should cut its losses and let Williams go.

His problems with the truth had damaged his reputation and the brand of NBC News.

The other group's view was to try to allow him to save his job after a lengthy suspension.

The second group included Burke, the president of NBCUniversal, who is friends with Williams.

According to the NBC News executive, Williams agreed to the suspension.

The discussions were described as not bitter.

The six-month suspension is also aimed at putting a stop to the whirlwind of media coverage on Williams.

He has been widely talked about on late-night comedy shows where he was a lively guest.

A marketing survey recently revealed that in a matter of days, his ranking among the most trustworthy Americans had taken a steep drop.

Some TV journalism experts and former NBC News colleagues of Williams thought he was quite entertaining in front of younger viewers who didn't watch news.

Williams was so good at it that he occasionally thought about wanting to be a late-night show host.

This ability to entertain was a factor in getting Williams into trouble.

His most flagrantly incorrect retelling of the helicopter incident was on the "Late Show With David Letterman" in 2013.

Judy Muller, a longtime network correspondent who is now a professor of journalism at the University of Southern California, is among those who believe the demand for TV journalists to be entertaining is what ultimately cost Williams his job.

"The truth is, that is not entirely Brian Williams' fault," she said.

"He's very good on these shows.

But we ask people to be more than somebody who reads the news or reports it.

I think that's a shame."

