Television news anchor Brian Williams has been suspended from his show, NBC "Nightly News," for six months without pay.

He is being punished for exaggerating his role in a helicopter incident in Iraq.

It is the first time a news anchor on a major television network like NBC has been dismissed.

Williams hosted America's top-rated newscast for a decade and helped lead it to numerous awards in journalism and television.

On Feb. 4, Williams made an on-air apology for his false remarks.

In his original news report in 2003, Williams said that a helicopter in which he was flying had been shot at.

He made similar false statements while telling the story on talk shows and at other events.

Veterans involved in the incident said his story wasn't true.

Williams' apology was not enough for media critics and war veterans.

The damage to the anchor's credibility proved too much to keep his job.

"Brian has jeopardized the trust millions of Americans place in NBC News," Steve Burke, president of NBCUniversal, said in a statement.

"His actions are inexcusable and this suspension is severe and appropriate."

NBC News staff members were shaken and depressed by the events.

They received a memo that the weekend news anchor, Lester Holt, would host the weekday broadcast.

NBC News investigations editor Richard Esposito was in charge of the review of Williams' actions.

NBC News President Deborah Turness confirmed in the memo that Williams "misrepresented events" in his original report from Iraq.

She did not refer to Williams' remarks about his experience covering Hurricane Katrina in 2005.

His coverage helped win him a Peabody journalism award.

Williams described dangerous and tragic scenes in New Orleans which local news media and authorities have since questioned.

Turness said the network still had "concerns about comments that occurred while Brian was talking about his experiences" while reporting.

The question now is what happens during the six months Williams is off the air.

One NBC News executive, who was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly, said it would be "a period of reflection" for Williams.

His future beyond that will most likely be decided by viewers.

Joe Klein, a former top executive for CNN and CBS News, thinks there is a chance Williams can win back his job and continue his career.

"There is a hope that the audience misses Brian so much that they want him to come back," he said.

"That can happen because he has a reservoir of goodwill among the audience."

While other programs at NBC news have experienced ratings declines in recent years, Williams' broadcast has held steady in its leadership position.

His show actually had more viewers in recent months.

In December, Williams was rewarded with a five-year contract that pays him about $10 million a year.

Many think the top-rated "Nightly News" is what allowed him to be suspended instead of fired.

The NBC News executive confirmed there were two distinct groups within the company on what needed to be done with Williams.

One group thought the network should fire him.

His problems with the truth had damaged his reputation and NBC News.

The other group's view was to try to allow him to save his job after a lengthy suspension.

The second group included Burke, the president of NBCUniversal, who is friends with Williams.

According to the NBC News executive, Williams agreed to the suspension.

The discussions were not bitter, the news executive said.

The six-month suspension is also aimed at stopping the media coverage on Williams.

He has been widely talked about on late-night comedy shows.

A marketing survey recently revealed that in a matter of days, Williams' ranking among the most trustworthy Americans had taken a steep drop.

Judy Muller is a professor of journalism at the University of Southern California and was a longtime network correspondent.

She believes the demand for TV journalists to be entertaining is what ultimately cost Williams his job.

Williams was popular with younger viewers who did not watch news shows.

In fact, he was so entertaining that he occasionally thought about hosting a late-night show.

This "is not entirely Brian Williams' fault," Muller said.

"He's very good on these shows.

But we ask people to be more than somebody who reads the news or reports it.

I think that's a shame."

