Brian Williams was a television news anchor.

Every night, he read the news on his show, NBC "Nightly News."

He used to be one of the most trusted people in America.

But information came out that he was dishonest.

Williams reported a news story during the Iraq war.

He said he was in a helicopter that was shot at.

It was later discovered that he was lying.

His helicopter was not shot at.

He apologized, but saying sorry was not enough.

Williams will be suspended for six months without pay.

He will not be allowed to be on television during that time.

Williams was a popular news anchor for many years.

His show won many awards.

As a news anchor, it is important that Williams be honest.

Williams has damaged the "trust millions of Americans place in NBC News," Steve Burke said.

Burke is the president of NBCUniversal, the company in charge of Williams' show.

Another news anchor, Lester Holt, reads the news on weekends.

During Williams' suspension, he will read the news on weekdays.

One person from NBC News said it will be up to viewers to decide whether to give him a second chance or not.

Joe Klein used to be in charge at two other television news channels.

He thinks there is a chance Williams can get his job back.

"There is a hope that the audience misses Brian so much that they want him to come back," Klein said.

Many say Williams was not fired because his show was so popular.

He won awards and has many fans.

Many other programs at NBC have fewer viewers than they used to.

Williams' show has stayed popular.

The company disagreed about how to punish Williams.

Some people thought Williams should be fired.

His lie made him less trustworthy.

Telling the truth is important to reading the news.

The other group's view was to try to allow him to save his job after a long suspension.

Williams agreed to the suspension.

The six-month suspension is meant to pull Williams out of the spotlight.

Many people are talking about what Williams did.

Judy Muller teaches journalism at the University of Southern California.

She was also a television reporter for a long time.

She said Americans want journalists to be entertaining on television.

People want news anchors "to be more than somebody who reads the news or reports it."

This "is not entirely Brian Williams' fault," Muller said.

