Britain is planning to to put Winston Churchill's face on some of its money.

Not everybody is happy about it, especially women.

Starting in 2016, Churchill's face will appear on the back of the 5-pound note.

The bill is worth about $7.50.

It is the most widely used note in Britain.

The choice seems to make sense.

Churchill was the prime minister who led the country as it battled Nazi Germany in World War II.

The bank called him "a hero of the entire free world."

But the decision has made thousands of British women angry.

Men are upset, too.

Churchill's picture will replace Elizabeth Fry's picture.

Fry fought for prison reform in the 1800s.

The change means that no woman from Britain's past will appear anywhere on its money.

Well, Queen Elizabeth II's smiling face is on all of Britain's money of course.

But that's because she is Queen.

It has nothing to do with anything she achieved on her own.

"Let's not forget the Queen wouldn't even be there if she'd had a brother," Caroline Criado-Perez said.

Criado-Perez is a journalist.

She is trying to get some women put on British money.

She says this is required by law.

More than 30,000 people have signed her online petition so far.

Dozens of female members of Parliament support her movement.

Parliament is like Congress.

Britain's most important prime minister of the last 50 years was a woman.

That was Margaret Thatcher.

Its longest-serving monarch was Queen Victoria.

Her  record of nearly 64 years on the throne may soon be beaten by another woman.

That is Elizabeth II.

The world's best-selling author of all time is a British woman.

She is mystery writer Agatha Christie.

J.K. Rowling is the best-selling author of recent memory.

She created Harry Potter.

Yet no woman has been chosen to be put on British money.

"It's another instance of women's contributions being wiped out," Criado-Perez said.

This month, dozens of protesters dressed up as famous women in British history.

They gathered outside the Bank of England's headquarters in central London.

Mervyn King spent his final days as the head of the Bank of England facing criticism over the issue.

This continued even after King hinted that novelist Jane Austen could be put on the 10-pound bill.

She would replace naturalist Charles Darwin who developed the theory of evolution.

Mark Carney replaced King.

Carney has promised to make a decision by the end of the month.

Britain began putting pictures of famous people other than the Queen on its money in 1970.

The first was playwright and poet William Shakespeare.

Since then, only two women have been included.

They are Fry and nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale.

Churchill will be the 14th man.

The selection process is a secret.

The bank says most people need to know who the person is for him or her to be chosen.

But  there are some people on British money that most people have never heard of.

That includes Elizabeth Fry, the woman currently featured on the 5-pound note.

Even Criado-Perez says she knows little about her.

But there are plenty of other women who have made important contributions to history and deserve to be on money, activists say.

One they talk about a lot is Rosalind Franklin.

She is a scientist who played an important role in DNA.

But the Nobel Prize went to men she worked with: James Watson, Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins.

Just like the money in Britain these days.

