Winnie-the-Pooh is not just an adorable talking bear.

He is also the subject of an small international dispute.

Pooh was created by English writer A.A. Milne in the 1920s.

Since then, Pooh and his friends have been in many television shows and movies and can be found in stuffed animal collections everywhere.

Before he was famous, though, Winnie-the-Pooh was a yellow stuffed bear that belonged to Milne's son Christopher Robin.

The original Pooh has been in the United States since 1947.

Now, England wants him back.

Pooh's story is long and complicated.

The bear's original owner, the real-life Christopher Robin Milne, kept Pooh until 1947.

Then he gave the bear to the American publisher of his father's stories.

He joked that since he was an adult, it was time to give up his childhood companion.

Pooh stayed in the publisher's office until 1987.

He was then donated to the New York Power Authority, which gave him to the New York Public Library.

The bear has lived there ever since.

He is on display in a special Children's Center at the library's main location in the heart of the city.

But Winnie-the-Pooh is an English bear, not a New Yorker.

The British newspaper, The Times of London, published an article recently arguing that the bear should be returned to its homeland.

This might seem like a small matter.

Winnie-the-Pooh is just a stuffed animal, after all.

For some people in England, however, Pooh is more than just a stuffed animal.

He is a symbol of childhood and England.

The Times made the case for the return of Pooh.

Because Winnie-the-Pooh was written in England, the bear should also live in England.

"It is obvious then that Winnie-the-Pooh, whatever else he is, is not an American," The Times argued.

The newspaper said Pooh would be given a warm welcome in England.

It imagined a specially built museum in East Sussex, a county in southeastern England.

The museum would be near the Five Hundred Acre Wood, the real-life forest that the imaginary Hundred Acre Wood was based on.

The Times insisted that this would be a better home for Pooh than the New York Public Library.

The  Times said the bear was being kept on display "in the basement."

Greece has used the same argument with Britain over the Elgin Marbles.

The statues were sent, but not by the Greeks, to Britain from Athens in the early 1800s.

They remain in the British Museum.

The New York Public Library feels differently.

Angela Montefinise, a spokeswoman for the library, said that Pooh is comfortable where he is.

She said that Pooh's "basement" display is a place of pride.

Pooh and friends are part of the library's collection of historical treasures.

Alongside Pooh are original copies of Shakespeare's plays, a Bible made on the first-ever printing press, Charles Dickens' writing desk, a copy of the Declaration of Independence, and a lock of Mary Shelley's hair.

Shelley wrote "Frankenstein."

In other words, Pooh is in good company in New York.

Montefinise gave another reason for not moving Pooh.

The bear is nearly 100 years old, and after all those years, he is very delicate.

Because of this, it could be risky to send Pooh to England.

He might fall apart during the trip.

Also, the English are not the only ones with strong feelings for Winnie-the-Pooh.

He matters a great deal to many New Yorkers.

Montefinise said that it is common to see adults get very emotional when they first see the stuffed animals.

"The librarians themselves leave Winnie a pot of honey and a red balloon every year on his birthday — he is a cherished part of everyday life" at the library, she explained.

Still, The Times insisted that England and Pooh are meant to be together.

Winnie-the-Pooh is a proud part of British history.

The newspaper urged Americans to think about what it feels like for the English to see Pooh on display overseas.

The article compared Winnie-the-Pooh to "Moby Dick," one of the greatest American books ever written.

"Imagine what it would be like if the original Moby Dick were to be displayed in, say, a Chinese museum," The Times wrote.

