Winnie-the-Pooh is one of the most famous characters in the world.

Children all over the world have grown up with Pooh and his friends.

Not everyone knows, however, that Pooh is a real bear.

Well, sort of.

There really was a stuffed bear named Pooh that belonged to a little boy named Christopher Robin.

That boy's father, A.A. Milne, wrote the Pooh stories about his son's favorite stuffed animals.

The original Winnie-the-Pooh is still around.

In fact, if you are in New York City, you can go see him.

He lives in the Children's Corner at the New York Public Library.

His friends Piglet, Eeyore, Tigger and Kanga are there too.

Pooh is not a native New Yorker.

He is actually from England.

Recently, some people in England have been asking to have the bear sent back home.

Pooh's story is a long one.

A.A. Milne bought Pooh for his son Christopher Robin in 1921.

He began writing stories about the bear and his friends, and soon Winnie-the-Pooh became famous.

Christopher Robin Milne kept his original Pooh until 1947.

Then he gave the bear to the company in America that sold his father's books.

He joked that since he was a grown up, he was too old to keep his stuffed animals.

Pooh stayed at the company until 1987.

Then he was given to another company, which handed him over to the New York Public Library.

The library does not just lend books.

It is also a museum with things from important books and famous writers.

The library is in the middle of New York City.

The bear has lived there ever since.

Some people in England feel this is unfair.

Should Pooh stay in New York or return to England?

Recently, the newspaper, The Times of London, wrote an article about this question.

The article said that Pooh should be returned to England.

The Times gave a few reasons.

First, the Winnie-the-Pooh stories were written in England.

The Times said this makes Pooh English.

So the bear should live in England.

Winnie-the-Pooh is not an American, The Times argued.

Second, the newspaper said that Pooh would be given a warm welcome in England.

If Pooh returned to England, he might get his own museum.

The museum would be in East Sussex, a part of southeastern England.

This is where the real Christopher Robin used to play with Pooh.

The New York Public Library disagrees.

Angela Montefinise, who works at the library, said Pooh is comfortable where he is.

Pooh is nearly 100 years old.

After all those years, he is very delicate.

Because of this, it could be risky to send Pooh to England.

He might fall apart during the trip.

Also, the English are not the only ones with strong feelings for Winnie-the-Pooh.

He matters to many New Yorkers, too.

Why all the fuss?

Pooh is just a stuffed animal, after all.

Why would anyone argue about Winnie-the-Pooh?

The answer may be that Pooh is very important to many people, even grown-ups.

People really love Pooh.

In both America and England, people have fond memories of reading and watching Pooh stories as children.

As a result, they have strong feelings about the stuffed bear.

Also, some people feel that Pooh is an important part of English history.

This may be another reason why that they want to bring the bear home.

What do you think?

Should Pooh stay in New York or go back to England?

Unfortunately, we cannot just ask where he wants to live.

Unlike the Winnie-the-Pooh from the stories, this Pooh does not talk.

