The palace of Queen Elizabeth II of England is falling apart.

Mice and moths are destroying heating and electrical systems at Buckingham Palace.

The roof leaks.

Palace servants put out buckets to catch the drips.

Brick walls are crumbling.

A large chunk of it came close to hitting Princess Anne's car after falling from a palace wall.

Conditions are so bad that the queen may have to leave, at least during the repairs.

The same problems are also affecting the Palace of Westminster.

England's Parliament meets there, and lawmakers may also have to move.

Parliament is a part of the English government.

The repairs could cost billions of dollars.

It may be hard to convince England's citizens to spend the money.

Many people are upset because the government is planning to cut programs that would help the poor.

Dickie Arbiter says the government should pay.

"All these are government buildings," said Arbiter.

He spent a dozen years working at Buckingham Palace for Elizabeth before retiring.

"Our children and grandchildren and their children won't thank us if we allow these buildings to fall into a state of disrepair."

The queen is one of the world's richest women.

Arbiter laughs at the suggestion that the queen should pay for her own home improvements.

The queen does not actually own Buckingham Palace.

It is owned by the country.

The queen is given the right to live there.

Some may say "Well, the queen lives there, she should pay for it," Arbiter said.

It is a bit like saying, "Obama lives at the White House, let him take care of it."

Regardless of who pays the bill, the price tag would be enormous.

Buckingham Palace has 240 bedrooms and 78 bathrooms.

It would cost an estimated $230 million to bring up to modern standards.

The last time the palace's interiors were fixed up was around the time the queen was crowned.

That was 62 years ago.

Across St. James' Park, a makeover for the Palace of Westminster would cost much more.

The project could run from $5.4 billion to $8.8 billion.

Mark Tami is a member of Parliament.

He said Westminster is in great need of repair.

The roof leaks and the pipes are breaking down.

The least expensive option would require Parliament to move out for six years.

The most expensive option would let most members of Parliament to stay put.

Different parts of the building would be closed over 32 years.

It would cost $8.8 billion.

Still, the plan would just cover only basic repairs.

Convincing the public will be a challenge.

"If you want our representatives do a proper job, they need to have a proper workplace," said Steven Fielding.

He teaches at the University of Nottingham.

Fielding predicted that the money will be spent and the repairs will be done.

Yet, no one will be very happy about it.

Other suggestions have been made.

One includes letting Parliament meet in different places around the country.

Another is getting rid of the Palace of Westminster.

It would be replaced with a smaller, more modern building.

Neither of these are likely.

Fixing up the two palaces would be expensive.

Yet, they mean much to this tradition-loving nation.

Plus, they bring in tourists.

Visitors pay $28 to look around the Houses of Parliament and pay $32 for Buckingham Palace.

Buckingham Palace must be saved.

It is the symbol of the kings and queens of England, said Arbiter.

