Britain is planning to to put Winston Churchill's face on the 5-pound note.

That decision has sparked a heated conversation about the lack of famous women on England's money.

Starting in 2016, Churchill's face will appear on the back of what is probably Britain's most widely used bill.

The note is worth about $7.50.

The choice would seem to be easy.

Churchill is well-known as the Prime Minister who led the country as it battled Nazi Germany in World War II.

The bank called him "a hero of the entire free world."

But the decision has angered thousands of women here.

Some men are upset, too.

They say they have nothing against Churchill.

But his portrait will replace that of Elizabeth Fry.

She fought for changes to the prison system in the 1800s.

That means that no woman from Britain's past will appear anywhere on its currency.

True, Queen Elizabeth II's smiling face is on all of Britain's money.

But that's because she is Queen.

It has nothing to do with anything she achieved on her own.

"Let's not forget the Queen wouldn't even be there if she'd had a brother," Caroline Criado-Perez said.

"It just sends out a really damaging message that women haven't achieved much and they can't achieve much."

Criado-Perez is a journalist.

She has launched a campaign to get at least some women on British currency.

She says such fairness is required by law.

More than 30,000 people have signed her online petition so far.

Dozens of female members of Parliament support her movement.

Britain's most important prime minister of the last 50 years was a woman (Margaret Thatcher).

Its longest-serving monarch was a woman (Queen Victoria).

Her record of nearly 64 years on the throne may soon be beaten by another woman (Elizabeth II).

The world's best-selling author of all time is a British woman (mystery writer Agatha Christie).

So is the best-selling author in recent years (J.K. Rowling, who created Harry Potter).

Yet no woman has been chosen to be added onto British money.

"It's another instance of women's contributions being wiped out," Criado-Perez said.

This month, dozens of protesters dressed up as famous women in British history and rallied outside the Bank of England's headquarters in central London.

Emmeline Pankhurst, who fought for the right to vote, was one of the most popular costumes.

Boadicea, Britain's ancient warrior-queen, was represented too.

Mervyn King headed the Bank of England.

He spent his final days on the job facing criticism over the issue.

Even after King hinted that novelist Jane Austen was strongly in the running to replace Charles Darwin on the 10-pound bill, he still got complaints.

King's hints were not good enough for the people who want women on Britain's money.

Their cause is one of the first items to be tackled by Mark Carney, who replaces King.

Carney has promised to make a decision by the end of the month.

Britain began putting pictures of famous people other than the Queen on its bills in 1970.

The first was William Shakespeare.

Since then, only two women have been included.

They are Fry and nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale.

Churchill will be the 14th man.

Others were author Charles Dickens, economist Adam Smith and composer Edward Elgar.

The selection process is a secret.

The bank lists "broad name recognition" as a requirement for those it picks.

But probably not one British person in a thousand could tell you who Matthew Boulton was.

(He was an 18th Century engineer).

Not one in 10,000 could identify John Houblon.

(He was the Bank of England's first governor).

Both men have adorned the 50-pound note.

For that matter, few people could probably identify Elizabeth Fry, the woman currently featured on the fiver.

Even Criado-Perez confesses to knowing little about her or her work in prison reform.

But there are plenty of other women who have made important contributions to history and deserve a spot on a bank note, activists say.

One frequently mentioned is Rosalind Franklin.

She is a scientist who played a key role in the discovery of the double-helix structure of DNA.

But the Nobel Prize went to men she worked with: James Watson, Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins.

The Bank of England shouldn't take part in the same sour sexism, said Criado-Perez.

She said she would be delighted if Jane Austen were the next woman chosen.

