The last navy shipyard is closing in England.

The shipyard is in the southern city of Portsmouth and people have been building ships there for hundreds of years.

The move will cause nearly 1,000 people to lose their jobs.

The decision was announced on Wednesday.

Britain was once the mightiest naval power in the world.

That makes the decision especially hard to take for some.

Workers have been building warships in Portsmouth since King Henry VIII ruled in the 1500s.

But the government and a private company that works on ships have agreed to stop construction there.

They say there is isn't enough need for the ships.

Royal Navy ships will still be built in Britain.

But they will be built only in Scotland.

Great Britain includes England, Scotland and Wales.

Hundreds of jobs will also be cut at Scottish shipyards.

Still, workers in Portsmouth accused the government of cutting jobs so leaders can win votes.

Next year, the Scots vote on whether to have their own nation, and be independent from Great Britain.

The Portsmouth workers say the government did not want to make Scots angry before the vote.

Prime Minister David Cameron defended the decision to close down shipbuilding in Portsmouth.

He said that the city's dockyards would continue to repair and keep warships in good shape.

Ships just will not be built there.

Yes, 940 jobs will be lost next year.

But 11,000 in the shipbuilding business will remain, he said.

Many more people fix and service ships than build them, he said.

"Some of the largest and best-equipped warships we have ever had in our country will be based and hosted at Portsmouth," Cameron added.

That will mean work for Portsmouth for many years, he said.

Philip Hammond is in charge of Britain's military.

He denied that the next year's vote was the reason to keep Scotland's shipyards going.

He said the government would spend $160 million on work to fix ships in Portsmouth.

The spending is an effort to make the effects of the job cuts less tough to take.

The job losses are not the only damage to Portsmouth.

Perhaps just as bad is the loss of its place in British history.

It was the center of British shipbuilding.

The city helped give the small island of England an empire, with power all over the world.

Portsmouth has been important for English rulers since the 13th century.

In 1511, shipbuilders there launched Henry VIII's ship, Mary Rose.

The ship was one of the first war vessels able to fire a broadside, or shots from all the guns on one side at once.

The launch led to the rise of Britain as a military powerhouse on the seas.

The ship sank 34 years later during a fight with the French fleet.

The wreck lay on the seabed for nearly 300 years without being noticed.

Then a diver came across it by accident.

The Mary Rose was raised from the water in 1982 and now many tourists come to see it.

Another historic craft, the HMS Victory, is also anchored at Portsmouth.

That vessel saw action in the American Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars.

It was Admiral Horatio Nelson's flagship during the British victory at Trafalgar in 1805.

Gerald Vernon-Jackson is the leader of the Portsmouth City Council.

He said ending all shipbuilding in England could be a problem for the government.

"If Scotland becomes independent, where will the Royal Navy build their ships?

They'll have to go to foreign countries to have their ships built," Vernon-Jackson told Sky News.

"That's a terrible thing for an island nation that depends on sea trade like the United Kingdom."

But Hammond said Britain would try to keep military shipbuilding within its own borders.

It would do this even if Scotland left Britain.

