British teenagers won't be studying "To Kill A Mockingbird" and other American literature for a major high school exam anymore.

Michael Gove, the country's education minister, called for more British works to be studied.

Gove has outraged some readers and professors with his campaign to put the basics — and Britishness — back into schools.

John Steinbeck's "Of Mice and Men" and Harper Lee's "To Kill a Mockingbird" are among the American favorites cut from the exam syllabus.

The new guidelines focus almost exclusively on writers from Britain and Ireland.

Some educators fear that could lead to the narrowing of British minds.

"The idea of cutting out American books because they are not British is crazy," said John Carey, a professor at Oxford University.

Exam boards in England and Wales set school syllabuses in line with government rules.

On Friday, they finished releasing their new book lists for the English Literature GCSE.

GCSEs are exams taken by 16-year-olds after a two-year course of study.

No longer on the list: Lee, Steinbeck, Arthur Miller's play "The Crucible" and the autobiography of Maya Angelou.

African and Asian writers including Haruki Murakami, Chinua Achebe and Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche have also been dropped.

The exam boards dropped books by Americans and others in an attempt to make the school syllabus harder.

New government rules say GCSE pupils must study high quality and intellectually challenging works.

These include a 19th-century novel, a selection of poetry, a play by William Shakespeare, fiction from after the year 1914 or drama "from the British Isles."

Previous rules mentioned modern writers and didn't say they had to be British.

The previous rules also said students must study authors from different cultures, while the new rules do not.

Gove strongly denied that his goal was to banish non-British authors.

"I have not banned anything," he wrote in the Daily Telegraph newspaper.

"All we are doing is asking exam boards to broaden — not narrow — the books young people study for GCSE."

The education department says the guidelines represent the minimum students are required to learn.

Those who read more widely — and internationally — will do better on the exams, the department says.

It also says pupils are required to study important world literature between the ages of 11 and 14.

Critics of the new English rules say they will have a restrictive, rather than broadening, effect.

"Michael Gove wants everybody studying traditional literature, and he wants it to be British," said Bethan Marshall, chair of the National Association for the Teaching of English.

"I think that's a bit of a mistake."

Gove has been education secretary in Britain's Conservative-led government since 2010.

He has faced strong opposition to his plans before.

His revamp of primary education was called "neo-Victorian" by a Cambridge University professor.

And his proposal to make history lessons more British in focus was condemned by many professors.

Some educators welcomed Gove's attempts to raise standards.

Jonathan Bate, an English professor who advised Gove on the latest changes, said he had been discouraged to discover that many pupils studied no British novels for their GCSE course.

"I think there are so many riches in the last century's literature in these islands that all pupils should have some acquaintance with it," Bate said.

The new book lists include a wide sample of modern British literature and drama.

They range from George Orwell's "Animal Farm" and William Golding's "Lord of the Flies" to Kazuo Ishiguro's novel "Never Let Me Go," Alan Bennett's play "The History Boys," and "Anita and Me," a coming-of-age novel by Meera Syal.

The 19th-century novels on the lists include Charles Dickens' "Great Expectations," Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" and Mary Shelley's "Frankenstein."

But debate on the changes has focused on the loss of "To Kill a Mockingbird" and "Of Mice and Men."

Several generations of Britons remember those two books from their school days.

Few commentators had anything bad to say about Harper Lee's beloved tale of a girl learning about racism and justice in the American South.

Outraged fans of the book even got the hashtag "#Mockingbird" trending on Twitter after Gove's changes were announced.

Steinbeck's novella about the friendship between two migrant workers during the Great Depression was more divisive.

Times newspaper columnist Janice Turner welcomed the dropping of Steinbeck's book.

She said it was studied for all the wrong reasons: "because it is short, simple and has a moralizing 'message': bullying is bad."

Carey, the professor, said he sympathized with Gove's efforts to get students reading literature.

But he regretted the loss of the two American books.

"It's true ... 'Of Mice and Men' is set just because it's short, but it is nonetheless a marvelous book for teaching," Carey said.

"It's a wonderful book, deeply human.

I think the same about 'To Kill a Mockingbird' — a book that can transform the way you think."

