If money talks, then in Britain it has a decidedly baritone voice.

And that, many say, is a scandal.

Three months ago, the Bank of England announced that Winston Churchill had been chosen as the new face of the 5-pound note.

He was being honored as "a truly great British leader, orator and writer ... a hero of the entire free world."

Starting in 2016, Churchill's jowly mug will peer out pugnaciously from the back of what is probably Britain's most widely used bill.

The note is worth about $7.50.

But the decision has angered thousands of women here, as well as many men.

No disrespect to the cigar-chomping, World War II prime minister, they say.

But his portrait will replace that of Elizabeth Fry, a 19th Century prison reformer.

That means that no female figure from Britain's past will appear anywhere on its currency.

True, Queen Elizabeth II's smiling face graces every bill printed and every coin minted in Britain.

But that's entirely because of her position as monarch, not personal or professional accomplishment.

"Let's not forget the Queen wouldn't even be there if she'd had a brother," Caroline Criado-Perez, a freelance journalist, said.

"It just sends out a really damaging message that women haven't achieved much and they can't achieve much."

Criado-Perez has launched a campaign to restore at least a little bit of gender balance to the people depicted on British currency, which she says is required by anti-sexism laws.

More than 30,000 people have signed her online petition so far, and dozens of female members of Parliament have joined the cause.

This is a nation whose most important prime minister of the last 50 years was a woman (Margaret Thatcher).

Its longest-serving monarch was a woman (Queen Victoria), whose record of nearly 64 years on the throne may soon be beaten by another woman (Elizabeth II).

The world's best-selling author of all time is a British woman (Agatha Christie), as is the one in recent years (J.K. Rowling).

Yet nobody of their gender has been deemed worthy of being added onto British money, which Criado-Perez calls morally bankrupt.

"It's another instance of women's contributions being wiped out," she said.

"It's something everyone will see whether they consciously notice it or not.

It's in everyone's wallet, and we see it every day."

This month, dozens of protesters dressed up as famous women in British history and rallied outside the Bank of England's headquarters in central London.

Emmeline Pankhurst, who agitated for the right to vote, was a favored choice among the costumed demonstrators; Boadicea, Britain's ancient warrior-queen, also put in a slightly forbidding appearance.

Mervyn King is head of the Bank of England.

The bank note controversy has dashed any hopes he might have had of spending his final days on the job being bathed with admiration.

Instead, activists and columnists kept up a shower of criticism.

And that was after King hinted, before stepping down at the end of June, that novelist Jane Austen was strongly in the running to knock Charles Darwin off the 10-pound bill.

"I think it is extremely unlikely that we will ever find ourselves with no women (from history) on our bank notes," said King.

That was too vague for campaigners, who have succeeded in making their cause one of the first items on the agenda of King's successor, Mark Carney.

Carney has pledged to bring up the issue at a meeting to be held Wednesday and to make a decision by month's end.

"I believe that our notes should celebrate the diversity of great British historical figures," said Carney, who is Canadian.

Portraits of famous Britons other than the monarch began popping up on bills in 1970; the first was William Shakespeare.

Since then, only two women have made the cut: Fry and nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale.

Churchill will be the 14th man, joining the likes of author Charles Dickens, economist Adam Smith and composer Edward Elgar.

The selection process is opaque and closed to the public.

The bank lists "broad name recognition" as a requirement for those it picks, though probably not one Brit in a thousand could tell you who Matthew Boulton was (an 18th Century engineer) and not one in 10,000 could identify John Houblon (the Bank of England's first governor).

Both men have adorned the 50-pound note.

For that matter, few people could probably identify Elizabeth Fry, the woman currently featured on the fiver.

Even Criado-Perez confesses to knowing little about her or her work in penal reform.

But there are plenty of other women, both well-known and unsung, who have made important contributions to British or world history and deserve a spot on a bank note, activists say.

Rosalind Franklin is one woman frequently cited as a prime candidate.

Franklin was a scientist now acknowledged to have played a key role in the determination of the double-helix structure of DNA.

The Nobel Prize for the discovery, however, went to her male colleagues, James Watson, Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins.

The Bank of England shouldn't fall prey to the same sour sexism, said Criado-Perez, who said she would be delighted if Jane Austen were the next woman chosen.

