If money talks, then in Britain it has a decidedly male voice.

And that, many say, is a scandal.

The Bank of England said three months ago that Winston Churchill had been chosen as the new face of the 5-pound note.

Churchill, who was Prime Minister during World War II,  is being honored as a leader, writer and speaker.

The bank called him "a hero of the entire free world."

Starting in 2016, Churchill's face will peer out from the back of what is probably Britain's most widely used bill.

The note is worth about $7.50.

But the decision has angered thousands of women here, as well as many men.

No disrespect to the cigar-chomping prime minister, they say.

But his portrait will replace that of Elizabeth Fry, a 19th Century prison reformer.

That means that no woman from Britain's past will appear anywhere on its currency.

True, Queen Elizabeth II's smiling face is on every bill printed and every coin minted in Britain.

But that's entirely because of her position as Queen.

It has nothing to do with personal or professional accomplishment.

"Let's not forget the Queen wouldn't even be there if she'd had a brother," Caroline Criado-Perez said.

"It just sends out a really damaging message that women haven't achieved much and they can't achieve much."

Criado-Perez, a freelance journalist, has launched a campaign to restore at least a little bit of gender balance to the people on British currency.

She says this is required by anti-sexism law.

More than 30,000 people have signed her online petition so far, and dozens of female members of Parliament have joined the call to fix the problem.

Britain's most important prime minister of the last 50 years was a woman (Margaret Thatcher).

Its longest-serving monarch was a woman (Queen Victoria).

Her record of nearly 64 years on the throne may soon be beaten by another woman (Elizabeth II).

The world's best-selling author of all time is a British woman (mystery writer Agatha Christie).

So is the best-selling author in years (J.K. Rowling, who created Harry Potter).

Yet no woman has been chosen to be added onto British money.

"It's another instance of women's contributions being wiped out," Criado-Perez said.

"It's something everyone will see whether they consciously notice it or not.

It's in everyone's wallet, and we see it every day."

This month, dozens of protesters dressed up as famous women in British history and rallied outside the Bank of England's headquarters in central London.

Emmeline Pankhurst, who fought for the right to vote, was a favored choice among the costumed demonstrators; Boadicea, Britain's ancient warrior-queen, also put in a slightly forbidding appearance.

Mervyn King is the head of the Bank of England.

He has spent his final days on the job facing criticism over the issue.

The complaints continued even after King hinted, before stepping down at the end of June, that novelist Jane Austen was strongly in the running to replace Charles Darwin on the 10-pound bill.

"I think it is extremely unlikely that we will ever find ourselves with no women (from history) on our bank notes," said King.

That was too vague for campaigners, who have succeeded in making their cause one of the first items on the agenda of King's successor, Mark Carney.

Carney has pledged to bring up the issue at a meeting to be held Wednesday, and to make a decision by month's end.

Britain began putting pictures of famous people other than the Queen on its bills in 1970.

The first was William Shakespeare.

Since then, only two women have made the cut: Fry and nursing pioneer Florence Nightingale.

Churchill will be the 14th man, joining the likes of author Charles Dickens, economist Adam Smith and composer Edward Elgar.

The selection process is secretive.

The bank lists "broad name recognition" as a requirement for those it picks.

But probably not one Brit in a thousand could tell you who Matthew Boulton was (an 18th Century engineer) and not one in 10,000 could identify John Houblon (the Bank of England's first governor).

Both men have adorned the 50-pound note.

For that matter, few people could probably identify Elizabeth Fry, the woman currently featured on the fiver.

Even Criado-Perez confesses to knowing little about her or her work in prison reform.

But there are plenty of other women who have made important contributions to British or world history and deserve a spot on a bank note, activists say.

One frequently mentioned as a prime candidate is Rosalind Franklin.

She is a scientist now recognized to have played a key role in the discovery of the double-helix structure of DNA.

Despite her contributions, the Nobel Prize went to her male colleagues, James Watson, Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins.

The Bank of England shouldn't take part in the same sour sexism, said Criado-Perez, who said she would be delighted if Jane Austen were the next woman chosen.

