Damp, pests and leaky roofs are turning Buckingham Palace and the Palace of Westminster into a nightmare.

Conditions are so bad that they might force Queen Elizabeth II and British lawmakers to leave, at least during renovation.

Buckingham Palace is the queen's home, and Parliament meets at Westminster.

Engineers warn of an urgent need for better plumbing, pest control, upgraded wiring and improved fire safety.

The palaces also need repairs to the crumbling brickwork.

A large chunk of it came close to nailing Princess Anne's car after falling from a Buckingham Palace wall in 2007.

Spending billions in taxpayer money on nicer accommodations can be a tough sell anytime.

It's even harder to convince the public at a time when the government is promising to make the biggest cuts in spending on the poor in at least a generation.

To Dickie Arbiter, that's a shortsighted view.

"All these are government buildings," said Arbiter.

He spent a dozen years working at Buckingham Palace as Elizabeth's press secretary before retiring.

"Our children and grandchildren and their children won't thank us if we allow these buildings to fall into a state of disrepair."

He scoffs at suggestions that his former boss, one of the world's richest women, ought to pay for her own home improvements.

The queen does not actually own Buckingham Palace.

It is owned by the nation and held "in trust" for use by the reigning monarch.

Some may say "Well, the queen lives there, she should pay for it," Arbiter said.

It is a bit like saying, "Obama lives at the White House, let him take care of it," Arbiter said.

Regardless of who pays the bill, the price tag would be enormous.

Buckingham Palace is basically a 240-bedroom, 78-bathroom fixer-upper.

It would cost an estimated $230 million to bring up to modern standards.

Although luxurious, the last time the interiors were fixed up was around the time of the queen's coronation.

That was 62 years ago.

Royal servants set out buckets to catch water dripping to where Elizabeth's priceless art collection is kept.

Across St. James' Park, a makeover for the Palace of Westminster would cost significantly more.

The palace is where Parliament meets.

The project could run from $5.4 billion to $8.8 billion.

Mark Tami, a member of Parliament, said a "major intervention" is clearly necessary.

"You're talking about a building which is in the center of London, which is exposed to the elements and pollution," he said.

"There comes a point where just the odd patching here and there won't suffice."

The roof leaks, the pipes are corroding and much of the communication cabling is not up to the demands of the digital age.

It took a while to install broadband and Wi-Fi, Tami said, and connection speeds remain uneven.

The least expensive option would require Parliament to move out of the Palace of Westminster for six years.

The most expensive option would allow most of the members of Parliament to stay put.

Different parts of the building would be closed at different times over 32 years.

But despite its $8.8 billion cost, the plan would only bring the palace up to minimum standards.

This would include better access for the disabled and improved fire prevention.

Lawmakers would also have to endure the noise and disruption that any homeowner who has ever done a renovation is all too familiar with.

Convincing the public of the benefits of renovation will be a challenge.

"If you want to have an efficient government, if you want our representatives do a proper job, they need to have a proper workplace," said Steven Fielding.

He is a political scientist at the University of Nottingham.

"They'll spend the money, it'll cause a stink" and people will be reminded of why they don't like Parliament.

Other suggestions have been made.

One includes taking Parliament on the road with stops around the country, while another is getting rid of the Palace of Westminster altogether for a more modern, more modest facility.

Those alternatives are about as likely as the queen laying down her crown.

For all the money fixing up the two palaces would take, their historical and symbolic value is beyond price for this tradition-loving nation.

Plus, they bring in tourists, who pay $28 to visit the Houses of Parliament and $32 for Buckingham Palace.

"Buckingham Palace symbolizes the institution of monarchy," said Arbiter.

His recent book, "On Duty With the Queen," records his years in service to the crown.

