The last shipyard in England that builds ships for the British navy is closing.

The shipyard is in the southern city of Portsmouth.

People have been building ships there for hundreds of years.

Nearly 1,000 jobs will be lost.

The decision was announced on Wednesday.

Britain once had the world's mightiest navy.

That makes the decision very important.

Workers have been building warships in Portsmouth since the 1500s.

King Henry VIII ruled England then.

But the government has agreed to stop construction there.

It says there is not enough need for the ships.

Navy ships will still be built in Britain.

But they will be built only in Scotland.

Great Britain includes England, Scotland and Wales.

Workers in Portsmouth said the government is unfairly cutting their jobs.

They say that leaders did it to win votes.

Next year, the Scots will vote on whether to become a separate nation.

The Portsmouth workers say the government did not want to make Scots angry before the vote.

David Cameron is Prime Minister.

He is the leader of Britain.

He defended the decision to stop building ships in Portsmouth.

Cameron said that the city's dockyards would continue to repair warships.

Ships just will not be built there.

Yes, 940 jobs will be lost next year.

But 11,000 jobs will remain, he said.

Many more people fix and service ships than build them, he said.

Navy ships will still be fixed in Portsmouth.

That will mean work for Portsmouth for many years, he said.

Philip Hammond is in charge of Britain's military.

He said that next year's vote wasn't the reason for closing Portsmouth.

He said the government would spend $160 million in Portsmouth.

The spending would make the job cuts easier to take.

The job losses are not the only damage to Portsmouth.

The city has a famous place in history.

It was the center of British shipbuilding.

Portsmouth helped turn the small island of Britain into a naval power.

England once ruled an empire all over the world because of its navy.

Portsmouth has been important to English rulers since the 13th century.

In 1511, shipbuilders there launched Henry VIII's ship Mary Rose.

The ship was one of the first war vessels able to fire a broadside.

It could fire shots from all the guns on one side at once.

The launch led to the rise of Britain as a naval powerhouse.

The ship sank 34 years later during a fight with the French fleet.

The wreck lay on the floor of the sea for nearly 300 years.

Then a diver found it by accident.

The Mary Rose was pulled out of the water in 1982.

It is now popular with tourists.

The HMS Victory is another famous ship in history.

It is also anchored at Portsmouth.

It saw action in the American Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars.

The ship was Admiral Horatio Nelson's flagship in the British victory at Trafalgar in 1805.

Gerald Vernon-Jackson is the leader of the Portsmouth City Council.

He said ending shipbuilding in England could be a problem for the government.

Britain will have to get its ships from a foreign country if Scotland becomes its own nation, he said.

Vernon-Jackson said that would be terrible for Britain because it is an island.

But Hammond said Britain would try to keep military shipbuilding within its own borders.

It would do this even if Scotland left Britain.

