The Brontosaurus is back from the dead.

For more than a century, scientists thought the gigantic dinosaur never existed, but a new study breathes life into the beast.

The largest animals to ever walk the Earth were the long-necked, long-tailed dinosaurs known as the sauropods.

The most famous of these plant-eating giants is probably the Brontosaurus, the "thunder lizard."

They lived about 154 to 150 million years ago during the Late Jurassic Period.

The first Brontosaurus was named in 1879 by Othniel Charles Marsh, a paleontologist, or scientist who studies fossils.

It still stands on display in the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History in Connecticut.

However, in 1903, another paleontologist, Elmer Riggs, decided that Brontosaurus was apparently the same dinosaur as another called the Apatosaurus.

According to the rules of scientific naming, the oldest name has priority, which doomed the Brontosaurus to a different type of extinction.

Now a new study suggests bringing back the Brontosaurus name.

Scientists found that the Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus fossils look different enough to belong to separate groups after all.

"Generally, Brontosaurus can be distinguished from Apatosaurus most easily by its neck, which is higher and less wide," said study author Emanuel Tschopp.

He is a vertebrate paleontologist at the New University of Lisbon in Portugal.

Vertebrate paleontologists study fossils of extinct animals with vertebrae.

"So, although both are very massive and robust animals, Apatosaurus is even more extreme than Brontosaurus."

Researchers analyzed 477 different features of 81 sauropod fossils.

The study took five years and many visits to museums in Europe and the United States to study the dinosaur bones.

The researchers initially wanted to clarify the relationships among the species making up the family of sauropods known as the diplodocids.

This family of dinosaurs includes Diplodocus, Apatosaurus and now Brontosaurus.

In a nearly 300-page report, the scientists concluded that three known species of Brontosaurus exist.

Brontosaurus excelsus was the first discovered, and the other two are Brontosaurus parvus and Brontosaurus yahnahpin.

They published their findings online April 7 in the journal PeerJ, a magazine for scientists.

"We're delighted that Brontosaurus is back," said Jacques Gauthier, curator of vertebrate paleontology and zoology at the Yale Peabody Museum of Natural History.

"I grew up knowing about Brontosaurus — what a great name, 'thunder lizard' — and never did like that it sank into Apatosaurus."

Gauthier did not participate in the study.

Vertebrate paleontologist Mike Taylor at the University of Bristol in England also did not participate in the study.

He said the study was complete and comprehensive.

Taylor also said that the researchers took great care so that other scientists could check their results.

Taylor said the study "really sets a new standard.

I am in awe of the authors."

Mathew Wedel is a vertebrate paleontologist at Western University of Health Sciences in Pomona, California.

"The incredible amount of work here is what other research is going to be building on for decades," he said.

Tschopp noted that such detailed research could not have been done 15 years ago.

Only recently have so many dinosaurs similar to Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus been found.

These discoveries made it possible to take another look at how different they actually were, he says.

Kenneth Carpenter, director of paleontology at Utah State University Eastern's Prehistoric Museum, also found the study impressive.

But he noted the fossil on which Apatosaurus is based has never been described in detail.

He said researchers should have described the Apatosaurus dinosaur in detail first if they wanted to compare it to the Brontosaurus.

"So is Brontosaurus valid after all?"

he asked.

"Maybe.

But I think the verdict is still out."

The upshot is "that sauropods were much more diverse and fascinating than we've realized," Taylor said.

Indeed, the realization that the two dinosaurs are different is "only the tip of the iceberg," he added.

He expected that many other sauropods will be renamed as researchers start comparing their bones.

"The Late Jurassic of North America in which they lived may have been a weird time," Wedel said.

"You basically had an explosion of these things in what could be harsh environments, which raises the question of how they could have found enough food to have supported them all."

In other words, research that helped bring back the Brontosaurus may have given scientists new mysteries to solve.

