During his first term, President Obama rarely talked about race.

On Thursday, though, he did.

Speaking at the White House, he unveiled a new program.

Its aim is to help a group he says badly needs attention: black and Latino young men.

The new program is known as My Brother's Keeper.

A key part of its mission is to find groups and programs already helping young minority men.

The best of these, Obama said, should get government support.

Programs must have successfully helped minority youth stay out of trouble, succeed in school or land good jobs.

The "urgency of the situation," Obama said, requires us to get "something done."

We must figure out "what works," he added.

The new program was partly inspired by two meetings Obama had with the Chicago group Becoming a Man.

Those meetings meant a lot to the president.

It also had a deep effect on the group's young African-American men.

The last time they saw the president, they presented him with a Father's Day card in the Oval Office.

Their gift left the president speechless.

At Thursday's event, Obama was introduced by Christian Champagne.

The 18-year-old goes to Hyde Park Academy High School.

Champagne said he had been coasting along with B's and C's before hearing the president talk about his own struggles as a young man.

Obama grew up without a father at home.

Now, Champagne said, he earns A's and B's.

And he plans to go to college.

"I felt the flame in me," he said.

"I wanted to be more."

The announcement comes two years after the shooting of Trayvon Martin.

The black Florida teenager's death led to some of the president's most personal remarks on race.

And it pushed him to think about how he could help.

"If I had a son," Obama said then, "he'd look like Trayvon."

Martin's parents were at Thursday's White House event.

Last year, Obama had his first meeting with the boys of Becoming a Man.

He met them at their school, Hyde Park Academy High.

The school is only about a mile from Obama's South Side Chicago home.

That closeness reminded him of his similarity to the students.

Like them, he is African-American.

Growing up, he could have experienced the same difficulties they have — difficulties experienced by many young black men in America.

Things could have turned out differently for Obama, said Valerie Jarrett.

She's an adviser to Obama.

Suppose he had grown up in Chicago, she said.

"He might have not had the same opportunities he had."

After those two meetings, Obama began thinking more about the problems of African-American boys.

He decided he had to do something to help.

The result is My Brother's Keeper.

Its goal is to make the best use of money the government already has.

It will also raise money from outside the government.

At least $200 million has already been pledged by charities.

It will be directed at education and finding young men jobs, among other things.

The new push may not solve the big problems of race.

But the president has seen personal results already.

They've come out of his meetings with the Becoming a Man group.

"I think the president's getting as much out of this as they are," said Anthony Ramirez-Di Vittorio, who founded Becoming a Man.

"This is not a political moment.

This is a moment of fatherliness."

A year ago, Obama sat down with a dozen young men for their weekly "check-in circle" at their school.

Last summer, he invited them to his own circle: the Oval Office.

"It has definitely given me motivation," said Kerron Turner, a 19-year-old senior.

"Having the president there, talking to you ... it makes you want to put on your A-game."

