During his first term, President Obama rarely brought up the issue of race.

On Thursday, however, he unveiled at the White House a program aimed at helping a group he says demands urgent attention: black and Latino young men.

The new program is known as My Brother's Keeper.

A key part of its mission is to find groups and programs already helping young minority men stay out of trouble, succeed in school or land good jobs.

The best of these efforts, Obama said, should get full government support.

"So often, the issues facing boys and young men of color get caught up in long-running ideological arguments," the president said.

These revolve around issues of "race and class and crime and poverty, the role of government."

But, he said, "the urgency of the situation requires us to move past some of those old arguments and focus on getting something done and focusing on what works.

Doesn't mean the arguments are unimportant; it just means that they can't paralyze us."

The new program was shaped in part by two meetings Obama had with the Chicago group Becoming a Man.

Those meetings left a deep impression on both the president and the group's young African-American men.

The last time they saw the president, they presented him with a Father's Day card in the Oval Office.

The gesture left him speechless.

At Thursday's event, Obama was introduced by Christian Champagne, an 18-year-old junior at Hyde Park Academy High School.

Champagne said he had been coasting along with B's and C's before hearing the president talk about his own struggles growing up without a father at home.

Now, he said, he earns A's and B's and plans to go to college.

"I felt the flame in me," he said in an interview.

"I wanted to be more."

The announcement comes almost exactly two years after the shooting of Trayvon Martin.

The black Florida teenager's death led to some of the president's most personal remarks on race and pushed him to do something to help.

"If I had a son," Obama said then, "he'd look like Trayvon."

Martin's parents were at Thursday's White House event.

Last year, Obama had his first meeting with the boys of the Becoming a Man mentoring program at Hyde Park Academy High School.

The school sits about a mile from his South Side Chicago home.

Its location reminded him of his own personal connection to the difficulties faced by young black men in America.

"He was really struck by the fact that" things could have turned out differently for him, said Valerie Jarrett, an adviser to the president.

"If he had grown up in Chicago, he might have not had the same opportunities he had."

Around that time, Obama directed his staff to start looking at how to help African-American boys.

He asked them to come up with approaches that didn't involve any grand new federal programs.

The result is a public-private partnership.

Its mission is to make the best use of existing government moneys and to get the most out of support from businesses and private groups.

Several leaders of charitable foundations joined Obama on Thursday.

They announced plans to give at least $200 million over the next five years.

The money will be directed toward programs dealing with education, parenting, criminal justice and employment.

The new push may not solve the big problems of race, but the president has seen personal results already.

They stem from his meetings with the Becoming a Man group.

"I think the president's getting as much out of this as they are," said Anthony Ramirez-Di Vittorio, who founded and runs the program.

"This is not a political moment.

This is a moment of fatherliness."

A year ago, Obama sat down with a dozen young men for their weekly "check-in circle" at their school.

Last summer, he invited them to his own circle — the Oval Office.

"It has definitely given me motivation," said Kerron Turner, a 19-year-old senior.

"Having the president there, talking to you ... it makes you want to put on your A-game."

