During his first term, President Obama rarely brought up the issue of race.

On Thursday, however, he unveiled a program aimed at helping a group he says demands urgent attention: black and Latino young men.

The new program, announced at a White House event, is known as My Brother's Keeper.

A key part of its mission is to identify programs that have been effective in aiding young minority men.

Such programs should have a proven track record of helping young men stay out of trouble, succeed in school or land good jobs.

"So often, the issues facing boys and young men of color get caught up in long-running ideological arguments — about race and class and crime and poverty, the role of government," the president said.

"But the urgency of the situation requires us to move past some of those old arguments and focus on getting something done and focusing on what works.

Doesn't mean the arguments are unimportant; it just means that they can't paralyze us."

The new program was shaped by two meetings Obama had with a chapter of the Chicago group Becoming a Man.

Those meetings left a deep impression on both the president and the group's young African-American men.

The last time they saw the president, they presented him with a Father's Day card in the Oval Office, leaving him speechless.

At Thursday's event, Obama was introduced by Christian Champagne, a junior at Hyde Park Academy High School.

The 18-year-old said he had been coasting along with B's and C's before hearing the president talk about his own struggles growing up without a father at home.

Now, he said, he earns A's and B's and plans to go to college.

"I felt the flame in me," he said in an interview.

"I wanted to be more."

The effort will resemble others in Obama's second-term agenda, as it seeks participation from businesses and individuals and doesn't depend on the approval of Congress.

He's calling on prominent men of color to bring police, business and philanthropic leaders to the cause.

Colin Powell and Magic Johnson are already on board.

But the program is unique for Obama in that it is targeted specifically by race.

Typically, he has talked about the gap between the rich and poor rather than race.

The announcement comes almost exactly two years after the shooting of Trayvon Martin.

The black Florida teenager's death provoked some of the president's most personal remarks on race and prodded him to think about an approach to the difficulties such young men face.

"If I had a son," Obama said then, "he'd look like Trayvon."

Martin's parents were at Thursday's White House event.

Last year, Obama had his first meeting with the boys of the Becoming a Man mentoring program at Hyde Park Academy High School.

The school sits about a mile from his South Side Chicago home.

Its location was a reminder of his own personal connection to the difficulties faced by young black men in America.

"He was really struck by the fact that" things could have turned out differently for him, said Valerie Jarrett, a senior adviser and close family friend.

"If he had grown up in Chicago, he might have not had the same opportunities he had."

Around that time, Obama directed his staff to start looking at how to help African-American boys.

He asked them to come up with approaches that didn't involve any large new federal programs.

The result is a partnership devoted to making the best use of existing government funds and getting the most out of private support.

Several leaders of charitable foundations joined Obama to announce plans to donate at least $200 million over the next five years.

The money will be directed toward programs dealing with education, parenting, criminal justice and employment.

The president decided to address such problems in terms of race for practical reasons, advisers say.

"He feels that we should have an honest conversation, and that, if we're willing to do that, it will lead to progress," Jarrett said.

Obama only occasionally spoke about race in his first term.

After his re-election in 2012, he began to display a new openness to discussing the subject.

While overseas, he spoke about the U.S. history of slavery and discussed his own experiences as a black man after the Martin killing.

Black leaders welcomed Obama's announcement on Thursday, even if some were disappointed to see Obama admit he couldn't set things right on a larger scale.

Like so much of Obama's agenda, the plans for My Brother's Keeper spring from necessity.

Congress isn't approving much of anything Obama proposes, so he must work with already available funds.

The effect may be small, aides acknowledge, but it's real.

The president has seen the results already in his meetings with the Becoming a Man group.

"I think the president's getting as much out of this as they are," said Anthony Ramirez-Di Vittorio, a social worker who founded and runs the program.

"This is not a political moment.

This is a moment of fatherliness."

A year ago, Obama sat down with a dozen young men for their weekly "check-in circle" at their school.

Last summer, he invited them to his own circle — the Oval Office.

"It has definitely given me motivation," said Kerron Turner, a 19-year-old senior.

"Having the president there, talking to you ... it makes you want to put on your A-game."

