Last year about 1 million of the nation's poorest children were helped by Head Start.

This 48-year-old program prepares young children for school.

It serves 3- to 5-year-olds from poor families.

But this fall about 51,000 children won't get a place in Head Start.

Another 6,000 won't get a spot in Early Head Start.

The government will no longer pay for them.

The cuts were automatic.

They happened because lawmakers in Washington couldn't agree on how much money the government should spend.

They also couldn't agree on what the government should spend its money on.

Last year, the program received $8 billion.

So far this year, more than $400 million has been cut.

Yasmina Vinci runs the National Head Start Association.

She says this is the largest cut to Head Start ever.

"The cut has been very painful throughout the country," Vinci said.

Many people believe the program does a lot of good.

They say it leads to better grades in school, higher paying jobs and less crime.

Head Start programs have tried hard not to drop children.

But often they had no choice.

Cheryl Miller runs the Indiana Head Start Association.

She says it will be terrible for families if children don't get into the program.

"These are families that are struggling already.

They're not going to be able to ... [afford] some other type of preschool program."

Without Head Start, the children will be much less prepared for school.

"For all of us, as a nation, this should be heartbreaking," Miller said.

Peg Tazewell heads the Knox County Head Start in Ohio.

She chose to make class sizes larger instead of cutting the number of students.

But now there will be fewer people to teach them.

Tazewll also had to cut bus service for students.

Children used to be picked up and dropped off at their house.

Now parents will have to drive them up to six miles to a bus stop.

Some of the children will have to ride the bus as far as 20 miles.

Tazewell worries some parents won't be able to drive their child every day.

And those that do will have to spend more money on gas.

Rachell Ruiz is a 40-year-old mother in Colorado.

Earlier this year she was afraid that her 2-year-old daughter wouldn't get into Head Start.

The program in her area is taking fewer students now.

Ruiz went through Head Start herself.

She wanted her 2-year-old to be in the program because it helped her older daughter, who is now 4.

Ruiz's older daughter didn't use to play with other children very much.

Other parents didn't like to bring their kids to their neighborhood.

They thought it was dangerous and that they might get shot.

Now, after a year in Head Start, Ruiz's older daughter is much more social.

She has learned how to write her name and count to 20.

"Low-income people like me need that place," Ruiz said of Head Start.

"You don't have money to go pay for play dates.

You don't have the money to go and pay for them to be in a gym or places like that."

Fortunately, Ruiz learned that both girls will have spots in the coming school year.

"The government doesn't realize what it's doing to ... lower-income [people]," Ruiz said.

"They're taking away what we don't have.

We barely have it and they're taking away.

It hurts."

