Last year about 1 million of the nation's poorest children were helped by Head Start.

This 48-year-old federal program prepares children for school.

It is open to those five and under.

But this fall about 57,000 children will be denied a place in Head Start and Early Head Start.

The government will no longer pay for them.

The cuts in funding were automatic.

They happened because of disagreements between lawmakers in Washington.

Democrats and Republicans couldn't agree on how much money the government should spend, and about what they should spend it on.

Last year, the federal program received $8 billion in funding.

So far, cuts this year have slashed more than $400 million.

Yasmina Vinci runs the National Head Start Association.

According to her, this is the largest cut to Head Start funding since the program began in 1965.

"The cut has been very painful throughout the country," Vinci said.

Nationwide, about 1,600 groups and agencies receive federal Head Start funding.

According to the latest figures, slots for 51,000 preschoolers were eliminated.

So too were child care slots for 6,000 babies.

Children will lose 1.3 million days of service at Head Start centers.

More than 18,000 employees will be laid off or see their pay reduced.

Head Start provides preschool services to 3- to 5-year-olds from low-income households.

It also offers their families education, health, nutrition and social services.

Early Head Start helps the families of infants and pregnant women.

Supporters of the program say it offers major long-term benefits.

They claim these are reflected in better school grades, higher earnings and lower crime rates.

Head Start directors have tried not to reduce the number of children they serve.

But in many cases, they have had no choice.

In Indiana, at least two Head Start programs used lotteries to decide which children had to stop attending.

"I think it's going to be devastating for families who were hoping ... for a year or two [of preschool] before their children got into kindergarten," said Cheryl Miller, who runs the Indiana Head Start Association.

"These are families that are struggling already.

They're not going to be able to pay the cost of some other type of preschool program in their community."

She added, "For all of us, as a nation, this should be heartbreaking."

Peg Tazewell heads the Knox County Head Start in Ohio.

She chose to increase class sizes rather than reduce the number of spots for children.

At the same time, she had to cut six staff positions.

Tazewll was also forced to reduce transportation for students.

Children used to be picked up and dropped off at home.

Now parents will have to drive them up to six miles to a bus stop.

Some of the children will have to ride the bus as far as 20 miles.

Most of the parents of the children at Tazewell's center have jobs that don't pay much.

Often, their hours are not the usual nine to five.

Tazewell worries some won't be able to drive their child to and from a bus stop every day.

And if they can, they will have to spend more money on gas.

In Colorado earlier this year, Rachell Ruiz feared that her 2-year-old daughter would not be able to get into Head Start.

The local program had announced that there would now be fewer spots.

Ruiz is a graduate of Head Start herself.

She wanted her 2-year-old to be in the program because of the experience of her older daughter, who is now 4.

Ruiz's older daughter used to spend her days with her grandmother and rarely had the chance to play with other children.

There are few children in their neighborhood, where people from other parts of town are afraid to go.

"They think they'll get shot in a drive-by," Ruiz said.

Now, after a year in Head Start, her daughter is much more social.

She has learned how to write her name and count to 20.

"Low-income people like me need that place," Ruiz said of Head Start.

"You don't have money to go pay for play dates.

You don't have the money to go and pay for them to be in a gym or places like that."

Fortunately, Ruiz learned that both girls will have spots in the coming school year.

"The government doesn't realize what it's doing to ... lower-income [people]," Ruiz said.

"They're taking away what we don't have.

We barely have it and they're taking away.

It hurts."

