In January, mathematician Tim Chartier heard about a new contest.

Quicken Loans and billionaire Warren Buffett would pay over $1 billion to anyone who correctly predicted the winner of every game in the NCAA March Madness men's basketball tournament.

The tournament has 63 games.

The odds of knowing who will win each game is 1 in 9 quintillion — give or take.

"The moment I heard it, I said to my wife, 'I think things are going to get quite complicated for me this year,'" Chartier said.

He was right.

Since the announcement, Chartier and a handful of mathematicians have become math rock stars.

They have been popping up everywhere in the national media, giving people expert advice about winning a piece of Buffett's $53 billion fortune.

In 2009, using what was basically middle school algebra, Chartier and his students at Davidson College came up with a formula to pick March Madness winners better than almost anyone else.

This year's March Madness basketball extravaganza began Thursday.

It ends with the Final Four games in early April.

A few days ago, Chartier offered a New York City bracketology seminar to about 45 basketball fans.

They paid up to $100 each to learn Chartier's method of picking the winners.

Whether luck or science, bracketology is process of trying to pick the winning teams.

It is named after the form, called a bracket, that people use to fill in the team names.

Charier's bracketology seminar included the four young girls who play the title role of Broadway's "Matilda the Musical."

Chartier said the Buffett billion has also caught the attention of someone closer to home.

His 11-year-old son, Noah, has insisted on having dad help with his own bracket.

"Daddy, it's a billion dollars," Noah said recently.

Chartier continued, "I said, 'How about this?

I'm the one who came up with the research.

You're going to make the choices.

If we win, you get $25 million a year for 40 years.

How about I get $1 million a year.'"

Chartier's son decided he could live with that.

But even with the help of dad, Noah will likely have to become a millionaire some other way.

The odds of choosing every winning team are 1 in 9 quintillion, give or take.

That's a nine followed by 18 zeroes.

Jeffrey Bergen, a professor at DePaul University in Chicago, was the first to calculate the odds of choosing all the winning teams.

"It would be like you and I sitting at a table," Bergen said this week.

"I'm going to flip a coin and you are going to accurately predict the coin flip 63 times in a row.

But if you know something about basketball, your odds are about 1 in 128 billion."

Whew.

That's a relief.

"If an individual has a perfect bracket after the first round, he still has only a 1 in 7.5 million chance for the last 31 games" of choosing all the winning teams, Bergen continued.

"It's easy to say, 'I'm over halfway there.

I've only got 31 games to go.'

Except those last 31 games are the harder ones."

It's like predicting 31 coin flips in a row, he said.

In the unlikely event that someone survives two rounds, the odds go down to 1 in 32,000.

"That's still a long ways to go, but it's enough to start getting excited," Bergen said.

"That's a lot better chance than winning the lottery on a single ticket.

But you still have to pick 15 in a row."

That's like correctly picking 15 coin flips in a row.

"You know Buffett and his people have calculated" the odds of someone winning, Bergen said.

John Diver, in charge of ESPN's Tournament Challenge, is happy to rain harder on Buffett's parade.

The Tournament Challenge is the sports network's own online March Madness basketball contest.

The Quicken/Buffett contest is hosted by Yahoo.com, an ESPN competitor.

More people have entered ESPN's contest than any other website's.

If anyone had gotten a perfect score, chances are it would have been with the network, Diver said, but that hasn't happened.

Not even close.

"Only once in the last seven years has anyone had a perfect first round of 32 games," Diver said.

"I don't want to say it's impossible, but it's impossible."

The ESPN Tournament Challenge offers a more modest prize to its winner, a $10,000 gift card to Best Buy.

But given the impossible odds of anyone picking all the winning teams, Diver has suggested to his bosses that they increase the prize.

"Let's offer a $1 trillion prize," he said.

"Let's one up Buffett."

