In January, mathematician Tim Chartier caught wind of a clever publicity stunt.

Quicken Loans and billionaire Warren Buffett, one of the richest men in the world, would give $1 billion to anyone who correctly predicted the winner of every game in the NCAA men's basketball tournament.

For those not glued to their televisions during March Madness, the nickname of the basketball tournament, that comes to 63 games.

The odds of calling every winning team is 1 in 9 quintillion — give or take.

"The moment I heard it, I said to my wife, 'I think things are going to get quite complicated for me this year,'" Chartier said of Buffett's Billion Dollar Bracket Challenge.

He was right.

Since the announcement, Chartier and a handful of mathematicians have become math rock stars.

They have been popping up everywhere in the national media, figuring out the odds of winning and offering expert advice to those wanting a piece of Buffett's $53 billion fortune.

In 2009, using what was basically middle school algebra, Chartier and his students at Davidson College came up with a formula to pick March Madness winners better than almost anyone else.

This year's March Madness basketball extravaganza began Thursday and ends with the Final Four games in early April.

A few days ago, Chartier offered a New York City bracketology seminar to about 45 basketball fans who paid up to $100 each to learn Chartier's method of picking the winners.

Whether luck or science, bracketology is the process of trying to pick the winning teams.

It is named after the form, called a bracket, that people use to fill in the team names.

Members of Charier's bracketology seminar include the four young girls who rotate in the title role of Broadway's "Matilda the Musical."

Chartier said the Buffett billion dollar challenge has also caught the attention of someone closer to home — his 11-year-old son, Noah, has insisted on having dad help with his own bracket.

"Daddy, it's a billion dollars," Noah said recently.

Chartier  added, "I said, 'How about this?

I'm the one who came up with the research.

You're going to make the choices.

If we win, you get $25 million a year for 40 years.

How about I get $1 million a year?'"

Chartier continued, "He didn't immediately reply.

He sat and thought about it.

Then he said, 'Yeah, I'm okay with that.'"

But even with the help of dad, Noah will likely have to make his millions some other way.

The odds of a perfect bracket is 1 in 9 quintillion, give or take — that's a nine followed by 18 zeroes.

Jeffrey Bergen, a professor at DePaul University in Chicago and another of the math rock stars, was the first to calculate the odds of a perfect bracket.

In truth, Bergen said, the chances of winning Buffett's contest aren't quite that bleak, but it's close.

"It would be like you and I sitting at a table," Bergen said this week.

"I'm going to flip a coin and you are going to accurately predict the coin flip 63 times in a row.

But if you know something about basketball, your odds are about 1 in 128 billion."

Whew, well that's a relief.

"If an individual has a perfect bracket after the first round, he still has only a 1 in 7.5 million chance for the last 31 games" of choosing all the winning teams, Bergen continued.

"It's easy to say, 'I'm over halfway there.

I've only got 31 games to go.'

Except those last 31 games are the harder ones.

You are looking at teams that are closer and closer to each other.

The coin flip (comparison) in the later rounds starts to become more reasonable.

It becomes more like predicting 31 coin flips in a row."

In the unlikely event that someone survives two rounds, the odds diminish to 1 in 32,000.

"That's still a long ways to go, but it's enough to start getting excited," Bergen said.

"That's a lot better chance than winning the lottery on a single ticket.

But you still have to pick 15 in a row.

You want to see how hard that is?

Sit down with a buddy at lunch and see how long it takes to get 15 coin flips in a row."

This just shows that the Quicken/Buffet stunt is just that — a stunt.

"You know Buffet and his people have calculated" the odds of someone winning, Bergen said.

John Diver, in charge of ESPN's Tournament Challenge, the sports network's own online bracket contest, is happy to rain harder on the Buffett parade.

The Quicken/Buffett contest is hosted by Yahoo.com, an ESPN competitor.

More people have filled out NCAA brackets with ESPN than at any other website.

If anyone had filled out a perfect bracket before, chances are it would have been with the network, Diver said, but that hasn't happened, not even close.

"Only once in the last seven years has anyone had a perfect first round of 32 games," Diver said.

"That's over roughly 40 million brackets.

I don't want to say it's impossible, but it's impossible."

The ESPN Tournament Challenge offers a more modest prize to its winner, a $10,000 gift card to Best Buy.

Other on-line brackets offer similar token prizes.

But given the impossible odds of anyone winning ESPN's Challenge, Diver has suggested to his bosses that they can safely offer a bigger prize.

"Let's offer a $1 trillion prize," he said.

"Let's one up Buffett."

