In January, mathematician Tim Chartier heard that one of the richest men in the world is sponsoring a contest.

Its prize is $1 billion.

But billionaire Warren Buffett's money is pretty safe.

The winner must pick all the winning teams in the NCAA March Madness basketball tournament.

The tournament is for college basketball teams.

The teams play 63 games.

And the chances of picking correctly every time is 1 in 9 quintillion.

"I think things are going to get quite complicated for me this year," Chartier said to his wife.

He was right.

Chartier and other mathematicians have become math rock stars.

They have popped up everywhere in newspapers and on TV across the country, telling people about their chances of winning.

In 2009, Chartier and his students came up with a way to pick winners better than almost anyone else.

They based their system on what was basically middle school math.

This year's basketball championship began Thursday.

It ends with the Final Four games in early April.

A few days ago, Chartier offered a class to about 45 basketball fans.

They paid up to $100 each to learn how to pick the winners.

Chartier said the Buffett contest has also caught the attention of someone closer to home.

His 11-year-old son, Noah, wants his dad to help with his own team choices.

"Daddy, it's a billion dollars," Noah said recently.

Chartier continued, "I said, 'How about this?

I'm the one who came up with the research.

You're going to make the choices.

If we win, you get $25 million a year for 40 years.

How about I get $1 million a year."

Chartier's son decided he could live with that.

But even with help, Noah will have to become a millionaire some other way.

The odds of choosing every winning team is 1 in 9 quintillion, give or take.

That's a nine followed by 18 zeroes.

Jeffrey Bergen is a professor at DePaul University in Chicago.

He was the first to figure out the chances of choosing all the winning teams.

"It would be like you and I sitting at a table," Bergen said.

"I'm going to flip a coin.

And you are going to accurately predict the coin flip 63 times in a row."

If you know something about basketball, your chances increase to 1 in 128 billion.

Whew.

That's a relief.

Say a person gets the first round of 32 games right, Bergen said.

He still has only a 1 in 7.5 million chance in winning Buffett's billion.

"It's easy to say, 'I'm over halfway there.

I've only got 31 games to go,'" he said.

Except those last 31 games are even harder.

It's like predicting 31 coin flips in a row.

In case someone survives two rounds, the odds are 1 in 32,000.

"That's still a long ways to go, but it's enough to start getting excited," Bergen said.

"That's a lot better chance than winning the lottery on a single ticket.

But you still have to pick 15 in a row."

John Diver is in charge of ESPN's Tournament Challenge.

He is happy to rain harder on Buffett's parade.

The Tournament Challenge is the sports network's own online March Madness basketball contest.

More people have entered ESPN's contest than any other website's.

No one has gotten a perfect score, Divers said.

Not even close.

"I don't want to say it's impossible," Divers said.

"But it's impossible."

The ESPN Tournament Challenge offers a $10,000 gift card to its winner.

But Diver wants to increase the prize.

He knows no one will win it.

"Let's offer a $1 trillion prize," he said.

"Let's one up Buffett."

