Andres Del Castillo practices bullfighting moves with his instructor in the parking garage of a small apartment building.

Just across the highway is Bogota's El Campin soccer stadium.

As Del Castillo, 18, sweeps a magenta cape, he emits a soft sound from his throat.

His chest is thrust forward, his lips are puckered and his mouth bulges.

He ends the pass with one leg fully extended behind him, his foot in a point.

The other leg is firmly planted below.

After the imaginary bull passes, his gaze lifts as he takes a few triumphant strides.

His teacher for the past six weeks has been Gonzalo Rincon.

He is the father of legendary Colombian bullfighter Cesar Rincon, who was famously lofted on the shoulders of the other bullfighters after four stunning performances in Madrid in 1991.

Bulls were once central to annual celebrations in Colombia's big cities and small towns.

Today, the Spanish colonial tradition is disappearing as the culture shifts.

In Colombia, most teenagers play Xbox, soccer or chase girls, not bulls.

Bullfighting faces sometimes violent protests and difficulties making money.

The 77-year-old  Rincon's goal is to change the art of bullfighting with new expressions and movements that have never been tried before.

He wants to thrill audiences worldwide just as his son did.

The soft-spoken Del Castillo dropped out of high school at 17.

He said training to be a bullfighter has made him more disciplined, but with great sacrifice.

His father refused to talk to him for six months, and he works odd jobs to pay his rent.

On a recent afternoon, Cesar Rincon watched a test of young bulls and cows at the historic Achury Viejo bull ranch.

The animals are tested to see which ones have the spirit for the sport.

"I think this is the lowest moment in the tradition," said Rincon, a bull rancher in retirement who lives in Madrid with his father.

He spends four months of the year in Colombia.

About a dozen bull ranches across the country have gone out of business in the last decade as fewer places host fights.

Meanwhile, ticket prices are too high for most Colombians.

The lowest paid workers would have to hand over a whole month's salary to buy a ticket for a lower-level seat at a bullfight in Medellin.

Benjamin de Los Rios, director of Medellin's Plaza de la Macarena, says international bullfighters that draw crowds earn up to $140,000 per afternoon.

The result is a half-empty arena and fewer parents passing on the tradition to their children.

Before a recent bullfight at la Macarena, a man who gave his name only as Juan G. for fear of threats from fans, led a protest.

About 30 college-aged students joined him.

"We don't think that anyone has the right to torture anything, animals included," the New Jersey-born Colombian said.

Policemen on horseback stood nearby, part of a group of 110 officers protecting the Plaza that day.

"It's a shift in generations.

The country is changing and we want to do away with violence."

De Los Rios blames Walt Disney.

Like others, he claims that when cartoons began to give human traits to animals, people began to treat them as human beings.

In Colombia, schools also make environmental preservation and understanding of animal abuse part of what students learn.

Some teachers tell children that bullfighting is wrong.

Colombia's Ministry of Education said bullfighting is not specifically addressed.

Any reference to bullfighting either in support or against it is the personal opinion of the teacher or school.

Cesar Rincon says the beauty of the art left by the Spanish to Mexico, Colombia and other countries should be preserved.

"We have to teach our roots, the backbone of our tradition," he said.

In recent years, people who oppose bullfighting appeared to be gaining the upper hand.

"Politicians have realized that they can win votes by saying they are against bullfighting," said Colombian bullfighter Manuel Libardo.

He was voted Colombia's best bullfighter this year but believes Colombia's bullfighting future is uncertain.

Bogota's fancy Plaza de Toros de Santamaria has been closed for the past two years.

It has suffered from an anti-bullfighting campaign that won the support of the city's mayor.

Colombia's other plazas suffered losses as a result, but recovered this year.

Bullfighters, too, have had to get second jobs.

Santiago Naranjo, a bullfighter since 2010, has a store at a Bogota shopping center.

He also studies business.

In 2011 in Ecuador's capital, Quito, a national vote prohibited the killing of animals for sport in the city.

Milton Calahorrano is president of Ecuador's bullfighting union.

He said the bullfighting business was greatly harmed by the change, but the Plaza still filled at least to three-quarters over the following two years.

Last year, the group decided it would not hold bullfights in Quito until the law is changed and the tradition of slaying the bull is restored.

A makeshift bullring was set up outside the city limits.

The group is anticipating a change this year.

