Bullfighting has a long tradition in Colombia.

Bulls once played an important part of yearly celebrations in cities and town.

The sport came to Colombia when it was ruled by Spain.

But things have changed.

Today, bullfighting is disappearing.

Some people protest at bullfights.

They are against the killing of the bulls.

The sport also no longer makes as much money as it used to.

Gonzalo Rincon wants to keep the tradition going.

He is the father of legendary Colombian bullfighter Cesar Rincon.

For the past six weeks, Gonzalo Rincon has trained young Andres Del Castillo.

The 18-year-old practices bullfighting moves with his teacher in a parking garage.

Bogota's El Campin soccer stadium is across the highway from where they train.

Del Castillo sweeps a bright pinkish-purple cape.

He ends the pass with one leg fully extended behind him.

The other leg is firmly planted below.

After the imaginary bull passes, he lifts his eyes and takes a few proud steps.

In Colombia, most teenagers play Xbox or soccer.

They chase girls, not bulls.

The 77-year-old Rincon's goal is to change the art of bullfighting.

He wants to add new movements that have never been tried before.

His son did the same thing when he thrilled audiences worldwide.

Del Castillo dropped out of high school at 17.

He said training to be a bullfighter has given him more self-control.

But he has made big sacrifices.

His father refused to talk to him for six months.

He works odd jobs to pay his rent.

"I think this is the lowest moment in the tradition," Cesar Rincon said.

He is no longer a bullfighter.

He's a bull rancher now.

He lives in Madrid with his father.

Rincon spends four months of the year in Colombia.

Fewer places hold bullfights in Colombia these days.

That has caused about a dozen bull ranches to go out of business in the last 10 years.

Ticket prices are too high for most Colombians.

A low-paid worker would have to spend a whole month's pay to see a fight.

Benjamin de Los Rios runs the Plaza de la Macarena in the city of Medellin.

He says bullfighters that draw crowds to the plaza get paid up to $140,000 per afternoon.

The result is a half-empty arena.

It means fewer parents pass the tradition on to their children.

About 30 college students protested before a recent bullfight at la Macarena.

A man named Juan G led them.

He did not want to give his full name.

He was afraid of threats from bullfighting fans.

"We don't think that anyone has the right to torture anything, animals included," the New Jersey-born Colombian said.

"It's a shift in generations.

The country is changing and we want to do away with violence."

De Los Rios blames Walt Disney.

He and others say that cartoonists began to draw animals to look and act a bit like humans.

Then people began to treat them as humans.

In Colombia, schools teach students about animal abuse.

Some teachers tell children that bullfighting is wrong.

Cesar Rincon says the beauty of bullfighting should be saved.

"We have to teach our roots, the backbone of our tradition," he said.

In recent years, people who are against bullfighting appeared to be winning.

Plaza de Toros de Santamaria is a fancy bullfighting arena in Bogota.

It has been closed for the past two years.

The city's mayor has sided with animal rights supporters who are fighting to end the sport.

Bullfighters have had to get second jobs.

Santiago Naranjo, a bullfighter since 2010, has a store at a Bogota shopping center.

He also studies business.

In 2011 in Ecuador, voters in the country's capital decided to stop the killing of animals for sport in the city.

Milton Calahorrano is president of Ecuador's bullfighting union.

He said the bullfighting business was greatly harmed by the change.

Still, the Plaza was at least three-quarters filled over the following two years.

Last year, the group decided it would not hold bullfights in Quito until the law is changed and bulls can be killed.

A bullring was set up outside the city limits.

The group expects a change this year.

