lot of high school seniors cruise to the end of school by springtime.

Maceo Rucker-Shivers cannot afford to join them.

His class work at Olympic High School in Charlotte, N.C., and his after-school job at nearby Bosch Rexroth Corp., are preparing him to work with machines.

His bosses watch to see whether his skills and dedication make it worth paying for him to go to community college.

"You have to bring your A-game every day," Rucker-Shivers said.

Olympic High is a special school that prepares students for a career.

Olympic High helped Rucker-Shivers find his interest in building high-tech factory equipment.

"Machines excite me.

They really do," he said, beaming.

The future of public education may look a lot like what Rucker-Shivers is doing now.

K-12 schools, community colleges and businesses will work more closely together.

People may see that training for skilled jobs means more than a four-year degree for many students.

And students will start making money right away.

They will not have a lot of college debt to pay off later.

Almost half the students who go to a four-year college leave without a diploma, a Harvard report said.

Minority and low-income students drop out even more often.

The report offered a solution: give students more choices in creating a future for themselves.

Involve companies in helping them get there.

In Europe, businesses and educators not only develop the next generation of workers; they also help young people become adults.

Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools Superintendent Heath Morrison believes in this system.

Charlotte is putting aside money to launch new schools focused on internships and career skills.

Olympic got a head start when it split into five career-themed mini-schools in 2006. Business partnerships, career exploration and real-life projects were a big part of the new approach.

The usual testing and memorization will not help students in the real world, said career development coordinator Michael Realon.

He used to work for business groups and now puts Olympic High in touch with businesses.

Realon says Olympic High helps students explore career prospects.

It starts with an online look at their skills and interests.

That gives them a list of their 20 best career "matches."

It is sort of like online job "dating.

"We tell them it's like eHarmony.

It's going to connect you to your soul-mate career that will make you happy," Realon said.

Rucker-Shivers knew he enjoyed working with his hands.

He volunteered to help build houses for the poor.

He also took classes in drafting, carpentry, wood shop and principles of engineering.

Advisers from companies help Olympic create classes to prepare students for skilled jobs.

At the math/science school, which Rucker-Shivers attends, the focus is energy and engineering.

Last summer, Rucker-Shivers got a paid internship with Siemens, a German company.

He followed machinists and engineers three days a week and spent two days studying at a community college.

It opened his eyes to the world of high-tech work.

"Siemens is three minutes from my house, and I didn't know it existed," Rucker-Shivers said.

Siemens has long paid young people for a combination of classroom work and on-the-job training.

Most are high school graduates.

Now a few high schoolers also get a chance.

Realon says students who get apprenticeships earn $9 to $10 an hour.

They even get paid for finishing high school and attending community college.

Five out of 10 summer interns were offered apprenticeships, but not Rucker-Shivers.

This taught him another lesson.

"You're not a kid anymore."

You have to work without being told what to do and solve problems, he said.

In January, Bosch Rexroth started hiring high school interns in the factory that makes manufacturing equipment.

Rucker-Shivers was chosen, along with Hopewell High student Carla Bailey.

Companies don't offer the apprenticeships just to be nice to kids.

They are also looking out for themselves.

It's tough to find workers who can do the job right away.

Textbook knowledge alone won't cut it.

In Germany, apprenticeships have been the way for companies to make sure they have the talent they need.

Rucker-Shivers took the internship with the hope of earning a full-fledged apprenticeship.

That would pay for community college and let him keep training on the job.

Instead of having to borrow for a traditional college education, he would get a free education.

Plus, there would almost certainly be a job waiting for him at graduation.

Bosch staff will not discuss pay.

Realon says a national report shows machinist technicians can earn $60,000 to $100,000 a year.

The partnerships are good in another way.

Schools may not be able to afford their own machine shops, but students can go to the actual workplaces instead.

Rucker-Shivers recently got good news about his own economic future.

His hard work paid off: He got an apprenticeship with Bosch.

