It took Army veteran Francisco "Frank" Miranda about three years to find a job that was a good fit when he returned from Afghanistan.

Since August, Miranda has been working at Home Depot in Totowa, N.J.

He works there with two fellow vet employees, and they refer to each other by their former military ranks.

"That's the respect that we give each other," said Miranda, a 50-year-old Woodland Park, N.J., resident.

"They call me by saying, 'Hey, master sergeant.'"

Home Depot is one of a number of companies that have stepped up their efforts to hire U.S. military veteran and help them adjust to life back home.

The chain of home-improvement stores employs 35,000 veterans.

Ex-military personnel make up around 10 percent of its workforce.

It has committed to hire about 55,000 vets over the next five years.

And Home Depot isn't the only business that's looking to beef up its staff.

Others are trying to find innovative ways beyond job fairs to connect with veterans.

This year, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. pledged to hire every veteran who wanted a job and who had left the service the year before.

Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey and power company PSE&amp;G each tested out separate programs aimed at matching them with veterans to hire.

Disabled vets handled customer calls for PSE&amp;G following Superstorm Sandy last year.

And last month, the White House unveiled "Warriors 4 Wireless".

It is a program seeking to place 5,000 vets in jobs in the wireless telecom industry by 2015.

Alex Leniw, a 33-year-old Garfield, N.J., man who served 10 years in the Coast Guard, knows firsthand how hard it can be for a veteran to get a job.

When he got out of the service, he attended Caldwell College for two years and graduated.

For a year since then, he has been hunting for work.

"It's just so frustrating," Leniw said.

"The economy's not helping.

I had my resume on Monster.com for a while, and that went nowhere.

Every job I'm applying for, there's over 100 other" people applying.

Veterans returning to civilian life, or life outside the military, have new battles to fight on the home front.

They face a competitive job market; are sometimes emotionally challenged by the change from the military; and they often lack the ability to explain and translate how their military skills can benefit an employer.

Joblessness among veterans has been declining nationally.

It fell to 7 percent last year from 8.7 percent in 2010.

"Most of the employers are very eager to hire veterans," said New Jersey Labor Commissioner Harold Wirths.

"I always tell them not only morally is it the correct thing to do, but economically it's great.

You're getting a highly skilled employee.

You don't have to worry about telling them how to dress.

They come to work on time.

They're used to harsh conditions."

Wirths also said younger ex-service members often go to college under the GI Bill and are therefore counted as unemployed.

The GI Bill is a government program that provides college tuition for veterans.

That can make veteran unemployment figures seem higher, he said, including in New Jersey, where the unemployment rate for veterans was 10 percent last year.

At job fairs, the commissioner said, he is seeing many Vietnam War-era vets, who are in the 50- to 60-year-age range, seeking work.

Miranda is in that age bracket.

He spent 27 years in the U.S. Army, serving in places such as Afghanistan and Kuwait, before retiring in October 2010.

The change took an emotional toll on him, Miranda said.

"It was a big adjustment," he said.

"It was overwhelming not having that responsibility of commanding and being responsible for soldiers."

Miranda worked briefly for a supermarket, and eventually applied online for a job at Home Depot.

Now he works about 25 to 30 hours a week, "doing the racetrack," running from department to department to help customers.

At Home Depot, Miranda said he has a chance to advance and is working for a company that shares the same values of the Army — such as loyalty, duty, respect and service.

"We really have been proactive trying to recruit military," said Pam Frazier who works in human resources for Home Depot.

Home Depot holds its own job fairs for veterans at its stores.

It has a "military skills translator" on its website to help veterans explain how their military experience can be applied at the chain, she said.

"We are looking for knowledgeable, hard-working, solution-based experience, and of course customer service is a definite plus," Frazier said.

"We really targeted military veterans because they tend to stay with you.''

