It took Army veteran Francisco "Frank" Miranda about three years to find a job that was a good fit when he returned from Afghanistan.

Since August, Miranda has been working at Home Depot in Totowa, N.J.

He works there with two fellow vets.

They call each other by their old military titles.

"That's the respect that we give each other," said Miranda.

He is a 50-year-old who lives in Woodland Park, N.J. "They call me by saying, 'Hey, master sergeant.'"

Home Depot is one of a number of companies that have stepped up their efforts to hire U.S. military veterans, or people who used to be soldiers or sailors.

They are helping ex-service members such as Miranda who have struggled to find work and to adjust to life back home.

The chain of home-improvement stores has 35,000 veterans working for it.

That is about one out of every 10 workers.

It has committed to hire about 55,000 vets over the next five years.

And Home Depot isn't the only business that's looking to beef up its staff.

Others are trying to find new ways beyond job fairs to connect with veterans.

This year, Wal-Mart promised to hire every veteran who wanted a job.

Health insurer Horizon Blue Cross Blue Shield of New Jersey tested out a new program to hire veterans.

So did power company PSE&amp;G. Disabled vets handled customer calls for PSE&amp;G after Hurricane Sandy last year.

And last month, the White House unveiled "Warriors 4 Wireless."

It is a program seeking to place 5,000 vets in jobs in mobile phone businesses by 2015.

Alex Leniw is a 33-year-old Garfield, N.J., man who served 10 years in the Coast Guard.

He knows how hard it can be for a veteran to get a job.

When he got out of the service, he attended Caldwell College for two years and graduated.

For a year since then, he has been hunting for work.

"It's just so frustrating," Leniw said.

"The economy's not helping.

I had my resume on Monster.com for a while, and that went nowhere.

Every job I'm applying for, there's over 100 other" people applying.

Veterans returning to civilian life, or life outside the military, have new battles to fight.

They face a tough job market.

And they often lack the ability to explain how their military skills can benefit an employer.

"Most of the employers are very eager to hire veterans," said New Jersey Labor Commissioner Harold Wirths.

"I always tell them not only morally is it the correct thing to do, but economically it's great.

You're getting a highly skilled employee.

You don't have to worry about telling them how to dress.

They come to work on time.

They're used to harsh conditions."

Wirths also said younger ex-service members often go to college because the government will pay for their classes.

That means they are counted as unemployed.

That can make veteran unemployment figures seem higher, he said.

At job fairs, the commissioner said he is seeing many vets from the Vietnam War looking for work.

They are in the 50- to 60-year-age range.

Miranda is that old.

He spent 27 years in the U.S. Army, serving in places such as Afghanistan and Kuwait, before retiring in October 2010.

The change was hard on him, Miranda said.

"It was a big adjustment," he said.

"It was overwhelming not having that responsibility of commanding and being responsible for soldiers."

Miranda worked briefly for a supermarket, and eventually applied online for a job at Home Depot.

Now he works about 25 to 30 hours a week, "doing the racetrack."

He runs from department to department to help customers.

At Home Depot, Miranda said he has a chance to advance.

He also likes working for a company that shares the same values of the Army — such as loyalty, duty, respect and service.

"We really have been proactive trying to recruit military," said Pam Frazier.

She is a manager for the Home Depot district where Miranda works.

Home Depot holds its own job fairs for veterans at its stores.

It has a "military skills translator" on its website.

It helps veterans explain how their military experience can be applied at the chain, she said.

"We are looking for knowledgeable, hard-working, solution-based experience, and of course customer service is a definite plus," Frazier said.

"We really targeted military veterans because they tend to stay with you.''

