The monarch butterfly is poisonous to its enemies.

Animals and birds that try to eat the insect will become very sick.

Now, people are worried that the butterfly is being poisoned.

The number of monarch butterflies across the United States is shrinking.

In 2013, the number of monarchs was one-tenth of what it usually is.

A group of people have joined together to protect the monarchs.

These people are called environmentalists.

They care deeply about the plants and animals on the Earth.

They want the butterfly to be put on the endangered species list.

Animals on this list receive protection from the government.

There are laws that protect endangered species.

The environmentalists wrote a letter to the Fish and Wildlife Service.

It is a government group.

Fish and Wildlife helps protect endangered species.

The environmentalists asked them to protect the butterflies.

The environmentalists believe that a chemical called Roundup is part of the reason that the butterflies are dying so fast.

Roundup is a chemical spray that farmers put on crops.

It is called a herbicide.

Herbicides kill weeds so that "good" crops can grow stronger.

However, Roundup also kills milkweed.

Milkweed grows near the crops.

Monarch caterpillars eat milkweed.

When the milkweed dies, the monarch caterpillars starve.

Roundup is made by Monsanto Company.

Charla Lord works at Monsanto.

She does not believe Monsanto products kill butterflies.

She said there are other factors harming the butterflies.

Weather like snow and frost might hurt them, Lord said.

Logging could also be to blame.

The environmentalists agreed that butterflies might be dying for other reasons.

Weather can hurt the butterflies.

If the weather is too hot or if there is not enough water, butterflies may die.

Humans threaten butterflies, too.

When people cut down trees to build houses and spread out, away from cities, they can damage the land where butterflies live.

Millions of butterflies are dying every year.

In the mid-1990s, there were about 1 billion butterflies in the United States.

In 2013, there were only 35 million.

Environmentalists hope the population increases soon.

They hope that the Fish and Wildlife Service adds the monarch butterfly to the endangered species list.

Right now, the butterfly is not protected.

