SHINGTON - The colorful monarch butterfly is in danger.

Environmentalists believe an enemy other than the changing climate is hurting the insect.

Over the last year, the population of monarch butterflies across the United States fell to 90 percent below its 20-year average.

To halt the population loss, a number of groups made a request that the Fish and Wildlife Service grant the butterfly endangered species protection.

Environmentalists believe that this formal classification will help bring more attention to the shrinking number of monarchs throughout the country.

The petition requests that the Fish and Wildlife Service aggressively protect the species and its different habitats across the county.

The environmental groups believe the culprit responsible for the butterfly's decline is Monsanto Company.

Monsanto is an agricultural biotechnology company.

They produce genetically engineered plants and chemicals.

Monsanto's specialized products can have a huge impact on the lifestyle of other plants and animals.

Monsanto produces a chemical spray for plants called Roundup.

The spray is a "potent killer of milkweed, the monarch caterpillar's only food," according to a statement from the Center for Biological Diversity, the Center for Food Safety and the Xerces Society.

According to the statement, most monarchs are born in the Midwest.

The use of chemicals like Roundup on genetically modified plants is also common in that region.

The surge of Roundup and Roundup Ready crops - or crops that are not affected by chemical sprays - comes at the expense of the milkweed plants.

Ultimately, it harms the monarch caterpillars, who starve without healthy milkweed to eat.

Monsanto does not believe that its chemicals are behind the declining population.

Charla Lord, a Monsanto spokeswoman, said there are other reasons to explain the population loss.

"Scientists think a number of inter-related factors are contributing to the decline and year-to-year variation of monarch butterfly populations," she said.

Those factors include weather events, like snow and frost, logging in Mexico, and simply the way that humans use land.

She said Monsanto would help restore monarch habitats, but did not offer specific ideas.

The groups who filed the petition acknowledge that Monsanto is not the only factor behind the monarch's decline.

The fragile butterfly is also affected by weather and construction.

Heatwaves and droughts can harm the fragile butterfly, who needs water and stable climates.

Also, as more people move from cities to rural areas, new construction can damage butterfly habitats.

This process is called urban sprawl.

The butterfly population in 2013, they say, was about 35 million.

In the mid-1990s, there were about 1 billion monarchs.

Scientists like Tierra Curry from the Center for Biological Diversity, are hoping that good weather this year may boost numbers again.

"We're at risk of losing a symbolic backyard beauty that has been part of the childhood of every generation," she said.

The petitioners feel that something must be done — fast.

By filing a petition with Fish and Wildlife, they took the first step in earning federal protection for the butterfly.

The agency has 90 days to respond to the request, although they may take up to nine months to fully come to decision.

