Waist-deep in the chilly Kern River, David Fiori braced against the current and stabbed a shovel into the river bottom.

As he tossed the muck downstream, his eyes wandered to a potential prize — a spot on the opposite bank of the river.

There, the crystal clear waters slowed as they tumbled over underwater boulders — a perfect place for finding gold.

The spot couldn't be reached.

Not on this day — too deep, too much current — but soon.

Across California, the drought has reduced the flow of rivers and creeks to the point that a new wave of gold prospectors are able to get to spots that haven't been reached in decades.

The prospectors are well aware of the pain the drought has brought their state, and no one is happy about that.

But they are gleeful about their new quest, to find a silver lining in flecks of gold.

"That's where I'm going next, as soon as I can," Fiori said, nodding toward the other side of the river "Another couple months, this thing will be down to a trickle.

It's going to be amazing."

California is in the third year of severe drought — 2013 was the driest since the 1500s, according to one study.

The summer will be hot, officials predict, and the state's snowpack that typically provides about a third of the water used on farms and by cities is at just 18 percent of its average.

This will mean a loss of $1.7 billion to the state.

Farmland sits unplowed, thousands of jobs are lost and salmon eggs are left exposed to the air and the harsh sun, killing them.

But for one small, proud community — gold prospectors — the drought has been a boon.

Prospectors are famously secretive, and don't like giving too much information, for fear that others will take their best spots.

But with gold prices still impressive at more than $1,250 an ounce, mining supply stores have seen a surge in sales.

People are signing up for gold prospecting class, and the bug is even spreading to dry areas that haven't been underwater for many years.

This is not a new gold rush.

During the real thing in the mid-1800s, about 300,000 people were drawn to California to dig for gold.

And prospectors sometimes just bent down and plucked nuggets of gold off the dirt.

But with legal limits on the use of mechanized machines that vacuum up large amounts of dirt, the vast majority of today's prospectors won't make much money.

It's less a gold rush and more like a fever.

"It's not the normal, that's for sure,"  said Farris Farnsworth.

The 66-year-old, retired fix-it man swirled a handful of river sand and water in a mining pan on a recent weekend morning.

"If somebody was to walk up and see us down here, they'd probably think we were a little nuts."

Most days, you wouldn't find a soul around here, but on this morning, nine people stood shoulder to shoulder in the middle of the river, all prospecting for gold.

The shore was littered with buckets, mining pans and shovels.

"Not all that long ago, this would have been underwater," said Jeanne Nelle, 56, as she took a break on the riverbank in a lawn chair.

The opening to the river was matted with footprints and reduced to a mud bath.

Prospectors climbed back to land by grabbing onto overhead branches, sometimes holding their backs after several hours of stooping over the river.

"It's not for everybody," Farnsworth said.

"If it was easy, everybody would be doing it."

It's more a labor of love, really — a throwback to the pace of another age when life couldn't be rushed.

On this morning, most of the prospectors had positioned sluices, large metal trays with holes to filter soil, in the rolling water of the Kern.

Shoveling muck from the bottom of the river through the sluices gave the prospectors the material they were really after — "black sand," which is closer to the bedrock.

Gold is heavy, 19 times heavier than water and eight times heavier than the muck.

"It wants to go to the bottom," said Adolph Lostaunau, 46, president of the Golden Valley Prospectors Association.

"The gold just sits there and waits for somebody to get it — like me."

The black sand was taken in buckets to the banks of the river.

There, it was sifted, handful by handful, in mining pans and swirled with water until a prospector could "see color" — tiny flakes of gold.

Although most prospectors see gold virtually every time out, nuggets are almost never found.

Typically, the luckiest of the group score a "picker," a flake heavy enough to make a tiny ping when it lands in a mining pan.

Those who do find full-fledged nuggets speak of them in almost magical terms.

"I found one that big," said Jay O'Dell, holding up a small but verifiable pebble for comparison's sake.

O'Dell, 67, who has been prospecting for 40 years, found his nugget in Jamestown, near Sonora.

He made a pendant out of it.

He's never worn it, because he's afraid he'll lose it.

Today, the gold in his pan wouldn't fetch enough money to pay for his gas to travel here from his home in Porterville.

But you never know, and that's a notion that has been drawing prospectors to these rivers for a long time.

"Grab a pan, man, and jump in," Farnsworth called over his shoulder as he headed back into the river.

"You never know — you might get you a big old nugget."

