California Chrome has won the Kentucky Derby and Preakness.

A horse needs to win those two races, plus the Belmont Stakes, to win horse racing's greatest honor, the Triple Crown.

For California Chrome, all that is left is Belmont.

If he wins that race, he will become horse racing's 12th Triple Crown winner.

Even more impressive, he will be the first horse to do it in 36 years.

A horse named Affirmed won the Triple Crown in 1978.

Since then, 12 horses have won the Derby and Preakness, but none of them won the Belmont.

Only 11 horses won all three races.

The Triple Crown has been around for 139 years.

Some people in racing are not sure if a horse will win the Triple Crown again.

If California Chrome does not win the crown, "I will never see it in my entire lifetime," said Steve Coburn.

He is one of California Chrome's owners.

The 36 years since a Triple Crown winner is the longest wait ever.

Before Secretariat won in 1973, the last horse to win the Triple Crown was in 1948.

The wins were 25 years apart.

California Chrome's owners and trainer hope their horse will break that streak.

Spectacular Bid won the series' first two races in 1979.

He lost at Belmont.

With his loss, a string of near-misses began.

California Chrome jockey Victor Espinoza has been in the running for the Triple Crown before.

He rode War Emblem to victory in the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness in 2002.

He said he'll likely enjoy himself more this time around.

Thoroughbred racing is a big business.

California Chrome's owners and trainers seem out of place compared with the other owners who have a lot more money.

They have already experienced the pressure of being the Derby winner.

But all their attention will be on California Chrome.

"I wouldn't want to be in anybody else's shoes right now," Sherman said.

"I think when we get to Belmont, this horse is going to run big."

Other trainers with Triple Crown dreams likely have felt the same.

But Steven Brandt said horses have changed since Affirmed won.

Brandt owns Kid Cruz, who raced at the Preakness.

The races still matter, he said.

But horses are not made to race as frequently as they were 15 or 20 years ago, he said.

"So I think it makes it tougher.

If you can do it today, you really have an excellent horse — not to take away from other Triple Crown winners.

But racing and medication and everything was different back then."

Owners and trainers prefer more rest for their horses between races.

So horses who run at Churchill Downs and Pimlico also face tougher competition at the Belmont.

Several Derby horses skip the Preakness.

They wait for the Belmont to give them a better chance.

Those horses have five weeks' rest between races.

Coburn argued against that practice after the Preakness.

"There are trainers out there that train horses just to upset the apple cart."

He added, "They don't want a Triple Crown winner.

They want a paycheck."

He said only horses who ran the Kentucky Derby should be allowed in the Preakness and the Belmont.

Horses should have to run the Preakness to be in the Belmont, he said.

Bob Baffert trained Bayern.

He said Chrome is a "cool customer."

"He does everything right," Baffert said.

Linda Rice trains Kid Cruz.

She also said California Chrome has a chance to win the Triple Crown.

Not having one since Affirmed proves just how hard it is.

"I think, sooner or later, it'd be good if we had one," Rice said.

"We're due."

