Sitting in a dirty bar down a back alley in the Cambodian capital, Ros Choun struggled to explain how he ended up here.

"They took my whole life, and there is nothing I can do about it," he said.

Despite his Cambodian looks, Choun had spent almost his entire life in the United States.

In fact, at 35, he doesn't think of himself as anything but American.

His family sought safety in America in the early 1980s after fleeing their homeland.

A civil war and mass killings left Cambodia in ruins and almost 2 million people dead.

"I was 6 months old when I left this country," he said.

His voice was filled with anger.

"I'm American — but no one told us if we go to prison we could get deported back to Cambodia."

Since 2002, hundreds of Cambodian-born men and women have been deported from the United States to Cambodia.

Deportation means they are sent back to their country of origin, no matter how long ago they left.

They lose the ability to come back to the U.S.

The deportees are the victims of a tough law and an agreement made after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

It allowed the deportation of any Cambodian found guilty of a serious crime who hadn't become a U.S. citizen.

Few of those who arrived in the U.S. in the late 1970s and 1980s realized that being allowed to live in the U.S. was not the same as citizenship.

"I didn't know anything about any of this until 2011," said Aun Khoy, 51.

He first came to the U.S. as a teenager.

Khoy was sent back to Cambodia two years ago for a crime from over a decade ago.

At first there were just a trickle of deportations.

Recently it has turned into a flood.

The total number is now estimated at around 400.

"It's averaged about 10 deportees a month between 2009 and now," said Keo Sarith.

He directs a Phnom Penh-based support center set up to help returnees.

Another 2,000 ethnic Cambodians in the U.S. are on the deportation list because of their criminal records.

They could be picked up at any time.

"Many people are going about their ordinary lives.

Working, studying, raising their families.

But any knock on the door could be the immigration officers," said Bill Herod, an American pastor.

Herod lives in Cambodia.

He has been helping the returnees since the first groups arrived in 2002.

"It's a terrible injustice, but it's legal."

Choun was picked up three years ago from his family's home in Atlanta.

His crime?

As a 16-year-old he had fired a gun at school to scare a group of bullies.

He spent seven years behind bars.

On release he thought he could put it all behind him.

"For a decade after I was released, I had no issues with the law.

Ten years working, paying taxes and not even a traffic ticket," he said, shaking his head.

Choun said there are other people whose situation is even worse.

"We have a 72-year-old grandfather here.

He hit his son for joining a gang in 1986," he said.

"He was a teacher and now he drinks his life away.

You can't get a job here if you are 70 years old."

Most of the deportees arrive in Cambodia with just the clothes on their backs.

Many spend their first few weeks in one of the small rooms above the support center's office.

After that, they must make a new life in a country where most people are poor.

"The Cambodian government has enough people to worry about and just isn't interested in them," says Keo.

Ken Touch arrived in Cambodia just over a year ago.

It was the first time the 39-year-old had left the U.S. since coming from Cambodia as an infant.

In 2000, Touch was involved in a bar fight and shot someone in the thigh.

After 10 years in prison and another year in an immigration detention center, he arrived in Cambodia.

"I knew after being released I would get deported.

The whole time I was in prison I had that hanging over my head," he said.

One of the biggest difficulties for Touch is knowing that unless the law changes, he will never be allowed back into the U.S. Not even for big family events or funerals.

"Those who get sentenced to life in prison in the U.S. at least get to see their families, and if someone dies they take you to the funeral," he said.

"If my parents pass away, I won't even get to attend their funerals."

