Camden, New Jersey, is struggling.

Factories in the city have shut down, and many people have trouble finding jobs.

Today, Camden is one of the country's poorest and most dangerous cities.

Young people growing up in Camden face many difficulties.

Hopeworks 'N Camden is a program that tries to help.

It offers technology and training classes to young people.

At Hopeworks, students learn how to design websites.

At the same time, they receive help finding jobs and finishing school.

This weekend, Hopeworks will have what is called a hackathon.

It will be the first in Camden's history.

A hackathon is an event in which a group of computer programmers gather and work together.

Some hackathons last for a day.

Others go on for a whole week.

Programmers from around the country will come to Camden to take part in Hopeworks' hackathon.

Programmers design the technology that runs on computers, such as websites.

Some programmers from the car company Subaru are coming.

Subaru will soon move its offices to Camden.

The hackathon will give Hopeworks' students a chance to learn from other computer programmers.

At the same time, they will be giving back to their city.

Programmers at the hackathon will work on websites that help the people of Camden.

For example, they will make a new website for the Mayor's Youth Council.

It works to improve services for young people in Camden.

Dan Rhoten is in charge of Hopeworks.

He hopes that the hackathon will make Camden proud.

He also wants to show that students of all backgrounds can work with computers.

Rhoten said he plans to hold hackathons every six months or so.

Programmers could help Camden in many ways.

For example, the city might want one of its websites to be updated.

Hackathon programmers could make it happen in a single weekend.

These days, Camden is undergoing many changes.

The state government has taken over the city's schools, because they were doing badly.

The county government has taken over the police force.

Meanwhile, several businesses are moving to Camden.

Along with Subaru, American Water and a company called Holtec are coming to Camden.

The Philadelphia 76ers basketball team is building a place there to practice.

As these changes unfold, young people in Camden can help the city, too.

One student at Hopeworks is named Gabrielle Lee.

She wants to leave Camden for now.

Later in her life, she hopes to return to teach English as a second language.

She said that being at Hopeworks makes her want to share her skills.

West Lalanne is another Hopeworks student.

He said that hackathons can bring people together.

