Happiness is right around the corner.

That's the message posted on the Facebook page of San Jose Family Camp.

The camp near Yosemite National Park was partly burned by fire last summer.

But it will be ready for campers when it opens Friday.

In many ways, though, happiness is only a dream for the camp next door.

That camp is named Berkeley Tuolumne Family camp.

Last August, it was destroyed in the same wildfire.

The Rim Fire was the biggest wildfire in the area's history.

It destroyed more than 400 square miles.

That is an area about the same size as the city of San Antonio, Texas.

The blaze also wiped out the heart of Berkeley camp.

No one was hurt.

But the fire destroyed the camp's dining hall and outdoor theater.

It also burned the "Green Chair Circle" that campers enjoyed on lazy afternoons.

"It's like your home burning down," said Scott Gelfand.

Gelfand, who is 55, has gone to Berkeley Tuolumne Family Camp each summer for 29 years.

He worked there over the summer.

And he had been bringing his family ever since.

"The memories are so deep and so important and so loving and so family- and community-oriented, I think most people are still in shock."

Until the camp is rebuilt, campers are invited to another youth camp.

It is called Sierra Family Camp.

Located at a higher altitude near Echo Lake, Sierra Family Camp is windier and colder at night.

It is also a lot smaller.

There's a swimming pool instead of a river.

For campers, that may be the hardest thing of all.

Rikki Moreno has mixed feelings.

She's been camp nurse for six years.

She has taken her kids to Berkeley Tuolumne Camp for a week every summer.

She plans to try the new camp this year.

"It's like everything's been shaken underneath us.

We're super-excited, but it's kind of scary," said Moreno.

Her daughters are 7 and 9.

California is in the middle of an extreme drought.

The threat of fire is severe again this summer.

Cal Fire, California's Department of Fire and Forest Protection,  has hired extra firefighters.

The trees have been trimmed way back and brush hauled away.

"There's always a chance for another fire," San Jose camp manager Jena Sorrells said.

"We can't sit and worry too much.

But we can do a lot of prevention."

San Jose Family Camp is as ready as it can be.

"If you're standing in the middle of camp, you would have no idea that a fire happened," Sorrells said.

"We're so lucky to have what we have.

But (the Berkeley camp) got nothing left."

Scott Ferris is Berkeley's head of parks and recreation.

He said counselors will try to make the new camp as much like the old one as possible.

In late May, volunteers made 20 green chairs for a new "Green Chair Circle."

It will be sad when Berkeley campers sing the old campfire song at the new camp.

The song goes, "There's no place like Camp Tuolumne, there's no spot that I would rather be."

But the show must go on, says Gelfand.

This year, the musical will be a takeoff of "The Wizard of Oz."

It will be called "The Wizard of Echo Lake."

In it, Dorothy is sad because she doesn't have a camp to go to.

She meets up with a dishwasher, a cowardly fix-it guy and a camp leader who sings, "If I only had a camp."

The characters fight the evil camper from the east who takes away their camp spirit, Gelfand said.

They find another camp just like the old one.

It has the same circle of green chairs.

It also has the theme days and dances and the same campfire song.

It has a happy ending.

"The camp lives inside you.

And friendships never die," Gelfand said.

