Happiness is right around the corner.

That's the message on the Facebook page of San Jose Family Camp.

Last summer, a wildfire partly burned the camp.

But this year it's as good as new and opens Friday.

The same fire destroyed the camp next door, Berkeley Tuolumne Family camp.

Both camps are in the Sierra Nevada mountains near Yosemite National Park.

"It's like your home burning down," said Scott Gelfand.

Gelfand has gone to the Berkeley Family Camp each summer for 29 years.

People's memories of the camp are deep and loving.

"I think most people are still in shock," he said.

The fire destroyed more than 400 square miles.

Such an area is bigger than the entire city of San Diego.

The blaze wiped out the heart of the Berkeley camp.

No one was hurt.

But the fire destroyed the camp's dining hall.

It also destroyed its "Green Chair Circle."

Campers enjoyed sitting on the chairs on lazy afternoons.

The camp will be rebuilt, even if it takes years.

Until then, Berkeley campers can go to another youth camp.

It is called the Sierra Family Camp.

That camp is higher in the mountains.

It is colder at night and much smaller.

The camp has a swimming pool instead of a river.

For campers, that may be the toughest change.

Rikki Moreno has mixed feelings.

She's been camp nurse for six years.

She plans to try the new camp with her daughters.

"We're super-excited," Moreno said.

"But it's kind of scary."

California is in the middle of a drought.

It is very dry and the chance of fire is high.

The state is trying to prevent another fire.

Extra firefighters were hired.

Workers trimmed trees way back and hauled dry brush away.

San Jose camp is as ready as it ever will be.

You can't tell there was ever a fire,  said Jenna Sorrells.

She is the camp manager.

"We're so lucky to have what we have.

But (Berkeley camp has) got nothing left."

The new Sierra camp will be as much like the old Berkeley camp as possible.

Volunteers even made 20 green chairs for a new "Green Chair Circle."

Gelfand said, "The camp lives inside you.

And friendships never die."

