Happiness is right around the corner.

That hope is posted on the Facebook page of San Jose Family Camp near Yosemite National Park.

The camp was scorched on the edges by fire last summer but will be ready for returning generations of campers when it opens for the season Friday.

In many ways, though, happiness is only a dream for the Berkeley Tuolumne Family Camp next door.

The Berkeley camp's Facebook page is now a memorial site.

This summer, the Berkeley camp is moving to temporary quarters high in the Sierra Nevada mountains.

Last August, its beloved camp near Yosemite was destroyed in August by the same raging fire that threatened San Jose's camp 7 miles away.

The biggest wildfire in the Sierra Nevada's history, the Rim Fire destroyed more than 400 square miles before it was extinguished in early September.

The blaze wiped out the heart of Berkeley camp, built by the city in 1922.

It destroyed the dining hall with its stone fireplace and rocking chairs and the amphitheater where talent shows and staff musicals were performed under the stars.

The fire also burned the "Green Chair Circle" of painted wooden chairs enjoyed on lazy afternoons close to the river.

"It's like your home burning down," said Scott Gelfand, 55, who hadn't missed a year at Tuolumne Family Camp for 29 years.

He worked his first summer there and had been bringing his family ever since.

"The memories are so deep and so important and so loving and so family- and community-oriented, I think most people are still in shock."

Until the camp is rebuilt, the city is inviting campers to a second, smaller youth camp a mile from Echo Lake near Lake Tahoe, called Sierra Family Camp.

Located at a higher altitude, Sierra Family Camp is windier and colder at night and can accommodate only about half the campers, who will have to eat meals in shifts.

Hardest of all?

It has a swimming pool instead of a river.

Rikki Moreno, who'll try the new camp this year, has mixed feelings.

She's been camp nurse for six years and took her two school-age children to Berkeley's Tuolumne Family Camp for a week every summer.

"It's like everything's been shaken underneath us.

We're super-excited, but it's kind of scary," said Moreno, whose daughters are prime camper ages at 7 and 9.

"While my kids know the camp is burned, it's going to be a very different experience to show up at camp but have it not be camp."

In the midst of an extreme drought, the threat of fire is severe again this summer, but it's something that, as Moreno puts it, "I just can't ...

I can't think about it."

Cal Fire has hired extra firefighters as it braces for the season.

As of May 1, the Sierra snowpack, the layers of snow in the mountains, was only 18 percent of the historic average.

Vegetation is tinder dry and San Jose Family Camp is as ready as it can be.

"There's always a chance for another fire," camp manager Jena Sorrells said.

"We can't sit and worry too much, but we can do a lot of prevention."

In the same meadow where San Jose campers have been gathering for singalongs around a nightly campfire, the trees have been trimmed way back and brush hauled away.

It's in this meadow that Cal Fire, California's Department of Fire and Forest Protection, stationed its trucks to battle last summer's blaze.

The camp was evacuated before 14 of 60 tent cabins were burned to ashes.

Unlike the heavily wooded and harder-to-access Berkeley camp, the big open meadow at the San Jose camp was what saved it.

Cal Fire was able to station its firetrucks and battle the blaze from there.

"If you're standing in the middle of camp, you would have no idea that a fire happened," Sorrells said.

"We're so lucky to have what we have.

But they've got nothing left."

San Jose is letting the Berkeley campers stay there at a discount.

But the traditions that make up the soul of each camp are different.

And Scott Ferris, Berkeley's head of parks and recreation, says his staff at Echo Lake will "try to recreate the Tuolumne Camp experience as best we can."

In late May, a crew of devoted volunteers spent a day making 20 green chairs that will be taken to Echo Lake for the summer.

Tears are sure to flow when the displaced Berkeley campers sing the campfire song they've been singing for generations.

It begins, "There's no place like Camp Tuolumne, there's no spot that I would rather be."

But the show must go on, says Gelfand, who also has written and produced the staff musical that's performed each Saturday night.

This year, the musical will be a takeoff of "The Wizard of Oz" called "The Wizard of Echo Lake."

In it, Dorothy is sad because she doesn't have a camp to go to.

She meets up with a dishwasher, a cowardly maintenance guy and a rec leader who sings, "If I only had a camp."

The characters fight the evil camper from the east who takes away their camp spirit, Gelfand said, and they find another camp with the same traditions: the circle of green chairs, the theme days and dances, the same campfire song.

It has a happy ending.

"The camp lives inside you and friendships never die," Gelfand said, "even if they get burned down."

