  In the 1880s, aboriginal children in Canada were sent to live at schools away from their families.

They were badly treated and many died at these schools.

The schools existed for about 100 years.

The stories of the children were hidden even longer.

Last Tuesday, a new report finally told what happened.

The report came from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC).

The TRC is part of the Canadian government.

It wants to tell the truth about what happened and to build peace between the Canadian government and the aboriginal people.

Aboriginal people lived in Canada before the European settlers came to the country.

The new settlers wanted the aboriginal people to forget their native culture. Canada had a law that required the children to attend the residential schools. The report called the law "a cultural genocide."

Genocide is the planned killing of a large group of people.

Victims are targeted mainly because of their race or ethnicity.

The report said that more than 3,200 children at the schools died while attending.

It also said that many were buried in unmarked graves.

The TRC released its final report at an emotionally charged ceremony in Ottawa, the capital of Canada.

They had been working on it for six years.  Justice Murray Sinclair is the chairman of the TRC.

He worked with two other members to gather the information for the report.

They traveled across Canada to hear heartbreaking testimony from more than 6,000 people who had survived the residential schools and their families.

It is estimated that more than 150,000 aboriginal children were forced into these schools.

These schools were run by churches and the Canadian government.  Often, the schools were located hundreds of miles from the students' homes. The report said that many of the students who were forced to go to these schools never returned.  "They were lost to their families," the report said.

The children died at faster rates than other children.

Their parents often did not know about their sickness and death.  Sinclair admitted the real number of deaths might have been much higher than the investigators thought.

Two empty chairs were put on the stage to honor the memory of the children who never returned from the schools.

Sinclair said that they were releasing the report to educate the Canadian people.

He said that the purpose of the report is not to make people feel bad.

He said the group wants people to learn how hurtful these laws can be.

"We did this for the children who were taken away and for the parents who were left behind to cry for them," Sinclair said.

"We did this for the children of today who needed to know where and what, and why things had occurred so they can understand their lives, themselves and their future better."

Eugene Arcand attended one of the schools.

He said said the TRC's recommendations are calls for action for every Canadian, not just the government.

He was happy to help the TRC with their research, and is glad that the Canadian people now know what happened.

Justin Trudeau is the prime minister of Canada.

He spoke at the ceremony.

He said he fully accepted "our responsibilities and our failings as a government and as a country."

"The government of Canada sincerely apologizes and asks for forgiveness of the aboriginal peoples of this country for failing them so profoundly," Trudeau said.

"At the same time, today there is reason for hope.

"  Trudeau called for a new relationship between Canada and its aboriginal peoples.

He vowed to follow all 94 recommendations made by the TRC.

Trudeau said that fixing the issues these schools created is a Canadian issue, not an aboriginal one.

