More than 3,200 aboriginal children who were sent to residential schools in Canada died while attending.

On Tuesday, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission released a report about the residential schools.

It said that many students were buried in unmarked graves.

Canada had a policy that required the children to attend the schools. The government sent the students to the schools beginning in the 1880s.

These schools existed for about 100 years.  The report called the policy of forced assimilation "a cultural genocide."

The commission released its final report at an emotionally charged ceremony in Ottawa.

They had been working on it for six years. The commission released an interim report in 2012 and a preliminary report in June.

Justice Murray Sinclair, chairman of the commission, and his two co-chairs, Chief Wilton Littlechild and Marie Wilson, had gathered the information for the report.

They traveled Canada from coast to coast and heard heartbreaking testimony from more than 6,000 residential school survivors and their families.

It is estimated that more than 150,000 First Nations, Inuit and Metis children were forced into residential schools.

The students were separated from their families to attend.

These schools were run by the Catholic and Anglican churches on behalf of the Canadian federal government.

Over much of the last century, the goal of these schools was to "take the Indian out of the child."

The government wanted the children to forget their aboriginal culture.

Often, the schools were located hundreds of miles from their home communities. The report said that many of students who were forced to go to residential schools never returned.  "They were lost to their families," said the report.

"They died at rates that were far higher than those experienced by the general school-aged population.

Their parents were often uninformed of their sickness and death.

They were buried away from their families in long-neglected graves.

No one took care to count how many died or to record where they were buried."

Sinclair admitted the real number of deaths might have been much higher than what the commission was able to document.

Two empty chairs were put on the stage to honor the memory of the children who never returned from the schools.

Sinclair said that they were releasing the report to educate the Canadian people.

He said that the purpose of the report is not to bring shame, but to learn what damage policies like this one can do.

"We did this for the children who were taken away and for the parents who were left behind to cry for them," Sinclair said.

"We did this for the children of today who needed to know where and what, and why things had occurred so they can understand their lives, themselves and their future better."

Eugene Arcand, a residential school survivor, said the TRC's recommendations are calls for action for every Canadian, not just the government.

With his voice breaking with emotion, mixing laughter and tears, Arcand praised the painful process of the commission.

"It gave us a chance to become children again," said Arcand, fighting back tears.

"We shared our tears, we shared our laughs, but we dug deep inside and we dug out the demons and we (could not) have done it without each other."

Prime Minister Justin Trudeau spoke at the ceremony.

He said he fully accepted "our responsibilities and our failings as a government and as a country."

"The government of Canada sincerely apologizes and asks for forgiveness of the aboriginal peoples of this country for failing them so profoundly," Trudeau said.

"At the same time, today there is reason for hope.

Today we find ourselves on a new path, working together towards a nation-to-nation relationship based on recognition, rights, respect, cooperation and partnership."

Trudeau called for a total renewal of the relationship between Canada and its aboriginal peoples.

He vowed to implement all 94 recommendations made by the commission.

"We will remember always that reconciliation is not an indigenous issue, it is a Canadian issue," Trudeau said, drawing a standing ovation.

