The country of Canada has a peaceful image.

Even so, American military forces have found it to be a dependable partner in the more than 10 years of war across the Middle East.

Now, Canadians are worried.

There have been two deadly attacks against members of the Canadian armed forces in less than a week.

Fear has grown throughout the country over whether Canada's participation in the war against Muslim extremists has finally come back to haunt it.

The Canadian government is looking closely at its laws to see whether they are strong enough to deal with national threats.

Two of its own citizens were successful in carrying out high-profile attacks last week.

The attackers were both being monitored by authorities as safety risks.

Canada's leader, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, spoke at the Parliament building just yards from where a gunman was shot dead the day before.

Harper pledged last Thursday to speed up a plan to give the government greater powers in the areas of gathering information, holding suspects, and arrest.

The point of these attacks was to strike "fear and panic in our country," Harper said.

But "Canadians will not be intimidated.

We will not panic."

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau is the gunman who attacked Parliament and a nearby war memorial.

Security officials said he had acted alone and that there appeared to be no connection between Wednesday's attacks and one that took place in Quebec on Monday.

On that day, a man described as a Muslim extremist ran over two soldiers with his car, killing one of them before being shot by police.

Bob Paulson is the commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.

Paulson described Zehaf-Bibeau as a 32-year-old Canadian who may also have held Libyan citizenship.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police ran background checks on Zehaf-Bibeau.

He had been staying in a homeless shelter and had a history of arrests for drugs, violence and other crimes.

Zehaf-Bibeau shot and killed Corporal Nathan Cirillo, who was standing guard at the war memorial in Ottawa shortly before 10 a.m. Then Zehaf-Bibeau got into a car he had purchased the day before and drove the short distance to Parliament Hill, where Canada's government meets.

The Parliament Hill area contains several buildings, called "blocks."

Security camera video shows Zehaf-Bibeau parking his car in front of a building entrance.

He is then seen running toward the East Block, where vehicles belonging to Parliament members were parked.

He took one of the vehicles, which he used to drive to Center Block, the main Parliament building, where lawmakers were holding meetings.

Police chased the car and were seconds behind Zehaf-Bibeau when he ran through the main doors, Paulson said.

Inside the building, security and police shot at the suspect, who shot back.

Zehaf-Bibeau was shot down and died at the scene.

In a brief interview with The Associated Press, the suspect's mother, Susan Bibeau, a Canadian immigration official, offered a tearful apology Thursday.

"Can you ever explain something like this?"

she said.

"We are sorry.

If I'm crying, it's for the people," she told AP.

"Not for my son."

On the streets and in homes and coffee shops, Canadians discussed what the government would do in response to the attacks.

Many felt there would be more restrictions on everyday life ahead.

Fences and yellow police tape circled the government land.

Officers carried rifles on guard.

The intense police presence was very unusual in an area where people normally gather freely to practice yoga, play Frisbee or celebrate national holidays.

Security has been increased at military bases and government buildings throughout Canada.

Soldiers in the Ottawa area were ordered not to wear their uniforms in public unless on duty.

Shawn Perry is a 41-year-old air traffic controller from Gander in Newfoundland, another part of Canada.

He said he was concerned about the effect the attacks might have on Canadians' rights.

"I know that there needs to be more done here to increase security," he said.

"The thing about Canada is we enjoy an awful lot of freedom.

I just don't want lawmakers to overreact" and take any of it away.

He pointed to the recent scandal in the U.S. surrounding the National Security Agency (NSA).

It is the intelligence agency that collected millions of Americans' phone and email information.

The agency was formed to make the United States safer, but its collection of private information, which was revealed last year, upset many Americans.

"Things in the U.S. have gone too far," Perry said.

"I don't want that happening in Canada."

On a chilly, cloudy day, the war memorial was crowded with people.

They brought flowers, notes or just their thoughts as the capital struggled to deal with the apparent act of terror.

Sikander Hashmi, a religious leader with the Kanata Muslim Association, said he had brought a bouquet to express his "sadness and outrage."

"This is my home country," he said after placing the flowers at the site.

"I don't appreciate anyone trying to spread bloodshed, especially someone identifying themselves as a Muslim."

Senator Jim Munson of the Liberal Party, who represents the Ontario area of Canada, gave his views.

He said Canada's participation in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and its current effort against the militant group Islamic State in the Middle East has changed the way the world sees the country.

"The Canadian flag was once a symbol of openness and peace," he said in a telephone interview.

"Now it is on our head as a target.

It's a new world we live in."

