During the more than 10 years of war across the Middle East, U.S. military forces have found a dependable partner in Canada, a country with an otherwise peaceful image.

Now, after two deadly attacks launched against members of the Canadian armed forces in less than a week, Canadians are worried.

Fear has grown over whether the country's participation in the war against Muslim extremists has finally come back to haunt it.

The Canadian government is looking closely at its laws and policies to see whether they are strong enough to deal with national security threats.

Two of its citizens, who had been marked by authorities as safety risks, were successful in carrying out high-profile attacks last week.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper spoke at the Parliament building just yards from where a gunman was shot dead the day before.

Harper pledged last Thursday to speed up a plan to give the country's security forces greater powers in the areas of gathering information, holding suspects, and arrest.

"The objective of these attacks was to instill fear and panic in our country," Harper said.

"Canadians will not be intimidated.

We will be vigilant, but we will not run scared.

We will be prudent, but we will not panic."

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau is the gunman who carried out attacks at Parliament and a nearby war memorial.

He had applied for a passport and wanted to go to Syria, security officials said.

They said they were satisfied that he had acted alone and that there appeared to be no connection between Wednesday's attacks and one that took place in Quebec on Monday.

There, a man described as a Muslim extremist ran over two soldiers with his car, killing one of them before being shot by police.

Bob Paulson, commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, described Zehaf-Bibeau as a 32-year-old Canadian who may also have held citizenship in Libya.

The Royal Canadian Mounted Police had been contacted to run background checks on Zehaf-Bibeau.

He had been staying in a homeless shelter and had a history of arrests for drugs, violence and other offenses.

Contrary to widespread reports Wednesday, Zehaf-Bibeau was not one of 93 "high-risk travelers" police were investigating.

After fatally shooting Corporal Nathan Cirillo, who was standing guard at the war memorial in Ottawa shortly before 10 a.m., Zehaf-Bibeau got into a car he had purchased the previous day and drove the short distance to Parliament Hill, according to a timeline presented at the news conference.

The legislative area consists of several buildings, known as blocks.

Security camera video shows Zehaf-Bibeau parking his car in front of a building entrance.

He is then seen running toward the East Block, where vehicles belonging to Parliament members were parked.

He took one of the vehicles, which he used to drive to Center Block, the main Parliament building, where lawmakers were holding meetings.

Police chased the car and were seconds behind Zehaf-Bibeau when he ran through the main doors, Paulson said.

Inside the building, there was an exchange of fire involving the suspect, House of Commons security and police.

Zehaf-Bibeau was pronounced dead at the scene.

In a brief interview with The Associated Press, the suspect's mother, Susan Bibeau, a Canadian immigration official, offered a tearful apology Thursday.

"Can you ever explain something like this?"

she said.

"We are sorry.

If I'm crying, it's for the people," she told AP.

"Not for my son."

On the streets and in homes and coffee shops, Canadians discussed what the government would do in response to the attacks.

Many are resigned to the fact that more restrictions on everyday life lie ahead.

In a telling symbol, barricades and yellow police tape circled the House of Commons grounds.

Officers carried assault rifles on guard.

The intense security marked a strong contrast at a site where residents normally gather freely to practice yoga, play Frisbee or celebrate national holidays.

Security has been heightened at military bases and government buildings throughout Canada.

Soldiers in the Ottawa area were ordered not to wear their uniforms in public unless on duty.

Shawn Perry, a 41-year-old air traffic controller from Gander in the province of Newfoundland, said he was concerned about the effect the attacks might have on Canadians' rights.

Perry, on a visit to Ottawa, went to the war memorial to pay his respects to the soldier killed there.

"I know that there needs to be more done here to increase security," he said.

"The thing about Canada is we enjoy an awful lot of freedom.

I just don't want lawmakers to overreact" and take any of it away.

Perry pointed to the recent scandal in the United States surrounding the National Security Agency (NSA).

It is the intelligence agency whose collection of millions of Americans' phone and email information was revealed last year through documents leaked by NSA contractor Edward Snowden.

"Things in the U.S. have gone too far," Perry said.

"I don't want that happening in Canada."

On a chilly, cloudy day, the war memorial was crowded with people.

They brought flowers, notes or just their thoughts as the capital struggled to deal with the apparent act of terror.

Sikander Hashmi, an imam with the Kanata Muslim Association, said he had brought a bouquet to express his "sadness and outrage."

"This is my home country," he said after placing the flowers at the site.

"I don't appreciate anyone trying to spread bloodshed, especially someone identifying themselves as a Muslim."

Senator Jim Munson of the Liberal Party, who represents Ontario, weighed in, too.

He said Canada's participation in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and its current effort against the militant group Islamic State has changed the way the world sees his country.

"The Canadian flag was once a symbol of openness and peace," he said in a telephone interview.

"Now it is on our head as a target.

It's a new world we live in."

