Canada used to have a peaceful image, even though it has helped the United States in wars.

Now Canadians fear that the violence of war has come to their homeland.

There have been two deadly attacks against members of the Canada's military in less than a week.

Canada's leader is Prime Minister Stephen Harper.

He spoke at a government building where an attacker was shot only one day before.

Harper promised to speed up a plan to change laws.

New laws would give Canada's government more power to gather information, hold suspects, and arrest people.

These new laws could help prevent future attacks.

The point of these attacks was to strike "fear and panic in our country," Harper said.

"Canadians will not be intimidated.

We will not panic."

Michael Zehaf-Bibeau was the gunman.

He shot and killed a soldier, Corporal Nathan Cirillo, before 10 a.m. Cirillo was guarding a war memorial.

Then, Zehaf-Bibeau got into a car he had bought the day before.

He drove a short distance to Parliament Hill, where Canada's government meets.

There is video that shows Zehaf-Bibeau parking his car in front of a building entrance.

He then runs toward government members' parked cars.

He steals one of the cars and drives to the main government building where lawmakers were holding meetings.

Police chased the car and were seconds behind Zehaf-Bibeau when he ran through the main doors.

Inside the building, security and police fired at Zehaf-Bibeau, who shot back.

Eventually, they killed him.

Security officials said Zehaf-Bibeau was the sole attacker and there was no connection between Wednesday's attacks and an earlier one.

On Monday, there was another attack in Quebec.

A man described as a Muslim extremist ran over two soldiers with his car.

He killed one of them before being killed by the police.

The Canadian police looked at Zehaf-Bibeau's records.

They found out that he had been staying in a homeless shelter.

They also saw that he had a history of arrests for drugs, violence and other crimes.

The suspect's mother, Susan Bibeau, offered an apology on Thursday.

"Can you ever explain something like this?"

she said.

"We are sorry.

If I'm crying, it's for the people," she said.

"Not for my son."

Canadians discussed what the government would do in response to the attacks.

Many feel there will be more restrictions on everyday life ahead.

Fences and yellow police tape circled government land and buildings.

Officers carried guns to guard the area.

Shawn Perry is a 41-year-old from Newfoundland.

He said he was concerned about the effect the attacks might have on Canadians' rights.

"I know that there needs to be more done here to increase security," he said.

"The thing about Canada is we enjoy an awful lot of freedom.

I just don't want lawmakers to overreact" and take any of it away.

On a chilly, cloudy day, the war memorial was crowded with people.

They brought flowers, notes or just their thoughts.

Sikander Hashmi is a Muslim religious leader.

He works with the Kanata Muslim Association.

He said he had brought flowers to express his "sadness and outrage."

"This is my home country," he said.

"I don't appreciate anyone trying to spread bloodshed.

Especially someone" calling themselves Muslim.

Jim Munson is a senator for the Liberal Party.

He represents Ontario, where Ottowa is located.

Munson said Canada's fighting in the Middle East has changed the way the world sees the country.

"The Canadian flag was once a symbol of openness and peace," he said in a telephone interview.

"Now it is on our head as a target."

