At age 12, Peter Zucca has already had a world of experience with cancer.

Cancer struck him before his first birthday and nearly killed him.

The Philadelphia preteen uses his experiences to make life easier for others like him.

Young patients at a local children's hospital liked little wagons better than wheelchairs, but the hospital did not have enough wagons.

Peter helped raise money to buy more of them.

One of the side effects of his cancer treatment was loss of hearing.

Peter saw that most books about childhood hearing loss "are really bad," so he wrote his own.

In "Peter Learns to Listen," he shares his own experience with hearing-loss.

He offers tips to children who don't hear well: "Make sure to get the right (ear) molds, or they'll fall out when you hang upside down in a tree."

Peter certainly understands the troubles of kids with cancer.

He has made 13 trips to the operating room.

In the end, cancer took most of his right leg.

Yet Peter came out a superhero of sorts.

Peter has run a 5K race.

He plays second base on his Little League team.

He swims and dives.

Peter dreams of someday pitching in the major leagues.

It was Christmas Eve 2003 when Dennis and Dawn Zucca learned their 10-month-old boy had cancer.

The cancer was in his pelvis and had spread to his lungs.

Peter went from crawling to dragging his body along the floor.

He could not hold down food.

Two months later, the Zuccas were planning Peter's first birthday and his funeral.

"Enjoy him the best you can" their doctors said, telling the Zuccas that Peter had only two months to live.

Amazingly, several months later the tumor began to shrink and a doctor at a famous cancer hospital in New York was able to remove it.

Peter was sent home with a 1 in 4 chance that he would live, his mother said.

On Christmas Eve 2008, Peter's doctor called.

"I have the best gift — you're cured," he told Peter.

In addition to his hearing loss, Peter also had nerve damage in his hands and a foot.

His right leg failed to grow well because of all the medicine and treatment.

Then three years ago Peter's family decided to have it stretched longer.

A sort of metal cage was attached to his leg.

"It had pins and wires in many places with a wire that went into my bones," Peter wrote in an essay that won a national contest.

Peter was just learning to walk again when a lump was found in the leg.

His mother said it was different from the first type of cancer.

Dennis and Dawn Zucca had a choice: Lose the leg, or risk losing the boy.

Dawn begged that the leg be cut off.

It was not easy.

Peter writes: "For a while after that, I was sad most of the time."

The hardest part still, Peter said, is "not being able to play the same way."

He has turned his powers to helping others.

He started the Peter Powerhouse Foundation a year ago.

The foundation has raised about $65,000 to buy 100 wagons for the hospital and a pair of goggles that allow children to watch movies during treatment instead of being given medicine to sleep.

Each pair costs $48,000, and Peter is hoping to raise enough for several more.

Peter, who will head to middle school in the fall, still gets tested for cancer every year.

So far, so good, his mother says.

As for his future, he dreams of going to Princeton University and learning computer programming.

On a recent afternoon, though, all he could think about was getting started on a play date.

Peter Powerhouse needed some fun: "I was thinking we'd play basketball."

