One of the first things Steve Barnett did when he became chairman of Capitol Records in 2012 was clear out the building's lobby.

The award-winning records on the walls and the cardboard cutout of the Beatles were gone, a symbol of the challenge Barnett faced to turn around the record company.

Capitol was so stuck in the past that it couldn't think about the future, said Barnett, 62.

The company started in 1942 in Los Angeles and has recorded albums for stars including Frank Sinatra, the Beatles and the Beach Boys.

Before Capitol Records, Barnett was president of Columbia Records, the top music label in the United States.

In two years since he became chairman of Capitol Music Group, it moved from fifth-best-selling label group to second.

The company's labels include Motown, Virgin and Blue Note.

A key part of Capitol's improvement has been Barnett's eye toward the future and for developing music acts that can become the next big stars.

In 2014, Capitol had two of the biggest new artists of the year: British singer-songwriter Sam Smith and the Australian boy band 5 Seconds of Summer.

Artists recording for Capitol record labels received 46 nominations in the 2015 Grammy Awards, a sign of its comeback.

Smith and Bastille, a British pop band also on the Capitol label, were nominated for Grammys as best new artist.

Smith received six nominations for his debut album, including the rare feat for a freshman artist, being nominated in the top four awards: best record, album, song and new artist.

Capitol had been hurt by changes in the music business during the last decade.

Music lovers went from buying CDs to downloading songs and albums, then to streaming music online.

Other record companies were also dealing with those changes, but Capitol was managed badly, said experts in the music industry.

It did not invest in developing new artists and did not deal well with the changes.

A little over two years ago, the company was bought by Universal Music Group.

Capitol had been creative before and lost its way, said Lucian Grainge, chairman of Universal Music.

The new owners wanted to invest money into turning it around, he said.

The first step was to hire the right leader, said Grainge.

He hired Barnett, who had been a manager for AC/DC, Cyndi Lauper and other musicians.

In his three years running Columbia Records, the label introduced artists including the British soul singer Adele, the boy band One Direction and Los Angeles indie-rock group Foster the People, among others.

Just like Grainge, Barnett has been a fan of the artists on Capitol's labels for a long time.

As a kid growing up in England, Barnett liked some of Capitol's most famous acts, such as the Beatles, the Beach Boys and the Band.

Barnett moved Capitol records from New York back to its home in Los Angeles, which required moving 30 employees and their families 3,000 miles across the country.

Barnett also decided to restore the Capitol Tower in Los Angeles, a historic building where the label got its start.

He offered empty offices to other Universal Music labels, including Motown.

Barnett also made a point of finding and grooming new artists who might become big Capitol stars someday.

He said Capitol's job is to develop artists, and it helped set the label apart from the rest of the Universal Music Group.

Many record labels specialize in a sound, such as Blue Note with jazz, or Motown with soul.

Barnett said he felt safe betting the house on Sam Smith.

That hunch paid off.

Smith's album "In the Lonely Hour" was third in sales for 2014, after Taylor Swift's "1989" and Disney's "Frozen" soundtrack.

"In the Lonely Hour" has sold more than 1.3 million copies in the United States.

Barnett said it has sold more than 5 million copies around the world.

Katy Perry's "Prism" album also did very well for Capitol.

It sold 1.5 million copies, based on a new formula that adds sales of albums and songs along with online streaming services such as Spotify and Rhapsody.

For Smith, the decision to sign with Capitol for his debut album came down to one thing: passion.

He told The Times that he auditioned for many labels, but he only saw a passion for the songs when he sang for Nick Raphael, the head of Capitol in England.

Smith, who had his first manager at age 12, said "it was a done deal" when he met with Steve Barnett.

"There was such a warmth, a passion and a respect for what I did," he said.

"Steve Barnett and Nick Raphael have done everything they ever said they would do, and more."

Richard Griffiths, who manages One Direction and 5 Seconds of Summer, says Barnett was the reason both groups signed with his record companies.

One Direction signed with Columbia Records when Barnett was in charge and 5 Seconds signed with Capitol since he joined.

Grainge and Barnett would not say how much the new owners have spent reviving Capitol.

Barnett said a walk through Capitol's offices could help figure it out.

Offices have been renovated and repainted and there is new equipment in Capitol's three recording studios.

Grainge said the changes he and Barnett made at Capitol are not part of some big business shakeup.

When Universal Music bought Capitol, it thought it could "cuddle Capitol back to success" by investing in its people and bringing in new blood.

The employees had the skills, talent and dedication, and now that they have been nurtured, their groove is back, Grainge said.

Two years later, Capitol is on a new path.

"I think we're in the game," Barnett said.

