The scaffolding that has wrapped the U.S. Capitol for more than a year has become part of Washington's landscape and skyline.

The temporary structure built to let workers repair the dome has given the symbol of American democracy an evening glow.

The nearly $60 million project started with a coffee can full of rust from the dome.

Alan M. Hantman, who was the Capitol's architect from 1997 through 2007, used to carry the can to congressional hearings, in order to show the lawmakers that their workplace was crumbling above them.

Many of the bolts atop the iron dome had fallen off.

Metal straps that reinforced the cast-iron sheets covering the dome had cracked.

The Capitol's dome was built more than 150 years ago and weighs nearly 9 million pounds.

"Cast-iron parts were basically holding each other in place," Hantman said by phone from Fort Lee, New Jersey, where he lives.

Hantman installed a wooden rail just below the Statue of Freedom, which rests atop the dome.

He wanted to make sure that tourists who climbed near the top on tours with members of Congress would not shake anything loose.

"We didn't want people leaning on the railing up there," he said.

But it would take more than a decade before the architect who followed Hantman, Stephen T. Ayers, could get the money to begin repairing the dome.

He then ordered that workers rebuild ornaments, strip away layers of paint from more than a century ago, and replace some heavy glass windows.

The dome had not been renovated since 1959-1960.

Since then rust has built up.

Rain and snow worked their way into tiny holes in the cast iron, enlarging them, leaving more than 1,000 cracks.

Workers began erecting the 1.1 million pounds of scaffolding in May.

Inside the dome, they installed a puffy cloth just below the ceiling for interior repairs, with a doughnut hole in the middle that allows visitors to see the mural in the eye of the rotunda, the giant room beneath the dome.

Hantman supervised the building of an underground visitor center that expanded the size of the Capitol by 70 percent.

He calls working there a "magnificent challenge," full of organizational and political hurdles.

Members of Congress worry about spending money, and other problems often get thrown into the decision-making.

During construction, they still need access to the building for meetings and want tours of the Capitol for the people back in their home states.

All the while, the building needs to be one of the most secure facilities in the country.

The trucks that enter the grounds and hundreds of workers have to be checked every day, cutting into working hours.

Before they're even allowed on the site, the workers need to pass strict background checks to make sure they do not have anything questionable in their histories.

To minimize disruptions, much of the work has been done on nights and weekends.

The rotunda has largely remained open to visitors and staff, closing for only a few weeks in April 2014 to hang the cloth canopy.

But few argue that all the work and expense is not worth the effort.

"During the Civil War, Lincoln never gave up on it," said Democratic Representative Zoe Lofgren from California, who sits on the committee that oversees the project.

Much of the dome was built during Abraham Lincoln's presidency.

"We need to make sure it doesn't completely deteriorate, and that's what this is all about."

Lofgren said the project, so far, is on time — and on budget too.

In addition to just under $60 million for the dome repairs, the project includes $16 million to fix up the interior and $21 million for work on the soaring rotunda.

"We'll see if that can be maintained," she said of the repair cost.

"It's a major project."

Workers have already begun removing some of the scaffolding and plan to finish in time for the 2017 inauguration, the ceremony when the next president will be sworn into office.

Washingtonians have withstood an unusually long period of scaffolding on another of the city's most important symbols.

Beginning in 2013, the Washington Monument was wrapped in a metal frame to repair earthquake damage.

Unexpectedly, the elegant geometric design of that scaffolding became a beloved part of the capital city's skyline.

The lighting, which came from within the scaffolding, gave the slender monument the appearance of a glowing rocket ship.

Some urged that it remain in place even after the work was complete, but it was removed in May 2014.

Lofgren believes the Capitol scaffolding also resembles a spaceship, but it has not evoked the same feelings as the Washington Monument's scaffolding.

"Obviously, it's not as beautiful as the building itself," she said.

"It's understated.

But it's really a sense of confidence about the future."

