More than a year ago, workers began a $60 million project to fix the dome of the U.S. Capitol in Washington, D.C.

Lawmakers meet in the building.

The dome had not been repaired in more than 50 years.

Since then, rust has built up.

Rain and snow have found their way into tiny holes in the dome and made them bigger.

There are now cracks in more than 1,000 places.

The project began many years ago with a coffee can full of rust.

Alan M. Hantman was the Capitol's architect from 1997 through 2007.

He put some rusty parts from the dome in the can.

He used to carry the can to meetings held by lawmakers to show them that the dome was crumbling above them.

Many of the bolts that held the dome together had fallen off.

The dome is covered in metal sheets.

The metal straps that held the sheets together had cracked.

The Capitol's dome was built more than 150 years ago and weighs nearly 9 million pounds.

Stephen T. Ayers was the architect after Hantman.

He finally got lawmakers to agree to pay to fix the dome.

He rebuilt decorations on the dome.

He also removed layers of paint, some from more than 100 years ago.

He also replaced some heavy glass windows.

In May 2014, workers began putting up the scaffolding.

It is a frame built around the outside of the dome. It weighs 1 million pounds. The scaffolding allows workers to repair the dome and will be taken down when they are finished.

In the evening, the scaffolding makes the dome glow.

Inside the dome, workers installed a puffy cloth just below the ceiling.

It has a hole in the middle that lets visitors see the painting on the inside of the dome from the rotunda.

The rotunda is the large room under the dome.

It is open to visitors.

The repairs are being done a little at a time.

Much of the work has been done on nights and weekends.

Lawmakers want to be able to use the building while it is being fixed.

They still need to get to their meetings in the Capitol.

They also want people to be able to visit it.

Zoe Lofgren is a lawmaker from California.

She is on the committee in charge of the project.

Lofgren said that they cannot let the dome fall apart.

"That's what this is all about."

Lofgren said the project, so far, is on time.

Workers have begun removing some of the scaffolding.

They plan to finish in time for the 2017 inauguration.

It is the ceremony for the president to be sworn into office.

The repairs are costing about what lawmakers expected.

Besides the $60 million for the dome, $16 million will be spent to fix the inside and $21 million for the rotunda.

In 2013, the Washington Monument was wrapped in a metal frame.

The monument honors Goorge Washington, the country's first president. Workers needed to fix damage from an earthquake.

The frame around the monument was lit up from the inside.

It made the monument look like a glowing rocket ship.

Some people in the city wanted the metal frame to stay there even after the work was completed, but it was removed in May 2014.

Lofgren thinks the Capitol scaffolding also looks like a spaceship.

"Obviously, it's not as beautiful as the building itself," she said.

