Millions of people on vacation visit the beaches of the Caribbean each year.

They expect to see smooth, white sand and beautiful blue waters.

Lately, the Caribbean's beaches are not looking too good.

The problem is seaweed.

A little seaweed is fine, and even good for a beach.

These days there is just too much of the stuff.

Piles of rotting seaweed are popping up everywhere.

The mounds smell like rotting eggs.

They also attract bugs with a nasty bite.

The problem is one particular kind of seaweed, known as sargassum.

Clumps of the stuff have washed up on Caribbean coastlines for years.

However, scientists say much more sargassum than ever before has been showing up.

A number of shorelines have been so badly hit that visitors are staying away.

Caribbean countries like the Dominican Republic, Barbados and Mexico are all planning emergency cleanup efforts.

It will take a lot of work to clear out the stinking mounds of seaweed.

In some cases the sargassum has piled up nearly 10 feet high.

The tourists who visit Caribbean beaches each year are very important for the Caribbean countries.

Many people's jobs depend on the visitors.

Some work in the hotels tourists stay in, others in the restaurants they eat at, and others in the stores where tourists buy their souvenirs.

It the tourists stop coming, many people will be out of work.

Some Caribbean leaders are very worried.

They say the 15 Caribbean countries should hold an emergency meeting.

Perhaps if the countries work together, they will be able to solve the seaweed problem.

"This has been the worst year we've seen so far," said Christopher James, head of the hotel and tourism association for the island of Tobago.

James is worried that the ugly, smelly seaweed will drive tourists away.

There are various ideas about why so much seaweed has been washing up.

Some scientists say it is because temperatures are rising around the world.

They say warming ocean temperatures are helping sargassum bloom.

Others scientists have another explanation.

They believe the problem is caused by people dumping fertilizers and sewage into the water.

Farmers use fertilizers to help plants grow.

Sewage — waste material from toilets — can also help plants grow.

The two things together might be causing more and more sargassum to grow and spread.

Sargassum is one of a group of simple plants known as algae.

It is brownish in color and covered with berry-like sacs.

Because it has no roots it drifts where ocean currents take it.

Sargassum usually blooms in the Sargasso Sea, which is part of the North Atlantic.

However, some scientists believe this time it is coming from a different part of the ocean farther south.

They say the problem is caused by fertilizers and sewage waste dumped into South America's Amazon and Orinoco rivers.

Both of those rivers feed into the Atlantic.

Either way, the Caribbean has a big problem.

All that sargassum does more than drive away tourists.

It also damages beaches and kills fish.

It even causes the deaths of baby sea turtles.

Right after they hatch from eggs buried on beaches, the tiny turtles can get tangled up in seaweed.

Another problem is that the heavy machinery workers use to clean up the seaweed can damage beaches.

Mexico plans to spend about $9 million cleaning up seaweed mounds along its Caribbean coast.

Part of the money will be used to figure out new ways to deal with the problem.

Mexican scientists will try to see whether the sargassum can be collected at sea before it reaches shore.

Some tourists are trying to prevent their summer vacations from being ruined by the stinky seaweed.

They are looking at the bright side of things.

"The smell of seaweed is terrible," German tourist Oliver Pahlke said during a visit to Cancun, Mexico.

"But I'm enjoying the sun."

