Many people visit the beaches of the Caribbean each year.

They expect to see smooth, white sand and beautiful water.

Lately, Caribbean beaches are not looking too good.

The problem is seaweed.

A little seaweed is fine.

It is even good for a beach.

These days there is just too much of the stuff.

Piles of rotting seaweed are popping up everywhere.

The piles smell terrible.

They also are covered with bugs.

One particular kind of seaweed is causing the problem.

It is known as sargassum.

Sargassum is one of a group of simple plants known as algae.

It is brownish in color.

Sargassum has no roots.

It just drifts wherever the ocean waves take it.

Sargassum has washed up on Caribbean coastlines for many years.

It was never a problem before.

Now much more is showing up than people have ever seen.

It is simply too much seaweed.

Visitors are starting to stay away.

Caribbean countries like the Dominican Republic, Barbados and Mexico are beginning to clean up their beaches.

It will take a lot of work, though.

Some sargassum piles are nearly 10 feet high.

The stuff is all over the place.

Visitors are very important for the Caribbean countries.

Many people's jobs depend on them.

Beaches are what the Caribbean is most famous for.

If visitors stop coming to the beaches, many people here will be out of work.

Scientists are not sure why there is so much seaweed all of a sudden.

Some think it is because the world is getting hotter.

Perhaps sargassum grows better in warmer waters.

Other scientist thinks the problem is caused by certain things people throw away.

Some of that stuff ends up in the ocean.

For example, farmers use fertilizers to make plants grow.

Some of those fertilizers wind up in the ocean.

Perhaps they are making sargassum grow very quickly.

Either way, the Caribbean has a big problem.

Some visitors are not letting stinky seaweed ruin their vacation, though.

They are looking at the bright side of things.

"The smell of seaweed is terrible," Oliver Pahlke said during a visit to Cancun, Mexico.

He lives in Germany.

"But I'm enjoying the sun."

