The Carnegie Science Center (CSC) sees itself as a leader in science education for girls.

Over the years, the museum has organized science sleepovers and visits with scientists for tweens and teens.

Its website, CanTEEN, gets girls interested in science through contests, exhibits and workshops.

It was pretty surprised when people began attacking a program for Girl Scouts.

The class is called "Science With a Sparkle."

It teaches girls how to mix their own makeup.

The museum's problem began about a week ago after a page from a brochure appeared online.

The page showed a long list of serious science programs for Boy Scouts.

They included robotics, engineering and astronomy.

Its only choice for Girl Scouts was the class on makeup.

The next day, websites and blogs started talking about it.

"Marie Curie may very well rise from her grave to gnash her teeth," was written on the blog Jezebel.

Curie was a scientist and the first woman to be awarded the Nobel Prize in physics.

One of the biggest topics in science education has been how to make science more interesting to girls.

Few women choose careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM).

Another blogger, Wonkette, said the course was too old-fashioned.

Wonkette said it was stuck in a different time period, like the 1950s.

Comments appeared on Carnegie's Facebook page as well, calling the museum "shameful" and "ridiculous."

The Science Center responded last week with long posts.

It explained the thinking behind the program.

It turned out that the museum had offered more serious programs for Girl Scouts in the past, such as engineering, chemistry and robotics.

However, not many Girl Scouts signed up for them.

Museum sleepovers and Science With a Sparkle were much more popular.

The Girl Scouts also responded through social media.

It said that Science With a Sparkle is not a Girl Scout program.

The museum just offers it to Girl Scouts.

Girl Scouts of Western Pennsylvania does have STEM programs.

Programs include "It's Your Planet — Love It."

It also works with different groups.

One of them is The Phipps Conservancy, a botanical garden in Pittsburgh, said Melissa Cooper.

She is the regional Girl Scouts vice president.

The Girl Scouts and the museum are now working together to create programs for girls, she said.

Linda Ortenzo runs STEM programs at the Science Center.

Ortenzo defended the program, saying that it actually teaches real chemistry.

Makeup is just a way to get them interested.

Giving girls "real-world problems is a natural way to get them interested in STEM," she said.

Also, she said, the whole brochure did not appear online.

It actually offered more programs, like "Tour Your Future."

It takes girls to businesses such as Schell Games, an educational game company, and Valspar, which makes paints.

Other popular science programs at the museum, such as camps and after-school activities, are also open to girls.

Ortenzo said there are many ways to get for people interested in STEM.

"The most important thing is that girls get the message early that STEM is for them."

Heather Arnet runs the Women &amp; Girls Foundation of Western Pennsylvania.

Arnett has worked with the Science Center for years on programs for girls.

She was surprised that people were so upset with the museum.

She also said some good will come out of this.

"What I think was really great was the parent response all over social media," she said.

Parents talked about the need for girls to have good STEM classes and be involved in science.

"That's a good thing for everyone," she said.

