Jimmy Carter is the 39th president of the United States.

He is 90 years old and has cancer.

Cancer is a disease that can affect any part of the body.

In cancer, cells do not grow normally.

Many cancers can be treated but not all.

Cancer can cause death.

Carter announced Wednesday that he had an operation.

Doctors removed cancer from his liver.

The liver is near the stomach.

They also found cancer in other parts of his body.

Carter's doctors are trying to decide the best way to treat him.

Dr. Len Lichtenfeld is with the American Cancer Society.

He said doctors need to figure out where Carter's cancer started.

Then they can decide which treatment may work best.

If they cannot figure this out, the next step is testing the cancer.

This may show them what is causing the cancer to grow.

It also would help them decide which medicines work best.

Carter's age and health are also important.

Dr. Lodovico Balducci treats cancer in older people at the Moffitt Cancer Center.

The hospital is in Florida.

He said Carter's body probably works better than most 90-year-old people.

Carter does not smoke.

Carter wrote that may be why he has lived so long.

Carter has received many good wishes.

President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama hoped Carter would get better soon.

Vice President Joe Biden said he was praying for Carter.

He called Carter "a great man."

He said Carter is always cheerful and thinks positively.

Carter was a peanut farmer from Georgia.

Before he ran for president, he was governor of Georgia.

He became president in 1977.

He promised always to be honest.

Carter did not have an easy presidency.

America had many problems with other countries.

Carter lost the presidential election to Ronald Reagan in 1980.

Carter has since traveled around the world.

He speaks about health care and peace.

His wife Rosalynn is often by his side.

He began teaching at Emory University in Atlanta.

In 1982, he established the Carter Center there.

It promotes peace.

In 2002, Carter won the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is one of the most famous awards in the world.

