Former President Jimmy Carter has cancer.

Doctors are trying to decide the best way to treat it.

Cancer is a disease in which cells in the body do not grow normally.

Many cancers can be treated successfully, but cancer can cause death.

The type of treatment, though, will depend on the type of cancer and where it began.

It will also depend on Carter's age and health, doctors said.

Carter is the 39th president and is now 90 years old.

He announced Wednesday that he recently had an operation to remove cancer from his liver.

Doctors also found cancer in other parts of his body, as well.

Carter's statement did not say where the cancer began.

The liver is often a place where cancer spreads to.

It is less commonly where it begins.

Dr. Len Lichtenfeld is with the American Cancer Society.

He said the first task will be finding where the cancer started.

This can help decide which treatment may work best.

Sometimes doctors cannot figure out where the cancer began.

Doctors then may test the cancer to see what is causing it to grow and spread, and which drugs might work against it.

Dr. Lodovico Balducci specializes in treating cancer in the elderly at the Moffitt Cancer Center in Florida.

Balducci said a lot depends on the patient's "biological" age as opposed to his age in years.

Jimmy Carter's body probably works better than the typical 90-year-old, Balducci said.

Doctors will need to figure out whether Carter's cancer can be cured.

If it spreads, a cure is unlikely, Balducci said, although the cancer often can be slowed down.

Doctors likewise want to see whether surgery or other treatments would work.

"Cancer in a 90-year-old is a serious problem, but that does not mean a 90-year-old cannot benefit from treatment," he said.

Since his presidency, Carter has been very active.

In May, he was forced to leave Guyana in South America, where he went to observe elections, after he came down with a bad cold.

Carter traveled around the country this summer to talk about his new book.

Its title is "A Full Life."

In the book, he says that his father, brother and two sisters all died of cancer.

Carter does not smoke.

He wrote that "may have been what led to my longer life."

Good wishes poured in on social media after Carter's announcement.

President Barack Obama said he and first lady Michelle Obama hoped Carter would recover soon.

"Along with the rest of America, we are rooting for you," Obama said in a statement.

Vice President Joe Biden said he was praying for Carter.

He called Carter "a great man," who is cheerful and thinks positively.

Carter was a Georgia peanut farmer who had been a state senator and governor of Georgia before running for president.

He defeated Gerald Ford in 1976 with a promise to always be honest.

His presidency was troubled by problems with other countries.

He lost to Ronald Reagan in 1980.

Carter has since traveled around the world speaking about issues such as health care and democracy, often with his wife Rosalynn by his side.

He joined the staff of Emory University in Atlanta.

In 1982, he established the Carter Center there to promote those issues.

In 2002, he won the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is one of the highest honors in the world.

