Doctors are determining how to treat former President Jimmy Carter, who has cancer.

Treatment will depend on the type of cancer and where it began.

It will also depend on other factors such as Carter's age and health, doctors said.

Carter, 90, announced Wednesday that he recently had liver surgery.

Doctors found cancer in other parts of his body.

Carter said in the statement that he will be treated for the cancer at Emory Healthcare in Atlanta.

The statement indicated that the 39th president's cancer is widespread.

It does not say where the cancer originated, or even whether that is known at this point.

The liver is often a place where cancer spreads to.

It is less commonly where it starts.

Dr. Len Lichtenfeld is deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society.

He said "there's a lot we don't know," but the first task likely will be determining where the cancer started.

This can help decide which treatment may work best.

Sometimes the primary site can't be determined.

Doctors then may analyze the tumor's genes to see what mutations, or changes, are causing the cancer to grow and spread, and what drugs might target those mutations.

Because of Carter's age, "any treatments, their potential and their impacts" will be discussed carefully with him and his family, Lichtenfeld said.

Age by itself does not mean that the cancer treatment will be unsuccessful, said Dr. Lodovico Balducci.

He specializes in treating cancer in the elderly at the Moffitt Cancer Center in Tampa, Florida.

Balducci said that a lot depends on the patient's "biological" age versus his actual years.

"A man 90 years old normally would have a life expectancy of two or three years," Balducci said.

"But Jimmy Carter is probably much younger than that" in terms of how well his body works.

"If he tolerated liver surgery, I imagine he has a relatively good tolerance" to other treatments that might be tried.

For example, the Moffitt Cancer Center has developed a scoring system to estimate how well an older person would tolerate chemotherapy.

These are chemicals given to kill cancer and often have serious side effects, like extreme vomiting.

The first task is to determine whether the cancer is curable, which is unlikely in a cancer that has spread, Balducci said.

Doctors likewise want to see if it is possible to keep Carter alive through surgery or other treatments.

"Cancer in a 90-year-old is a serious problem, but that does not mean a 90-year-old cannot benefit from treatment."

Carter has remained active through the years.

Recently, his health has become the subject of speculation.

In May, he was forced to cut short a visit to Guyana in South America to observe elections because he developed a bad cold.

Carter also completed a book tour this summer to promote his latest work, "A Full Life."

The book includes information that his father, brother and two sisters all died of pancreatic cancer.

Carter wrote that being the only nonsmoker in his family "may have been what led to my longer life."

He announced Aug. 3 that he had surgery to remove a small tumor from his liver.

An Emory spokesman refused to discuss Carter's health.

Good wishes poured in on social media after Carter's announcement.

President Barack Obama said he and first lady Michelle Obama wish Carter a fast and full recovery.

"Jimmy, you're as resilient as they come, and along with the rest of America, we are rooting for you," Obama said in a statement.

Vice President Joe Biden said he was praying for Carter, who is "a great man, always upbeat and optimistic."

Carter was a Georgia peanut farmer who had been a state senator and governor of Georgia before running for president.

He defeated Gerald Ford in 1976 with a pledge to always be honest.

He ended up seeing a second term doomed by a number of foreign policy crises.

He lost in a landslide to Ronald Reagan in 1980.

Carter has since created a reputation for promoting global issues such as health care and democracy, often with his wife Rosalynn by his side.

He joined the staff of Emory University.

In 1982, he established the Carter Center there to promote those issues.

His new role as global statesman took him into places often avoided by other diplomats.

Carter helped North and South Korea reach an agreement on nuclear issues and monitored the first Palestinian elections in the West Bank and Gaza in the Middle East.

In 2002, he won the Nobel Peace Prize.

