they're just not that interested in what we have to say.

A study by two University of Tokyo researchers determined that cats can recognize their owners' voices and can easily distinguish them from the voices of strangers.

Conducted by Atsuko Saito and Kazutaka Shinozuka, the test included 20 house cats from 14 homes.

The animals were tested in their own familiar places.

This was done so the cats wouldn't feel any nervousness that would affect the tests.

With the owners out of sight, researchers first played recordings of three strangers calling the cats' names.

Those recordings were followed by a call from the cats' owners and then by the call of another stranger.

Researchers charted the cats' responses by measuring a number of factors.

These included head movements, tail and ear movements, eye dilation, vocalization and whether they moved their paws.

When strangers called their names, the cats didn't respond at all.

When the cats heard their names being called by their owners, they moved their heads and ears to locate where the sound was coming from.

The researchers say their study proves that cats can distinguish their owners' voices.

Their responses, however, are not "communicative."

In other words, he hears you just fine, he just doesn't care what you want from him.

Cat owners will just have to accept and appreciate that they get even that much of a response.

Cats obviously believe we are on the planet to do their bidding.

The study suggests that the reason cats are so standoffish might be traced back 10,000 years ago when humans first domesticated them.

Dogs have evolved "to follow their owner's orders, but cats have not," study co-author Saito said.

They were not domesticated to work with people as dogs were and thus feel themselves our equals.

House cats originated in the Middle East, where their ancestors were wild cats that killed rodents on their own.

Their hunting kept mice and rats out of farmers' grain stores.

It appears that as soon as we welcomed them into our homes, cats quickly began to train humans to do what cats wanted.

Recent studies have shown that dogs have an advanced ability to pick up social cues from humans.

Over time, dogs learned how to "read" humans' every movement from body language to hand and eye movement.

Cats, on the other hand, pretty much evolved on their own, so they aren't as tuned in to us.

Let's face it.

Cats view humans as big, clumsy cats and treat us the same way they treat each other.

The truth is, cats live to be served and adored.

Which is not to say they haven't developed an ability to get what they want from us.

All cat owners have experienced the joy of a hungry cat waking them up at 5 a.m. And we respond as quickly to their meows as we do to a crying baby who needs a diaper change.

So, if you are thinking about adopting a cat, be realistic: Don't expect them to swish their tails and come running like the family dog when it's called.

A cat isn't generous with its love and the love it does give must be well earned.

Get used to it.

