Santa Catalina Island is located off the coast of California.

It is one of the eight Channel Islands.

People often call it Catalina for short.

For years, scientists have argued over what is happening to Catalina.

Some say it is sinking, while others say it is rising.

Now there is a new study that says the island is sinking.

However, it says it is sinking very slowly.

The study was done by Chris Castillo, a Stanford University student.

Castillo says Catalina could be completely underwater in 3 million years.

Castillo also claims that Catalina's sinking could lead to huge underwater landslides.

In turn, such landslides could cause a tsunami.

A tsunami is a giant wave caused by earthquakes or underwater landslides.

The tsunami would put Los Angeles and Orange County in danger, Castillo said.

His study is based on underwater photos of Catalina.

They were taken by Stanford University last year.

The pictures show ancient beaches that Castillo said have sunk below the ocean's waves.

They also show evidence of a large underwater landslide.

The landslide occurred off the island's northeastern shore about 500,000 years ago.

If an underwater landslide happens again there could be trouble.

Tons of rocks and dirt would plunge toward the ocean floor.

The force of the sudden landslide could cause a tsunami, Castillo said.

The tsunami would likely head toward the coast around Los Angeles and Long Beach and the Orange County coast.

Castillo said the pictures suggest that the side of Catalina closer to the mainland is sinking faster.

As a result, the island is tilting at a slight angle toward Long Beach and Orange County.

The tilting makes it more likely that a landslide could happen again, he said.

More studies are needed to better understand how likely a tsunami is, Castillo said.

"If you see something that could be dangerous, you need to find out more about it," he said.

"The whole island is tipping, so there definitely is a risk," he said.

Catalina was once part of the sea floor, Castillo said.

Then, a series of earthquakes made it rise from the ocean.

About 1 million years ago, the earthquakes became much more rare.

At that point, the island began gradually sinking, he said.

Castillo says Catalina is sinking very slowly.

Every five years it sinks around 1 millimeter, he said.

That's the same as 4 one-hundredths of an inch.

Other scientists think differently.

A study published in 2012 claimed the island was rising.

Randall Schumann led the 2012 study.

Schumann said the fact that beaches surrounding Catalina are underwater does not prove that Catalina is sinking.

The island could still be rising, he said.

It is just that sea levels have risen too.

There is one way to figure out for sure what is happening with Catalina, Schumann said.

Scientists would have to find ancient bits of plants or animals that were buried on Catalina at sea level thousands of years ago.

Such preserved ancient remains are known as fossils.

Scientists would mark the height of the spot where a fossil was found.

The height would show them where Catalina's sea level once was.

The age of the fossil would tell scientists how long ago Catalina was at that sea level.

Scientists would then compare the spot's height to today's sea level.

The difference between the ancient sea level and today's sea level would tell them if the island is rising or sinking.

However, those kinds of fossils just have not been found on Catalina, Schumann said.

So far, no one has been able to prove if Catalina is rising or sinking, he said.

