Santa Catalina Island is located off the coast of California.

Often called Catalina for short, it is one of eight islands that make up the Channel Islands chain.

For years, scientists have argued over just what is happening to Catalina.

Some say it is sinking, while others say it is rising.

Now there is a new study that makes the case that the island is sinking, just very slowly.

The study was done by Chris Castillo, a Stanford University graduate student.

Castillo says Catalina could be completely under water in 3 million years.

He also claims its sinking could lead to major underwater landslides.

In turn, such landslides could create a tsunami risk for Los Angeles and Orange counties.

Tsunamis are giant waves caused by earthquakes or underwater landslides.

Castillo said the possible tsunami threat should be investigated further.

He said his conclusions came from underwater images of Catalina made by Stanford University last year.

The images show ancient beaches that Castillo said have sunk below the ocean's waves.

They also show evidence of a large underwater landslide.

The landslide occurred off the island's northeastern shore about 500,000 years ago.

If an underwater landslide happens again, tons of rocks and dirt will plunge toward the ocean floor.

The force of the sudden movement could create a tsunami, he said.

Such a tsunami would likely head toward the ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and the Orange County coast.

In fact, Castillo said the images suggest that the side of Catalina closer to the mainland is sinking faster.

As a result, the island is tilting at a slight angle toward Long Beach and Orange County.

The tilting makes it more likely that a landslide could happen again, Castillo said.

More research is needed to better understand how big the tsunami would be, Castillo said.

"It's still something that could do significant property damage, especially for the marinas.

If you see something that could be dangerous, you need to find out more about it."

He added, "The whole island is tipping, so there definitely is a risk."

Catalina was once part of the sea floor, until frequent earthquakes made it rise from the ocean, Castillo said.

About 1 million years ago, the earthquakes became much more rare.

At that point, the island began gradually sinking, he said.

Castillo says Catalina is sinking around 1 millimeter — the same as 4 one-hundredths of an inch — every five years.

Catalina's fate has been debated for a century, in part because the island is unusual.

Unlike other Channel Islands, it does not have ancient flat beaches that have been lifted above sea level by earthquakes.

In 1897, one scientist suggested that Catalina was sinking.

Other scientists think differently.

A study published in 2012 claimed the island was rising, like many other places in Southern California.

Randall Schumann was the main author of that report.

Schumann said the fact that there are ancient flat beaches surrounding Catalina that are underwater is not proof that Catalina is sinking.

The island could still be rising, he said.

It is just that sea levels have risen too.

Schumann said there are two possible reasons why Catalina does not have the ancient, raised flat beaches other Channel Islands have.

Catalina could be rising so quickly that there is no time for a flat beach to form.

It is also possible that ancient flat beaches have been washed away.

There is one way to figure out for sure what is happening with Catalina, Schumann said.

Scientists would have to find ancient fossils — plant or animal remains — deposited at sea level thousands of years ago.

They would first need to figure out the age of the fossils.

Then they could compare the height of the spot where a fossil was found to today's sea level.

The difference between the ancient sea level and today's sea level would tell them if the island is lifting up or sinking down.

However, those kinds of fossils just have not been found on Catalina, Schumann said.

So far, he said, no one has been able to come up with clear evidence of either rising or sinking.

