The National Park Service wants help cleaning America's caves.

There are people who want to help, like Paul Kemp and his 14-year-old son, Simon.

They are from Utah.

They have come to join the Park Service's "Lint Camp."

It is in the Lehman Cave in Nevada.

They will clean, dust and pick lint from rocks inside the cave.

The rocks in the cave are different shapes.

Some hang from the roof and look like thin icicles.

Others grow straight up from the floor.

Some look like popcorn.

Paul Kemp, who is 67, was a rocket engineer.

Now he uses his tiny brush to clean the dirt and fluffy lint from the rocks.

He thinks the rocks look terrible.

"They're simply covered with dust," he says.

Thousands of people visit this cave every year.

Threads come off their clothes.

They leave behind hair, skin cells and dust.

All this becomes lint and sticks to the rocks.

Lehman Cave is part of Great Basin National Park.

The park is between Las Vegas and Salt Lake City.

A miner named Absalom Lehman found the cave in 1885.

Native Americans may have used the cave ages before that.

The cave is 2 miles long.

Parts of it are 200 feet below ground.

The government took it over in 1922.

Two dozen people from three states worked to clean the cave for three days.

They took out a lot of trash.

Ben Roberts is the park's chief.

He says humans brought lint into the caves.

So humans should clean it out.

It is a Friday morning.

Eight people are in the cave.

Some go with Roberts.

They wear miner's helmets.

They carry cans that hold brushes, gloves and tools to pick up lint.

Gretchen Baker also works for the park.

"Lint pickers follow me," she says.

Park workers explain the rules.

People have to wear gloves.

The rocks grow very slowly — about 1 inch in 100 years.

The oil and sweat on hands are bad for the rocks.

No food is allowed.

A tiny piece dropped on the floor could attract germs.

The germs could harm the rocks.

Randi Poer is part of Baker's group.

"How clean do I need to make this?"

she asks.

"Just the major stuff," Baker says.

As Poer brushes off the lint, the rocks are no longer dull.

They begin to shine.

