If you thought recycling was modern habit — think again.

Our prehistoric ancestors learned to recycle thousands of years ago.

They recycled the objects they used in their daily lives.

Researchers presented the evidence at a conference in Tel Aviv.

It's the first time researchers have shown how cavemen recycled, said Ran Barkai.

He's an archeologist who helped organize the conference.

Like other archeologists, Barkai studies the history of humankind through objects he finds in the ground.

Early humans collected broken tools made of flint and bone, Barkai said.

They used them to make new things, he said.

It's just like we recycle paper and plastic today.

The recycling appeared at different times and different places, he told The Associated Press.

The methods depended on the materials and the surroundings.

Archaeologists have found recycled tools around the world.

Experts from 10 countries met for the conference to figure out what that means.

Early humans didn't worry about pollution, said Avi Gopher, another archaeologist.

But they recycled because they worried about some of the same things we do.

"Why do we recycle plastic?

To conserve energy and raw materials," Gopher said.

Recycling flint and bone means you don't have to go get more, so you save energy and materials, he said.

It could go as far back as 1.3 million years ago, said Deborah Barsky, an archaeologist.

Some flint bits were found near a prehistoric lake in Spain.

But she said it was hard to tell if they were really recycled.

"I think it was just something you picked up unconsciously and used to make something else," Barsky said.

Only after years and years does this become a custom, she said.

That started happening about half a million years ago or later, scholars said.

Some bone tools were found near Rome, said Giovanni Boschian, a geologist.

They were used about 300,000 years ago by Neanderthals, he said.

Boschian, like other geologists, study the history of earth through rocks.

"We find several levels of reuse and recycling," he said.

The bones were broken, then the pieces were shaped into tools.

Sometime later they were reworked to be used again, as smaller tools, he said.

Axes and flint flakes were used to make smaller tools.

Sometimes, even the tiny flakes that flew off the stone were used.

Gopher and Barkai found flint chips between 200,000 and 420,000 years old in a cave.

They had been turned into small blades to cut meat.

One-tenth of the tools found at the site were recycled in some way, Gopher said.

"It was not an occasional behavior; it was part of the way they did things, part of their way of life," he said.

Scientists have ways to determine if a tool was recycled.

They can find evidence of retouching and reuse.

Or they can look at the changes in color that happen when stone gets exposed to the elements.

Differences mean a fresh layer was exposed hundreds or thousands of years after the tool was made, Gopher explained.

Some participants warned about making comparisons.

Today's recycling is done for the environment.

But prehistoric recycling was done out of need, said Daniel Amick, a professor at Loyola University.

Prehistoric recycling had come up before, said Norm Catto.

He's editor in chief of the journal that will publish the researchers' papers next year.

Prehistoric recycling could give clues about how early humans lived and traded with each other, said Catto.

Above all, he said it reflects how humans have similar responses to the challenges of life.

And that holds true over thousands of years.

