If you thought recycling was a modern habit — think again.

Prehistoric humans learned to recycle many years ago.

They recycled the objects they used in their daily lives.

Scientists showed the evidence at a meeting in Tel Aviv.

Early humans collected broken tools made of flint and bone.

They used them to make new things, said Ran Barkai.

He's an archeologist who helped run the meeting.

Archeologists like Barkai study objects that have been dug out of the ground.

The objects teach them about the history of humankind.

Recycled objects appeared at different times and different places, he said.

The way that they were recycled depended on the materials and the surroundings.

Archaeologists have found recycled tools around the world.

Experts at the meeting tried to figure out what that means.

Early humans didn't worry about the Earth or litter like we do, said archeologist Avi Gopher.

But the cavemen did worry about some of the same things we do.

"Why do we recycle paper and plastic?

To conserve energy and raw materials," Gopher said.

Recycling flint and bone also saved energy and materials, he said.

Recycling could go back millions of years, said Deborah Barsky, an archaeologist.

Some flint bits found in Spain could have been recycled.

But she said it was hard to tell.

Barsky said people could have been doing it at first without thinking too much about it.

Only after years and years does this turn into a habit, she said.

Some tools were used to make smaller tools.

Some flint chips had been turned into small knives.

This wasn't something early humans did only sometimes, Gopher said.

It was how they did things all the time, part of their way of life.

He said scientists have ways to know if something was recycled.

They can find evidence of reuse.

Or they can look at the changes in color where the stone was exposed some time later.

Some bone tools were found near Rome, said Giovanni Boschian.

He is a scientist.

Boschian said the bones were used about 300,000 years ago by Neanderthals.

Some bones were recycled over and over.

First they were broken.

Next, the pieces were shaped into tools.

Then they were lost or left somewhere, found by someone else, and reworked to be used again, he said.

Early humans used axes and flint to shape tools.

Flint is a hard rock.

The tiny flakes that flew off the stone were made into small tools.

Gopher and Barkai found flint chips between 200,000 and 420,000 years old in a cave.

They had been turned into small blades.

The cavemen cut meat with them.

Scientists can tell if a tool was recycled.

They can find evidence that it was reshaped and reused.

Or they can look at the changes in color once stone is exposed to air and water.

Differences mean a fresh layer was exposed hundreds or thousands of years after the tool was made.

Some experts warned against comparing today's recycling to prehistoric recycling.

Today we recycle for a greener Earth.

Cavemen didn't see it that way.

They reshaped and reused their old tools because they had to, said Daniel Amick.

He teaches at Loyola University.

Norm Catto works for a magazine that studies earth's history.

He points out that recycling doesn't just tell us how early humans lived.

It shows how humans have reacted to problems in pretty much the same way.

And that's been true for thousands of years.

