A new government study shows that obesity is still rising among American adults.

To be obese is to be so overweight that it becomes a health problem.

The news comes even though the government has been trying for more than 10 years to get people to watch their weight.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/OBESITY_RATES_Edit.png) Also, now a higher percentage of women than men are obese.

For the past several years, experts thought the nation's long rise in obesity had stopped.

Then government health experts released a new report on Nov. 12.

It said that nearly 4 in 10 adults were obese in 2013-14.

About 10 years earlier, that figure was about 3 in 10.

The study suggests that the situation is getting worse, said Dr. William Dietz.

He is an obesity expert at George Washington University.

Another expert was not so sure.

Barry Popkin of the University of North Carolina said the numbers could be off.

The people selected for the study could be different from other people in the country, he said.

Experts said they did not know why more people are becoming obese.

The report also found more women than men were obese.

The percentage of obese men and women had been about the same for the last 10 years.

However, the new report found that the percentage of women is now higher.

Obesity is thought to be one of the nation's leading public health problems, and can lead to heart disease, diabetes and even death.

Until the early 1980s, only about 1 in 6 adults were obese.

The rate climbed until it hit about 1 in 3 around 10 years ago.

The new figures come from a regular government survey.

The government studies about 5,000 people each year.

In interviews, people tend to say their weight is lower than it really is.

They also say they are taller than they actually are.

The newest survey is different.

People in this survey are actually weighed.

Because of that, it is considered the best study for measuring obesity.

The government has been trying to fight obesity for years.

It has been trying to get people to eat better and exercise.

Also, people have been drinking less soda, which can have high amounts of sugar and calories.

Fast-food restaurants have been offering healthier food.

New government rules have made companies remove trans fats from grocery store foods.

Trans fats can raise a person's risk of heart disease.

Other rules will make some restaurants list how many calories their foods have.

Those rules have not started yet, though.

The widening gap between men and women seems to be driven by what is happening among blacks and Hispanics, said Cynthia Ogden.

She wrote the study report.

The percentages of obese men and women are still close.

Yet there is a large gap between black men and women.

More than half of all black women are now obese.

Only about one-third of black men are obese.

The difference is widening among Hispanics, too.

The report also looked at obesity in children.

It did not see much change.

For young people ages 2 to 19, the percentage of obesity has been holding steady over the past 10 years.

About 2 in every 10 kids are obese.

Health officials have been especially worried about obesity in kids.

First lady Michelle Obama started a program called Let's Move in 2010, to get kids to exercise more and help lower obesity.

A government report last year noted one possible glimmer of hope.

Obesity was falling among children ages 2 to 5.

The government measures obesity by calculating Body Mass Index.

The index compares height and weight.

For example, a man who is 5-foot-10-inch is overweight at 174 pounds.

At 209 pounds he would be called obese.

