Normally when it comes to squeezing tiny, individual living cells out into orderly patterns for lab experiments, scientists use inkjet printers.

But that system has its limits, so scientists turned to an ancient technology for a solution: Chinese woodblock printing.

The technique, developed more than 1,800 years ago, was recently described in Proceedings, the magazine of the National Academy of Sciences.

Scientists say that it could significantly improve the survival rates of living cells and allow scientists to effectively print a variety of animal cells in various shapes on just about any surface.

Researchers have used techniques like inkjet printing when they're trying to set down a layer of cells, the study authors wrote.

Inkjet printing involves squeezing fluid filled with cells — the "ink" — onto a surface in a planned design.

But it's hard to get them to lie flat in single-cell layers and to put them precisely where you want and do so efficiently.

On top of that, the survival rate of cells is often just 50 percent to 80 percent, the authors added.

So a team of scientists from Texas and Taiwan turned to Chinese woodblock printing.

The technique basically uses ink-filled wooden stamps to print on paper.

"Woodblock printing is an efficient and convenient technology that revolutionized the printing world," according to the study led by Kai Zhang of Houston Methodist Research Institute.

The study also noted that similar methods have been used in the last two decades or so for molecular printing, which requires a formidable amount of precision.

But they hadn't been attempted with living cells, according to the study.

The scientists designed woodblock-like stamps made out of silicone and built little hooks regularly spaced along the sides of the canals.

Then they pushed fluid filled with cells through the grooves of the stamp, using vacuum pressure to suck it through to the other side of the mold.

Those bent hooks, with a 12-micrometer-wide bowl, were perfect for snagging single cells as they flew by through the fluid, like a baseball into the deep pocket of a catcher's mitt.

Once a hook was filled, the other cells would pass by and fill other empty hooks.

This ensured that the cells were all evenly and individually spaced.

The mold is pressed onto a surface and then lifted away, leaving a pattern of cells in place.

Using this method, the scientists were able to arrange HeLa cancer cells in organized grids.

HeLa cells are human cervical cells.

They were taken from a patient, Henrietta Lacks, who died of cancer in 1951.

Her cells were the first type of human cancer cells to be cloned for experiments.

Scientists noticed that her cells were different from others and could be kept alive and grow.

Her cells have been copied countless times and used by scientists all around the world in experiments.

Scientists were also able to use the HeLa cancer cells to measure the metastasis of cancer — or how cancer cells spread to different areas of the body.

The hope is that it will help determine what stage cancers are.

Scientists also printed neurons (nerve cells) into a grid shape and watched them form synaptic and autaptic connections.

A synapse is the small gap between neurons and allows information to pass from one neuron to the next.

Autapses are synapses that a neuron makes on itself.

Scientists hope neuron printing may help them better understand degenerative brain diseases, such as Alzheimer's.

Scientists call the new form of printing "block-cell printing," or BloC-Printing for short.

They found that their ancient and yet novel process could be done as quickly as in half an hour and with close to 100 percent of cells surviving undamaged.

They could also print cells just 5 micrometers apart – impressive, given that most animal cells are about 10 to 30 micrometers wide.

There are some drawbacks: They can't use this technique to print multiple layers of cells, and the process takes longer than inkjet printing.

But it could potentially be cheaper, the researchers said: The materials to make each mold cost roughly $1, while an inkjet cell printer can cost tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.

