Every 10 years, the government counts the number of people in the country.

It is called the census.

A form is mailed to every house in the United States.

People answer questions about themselves.

One question asks about their background.

For many Americans, it is easy to check the right box on the form.

They mark off "black," "white," "Hispanic," "Asian," or "American Indian."

Some people check more than one box.

It is not so easy for Americans of Middle Eastern and North African background (MENA).

They do not have their own box.

For more than 100 years, the MENA community has been labeled "white."

But they range in skin color from pale to dark.

They come from 22 different countries, from Iran to Egypt to Morocco.

Now, the MENA community wants their own box added.

They think being called "white" makes them invisible.

They say the government gives them less help than they should be receiving.

Census numbers decide who gets money from the government.

The money pays for education and health.

A correct census makes sure states get money to help people.

"Education is obviously a key point," says Sarab Al-Jijakli.

He is a community organizer in Brooklyn, New York.

He says one-quarter of the children at a Brooklyn school are Arab.

He worries the kids in that school do not get the right help.

Some say being labeled "white" prevents the MENA community from getting money.

For example, the government helps minority businesses.

Right now, the MENA community is not a minority, even though there are only about 5 million in the United States.

"We're counted as 'white,' but we're not treated as 'white,'" says Samer Khalef.

He runs a group fighting discrimination against Arab Americans.

Khalef says many in the MENA community are treated like terrorists.

Helen Hatab Samham works for an Arab-American group.

She says the census labels really don't fit.

"More of us would identify as people of color."

Right now, the census form lists five races — black, white, Asian, Hawaiian/Pacific Islander and American Indian/Alaska Native.

There is one ethnic category, Hispanic.

But Hispanics can be any race.

People who are MENA can also be any race.

Race is always changing.

From the 1890s through the 1930s, an African-American with a mixed-race background could be labeled "mulatto," "black" or "Negro."

Meanwhile, the "East Asian" category separated into choices for Koreans, Filipinos, Japanese and "Hindus," or South Asians.

The labels were important.

Many non-whites could not get citizenship for years.

In 1909, George Shishim was a policeman in California.

He fought for U.S. citizenship.

Because he was born in Lebanon, the United States labeled him "Chinese-Mongolian."

He could not get citizenship.

So he got a lawyer.

Studies were done to prove that Arabs were "white."

A judge agreed.

Shishim became a citizen.

After that, Middle Easterners were called "white" by the government.

Adding a new box to the census form can take a long time.

The Census Bureau will try a MENA category starting in 2015.

"'White' is a made-up category, 'black' is a made-up category.

Categories shift over time," said Akram Khater, a professor.

