!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20150318-AMX-BREAKFAST18_1.png)Companies that make cereal are having a hard time these days.

Just ask General Mills.

It is the biggest seller of cereal in the United States.

On Wednesday morning, General Mills announced that it is selling less cereal than before.

It was the sixth straight time it reported lower cereal sales.

Cereal is just not as important a part of breakfast as it once was.

Many people are choosing to eat other foods instead.

Yogurt, snack bars and breakfast sandwiches have all become popular for breakfast.

Cereal sales have been dropping since 2009.

They are expected to continue falling until at least 2020.

Some breakfast cereals are still pretty popular, however.

For example, sales of Cheerios are still strong.

Cheerios is made by General Mills.

Honey Nut Cheerios is the best-selling type of Cheerios.

Americans also still love a few of the extra-sugary cereals.

Frosted Flakes is now the second best-selling cereal in this country.

Cinnamon Toast Crunch and Lucky Charms remain popular too.

Other cereals have seen their sales fall.

For examples, sales of Wheaties have been dropping for at least 10 years.

Once, Wheaties was extremely popular.

Corn Pops is also no longer popular.

Rice Krispies has also been selling much less than it used to.

Healthy cereals have mostly had strong sales.

Muesli is doing the best of all the healthier cereals.

It is a mix of oats, grains, fruits and nuts.

Sales of Muesli have been going up steadily for the past nine years.

Kashi sales have been strong too.

People are also still buying extra-sugary cereals.

Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Lucky Charms and Froot Loops have all been selling more since 2005.

They have become more popular.

Shoppers seem to go back and forth when they choose cereals.

Sometimes they choose a healthy cereal.

Other times, they pick an unhealthy sugary cereal.

They choose the sugary cereal when they want a special treat.

The cereals that are selling the least are the ones in the middle.

Wheaties is not as healthy as Muesli.

And it is not as sweet as Froot Loops to feel like a treat.

Sales of some cereals are holding steady or even growing.

However, cereal sales are dropping overall.

There is one big reason for the drop: Busy American families do not have much time in the morning.

They are looking for food they can grab as they rush out the door.

More and more, they are eating things like snack bars.

Families also do not eat breakfast together as much as they used to.

TV ads still show families eating cereal together.

In real life, that just is not that common anymore.

