The mysterious dwarf planet Ceres will soon be explored up close for the first time.

On March 6, NASA's Dawn spacecraft will enter its orbit.

It will then begin to carefully map the icy world's surface.

Ceres is located between Mars and Jupiter.

It was discovered in 1801 by the Italian astronomer Giuseppe Piazzi.

At first Ceres was thought to be a full-fledged planet.

Astronomers soon decided it was too small to be considered a planet, so it was reclassified as an asteroid.

By 2006 astronomers had decided it is just big enough to be classified as a "dwarf planet."

Whatever you call it, Ceres is one of the most interesting and strange objects in the solar system.

It is round, roughly the size of Texas and at least 20 percent water ice.

Other than blurry Hubble Space Telescope images from 2004, its surface had scarcely been glimpsed until Dawn's approach.

As Dawn draws closer, the dwarf planet's features are coming into focus.

Practically every new image is revealing tantalizing details.

The latest images were taken by Dawn from around 28,000 miles away.

Dawn has sharpened its view of a couple mysterious bright spots dotting Ceres' crater-pocked surface, some of which were previously seen in the Hubble images.

All the bright spots are actually quite dark.

They are called bright spots only because they are far brighter than the rest of Ceres, which is blacker than coal.

No one knows what the bright spots are, but there are two main theories.

One theory holds that they are scars caused by meteor strikes.

Another idea is that the splotches were erupted by ice volcanoes known as "cryovolcanoes."

The white spots could be exposed ice.

However, observations of Ceres with telescopes from the ground don't show any evidence of ice at the bright spots' locations.

According to planetary scientist Andy Rivkin, ice should not be stable at Ceres' surface.

"So," he says, "its presence there would mean it's only gotten there recently."

The most likely explanation for its presence, Rivkin feels, is that buried ice has been exposed by meteors hitting the dwarf planet's surface.

All anyone really knows for sure right now is that the spots are getting brighter as Dawn's view sharpens.

The brighter they become "the more interesting they get," says Dawn mission scientist Mark Sykes.

Their growing brightness is making it increasingly likely that they are patches of water ice.

If water ice is indeed emerging from ice volcanoes, that would mean Ceres must have reservoirs of water below its surface, Sykes says.

Ceres "isn't what you normally think of as an asteroid, a dead potato just being smacked around by its neighbors out in space.

There is a lot happening on this object."

If Ceres does prove to have reservoirs of water, that would make it a possible home for extraterrestrial life.

If life on Ceres seems possible, scientists will want to send another spacecraft there in the near future, Sykes says.

Such a spacecraft could "go down to one of these spots."

It could "scoop up soil, take a look and ask whether there are any dead bugs in there."

Such a mission would not be too expensive, Sykes says, because Ceres is relatively close by.

It is also not a "nasty radiation environment" like, for example, Jupiter's moon Europa.

In addition, "it's got low gravity so it doesn't require lots of energy to land on!

It's too early to say whether this stuff is there, but the prospect is very exciting."

Dawn is still in the earliest phases of investigating Ceres.

The best images and the most interesting scientific information are yet to come.

Dawn will eventually swing down to within around 250 miles of the dwarf planet's surface.

It will produce detailed maps of all of Ceres.

The spacecraft will spend at least the next 16 months studying Ceres.

Because the dwarf planet could potentially have life below its surface, Dawn will not be crashed into it once its mission ends, as is usually done.

Instead, it will be left in orbit around Ceres.

It will become a long-term, tiny mechanical moon circling around the dwarf planet.

