The U.S. is sending soldiers to Africa to search for more than 270 kidnapped [Nigerian schoolgirls](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Nigerian+schoolgirls).

President Barack Obama informed Congress of the plan Wednesday.

He said the 80 soldiers will remain until their help is no longer needed.

Many of the soldiers will operate aircraft searching for the girls.

The U.S. is increasing its effort to find the girls.

More than 300 girls were kidnapped from their school April 14.

More than 270 remain missing.

The rest of them escaped.

The girls were taken by Nigeria's most feared and powerful extremist group, Boko Haram.

The group's leader is threatening to sell them into slavery.

Two weeks ago, the U.S. sent about two dozen experts to help with the hunt.

They included intelligence and law enforcement officers.

Fewer than 10 were from the military.

Military officials say the soldiers will operate an unarmed Predator [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

A drone is an unmanned aircraft equipped with a camera.

It will try to locate the girls from the air.

U.S. officials believe Boko Haram divided the girls into smaller groups.

The girls are believed to be hidden in the deep forests of northeastern Nigeria.

The area is about the size of West Virginia.

Navy Admiral John Kirby is the spokesman for the Department of Defense.

It is in charge of the U.S. military.

He said the hunt for the girls is like searching for "a needle in the jungle."

"We've not seen anything that indicates their location at this point," Kirby said.

The U.S. is sharing information with the Nigerian government.

But so far, it hasn't discovered much.

For the last five years, Boko Haram has terrorized Nigeria.

It has been especially active in the north.

The group has kidnapped and killed many people.

On Wednesday, Boko Haram members attacked three villages.

At least 40 people were killed near the school where the girls were taken last month.

U.S. officials are in a difficult position.

They can't give help to anyone involved in human rights abuses.

That would include much of the Nigerian army.

Some members of Boko Haram also belong to the army.

Alice Friend is in charge of African issues for the Defense Department.

She said officials are being "very, very careful."

They are giving information only to Nigerians who won't use it to hurt people.

Since 2010, Boko Haram is believed to have killed at least 300 students.

Boko Haram can be translated as "Western education is forbidden."

The group is against girls going to school.

It said it kidnapped the girls because they should be married rather than go to school.

It has threatened to sell them into slavery.

The girls' kidnapping sparked anger around the world.

People began a Twitter hashtag campaign, #bringbackourgirls.

First lady Michelle Obama participated in the Twitter campaign.

In the last week, it has lost some of its popularity.

The troops will be stationed in the neighboring country of Chad.

They will not be in Nigeria.

But, some Nigerians will be mad about it anyway.

Some people in Nigeria question why the U.S. military is getting involved in Africa.

U.S. officials have said the Nigerians must be the ones to rescue the girls.

They say the U.S. will just try to spot the girls.

"We're not talking about U.S. military operations in Nigeria to go find these girls," Kirby said.

"That's not the focus here."

The last time the United States sent troops to Africa was in 2011.

Obama sent a small group of soldiers to central Africa to help find Joseph Kony.

He was the leader of the Lord's Resistance Army.

The terror group used to operate in Uganda.

The U.S. troops hunting for Kony are still looking for him.

Kony remains on the run.

