gunman shot at a group of worshippers inside Emanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina, on Wednesday.

Nine people were killed.

The Reverend Clementa Pinckney was among the dead.

Pinckney was the church's leader.

The church has played a big part in Charleston's history.

It is very important to the city's black citizens.

"It's not just a church.

It's also a symbol ... of black freedom," historian Robert Greene said.

"That's why so many folks are so upset."

The church "represents so much about the rich history and tradition of African Americans in Charleston."

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20150618-AMX-CHARLESTON-HATE18_dragged.png) In Charleston, the church is known as "Mother Emanuel."

It is a place in which people take pride, said the Reverend Stephen Singleton.

He served as the church's pastor from 2006 to 2010.

The church is "a very special place," Reverend Pinckney said two years ago.

It has been part of "the history and life of African-Americans since about the early 1800s."

The church was founded by Pastor Morris Brown in 1816.

At the time, most of Charleston's black population were slaves under the control of white people.

Brown was tired of the racism he experienced in Charleston's churches.

About 4,000 of the city's African-Americans quickly joined his new church.

From the beginning, the church was a center for the fight against slavery.

The city's whites soon became distrustful of the church.

Worshippers were sometimes arrested.

Whites had some reason for the lack of trust.

Denmark Vesey was a leader in the church.

Vesey often declared that the enslavement of African-Americans would be punished with death.

In 1822, he and other leaders began plotting a slave revolt to throw off the rule of the white owners.

The revolt was planned for June 16.

However, a slave named George Wilson told his master about the plan.

Vesey and about 36 others were arrested and put to death.

Another 60 were forced to leave the city.

Following the uprising, South Carolina introduced new laws aimed against African-American churches.

Black churchgoers were no longer allowed to hold services without a white person present.

The Charleston A.M.E. members were separated.

Their church building was set on fire.

The A.M.E. membership soon began holding services in secret.

Then came the Civil War (1860–1865) between the North and the slave-owning South.

After the war, the South's slaves were freed.

The A.M.E. membership was able to hold services openly again.

Soon, a new church was built on Calhoun Street.

In 1886 the new building was destroyed in an earthquake.

The church's membership then replaced it with the beautiful building seen today.

By the 1900s, Emanuel A.M.E. was once again a center of black struggle.

During the 1950s, the civil rights movement spread across the country.

The movement aimed to win equal rights for African-Americans.

Many famous black leaders have appeared at the church over the years.

Booker T. Washington spoke there in 1909.

Martin Luther King Jr. gave a speech there in 1962.

In 1969, Coretta Scott King led a march from Emanuel A.M.E.'s steps.

Civil rights protesting in Charleston "was almost always centered around that church," Greene said.

Many were very shocked by the recent deadly shooting.

Police said the suspected gunman, Dylann Roof, who is 21, was caught less than 24 hours after the killings.

"If we're not safe in the church, God, you tell us where we are safe," mourners said.

Still, the church will live on.

Emanuel A.M.E. "won't be destroyed because of this," Reverend Singleton said.

"Chances are it'll probably come out stronger."

