Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, a fiery leader who used his country's vast oil wealth to fight poverty at home and spread an anti-U.S. message, died March 5.

He was 58 and had been fighting cancer for several years.

Chavez rose from a childhood of relative poverty to became a military revolutionary.

He later became the longest-serving democratically elected president in all of the Americas.

He saw it as his mission to counter the influence of the United States in Latin America.

Chavez was born July 28, 1954, one of seven children in a family that lived in a dirt-floor home.

He had mixed ancestry: Spanish, African, and indigenous American.

His parents, though both teachers, had little money.

They sent him to live with his grandmother, along with his older brother, Adan.

He dreamed of becoming a baseball player, but entered Venezuela's military academy at age 17.

After graduating, he was assigned to a military unit to fight rebels in the countryside.

He disliked hunting the rebels and disagreed with the harsh treatment of some of them.

During his childhood and his military service, Chavez became influenced by revolutionaries in Latin America.

His hero was the 19th-century Venezuelan leader, Simon Bolivar, who believed in a united Latin America.

In the 1980s, he formed a group with other military officers to overthrow the government.

Chavez viewed the government as corrupt.

He believed it was neglecting the needs of the poor and minorities.

In February 1992, Chavez led a failed attempt to topple the government.

As a result, he spent two years in jail.

When he was released, he decided to use democratic means to gain power.

He went from being a soldier to a politician.

He ran for president in 1998 and won with 56 percent of the vote.

From the beginning of his presidency, Chavez made social reform a priority by opening state-run grocery stores that offered cheap food, and provided health care and education to the poor.

But he attempted to give the state more control over the economy, which made the rich and middle class uncomfortable.

Street protests pushed him out of power in 2002.

Two days later he was restored to the presidency by military loyal to him and protests made up largely of the poor.

Back in power, he took over the state oil company, despite a protest that nearly led to him losing power again.

He was reelected in 2006 and 2012, but by the time of his last reelection he was ill and undergoing regular medical treatment for cancer in Cuba.

Venezuela is a major producer of oil.

Chavez used his country's oil wealth to gain influence internationally.

He provided billions of dollars in discounted oil to Cuba each year.

Beginning in 2005, Chavez offered cheap heating oil to poor residents of the South Bronx neighborhood of New York.

He made several memorable appearances at the United Nations.

During one in 2006, he called U.S. President George W. Bush "the devil" after criticizing the U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

He allied himself with enemies of the United States, including Fidel Castro of Cuba, Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran.

Chavez gave weekly addresses on a TV program that sometimes ran as long as seven hours, with Chavez acting as both host and guest.

The show "Alo Presidente," or "Hello President," featured his own lengthy speeches, singing and dancing performances.

He sometimes used it to criticize the U.S. as in February 2005 when he accused the United States of planning to kill him.

"If I am assassinated there is only one person responsible, the president of the United States," Chavez said.

In later years, he used Twitter, gaining four million followers; he gave his three millionth follower a free home.

Even though he was elected democratically, critics said Chavez stifled political opponents and kept all the power for himself and his party.

He was accused of dominating the courts, Congress and the media.

He changed Venezuela's Constitution to allow himself to run permanently for president.

However, even his critics admit that he gave the poor more of a voice in the country.

Yet, even though he spent more money on social programs, many in the country remain in poverty.

As the economy sagged and prices rose for basic goods, the middle class felt less wealthy.

The crime rate rose during Chavez's presidency and Venezuela's capital, Caracas, became one of the most dangerous capitals in the world.

Despite the criticisms, Chavez is a hero to many Venezuelans, who affectionately called him "el comandante."

Massive crowds flooded the streets of Caracas during his funeral procession.

His final resting place is in an army building where he first tried to overthrow the government.

