Hugo Chavez, the president of Venezuela, died March 5.

While he was in power, he fought poverty and spread an anti-U.S. message.

He was 58 and had battled cancer for several years.

Chavez rose from a poor childhood to become a revolutionary.

He was the longest-serving elected president in the Americas.

He attempted to counter the power of the United States in Latin America.

Chavez was born July 28, 1954, one of seven children in a family that lived in a dirt-floor home.

He had a mixed background -- Spanish, African, and native-American.

His parents, though both teachers, had little money.

They sent him to live with his grandmother, with his older brother, Adan.

He dreamed of becoming a baseball player, but entered Venezuela's military academy at age 17.

After graduating, he joined a military unit to fight rebels.

He hated hunting the rebels and disagreed with their harsh treatment.

Chavez became more influenced by revolutionaries in Latin America.

The 19th-century Venezuelan leader, Simon Bolivar, who believed in a united Latin America, had a strong effect.

In the 1980s, Chavez formed a group with military officers to overthrow the government.

He viewed the government as corrupt and unhelpful to the poor and minorities.

In February 1992, Chavez led an attempt to topple the government.

It failed and Chavez spent two years in jail.

When he was released, he decided to use democracy to gain power.

He ran for president in 1998 and won with 56 percent of the vote.

During his presidency, Chavez opened grocery stores that offered cheap food, and he gave health care and education to the poor.

But he also gave the state more control over the economy, which made some people uncomfortable.

Street protests led to his being removed from power in 2002.

Two days later he was put back in charge by military personnel loyal to him and protests made up of the poor.

But soon he took over the state oil company.

Another protest nearly led to him losing power again.

He was reelected in 2006 and 2012, but by 2012 he was ill and getting cancer treatment in Cuba.

Chavez used Venezuela's oil wealth to gain influence.

He provided billions of dollars in cheap oil to Cuba each year.

Beginning in 2005, Chavez offered cheap heating oil to poor people in the South Bronx neighborhood of New York.

Chavez made several speeches at the United Nations.

During one in 2006, he called U.S. President George W. Bush "the devil" after criticizing the U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

He allied himself with enemies of the United States, including Fidel Castro of Cuba, Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran.

Chavez starred in a weekly TV program that sometimes lasted seven hours.

He was both the host and guest.

The show "Alo Presidente," or "Hello President," featured Chavez speaking, singing and dancing.

He sometimes used the program to criticize the U.S.

In February 2005, he said the United States was planning to kill him.

"If I am assassinated there is only one person responsible, the president of the United States," Chavez said.

In later years, he used Twitter, gaining four million followers; he gave his three millionth follower a free home.

Even though he was elected democratically, critics said Mr. Chavez blocked opposition.

He was accused of dominating the courts, Congress and the media.

He changed Venezuela's Constitution to let him run permanently for president.

However, even his critics admit that he gave the poor a voice.

Yet, despite increased spending, many in the country remain poor.

As the economy weakened and prices rose for basic goods, many felt less wealthy.

The crime rate rose during Chavez's presidency and Venezuela's capital, Caracas, became one of the most dangerous capitals in the world.

Despite the criticisms, Chávez is a hero to many Venezuelans, who called him "el comandante."

Hundreds of thousands flooded the street to say goodbye as his coffin was carried through the capital.

