Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez, a fiery and charismatic leader who used his country's vast oil wealth to fight poverty at home and spread an anti-U.S. message throughout the world, died March 5 from complications related to cancer.

He was 58.

Chavez rose from a childhood of relative poverty, became a military revolutionary, and finally, the longest-serving democratically elected president in all of the Americas.

He saw it as his mission to challenge U.S. influence in Latin America.

Chavez was born July 28, 1954, one of seven children in a family that lived in a dirt-floor home.

He had a mix of Spanish, African, and indigenous American ancestry.

His parents, though both teachers, struggled financially and sent him to live with his grandmother, along with his older brother, Adan.

He dreamed of becoming a baseball player, but entered Venezuela's military academy at age 17.

After graduating, he was assigned to a military unit to combat rebels in the countryside.

He disliked hunting the rebels and disagreed with the harsh treatment of some of them.

During his childhood, and more deeply during his military service, Chavez became influenced by revolutionaries such as 19th-century Venezuelan leader, Simon Bolivar, who believed in a unified Latin America.

In the 1980s, Chavez formed a group with other military officers interested in overthrowing the government, which he viewed as corrupt and unresponsive to the needs of the poor and minorities.

In February 1992, Chavez led a failed attempt to topple the government.

His co-conspirators were either killed or arrested and Chavez spent two years in jail.

When he was released, after a presidential pardon, he decided to use democratic means to gain power, and went from being a soldier to a politician.

He ran for president in 1998 and won with 56 percent of the vote.

From the beginning of his presidency, Chavez made social reform a priority by opening state-run grocery stores that offered subsidized food, and provided health care and literacy training to the poor.

But as the rich and the middle class became uncomfortable with his attempts to give the state more control over the economy, street protests led to his ouster from power in 2002.

Two days later he was restored to the presidency by members of the military loyal to him and street protests made up largely of the poorest segment of the population.

Back in power, he took over the state oil company despite a protest that nearly led to him being removed from power again.

He was reelected in 2006 and 2012, but by the time of his last reelection he was ill and undergoing regular medical treatment in Cuba for cancer.

Chavez used Venezuela's vast oil wealth to gain influence internationally.

He provided billions of dollars in subsidized oil to Cuba each year.

Beginning in 2005, Chavez offered discounted heating oil and other economic aid to poor residents of the South Bronx neighborhood of New York.

He made several memorable appearances at the United Nations, including one in 2006 when he called U.S. President George W. Bush "the devil" after criticizing the U.S.-led wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

He allied himself with foes of the United States, including Fidel Castro of Cuba, Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran.

Chavez gave weekly addresses on a television program that sometimes ran as long as seven hours, with Chavez acting as both host and guest.

The show "Alo Presidente," or "Hello President," featured his own lengthy speeches, singing and dancing.

He sometimes used it to rail against the U.S., as in February 2005 when he accused the United States of planning to kill him.

"If I am assassinated there is only one person responsible, the president of the United States," Chavez said.

In later years, he used Twitter, gaining four million followers; he gave his three millionth follower a free home.

Despite being democratically elected, Chavez faced criticism that during his 14 years in office he stifled political opposition and centered power around himself and his political party.

He was accused of dominating the courts, Congress and the media.

He changed Venezuela's Constitution to allow himself to run permanently for president.

However, even his critics admit that he gave the poor more of a voice in the country.

Yet, despite increased spending on social programs, many in the country remain in poverty.

As the economy sagged and prices rose for basic goods, the middle class felt its wealth slipping away.

The crime rate rose during Chavez's presidency and Venezuela's capital, Caracas, became one of the most dangerous capitals in the world.

Despite the criticisms, Chavez remains a hero to many Venezuelans, who affectionately called him "el comandante."

Hundreds of thousands flooded the streets of Caracas during his funeral procession.

His final resting place is in the army barracks where he made his first attempt to overthrow the government.

