Twenty-six Atlanta public school educators pleaded not guilty on Friday to crimes related to a massive cheating scandal.

Authorities accuse them of changing answers on standardized tests and then lying about it.

Many had received bonus pay based on remarkable improvements in test scores.

Those improvements now appear to be false.

If they are found guilty, the teachers and administrators may have to pay fines and even go to jail.

Atlanta is not the only U.S. city where widespread cheating occurred.

Unfortunately, for thousands of elementary and middle school students there, it was the worst case.

Beverly Hall, the former superintendent of Atlanta's public schools, is accused of creating an environment where test scores were more important than students' education.

Under her watch, dozens of principals and teachers met in secret behind closed doors, according to the charges.

They erased wrong answers and substituted correct ones.

Nine other educators were indicted in the scandal, in addition to the 26 who appeared in court on Friday.

Judge Jerry Baxter set a trial date for May 2014 for the 35 total defendants.

The judge remarked that there were so many people involved, the court might need to rent an empty grocery store to have enough room for everyone.

Atlanta's public schools were once praised for superior improvements in student achievement.

They won five National Blue Ribbon Schools Awards, the federal government's highest honor.

Hall won national praise as Superintendent of the Year in 2009.

But now she is free on $200,000 bail and Atlanta is associated with the largest school cheating scandal in U.S. history.

Two years ago, the Atlanta Journal-Constitution newspaper reported unusually large changes in test scores.

Investigators discovered widespread cheating by 200 school staff in 80 percent of Atlanta's schools.

In some cases, the cheating had been going on for a decade.

The newspaper also investigated 605 schools around the country that had won the Blue Ribbon Awards from 2009 to 2011.

Again, sharp changes in test scores were discovered, sometimes for entire grades.

Testing experts said even with major improvements in teaching, changes that great were not possible.

The problems began in the late 1980s, when states began to offer bonuses to teachers and principals for raising test scores.

Then in 2001, Congress passed the No Child Left Behind law.

It said every third- through eighth-grader must be tested annually in reading and math.

Standard goals were set throughout the country.

The targets went up every year so that by 2014, students would reach a certain level of ability in math and reading.

If schools did not meet those goals, they would get in serious trouble.

Schools could be labeled "failing" and be taken over by the district.

To prevent that from happening, schools everywhere began focusing on the material that would be on the test.

This was known as "teaching to the test."

Teachers were then evaluated based on how well their students did on the tests.

If the students did poorly, the teachers were blamed.

In 44 Atlanta public schools, dozens of principals were found to be involved.

Teachers thought they had to go along with the cheating scheme or else lose their jobs.

Not only did teachers erase incorrect answers, they also told students to stay home on test day if they thought they would do poorly.

Justina Collins, the mother of a former Atlanta public school student, described how the cheating hurt her daughter.

The third-grader was failing in class, but getting high test scores, so she was not eligible for extra help.

Today she is in ninth grade, but reading at a fifth-grade level.

"As a parent that wants the best for their child, I'm very disappointed," she said, her voice cracking with emotion.

Standardized testing has critics who argue that relying too much on test scores discourages creative ways of teaching and learning.

It also does not allow for other ways of finding out what students have learned.

Critics also point out that focusing so much on math and reading takes time away from music and art.

Many schools find that they no longer have time for recess and physical education.

Some learning experts question whether standardized tests actually measure knowledge and various kinds of ability.

Can test results predict success in high school or at work?

Can they measure the ability to solve problems creatively?

How these questions are answered may decide education guidelines in the future.

Experts say too much importance is placed on tests, and too much responsibility rests on teachers and schools.

Students may do poorly because they did not put in enough effort or they lack aptitude in a subject.

Other factors that may affect a child's progress are hunger and homelessness.

If English is not spoken in the home, that also could affect a child's ability to test well.

The White House introduced a program called "Race to the Top."

But it still relies primarily on standardized tests to rate students' knowledge.

Students' scores on those tests affect teachers' and principals' salaries.

Georgia has begun to make changes.

Teacher evaluations include observation of classes and input from students.

When standardized tests are given, the state monitors the testing process, looking for problems such as erasures.

U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan has said that honesty is very important in any educational system.

He thinks the students of Atlanta were badly hurt by the cheating.

For her part, Hall, the former superintendent, faces up to 45 years in prison if she is convicted.

