Twenty-six Atlanta public school teachers and staff were in court on Friday.

The state is charging them with crimes.

Lawyers said they changed answers on their students' tests so the students would score better.

They also are accused of lying to cover it up.

The educators all pleaded not guilty.

Many teachers got extra pay because of better test scores.

If a jury finds them guilty, they could pay fines and even go to jail.

Beverly Hall used to be the head of Atlanta's public school system.

The person in charge of the system is called the superintendent.

Critics say she made test scores more important than education.

Principals and teachers had secret meetings after school, the state charges.

There, they erased the wrong answers on the test sheets and wrote in the correct ones.

Atlanta's public schools had won five National Blue Ribbon Schools Awards.

The federal government gives those awards to schools with the most improvement in student test scores.

Hall won Superintendent of the Year in 2009.

Many places in the United States had widespread cheating.

But Atlanta's is the worst case in U.S. history.

Thousands of students were affected.

The Atlanta Journal-Constitution newspaper reported large changes in test scores two years ago.

Reporters showed that 200 educators were cheating.

In some cases, cheating had been going on for 10 years.

The newspaper also looked at many schools around the country that had won Blue Ribbon Awards.

Like Atlanta, entire grades showed big changes in test scores.

Experts said the big gains in scores could not be explained.

Even if teaching had gotten much better, scores could not rise so fast.

The problems started in the late 1980s.

States began to offer extra pay to teachers and principals for raising test scores.

In 2001, Congress passed the No Child Left Behind law.

It said every child in third through eighth grade had to be tested in reading and math every year.

Standard goals were set for students throughout the country.

If schools did not reach those goals, they could be labeled "failing."

Even worse, they could be taken over by the school district.

Schools did not want to get taken over.

They began to focus on what would be on the test.

This was called "teaching to the test."

Teachers were judged by how well their students did on the tests.

If the students did not do well, the teachers were blamed.

In 44 Atlanta public schools, many principals were found to be involved.

Teachers thought they had to go along with the cheating or else lose their jobs.

They erased incorrect answers.

They let some students skip the test completely.

One mother, Justina Collins, described how the cheating hurt her daughter.

The third-grader was failing in class, but getting high test scores.

Because her scores were good, she could not get extra help.

Today she is in ninth grade, but reading at a fifth-grade level.

"As a parent that wants the best for their child, I'm very disappointed," the mother said.

Some critics say too much testing means that teachers cannot try new things.

It does not allow for other ways of finding out what students know.

Critics also say focusing so much on math and reading takes time away from music and art.

Many schools no longer have time for recess and fitness classes.

Some experts wonder if tests really measure what students know.

Can test results say whether someone will do well in high school?

Can they tell if someone is good at solving problems?

These are important questions for the future of education and testing.

Experts say too much blame is put on teachers.

Maybe some students do not do well because they do not try hard.

Some students may have problems at home.

President Barack Obama started a new program called "Race to the Top."

But it also relies on tests and the scores still affect teachers' salaries.

Georgia has begun to make changes.

Teachers are now evaluated in other ways.

The state watches closely during testing season.

It is looking for erasures.

Arne Duncan is the U.S. Secretary of Education.

He says honesty is very important in schools.

He thinks what happened in Atlanta was terrible for the students there.

Former superintendent Hall faces up to 45 years in prison if she is found guilty.

