The Manitou Springs High School cheer team has won three state titles in the past four years.

They are great at cheerleading and even better at sticking together as a team.

The Mustangs have had three coaches in three years and more than their fair share of challenges.

Those tough times changed the team's outlook.

They don't even hold tryouts anymore.

They will take anyone who is willing to work hard.

For sophomore Kory Mitchell, the team has been a perfect fit.

Kory joined the team last year, full of giggles and ready to perform.

She loves to dance and dreams of moving to New York City.

Kory is all smiles, but she is also one tough cookie.

She has Down syndrome.

That means that she has an extra chromosome that makes mental and physical tasks more difficult for her.

She was also born with a hole in her heart, and a wheat allergy.

She has had surgery on her eyes and ears more than 10 times.

Kory's mother, Bonnie King, knew that cheerleading would be hard on her daughter's body.

The team had 7 a.m. workouts twice a week, all summer long.

"I wasn't sure how that was going to work out, but she never complained," said King.

Kory lifted weights and ran stairs.

She needed a little extra time and coaching, but she always got there in the end.

"She's just surprised me," King said.

"Sometimes you put kids in with different abilities, and you never know how it's going to work out ... especially leaving her alone there."

King admits that she had been concerned about how Kory's teammates' would treat her.

King had bad memories from her own cheerleading days during her time in high school.

She hadn't liked how her teammates treated other people, so she quit right away.

Fortunately, her daughter's cheerleading team is focused on all the right things.

Now King says she never has to worry about Kory feeling included.

"They're a great group of girls.

They're very proud and willing to stand up for each other."

Senior student Brianna Griffin has served as Kory's "big sister" for the past two years.

She encourages Kory and answers her questions.

"I wanted to make sure she was included," Brianna said.

"I thought it was really important that she knew that she was part of our little family."

Brianna said it was tough at first.

"I really made an effort to try to bring her into the community because a lot of the girls didn't know how to interact with her."

Kory's hard work and big smile helped a lot.

"Right off the bat, she was full of energy and excited to be on there," Brianna said.

With her big sister's help, Kory has grown much closer to her teammates.

She eats lunch with them and goes to their sleepovers.

"She's very popular," said teammate Ryan Murdoch.

Kory has come a long way - and she has made a big difference for her team along the way.

As a child, Kory was so scared of heights that she couldn't stand at the top of the stairs.

Now, she smiles and cheers while her teammates lift her up by her shoes and hold her five feet off the ground.

"She's capable of doing more than we ever thought," Ryan said.

Earlier this year, Kory became a "big sister" to freshman Trinity Kranz.

Trinity also has Down syndrome and has been friends with Kory for many years.

Now, Kory helps Trinity with her tumbling.

Kory's next big step was competing in her first cheerleading contest with the Mustangs.

To get ready for the big event, she spent extra time practicing at home.

She even had her mother videotape her and give her pointers.

"She worked harder than probably most of the girls on our team," Ryan said.

"I started to look at Kory as being a molding on our team that keeps us together," Ryan said.

"She always comes to practice so happy and ready to work and makes girls on the team feel great.

She brings joy, even when we're not having the best of days."

