The Mustangs are one of the best high school cheer teams in Colorado.

They win a prize almost every year.

Lots of girls want to be on the team.

They don't even have to try out.

The Mustangs will let anyone join as long as they work hard.

Kory Mitchell joined the team last year.

It has been a perfect fit.

She loves to perform and she knows a lot about hard work.

Kory was born with Down syndrome.

It makes things more difficult for her brain and her body.

She was also born with a hole in her heart.

She has had problems with her ears and eyes, too.

She has had to stay in the hospital more than 10 times.

Cheerleading is hard on Kory's body.

She gets up early to lift weights and run stairs.

She even has practice in the summer.

Bonnie King is Kory's mother.

She said her daughter never complains.

"She's just surprised me," King said.

She is proud of her daughter.

King used to worry about Kory making friends, but not anymore.

"They're a great group of girls," said King.

"They're very proud and willing to stand up for each other."

New cheerleaders are matched with a buddy when they join the team.

Kory's "big sister" was Brianna Griffin.

She helped Kory practice the cheers.

She also helped her fit in with the other girls.

Brianna said it was hard at first, but she wanted Kory to feel like part of their family.

Now Kory is very close to her teammates.

She eats lunch with them most of the time.

She even goes to their sleepovers.

"She's very popular," said teammate Ryan Murdoch.

"Everyone's always giving her hugs."

"I feel the love," Kory said.

Kory has surprised everyone around her.

Now she can do more than anyone ever thought she could do.

She has even become a "big sister" to another girl on the team.

Kory's "little sister" has Down syndrome, too.

Her name is Trinity Kranz.

She and Kory have been friends for many years.

Now Kory helps Trinity with doing flips.

She sets a great example for her teammates.

They say Kory is like the glue that holds them together.

"She always comes to practice so happy and ready to work," Ryan said.

"She brings joy."

