The cheerleaders at Manitou Springs High School have won the state trophy three times in the past four years.

They are really good at cheerleading.

They are even better at being a team.

The Mustangs have had three different coaches in the past three years.

All those ups and downs have changed how the team works.

They don't even hold tryouts anymore.

Now they take anyone who is willing to work hard.

Kory Mitchell joined the team last year and it has been a perfect fit.

She loves to dance and is always ready to perform.

She dreams of moving to New York City.

Kory is all smiles, but she is also tough and knows a lot about hard work.

She was born with Down syndrome.

It makes things more difficult for her brain and her body.

She was also born with a hole in her heart, and a wheat allergy.

She has had surgery more than 10 times.

Bonnie King is Kory's mother.

She knew that cheerleading would be hard on her daughter's body.

The team had workouts twice a week at 7 a.m., all summer long.

"I wasn't sure how that was going to work out, but she never complained," said King.

Kory lifted weights and ran stairs.

She needed a little extra time and coaching, but she always got there in the end.

"She's just surprised me," King said.

King had also been worried about Kory making friends.

King had made the cheer team when she went to Manitou Springs, but quit right away.

King hadn't liked how her teammates treated other people.

King is thankful that her daughter's team is different.

She no longer worries about the other girls including her daugher.

"They're a great group of girls," said King.

"They're very proud and willing to stand up for each other."

New cheerleaders get a buddy when they join the team.

Kory's "big sister" was a senior student named Brianna Griffin.

She helped Kory learn the cheers and fit in with the other girls.

"I wanted to make sure she was included," Brianna said.

"I thought it was really important that she knew that she was part of our little family."

Brianna said it was tough at first.

Some of the girls weren't sure what to say or do, but Kory kept smiling and giggling.

"She was full of energy and excited," Brianna said.

With Brianna's help, Kory has grown closer to her teammates.

She eats lunch with them most of the time.

She attends team-building events and sleepovers.

"She's very popular," said teammate Ryan Murdoch.

"Everyone's always giving her hugs."

"I feel the love," Kory said.

Kory has come a long way.

She has surprised everyone around her.

When she was young, Kory was scared of being up high.

She wouldn't stand at the top of the stairs in her house.

Now, she stands in her teammates' hands, five feet off the ground.

"She's capable of doing more than we ever thought," Ryan said.

Kory's role on the team has changed.

She even has a "little sister" this year, freshman Trinity Kranz.

Trinity has Down syndrome, too.

She and Kory have been friends for many years.

Now Kory helps Trinity with her flips.

Mitchell has become a true leader for the Mustangs.

Her teammates say she is like the glue that holds them together.

"She always comes to practice so happy and ready to work," Ryan said.

"She brings joy, even when we're not having the best of days."

