Water was declared safe to drink in some parts of West Virginia's capital on Tuesday.

But life is not yet normal for people in Charleston.

Around 300,000 people couldn't use running water in the five days since chemicals spilled into a nearby river.

It could still be days before everyone is able to use the water.

Officials said it is safe to drink and wash with in some areas.

They warned that it might still have a licorice odor.

The chemical that leaked into the water had a strange, sweet smell.

"I wouldn't drink it for a while," said Wanda Blake, a worker at a Charleston Kmart.

She is concerned that she drank some of the water before she knew about the chemical spill.

Last Thursday's leak closed schools, businesses and restaurants in a nine-county area.

Truckloads of water had to be brought into West Virginia from other states.

People were told to use the water only to flush their toilets, and not to drink or wash with it.

On Tuesday, hospitals were flushing out their water systems.

So were schools, which hoped to open again on Wednesday.

Downtown Charleston was the first section of the city where water was declared safe.

Few signs of the crisis could be seen there on Monday.

Yet many businesses remained closed in neighborhoods further out of the city.

Anthony Majestro is a lawyer working for several businesses that lost money while shut down.

He said there will be many court cases about the losses.

The Fire Department gave away bottled water for free.

On Monday afternoon, there was a line of vehicles to pick up water at a station about a mile north of downtown.

Captain Eddie Moore said that firefighters, police and volunteers gave away more than 80,000 16-ounce bottles on Monday.

Firefighters loaded water into every vehicle that drove through the station.

Inside the station, the firefighters were surviving on frozen dinners.

Captain Moore said the licorice smell from the taps was especially strong on Monday.

Bernard Casdorph, 64, said he was making two trips a day to the station.

He got water for himself, his mother, her neighbor and a cousin who uses a wheelchair.

But Casdorph said that three days without a shower made him forget his fears of the chemical.

He said that he couldn't take it, so "went ahead and took a shower anyway."

Casdorph is worried that he shouldn't have done that and doesn't know what the chemical could do to his body.

So he is now asking people, "Am I turning green or blue?"

Officials were allowing customers to have their water back slowly.

This made sure that the water system would be OK with the big demand.

If everyone turned their faucets on at the same time, it could cause more water problems.

The water company gave every customer 1,000 gallons of free water, which was enough to flush out a system.

The average customer uses about 3,300 gallons a month.

The crisis started last Thursday when the chemical leaked into the Elk River.

The chemical came from a plant where it is used for washing coal.

Police got complaints about a licorice odor in the air.

Then officials discovered the chemical leaking out of a 40,000-gallon steel tank.

State officials believe about 7,500 gallons spilled out of the tank through a hole in the bottom.

But some of the chemical was stopped before it flowed into the river.

It is not clear exactly how much entered the water supply.

Authorities are now looking into the spill to try and work out what happened.

Tests have shown that the chemical in the water was always below poisonous levels.

In some samples there was no trace of the chemical at all.

Some Charleston people put plastic bags around faucets so they were reminded not to use the water.

Others left town to take a shower and find an open restaurant.

Only 14 people exposed to the water were admitted to the hospital and none of them were in serious condition.

No fish were reported dead either.

This chemical cannot kill people, even when at its strongest.

But people were warned they should not even wash their clothes in the affected water.

The chemical could harm skin or make people sick.

Gary Southern is the president of Freedom Industries.

Freedom Industries runs the plant where the chemical spilled from.

Southern said on Friday night that the leak had been stopped.

The company has made no other comment.

