Businesses and restaurants began to reopen after water was declared safe to drink in parts of West Virginia's capital on Tuesday.

But life has yet to return to normal for many of Charleston's residents.

Around 300,000 people haven't been able to use running water in the five days since a chemical spill last week.

It could still be days before everyone in the Charleston metropolitan area is cleared to use the water.

Officials said water in certain areas is safe to drink and wash with, as long as people have flushed out their plumbing systems.

They cautioned that the water may still have a slight licorice-type odor, raising the anxieties of some who believed it was still contaminated.

"I wouldn't drink it for a while," said Wanda Blake, a cashier in the electronics section of a Charleston Kmart, who fears she was exposed to the potentially harmful water before she knew about the spill.

"I know I've ingested it," she said.

By Tuesday morning, officials had given the green light to about 35 percent of West Virginia American Water's customers.

Last Thursday's spill affected 100,000 customers in a nine-county area, or about 300,000 people in all.

The water crisis shuttered schools, restaurants and day-care centers, and truckloads of water had to be brought in from out of state.

People were told to use the water only to flush their toilets and not to drink or wash with it.

On Tuesday, hospitals were flushing out their water systems, as were schools, which hoped to open again on Wednesday.

In downtown Charleston, the first section of the city where water was declared safe, few signs of the crisis were visible late on Monday.

Hotel guests were informed they could use everything but the ice machines.

But many businesses remained closed in residential neighborhoods further out of the city.

Attorney Anthony Majestro represents several businesses that lost money while shut down and said he has lost count of the lawsuits filed over the spill.

The Charleston Fire Department continued to give away cases of bottled water for free.

Late on Monday afternoon, a stream of vehicles crept through a station about a mile north of downtown to pick up water.

Fire Captain Eddie Moore estimated that firefighters, police officers and volunteers had given away 2,500 cases of water at the station on Monday.

This would be 80,000 16-ounce bottles, or two tractor-trailers full of clean water.

Firefighters loaded several cases into every vehicle that drove through the station.

Inside the station, the firefighters were surviving on frozen dinners, as they still don't want to use the running water.

Fire Captain Moore said the licorice smell from the taps was especially strong on Monday morning.

Bernard Casdorph, 64, a field deputy for the county assessor's office, said he was making two trips a day to the fire station to collect water.

He picked up bottles for himself, his mother, her neighbor and a cousin who uses a wheelchair.

But Casdorph said that going three days without having a shower was enough for him to set aside his fears of the chemical in the water.

He said he "just couldn't take it" so "went ahead and took a shower anyway."

Casdorph worried that maybe he shouldn't have, so is now asking people "Am I turning green or blue?"

Officials were lifting the ban in a strict, methodical manner to help ensure the water system was not overwhelmed by excessive demand.

This could cause more water quality and service problems.

An online map detailing which areas were cleared showed a very small portion in blue on Monday evening.

The map still showed a vast area across nine counties colored in the "do not use" red.

The water company credited every customer's account with 1,000 gallons of water, which was likely more than enough to flush out a system.

The average residential customer uses about 3,300 gallons a month.

The water crisis started last Thursday when a chemical used for washing coal leaked into the Elk River from a plant operated by Freedom Industries.

Authorities began receiving complaints about a sweet, licorice odor in the air.

Officials then discovered the chemical leaking out of a one-inch hole in the bottom of a 40,000-gallon steel tank.

State officials believe about 7,500 gallons leaked out from the tank, but some of the chemical was contained before flowing into the river and it's not clear exactly how much entered the water supply.

The U.S. Chemical Safety Board and other federal authorities have opened an investigation into the spillage.

Over the past few days, tests have shown that the chemical in the water was always below poisonous levels, and in some water samples there was no trace of the chemical at all.

Some Charleston residents put plastic bags around faucets so they were reminded not to use the water, while others left town to take a shower and find an open restaurant.

Only 14 people exposed to the water were admitted to the hospital, and none were in serious condition.

No fish kills were reported and there was no effect on other water life, state officials said.

Even in its strongest form this chemical isn't deadly, but people were warned they shouldn't wash even their clothes in the affected water.

The compound can cause symptoms ranging from skin irritation and rashes to vomiting and diarrhea.

Freedom Industries president Gary Southern said on Friday night that the leak had been stopped.

But officials from the company have otherwise declined to comment.

