Last week a tank at a chemical factory leaked.

A harmful chemical spilled into a nearby river.

The chemical got into the water supply.

People around Charleston were told not to use the water at all.

Five days later, water is now safe to drink in some parts of West Virginia's capital city.

But life is not yet normal for people in Charleston.

It could still be some days before everyone can use the water.

On Tuesday, officials said it was safe to drink and wash with in some areas.

But it may still smell like licorice.

The chemical that leaked into the water had a strange, sweet odor.

"I wouldn't drink it for a while," said Wanda Blake.

Blake is worried that she drank some of the water before she knew about the spill.

Last Thursday's leak closed schools, businesses and restaurants.

Truckloads of water had to be brought into West Virginia from other states.

People were told to use the water only to flush their toilets.

They could not drink or wash with it.

But on Tuesday, hospitals were washing out their water systems.

So were schools, which hoped to open again on Wednesday.

Downtown Charleston was the first part of the city where the water was safe.

Few signs of the leak could be seen there on Monday.

But many businesses were still closed in neighborhoods further out of the city.

The Fire Department gave away bottled water for free.

Captain Eddie Moore said that firefighters gave out more than 80,000 bottles on Monday.

Firefighters loaded water into every vehicle that drove through the station.

Inside the station, the firefighters ate frozen dinners.

They had no running water.

Captain Moore said the licorice smell was very strong on Monday.

Bernard Casdorph, 64, was making two trips a day to the fire station.

He got water for himself, friends and family.

But Casdorph said he needed to take a shower after three days without one.

He was so desperate that he ignored his fears of the chemical.

So he went ahead and took a shower anyway.

Casdorph is worried that he shouldn't have done that.

He doesn't know what the chemical in the water could do to his body.

So he is now asking people, "Am I turning green or blue?"

Officials were allowing customers to have water back slowly.

This made sure that the system would be OK with the big demand.

If everyone turned their faucets on at the same time, it could cause more water problems.

The water company will let customers use 1,000 gallons of water free of charge.

This is enough to flush out a system.

The average customer uses about 3,300 gallons of water a month.

The crisis started last Thursday.

The chemical leaked into the Elk River from a plant where it is used for washing coal.

People first noticed a licorice odor in the air.

Then officials discovered the chemical leaking out of a 40,000-gallon steel tank.

State officials believe about 7,500 gallons spilled out of the tank.

It leaked through a one-inch hole in the bottom.

But some of the chemical was stopped before it flowed into the river.

It is not clear exactly how much entered the water supply.

Government investigators are now trying to work out what happened.

Tests show that the chemical in the water was always below poisonous levels.

In some samples there was no trace of the chemical at all.

Some people put bags around the faucets to remind them not to use the water.

Others left town to take a shower and find an open restaurant.

Only 14 people exposed to the water had to check into the hospital.

None of them were seriously hurt, and no fish were reported dead.

The chemical does not kill people, even when at its strongest.

But people were even told not to wash their clothes in the water.

The chemical could harm skin or make people sick.

Gary Southern is the president of Freedom Industries.

Freedom Industries runs the plant where the chemical came from.

Southern said on Friday night that the leak had been stopped.

The company  has made no other comment.

