player was kicked out of a big chess match.

The match was in Italy.

People said the player did not play fair.

He cheated, they said.

They could tell by his eyes.

The game referee said the player was not blinking right.

He said Arcangelo Ricciardi was blinking in code.

A code is a secret message.

There were other reasons to think Arcangelo cheated.

He kept his thumb under his armpit.

He was quickly beating players who were much better.

A necklace was found under his shirt.

The necklace had a tiny video camera.

The camera was connected to a small box.

The box was under his armpit.

People said Arcangelo was using the video camera to cheat.

They think he sent video of his games to a helper.

He also might have sent video to a computer.

The helper or computer then sent signals to the armpit box.

The signals gave Arcangelo chess moves to do.

Arcangelo said he did not cheat.

He said the necklace was for good luck.

So was the box.

Yoga and training helped him to play better, he said.

Chess is a board game.

It takes much thinking to play the game well.

Stephen Moss works for a newspaper.

He writes about chess.

He said there is a lot of cheating.

Computers can beat even the best players.

There are a million ways a cheater can use a computer.

Claude Shannon is a math expert.

He said there are many, many possible moves in a chess game.

There are more moves than stars in the universe.

Even super fast computers have trouble.

In 1997, a supercomputer named Deep Blue won at chess.

It beat a world champion.

Computers have only gotten smarter.

An iPhone can now do what Deep Blue did.

There is a way to score chess players.

Experts say the best computer programs that play chess would score between 3200 and 3300.

Magnus Carlsen is the world's best chess player.

His score is 2862.

It is very easy to cheat by phone, said Nigel Short.

He was one of the world's best chess players.

He joked that his dog could cheat and win.

So could his grandmother.

Anybody could cheat by using a phone, he said.

