Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel took the oath of office to begin his second term Monday.

He took the unusual step of focusing his inaugural address on a single issue: The lack of opportunity facing the city's disadvantaged young people.

The mayor's decision to home in on one of Chicago's most troublesome problems meant he made only passing reference to another — the crumbling finances that have left the city's pension, or retirement, funds lacking in money.

The pension funds pay for the retirements and disability payments for the city's public workers such as police, firefighters and teachers.

The problem will dominate much of Emanuel's time in the coming weeks, as he will be working to persuade state lawmakers to let the city space out the increases in pension payments it has to make to former workers, so they aren't made all at once.

He will also push for a city-owned casino to bring in money to help stabilize the city's finances.

Second inaugural speeches tend to be trickier for politicians than the first.

The first time, the formula often is to highlight an agenda heading into office.

For many, the second time around features a mixture of touting accomplishments made during the first term, while listing what is important for a second term.

Emanuel's decision to draw attention to a single issue is not usually done.

But he focused on the lack of opportunities in many of the city's minority neighborhoods, and he did it through the lens of the city's youth.

By doing this, Emanuel took on one of the top criticisms lobbed at him during the campaign: He's a mayor who has perpetuated two Chicagos — one for the wealthy and one for the rest.

And so the mayor talked about the city's troubled youths, describing them as children who live in poverty, fail to receive a proper education and can turn to a life of crime.

The problem is "too often ignored in our civic conversation.

It is ignored precisely because it is so hard to talk about," Emanuel said in his speech, while promising to "shine a spotlight on preventing another lost generation of our city's youth."

Emanuel listed a number of programs he said had made a difference for kids from low-income families, and pointed to examples of students who have overcome such situations.

One example was the story of Marcus Norris, who was sitting in his house as a 9-year-old when a "gunshot came through the window and knocked out four of his teeth."

For the next nine years, the mayor said, Norris was too embarrassed to smile until he entered the Becoming a Man program.

There, his adviser Timothy Jackson gave Norris confidence and raised money for dental surgery for the student.

"Marcus was able to smile for his high school graduation photo.

And he will be wearing a big smile at his upcoming graduation ceremony at Fulton High School this summer.

His dream is to enter a college (cooking) program and one day become a chef," Emanuel said.

"Marcus — all of Chicago is smiling with you today."

Still, Emanuel said, much more has to be done.

"The faces of these lost and unconnected young men and women are often invisible — until we see them in a mug shot as the victim or the perpetrator of senseless violence," Emanuel said.

"Their existence is avoided rather than confronted ... but we must make them ever-present in our conversation."

Heading into Monday's speech, much of the focus had been on Chicago's cratering finances.

Both the city and Chicago Public Schools face $1 billion debts.

The Illinois Supreme Court decided this month that public employee retirement benefits may not be diminished once they've been promised.

This has jeopardized two pension deals Emanuel negotiated and makes striking new ones to cover police, firefighters and teachers more difficult.

The court ruling led major Wall Street agencies last week to downgrade Chicago and Chicago Public Schools debt ratings, with one rating it "junk."

The downgrade means the agencies expect it will be harder for Chicago to repay the money it already owes — its debt —and could make it harder for the city to borrow money cheaply.

Emanuel also is faced with coming up with a new contract with the city's teachers to avoid a strike.

The mayor didn't mention most of that Monday, only touching on the city's financial problems briefly at the beginning of his speech.

Alderman Scott Waguespack noticed.

"It was a nice speech, but he basically failed to mention the words 'pension' and 'finances.'

I don't think we can address a lot of the other issues substantively until we see a plan about the finances of the city and what direction we're going to go," said Waguespack, a frequent Emanuel foe on the City Council.

"I was really expecting to see something by now, and it's a little (worrisome) not to see any substantive ideas put on the table."

Alderman Joe Moore said he, too, found the speech surprising, "but in a good way."

"What he spoke on was an equally if not more daunting challenge, which is the crisis facing many of our young people," said Moore, an Emanuel ally.

"I really thought it was timely, particularly as we head into the summer months, particularly as violence continues to be (common)."

Former President Bill Clinton, who attended the ceremony, drew a slightly louder ovation than Emanuel.

Other than briefly mentioning that the city had made progress on schools, safety and finances, the rest of Emanuel's address dealt with Chicago's children.

The mayor, however, did not offer much in the way of new proposals to address the many societal problems, many decades in the making, that have driven the economic, crime and educational problems in the city's neighborhoods that are struggling the most.

Instead, Emanuel sought to use his speech to set the issue as a prime concern for the entire city.

"Over the next four years, I will do everything in my power to spark hope in the eyes of every Chicagoan," Emanuel said.

"We will work harder than ever to restore trust where it is broken and opportunity where it is lost.

But today I challenge every citizen of this great city: You must do your part."

