Chicago children returned to school Tuesday, protected by 1,300 guards in dangerous neighborhoods.

Last year, safety concerns led the city to hire 1,200 guards to get students to school safely.

Thanks to $1 million from the city this year, another 100 "Safe Passage" workers lined routes that students walk to get to school.

After Governor Pat Quinn pledged $10 million, another 600 workers will be hired and on the streets over the next several weeks.

Jadine Chou is the chief safety and security officer for the Chicago Public Schools.

She said the extra money will let the city place more guards along existing routes.

Some routes will be extended farther from schools to protect kids walking longer distances.

This year, the district has added Safe Passage routes to 27 more schools, bringing the total to 120 schools.

"It was good last year, but I don't think it stopped the violence none," said Tiffany Davis.

She was walking her 7-year-old son to Dulles School of Excellence on the city's South Side.

"Maybe it calmed things down a little."

There is far less news about the first day of school than a year ago.

Last year, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel ordered the closure of nearly 50 schools.

Parents worried that children could get caught in gang fights while they were walking through unfamiliar and dangerous neighborhoods to their new schools.

But the worst fears of violence against children walking to school never came to pass.

"It didn't happen, to the glory of God, and I think (very little) if anything, happened to children on their way to and from school," said Bishop Larry Trotter.

He is the pastor of Sweet Holy Spirit Church on the city's dangerous South Side.

Trotter was one of several pastors who had urged Emanuel to reconsider the closings last year.

"The mayor and his team did a wonderful job."

Chou said no student was badly injured along a Safe Passage route while guards were on duty.

Since school ended in the spring, the city has witnessed bursts of violence.

Over the July Fourth weekend, 14 people were killed and dozens were injured.

An 11-year-old girl inside a house at a slumber party was killed when a bullet fired outside accidentally pierced her house.

Some worry that the city is not doing enough to keep students from harm.

High school students, in particular, go to and from school for clubs and sports teams before or after guards are on duty.

Last December, a 15-year-old girl who left her home before dawn to get to a school on the city's North Side was attacked.

She was less than a half block from a Safe Passage route.

"She had to get to school earlier than the Safe Passage (workers) were on duty," said state Representative LaShawn Ford.

Guards start less than an hour before classes begin and are on their routes for up to an hour after school ends, according to Chicago Public Schools.

Ford has pushed for the guards to come earlier and stay later.

There is also a political risk for Emanuel, who is up for re-election for mayor next year.

His most-talked-about potential rival, Chicago Teachers Union President Karen Lewis, has criticized Emanuel for closing neighborhood schools.

She has called him the "murder mayor" because of the city's violence.

Any violence that occurs on a student's walk to and from school could become ammunition for opponents to use against Emanuel.

He has become less popular over the last year.

