Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel took the oath of office to begin his second term Monday and took the unusual step of focusing his inaugural address on a single issue: The lack of opportunity facing the city's disadvantaged youths.

The mayor's decision to home in on one of Chicago's most intractable problems meant he made only passing reference to another: crumbling finances that have left the city's credit rated as "junk" and its pension funds woefully unfunded.

That issue will dominate much of Emanuel's time in the coming weeks, as he works to persuade state lawmakers in Springfield to grant the city pension relief and a Chicago-owned casino to help stabilize the city's finances.

Second inaugural speeches tend to be trickier for politicians than the first, where the formula often is to highlight an agenda heading into office.

For many, the second time around features a mixture of touting accomplishments while ticking off priorities for a second term.

Emanuel's decision to draw attention to a single issue is less conventional.

But by focusing on the lack of opportunities in many of the city's minority neighborhoods, and doing it through the lens of the city's youth, Emanuel took on one of the top criticisms lobbed at him during the campaign: He's a mayor who has perpetuated two Chicagos — one for the wealthy and one for the rest.

And so the mayor talked about the city's troubled youth, describing them as children who live in poverty, fail to receive a proper education and can turn to a life of crime.

"Building that stronger future for Chicago requires us to focus on a difficult subject that is too often ignored in our civic conversation.

It is ignored precisely because it is so hard to talk about," Emanuel said in his speech from the stage of a crowded Chicago Theatre.

"So today, as we inaugurate the stewards of our city for the next four years, I want to use this moment to shine a spotlight on preventing another lost generation of our city's youth."

Emanuel listed a number of programs he said had made a difference for kids from low-income families and pointed to examples of students who have overcome such circumstances.

That included the story of Marcus Norris, who was sitting in his house as a 9-year-old when a "random gunshot came through the window and knocked out four of his teeth."

For the next nine years, the mayor said, Norris was too embarrassed to smile until he entered the Becoming a Man program, where his mentor, Timothy Jackson, instilled confidence in Norris and raised money for dental surgery for the student.

"Marcus was able to smile for his high school graduation photo.

And he will be wearing a big smile at his upcoming graduation ceremony at Fulton High School this summer.

His dream is to enter a college culinary program and one day become a chef," Emanuel said.

"Marcus — all of Chicago is smiling with you today."

Still, Emanuel said, much more has to be done.

"The faces of these lost and unconnected young men and women are often invisible — until we see them in a mug shot as the victim or the perpetrator of senseless violence," Emanuel said.

"Their existence is avoided rather than confronted.

They live in the shadows of our cities — and in the recesses of our minds.

But we must make them ever-present in our conversation."

Heading into Monday's speech, much of the focus had been on Chicago's cratering finances.

Both the city and Chicago Public Schools face $1 billion deficits.

The Illinois Supreme Court's ruling this month that public employee retirement benefits may not be diminished once they've been granted has jeopardized two pension deals Emanuel negotiated and makes striking new ones to cover police, firefighters and teachers more difficult.

The court ruling led major Wall Street agencies last week to downgrade Chicago and CPS debt ratings, with one terming the city and school district's credit rating "junk."

Emanuel also is faced with negotiating a new contract with the city's teachers to avoid a strike, while his schools chief, Barbara Byrd-Bennett, remains on leave because of a federal investigation into a contract she backed for a former employer.

The mayor didn't mention most of that Monday, touching on the city's financial issues only briefly at the beginning of his speech, saying he'd be "continuing to address our pressing pension and financial issues."

Alderman Scott Waguespack noticed.

"It was a nice speech, but he basically failed to mention the words 'pension' and 'finances.'

I don't think we can address a lot of the other issues substantively until we see a plan about the finances of the city and what direction we're going to go," said Waguespack, a frequent Emanuel foe on the City Council.

"I was really expecting to see something by now, and it's a little foreboding not to see any substantive ideas put on the table."

Alderman Joe Moore said he, too, found the speech surprising, "but in a good way."

"I think everyone expected him to talk about the financial challenges facing the city, but what he spoke on was an equally if not more daunting challenge, which is the crisis facing many of our young people," said Moore, an Emanuel ally.

"I really thought it was timely, particularly as we head into the summer months, particularly as violence continues to be prevalent."

Emanuel started his speech by thanking his wife, Amy Rule, and their children Zach, Ilana and Leah.

He choked up as he thanked Rule and his parents.

The mayor also thanked former President Bill Clinton, who attended the ceremony and drew a slightly louder ovation than Emanuel.

Other than briefly mentioning that the city had made progress on schools, safety and finances, the rest of Emanuel's address dealt with Chicago's children.

The mayor, however, did not offer much in the way of new proposals to address the multitude of societal problems, many decades in the making, that have driven the economic, crime and educational woes in the city's most downtrodden neighborhoods.

Instead, Emanuel sought to use his speech to set the issue as a priority for the entire city.

"Over the next four years, I will do everything in my power to spark hope in the eyes of every Chicagoan," Emanuel said.

"We will work harder than ever to restore trust where it is broken and opportunity where it is lost.

But today I challenge every citizen of this great city: You must do your part."

Alderman George Cardenas, 12th, said calling Chicagoans to action to improve the future of the city's youth turned out to be the best use the mayor could have made of the inaugural stage.

"I thought it was the right thing to do, to kind of not talk about the finances right now.

We're going to talk about that," Cardenas said.

"This was about him motivating the city, motivating really the young people of this city, which is our future, to take the reins of themselves.

We're here to help them, but they've got to help themselves."

The talk will turn to the city's finances on Wednesday when the newly sworn-in City Council holds its first meeting to set committee assignments and priorities for the coming months.

Many of the financial problems the aldermen will try to tackle — and look toward Springfield for help on — have been hanging around since Emanuel took the oath of office four years ago.

"I think the challenge is that the mayor had … unfinished business from his first inaugural address," Alderman Tom Tunney, observed about Emanuel's speech.

"We knew four years ago that we had a pension crisis.

So I believe it's working together — federal, county and the state — on how we can cut our expenses and really find the revenue and (make) the tough choices."

