Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel began his second term as mayor on Monday.

He will have four more years in this term.

Then another election will take place.

To start his new term he gave a speech, which is usual.

Yet his speech was a bit unusual.

He mostly spoke about a single problem: The city's young people and the problems they face.

Many of Chicago's young people are poor and don't have enough opportunities.

It is one of Chicago's toughest problems.

However, he avoided talking about another big problem — money.

The city doesn't have enough money left in its pension fund.

The fund is what gives money to city workers like teachers, police and firefighters when they retire.

Second-term speeches are usually about what good things mayors say they have done.

They also often list what is important for the second term.

Drawing attention to a single problem is not common.

The mayor focused on the problems for many of the city's minorities.

He did it by talking about the city's young people.

He described Chicago's young people as children who live in poverty, or are poor.

He said they fail to receive a good schooling.

He said they might go on to break the law.

Emanuel listed a number of programs he said had made a difference for kids from poorer families.

He pointed to examples of students who have succeeded in such cases.

One example is the story of Marcus Norris.

He was sitting in his house one day when he was 9 years old.

Then, a "gunshot came through the window and knocked out four of his teeth."

For the next nine years, Norris was too embarrassed to smile.

Then, he entered the Becoming a Man program.

There, his counselor Timothy Jackson helped Norris believe in himself.

He also raised money to get the student's teeth fixed.

Still, Emanuel said, much more has to be done.

Chicago is facing serious money problems.

Both the city and Chicago Public Schools owe large amounts of money.

Also, Emanuel is trying to avoid a strike from the city's teachers.

The mayor didn't mention most of that Monday.

He touched on the city's money problems only briefly at the beginning of his speech.

Scott Waguespack noticed.

He is on the City Council and is against Emanuel.

He said that it was a "nice speech," but Emanuel failed to mention the pension and money problems.

He said he is worried that Emanuel hasn't come up with anything yet.

Joe Moore represents some neighborhoods in Chicago in the city government.

He supports Emanuel.

Moore said the speech was surprising, but "in a good way."

Moore said that everyone expected Emanuel to talk about the money problems facing the city.

But instead he spoke about the problems young people in Chicago face.

That could be just as important, or maybe more important, than the money problems, Moore said.

Former President Bill Clinton attended the inauguration.

More people clapped for Clinton than Emanuel.

Emanuel quickly said that the city had improved in areas like schools, safety and other money problems.

The rest of Emanuel's speech was about Chicago's children.

He did not offer many new ideas to fix the other problems in Chicago.

Instead, Emanuel paid the most attention to the city's young people.

He tried to use his speech to make them the city's main challenge.

"Over the next four years, I will do everything in my power to spark hope in the eyes of every Chicagoan," Emanuel said.

"Today I challenge every citizen of this great city: You must do your part."

