The United Nations Children's Fund announced some good news this week: more children around the world are living to age 5.

Still, 6.3 million children died last year, mostly from preventable causes.That is about 17,000 young children dying every day.

Death rates for children have been cut in half since 1990, but the world is still falling short of seeing a two-thirds decrease by 2015.

According to Dr. Mickey Chopra of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), things are getting better in many countries in the poorest parts of the world.

The challenge is to spread what works.

India and Nigeria, which have large populations, together saw more than one-third of all the deaths.

The world's highest rate of child mortality was in Angola: 167 deaths for every 1,000 live births.

By region, the most serious problem is in sub-Saharan Africa, with a rate of 92 deaths for every 1,000 live births.

By comparison, the U.S. rate is seven deaths for every 1,000 live births.

However, the fact that a country is poor does not mean it cannot make progress, the report stressed.

Every region has made major gains since 1990.

It found that eight of the 60 countries with particularly high child death rates had lowered their rates by more than two-thirds since 1990: Malawi, Bangladesh, Liberia, Tanzania, Ethiopia, East Timor, Niger and Eritrea.

The 6.3 million deaths in 2013 compares with 6.5 million deaths in 2012.

Pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria cause about one-third of all the under-age-5 deaths, the report found.

Chopra said that pneumonia and diarrhea are so widespread because they are easily passed from person to person.

However, he added, those illnesses, along with malaria, are easily preventable with inexpensive antibiotics.

"It is very, very easy to prevent those three diseases from killing kids," Chopra said.

"An antibiotic is 10, 20 cents, and that saves the life basically."

Newborns  in the first month of life make up 44 percent of the deaths.

"We're making much faster progress with the older children," Chopra noted.

Some simple steps can help, though, he said.

Among them are newer vaccines against childhood diarrhea and pneumonia.

For newborns, early breastfeeding and contact with the mother's skin are very important, Chopra added.

Even in parts of Africa and Asia where women often give birth at home, mothers sometimes wrap their infant in cloth rather than carrying the baby pressed against their body.

Babies lose out on their mother's body warmth and they are not able to breastfeed on demand.

How do poor countries take the steps needed to reduce child deaths?

In a second report released this week, researchers looked at 10 low- and middle-income countries that are making progress.

They found that commonly used health programs, such as vaccinating children or having skilled health workers at childbirth, account for only half of those countries' improvements.

Importantly, there was no one formula for success.

The report examined Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, Laos, Nepal, Peru, Rwanda and Vietnam.

It found that each country had made different improvements.

In Nepal, for example, thousands of female health volunteers visit homes.

They provide immunizations, family planning materials and information on infant care.

In Peru, more women are giving birth in hospitals.

However, things like clean water and better roads are key to those health efforts.

It's not enough to know where a hospital is, noted Shyama Kuruvilla of the World Health Organization.

"You also need roads to get there."

Educating girls and increasing women's participation in the workforce plays a role, too.

If women can earn money, they are better able to protect "the health of themselves and their families," Kuruvilla explained.

UNICEF also found that newborn mortality rates are lower for educated mothers.

Both health and social programs are necessary, UNICEF's Chopra said.

Educating a woman so that she knows her infant needs vaccination does not help if there are no vaccines.

"It can't just be all about delivery of things.

It has to be about empowering people to demand the things," he said.

