Early in 2014, U.S. officials and immigrant rights activists noticed something disturbing happening at the border with Mexico.

Tens of thousands of minors, or people under 18 years old, were crossing illegally without their parents.

The news shocked the nation as arrivals reached record levels.

In all, at least 51,705 minors from Central America entered the United States illegally during the 12 months through Sept. 30, 2014 — two and a half times more than the previous year.

Most of the minors eventually were resettled throughout the country.

More than 3,100 wound up in South Florida.

Now, the flow of immigrants has eased but many are wondering how the children are doing.

Depending on who you talk to, some of the children are doing relatively well while others are dealing with various issues.

Some are even facing a crisis.

Nora Sandigo says she thinks that half of the minors who crossed the border have been allowed to stay in the country.

Sandigo leads an immigration support group called American Fraternity.

"They have not become a public charge or a burden on the community, though there may be some isolated cases of that," Sandigo said.

Sandigo said the main issues are a lack of lawyers to represent the children in court and not enough resources for public schools.

Francisco Portillo is president of another group, Francisco Morazan Honduran Organization.

He agreed with Sandigo.

He also said there are not enough lawyers to represent the children and not enough resources for local public schools.

Immigration authorities also have increased pressure on many of the children's parents who do not have papers saying they are in the country legally, he said.

"Immigration authorities keep requiring me to report my whereabouts, and that affects my ability to get a stable job," said Cindy Figueroa Castro.

She is a Honduran mother of a 4-year-old child who crossed the border last year.

Jose Cruz is a Cuban-American and former priest who helped resettle young Cubans in the 1960s.

He said the Central American children are facing a crisis.

Cruz and two other Cuban-Americans have formed the Peter Pan Border Operation.

The group helps the Central American children create a new life in the U.S. Cruz said 90 percent of the boys and girls are "living without any kind of supervision" and do not have help with money.

Cruz said he is also concerned that some of the children may be living in overcrowded homes.

Others may be forced to work to support their families, he said.

In addition, some of the children are facing problems in school because they don't know English, and they don't eat well.

Dr. Jorge Herrera, president of the group, said he also is worried about the children's overall health.

They do not have insurance and do not get regular health care, he said.

Cruz and Herrera have asked the White House to let them supervise the status of Central American children in the U.S.

They have also asked for money to help them do this.

Thus far, the White House has not responded, Cruz said.

John Schuster of the Miami-Dade County public schools said the Central American children have been welcomed in the local schools.

They are adjusting as well as can be expected, he said.

Overall, Schuster said, the children may be facing problems — but not in the schools.

Schuster said the children are far away from their homes and families.

He also noted that they have been "separated because of unspeakable violence in their home countries."

Cheryl Little, who helps lead Americans for Immigrant Justice, said the children face special challenges.

"While so many of the children we see are thrilled to finally feel safe and have opportunities they never dared dream of, a number of them could use some help adjusting to life in America," Little said.

