More children around the world are living to their fifth birthday, the United Nations said in a report this week.

Still, 6.3 million children died last year.

That is about 17,000 a day.

Most of those deaths did not have to happen.

To study this issue, researchers look at how often children around the world die before age 5.

Imagine 100 mothers having a baby in a rich country like the United States, and 100 mothers having a baby in a very poor country like Angola, in Africa.

In the United States, only one of those babies would die before they are 5 years old.

In Angola, 17 would die.

One out of 100 is a low rate of child death.

Seventeen out of 100 is a high one.

Around the world, the rate of young children dying has been cut in half since 1990.

The United Nations was hoping for more progress by 2015.

Things are getting better in many countries.

Even the poorest countries are making progress, said Dr. Mickey Chopra of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF).

Every region has improved since 1990.

The challenge now is to find out what works and use it all over.

The region with the most serious problem is sub-Saharan Africa.

About nine out of 100 young children die there.

India and Nigeria, which both have large populations, had one-third of all child deaths around the world.

Worldwide, there were 200,000 fewer deaths in 2013 than in 2012.

About one-third of all deaths of kids younger than 5 were caused by one of three things.

They are diarrhea, malaria and pneumonia.

Chopra said those illnesses are easy to prevent.

They can be stopped by cheap medicines called antibiotics.

"It is very, very easy to prevent those three diseases from killing kids," Chopra said.

"An antibiotic is 10, 20 cents" and it can save the life of a child.

Newborns — babies up to 1 month old — are in the greatest danger.

"We're making much faster progress with the older children," Chopra said.

Some simple steps can keep newborns from dying.

Vaccines, or shots, are important.

If a baby gets a vaccine for pneumonia, she will probably not get that disease later on.

How can poor countries lower child death rates?

There is no one way that works everywhere.

Different things work better in different places.

In Nepal, thousands of female health volunteers visit homes.

They provide vaccines and information on baby care.

In Peru, more women are giving birth in hospitals.

Things like clean water and better roads are important everywhere.

It's not enough to know where a hospital is, said Dr. Shyama Kuruvilla of the World Health Organization.

"You also need roads to get there."

More education for girls and more work for women are also important.

If women earn money, things improve for their children.

Working mothers are better able to keep their families healthy, Kuruvilla explained.

Education also helps.

The children of educated mothers are less likely to die.

Education is important, but it's not everything, Dr. Chopra said.

Teaching a woman that her baby needs vaccines does not help if there is no medicine.

Mothers have to be given the confidence and knowledge to demand what they need.

