Broken bones in children are almost never treated properly, according to new research from the University of Maryland School of Medicine.

Hundreds of thousands of children in the United States go to emergency rooms with bone fractures every year.

The study found that 93 percent of the time, the splints used to immobilize fractured arms and legs temporarily were not put on correctly.

This can lead to swelling, skin injuries and other problems — some of them long-term.

"I did the study because I see a lot of splints on wrong, but I didn't think it would be that high," said Dr. Joshua M. Abzug.

He is the director of pediatric orthopedics at the University of Maryland Medical Center and the lead author of the study.

Abzug said the study shows "Hey, there is a problem and we recognize that it exists."

"The next step is education," Abzug added.

He is also an assistant professor in Maryland's School of Medicine.

Abzug studied 275 children and teenagers who came to a Maryland pediatric orthopedist, a children's bone doctor, from a community hospital emergency department or urgent-care center in the area.

An urgent-care center treats illnesses or emergencies that are not serious enough to require an emergency room visit.

The splints that are used on broken bones usually include a strip of hard material and soft padding.

An elastic bandage is wrapped around it to hold it in place.

Most of the time, Abzug said, a splint is good enough for a patient who will see an orthopedist within a few days to have a cast put on.

But if that visit is delayed, serious problems can develop.

They include wounds that require skin grafts, where healthy skin is taken from another part of a person's body, or even surgery.

In 77 percent of the cases Abzug studied, elastic bandages were incorrectly put directly on skin.

In 59 percent, joints were not immobilized correctly, and in 52 percent, splints were the wrong length.

About 40 percent of the young patients had skin sores and problems with the underlying tissue.

Those percentages are particularly troubling, Abzug said, given the huge numbers of kids who need splints.

Nearly half of all boys and one-quarter of girls suffer fractures before age 16, Abzug said.

Almost 1 million kids younger than 15 fracture limbs each year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found in a 2010 survey.

Millions more get splints for sprains or strains.

Abzug suspects that adults also are not splinted properly either.

The researchers could not identify who was applying splints incorrectly most often because parents couldn't really tell them whether it was a doctor, nurse or assistant.

The researchers planned to demonstrate up-to-date techniques to staff in area hospitals and urgent-care centers.

They also hope to provide some posters and pocket-size cards for reminders.

Abzug said they would redo the study to see whether more splints were put on correctly.

Dr. Robert G. Graw Jr. is the founder and medical director of the Righttime Medical Care group, 13 urgent-care centers in Maryland.

He said he would welcome the additional training.

Graw, a pediatrician, said 15 percent of the kids who visit a Righttime center have injuries that require splints.

He said staff members learn how to apply splints from doctors.

But techniques and materials change, Graw said, and people lose skills that they don't use regularly.

So updates are important.

"Splints are a small percentage of what we do, and we like to learn from people who do things all the time," he said.

Graw said children and their parents also need to be warned not to take off splints, because they could put them back on incorrectly.

When 1-year-old Hudson was injured last month in an accident, X-rays showed a fractured tibia, or shinbone.

A splint was put on his leg at the emergency room.

At one point, he crawled out of the splint, and at another, his mother, Jessica Ryan of Abingdon, Maryland, removed it so he could sleep.

When Hudson saw Abzug, the pediatrician told Hudson's mother he was not surprised to see a sore on Hudson's heel.

More than a month later, the cast is now off and the sore is a scab.

Hudson and his twin brother, Hayden, are learning to walk, but Ryan still thinks about the family's experience.

"I wonder how many emergency rooms even know this is happening," she said.

"You don't see them again.

They didn't warn us to look out for blistering or rubbing so maybe they didn't know that was a possibility."

She added, "I feel terrible that we may have prolonged (Hudson's) recovery."

Dr. Jennifer M. Weiss is a board member of the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons.

She has long noticed improperly placed splints.

A pediatric orthopedic surgeon at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center, Weiss said there is little training in the proper way to put on a splint even for orthopedists.

Most learn on the job, she said, from someone who might or might not know how to splint correctly.

Weiss said Abzug's study should provide good evidence to push for additional training.

"We need to make sure we're providing education in medical school and residency and people are comfortable with it," she said.

And like a broken bone, she added, "I think this is fixable."

