At 14, Jordy isn't much taller than his gun.

But even though he's only 14, Jordy used to be a soldier in Africa.

He said the gun was a way to stay alive.

In parts of Africa, children are used to fight in wars.

They raid enemy villages to steal things and even kill people.

A gun was a way for Jordy to protect himself, he said.

"I did a lot of bad things," Jordy said, looking down.

The fighting tearing the Central African Republic apart has turned neighbor against neighbor.

For many children, it has ended their childhood.

Children have seen their parents killed.

They watched as boys and girls just like them were hurt.

Some were forced to make decisions children shouldn't have to make.

Like Jordy, they became soldiers in the same groups of fighters that ruined their lives.

Children have been victims in virtually every battle in the Central African Republic.

It is one of the poorest countries in the world.

More than a year ago, a group that was against the government, known as the Seleka, took power away from the government.

As many as 3,500 children marched with the Seleka.

Other armed groups started fighting back, and the number of child soldiers grew to 6,000.

Some children, like Jordy, were handed guns, while other children were made slaves.

Today, children barely in their teens still are with the fighters.

Even by day, armed men threaten travelers on the road.

Guns and knives are hung around their shoulders.

Around their necks are protective charms.

When the Seleka were pushed from power in January, they left behind nearly 400 children.

Recently, another 1,000 children were released.

Not long ago, a crowd of the children gathered on a shaded porch in Sibut.

Several of them smiled shyly at visitors.

But a few were angry, shouting that they needed help.

Charly recalled the day when the rebels arrived in his town.

They were the soldiers that were trying to take over the government.

He was 15, and he was selling soap, sugar and other goods from a market stall in Sibut.

His father was dead.

His mother couldn't support him.

The fighters streamed in on motorcycles and in pickup trucks, he remembered.

They fired their guns, and set homes and businesses on fire.

"When they saw I was brave, and I could point out houses to rob, they accepted me," Charly said.

The Seleka gave him a gun.

His fear was replaced by arrogance.

"Everyone saw me carrying an AK," he said.

An AK-47 is a type of semi-automatic gun.

The thought of the return to his old life makes him stiff with anger.

"See the shoes I'm wearing?"

the teenager snapped.

He pointed at his dusty blue flip-flops full of holes.

With the rebels, he had power.

"I had boots, a uniform and a gun in my hand," he said.

"When I saw them starting to kill people, that's when I left," Charly added.

Mireille was 14 when a rebel colonel spotted her last year.

The colonel announced he wanted to marry her.

"I said, 'No, I'm still young,'" recalled the slender girl with intricately braided hair.

She sat hunched on a bench.

That night, the rebel colonel showed up at her home.

He took her to a Seleka base and made her marry him against her will.

Then he gave her a new name, Kadija.

"I wanted to escape, but I couldn't because everyone had weapons," she said.

After several months, the colonel decided he didn't like Mireille.

He let her go.

Many children don't even know where their relatives are.

Hundreds of thousands of people have fled their homes in the fighting.

Humanitarian workers who are caring for some of the former fighters can spend months trying to find their families.

When families can be traced, they may be slow to take their children back.

Children who have had guns in their hands have a hard time obeying their parents.

Many children still march with the fighters.

But those who have left struggle to find a way forward.

Mireille said she'd like to go back to school.

Jordy said he would like to try farming.

Charly, though, already has been approached by armed groups eager to use his knowledge of the Seleka.

"With a gun," he said, "you always have money."

