Lewis Hine created a type of American photography that showed people in daily life.

In 1908, he captured a haunting image of a too-young worker in a cotton mill in Lincolnton, N.C. She was a little girl of 9 or 10, staring out a window.

It became one of the historic pictures among more than 5,000 he made while working for the National Child Labor Committee.

He documented abuses of child labor laws in textiles and other industries.

His work led to the start of documentary photography.

Most of Hine's photos listed people's names, but the Lincolnton girl was identified only as a "spinner" at the Rhodes Manufacturing Co. A second photo of her in the same mill, standing next to an older girl and a woman, also had no names.

Now, a Massachusetts historian believes he's solved the mystery of both images.

He has tracked down descendants of 350 people in the Hine photos.

Author and historian Joe Manning spent five years trying to find the names of the people in the Lincolnton photos.

He posted the pictures on his website and ran an ad in the Lincolnton Times-News, but got no responses.

Then he came up with the idea of searching the 1910 Lincolnton census, a count of the population the government does every 10 years.

He made a list of all white girls who were born around 1898 and had a sister who was about two years older.

He found 12 names, including a girl named Lala Blanton.

Manning knew that thousands of people search online every day for information about their ancestors.

So he published the names under the mystery photos on his webpage.

Two months later, he got an email from Myra "Carol" Cook of Louisville, Ky. She thought the person identified as Lala Blanton might be her late grandmother, who spelled her name Lalar Blanton.

Cook sent Manning pictures of Blanton as an adult in Shelby, N.C.

He took them to Maureen Taylor, a face-recognition expert he'd relied on in the past.

Taylor has been called the nation's best historical photo detective.

She said the faces matched perfectly.

Manning and Cook feel confident the little girl in the photo is Lalar Blanton.

"I never cease to be amazed when I find descendants of people in the photos," said Manning, 72.

He is a retired social worker in Florence, Mass.

"I'm not only giving them back their history, but I'm giving the children (in the photos) back their dignity."

For 105 years, the unidentified girl by the window has been seen as "nothing but a child laborer," said Manning.

"Now, we're finding out she was a person, not just a picture.

She becomes a human being."

Manning became interested in Hine nine years ago.

He is friends with the author Elizabeth Winthrop.

A Hine photo of a young girl in a textile mill inspired a fictional character for one of her novels.

Winthrop asked Manning to try to find out what happened to the real girl.

"It was an exciting idea," he said.

"I tracked down descendants and found her granddaughter in 11 days."

Manning has been hunting descendants of subjects in Hine photos ever since.

"I'm in awe" of Manning's ability at tracking these people down, said professor Robert Allen.

He has also found relatives of mill children in the Hine pictures.

A Gastonia native and professor of American Studies, Allen found Gaston textile images in the Hine collection at the Library of Congress.

In 2008 he helped start a community project exploring that history.

Nearly 30 descendants of children in the mills came to a Gastonia gathering.

The event marked the 100th anniversary of Hine's picture-taking.

The photos give information about the history of children working the factories.

"It's so foreign to us today," said Allen.

As an adult, Cook was familiar with the famous Hine photo of the girl by the mill window.

Studying old family snapshots, she always thought the child resembled her grandmother Blanton.

She had died when Cook was 10.

Cook, now 50, remembers her grandmother as a "kind, generous, godly woman."

But she wasn't just a sweet old lady.

She "was real feisty.

She could be tough," Cook recalled.

"If granny ever mentioned working in a mill, I don't recall," Cook added.

"But I do know she was very protective of children, especially little girls.

She was determined I would have pretty things — clothes, dolls — all the things she didn't have as a little girl.

She spoiled me rotten.

She wouldn't let Mother spank me."

