Chile was hit by a strong earthquake on Wednesday.

At least 10 people were killed.

Thousands in the small city of Illapel were forced to sleep outside.

Illapel is located close to where the earthquake hit hardest.

Wednesday's earthquake lasted for three minutes.

It caused buildings to shake as far away as Santiago, the country's capital city.

Even more distant cities in South America felt rumbles.

Earthquakes have different magnitudes, or strengths.

For example, a 2.5-magnitude earthquake would hardly be felt.

Anything above magnitude 8 can cause very serious damage.

The danger is highest near the epicenter, where the force of the earthquake is strongest.

Wednesday's earthquake was measured at magnitude 8.3.

Earthquakes that strong often cause giant sea waves.

Such waves are known as tsunamis.

They also can cause a lot of damage.

On Wednesday, Chile's leaders warned that the country's entire Pacific coast could be hit by tsunamis.

Many people quickly moved inland.

Others drove to higher ground.

Across the country more than 1 million people left for safer areas.

Several coastal towns were flooded by small tsunami waves.

The earthquake shook the Earth very strongly.

Rumbles were felt across South America.

"I thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die," said Manuel Moya, 38.

He spoke outside his destroyed home in Illapel.

The city is located just 34 miles east of the earthquake's epicenter.

Moya said he and his wife were in bed and watching television when the earthquake hit.

The two quickly ran outside.

Moments later their home collapsed.

"They said it was a magnitude 8 but it felt like a 10," Moya said.

Chilean President Michelle Bachelet urged people not to return home until the danger was over.

Schools will be closed in most of the country Thursday.

The earthquake was the strongest the country has seen since a magnitude-8.8 earthquake in 2010.

The 2010 earthquake and the tsunami it caused killed hundreds.

Parts of the city of Concepcion were flattened.

Wednesday's earthquake caused much less damage and death than the one in 2010.

More than 500 people were killed by the 2010 earthquake.

Around 220,000 homes were destroyed.

Since then Chile has tried hard to become better prepared for big earthquakes.

American scientist Susan Hough praised Chile.

She said it is now better prepared for earthquakes than most countries are.

The country's careful planning made Wednesday's earthquake much less damaging than it could have been, she said.

The earthquake was so strong that people felt it in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

People in Peru and Brazil also reported feeling the shakes.

No one outside of Chile was hurt, however.

Claudio Moreno was in a Santiago bar when the earthquake hit.

The shaking was very strong, he said.

What worried him even more was how long it lasted.

"We went out in the street when we felt it was going on too long," he said.

"It was more than a minute."

Chile has had many earthquakes before.

The strongest one ever recorded anywhere in the world happened there in 1960.

It measured magnitude 9.5 and killed more than 5,000 people.

