Fewer children around the world are dying before age 5, the United Nations announced this week.

Still, 6.3 million children died last year — that's about 17,000 every day.

Most of those deaths could have been prevented.

To study this issue, researchers look at how often children die before their fifth birthday.

Imagine 100 mothers having a baby in a rich country like the United States, and 100 mothers having a baby in a very poor country like Angola, in Africa.

In the United States, only one of those babies would die before age 5.

In Angola, 17 would die.

One out of 100 is a low rate of child death.

Seventeen out of 100 is high.

Around the world, the rate of young children dying has been cut in half since 1990.

Every region has seen improvements.

The United Nations was hoping for more progress by 2015.

Things are getting better in many countries, said Dr. Mickey Chopra of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF).

Things are even getting better in the poorest part of the world.

Now, the U.N. wants to find out what works, and help to spread it.

The region with the most serious problem is sub-Saharan Africa.

About nine out of 100 young children die there.

India and Nigeria, which both have large populations, saw one-third of all child deaths around the world.

Eight countries with very high child death rates have lowered them by more than two-thirds since 1990.

They are: Malawi, Bangladesh, Liberia, Tanzania, Ethiopia, East Timor, Niger and Eritrea.

Worldwide, there were 200,000 fewer deaths in 2013 than in 2012.

About one-third of all deaths of children younger than 5 were caused by one of three things: diarrhea, malaria and pneumonia.

Chopra said pneumonia and diarrhea are so common because they easily spread from person to person.

However, he added, all three sicknesses are easy to prevent.

They can be stopped using medicine called antibiotics.

"It is very, very easy to prevent those three diseases from killing kids," Chopra said.

"An antibiotic is 10, 20 cents, and that saves the life basically."

Newborns, babies less than a month old, are in the greatest danger.

"We're making much faster progress with the older children," Chopra said.

There are some simple ways to help newborns.

Vaccines, or shots, are important.

There are new vaccines against diarrhea and pneumonia.

If babies get these shots, they probably will not get the disease.

How can poor countries lower child death rates?

There is no one way that works everywhere.

Different things work better in different places.

In Nepal, for example, thousands of female health volunteers visit homes.

They provide vaccines and information on baby care.

In Peru, more women are giving birth in hospitals.

However, things like clean water and better roads are important everywhere.

It's not enough to know where a hospital is, said Dr. Shyama Kuruvilla of the World Health Organization.

"You also need roads to get there."

More education for girls and more work for women helps too.

If women earn money, they are better able to keep their families healthy, Kuruvilla explained.

Similarly, when mothers are more educated, their children are less likely to die.

Education is necessary — but it's not everything, Dr. Chopra said.

Educating a woman so that she knows her baby needs vaccination does not help if there are no vaccines.

Still, Chopra said, it can't just be about delivering things like vaccines.

Mothers have to be given the confidence and knowledge to demand what they need.

