Early in 2014, federal officials and immigrant rights activists noticed a disturbing trend at the U.S. border with Mexico.

Tens of thousands of children were crossing illegally without their parents.

The surge in unaccompanied minors shocked the nation as arrivals reached record levels.

In all, at least 51,705 people under the age of 18 from Central America entered the United States illegally during the government's 2014 year.

It was nearly two and a half times more people than the year before.

Most of the minors eventually were resettled throughout the country.

More than 3,100 wound up in South Florida.

Now that the flow of immigrants has eased, how are the children doing?

Depending on who you talk to, some of the children are doing relatively well, others are dealing with various issues and still others are facing a crisis.

"I believe a large number, 50 percent, have been able to show up in immigration court and have been allowed to stay, avoiding deportation," said Nora Sandigo.

She is leader of an immigration support group called American Fraternity.

"They have not become a public charge or a burden on the community, though there may be some isolated cases of that."

Sandigo said the main issues are a lack of attorneys to represent the children in court and not enough resources for public schools.

Francisco Portillo, president of another group, Francisco Morazan Honduran Organization, echoed Sandigo's assessment.

He also said there are not enough lawyers to represent the children and not enough resources for local public schools.

There is also increased pressure by immigration authorities on many of the children's parents who themselves lack papers, he said.

"Immigration authorities keep requiring me to report my whereabouts, and that affects my ability to get a stable job," said Cindy Figueroa Castro.

She is a Honduran mother whose 4-year-old child was among the children who crossed the border last year.

For Jose Cruz, a Cuban-American and former Jesuit priest who helped resettle young Cubans in the 1960s, the Central American minors are facing a crisis.

Cruz and two other Cuban-Americans have formed the Peter Pan Border Operation — an organization designed to help the Central American children to resettle in the U.S. Cruz, who runs the group, said 90 percent of the boys and girls are "living without any kind of supervision."

He also said they "lack economic assistance and they have been turned over to people who are very poor, though morally very sound, because they do not have immigration status."

Cruz said he is also concerned that some of the children may be living in overcrowded homes, while others may be forced to work to support their families.

In addition, some of the children are facing problems in school because they don't know English, and they don't eat well.

Dr. Jorge Herrera, president of the group, said he also is worried about the children's overall health.

"These children don't necessarily have access to health care systems," Herrera said.

"They don't have health insurance coverage or medical supervision."

Cruz and Herrera have asked the White House to grant the Peter Pan Border Organization authority and resources.

They want to be able to supervise the status of Central American children nationwide.

Thus far, the White House has not responded, aid Cruz.

John Schuster of the Miami-Dade County public schools said the Central American children have been welcomed in the local schools "with open arms."

They are adjusting as well as can be expected, he said.

Schuster also took issue with the notion the students are not eating well.

"For many of our economically challenged families, the meals students receive in school, including free breakfast for all students, may be the best meals they receive each day," he said.

Overall, Schuster said, the children may be facing problems — but not in the schools.

"Of course, many of these children face challenges every day, but it is not from their enrollment in public schools," he said.

"It's because they are thousands of miles away from their families and native lands, having been abruptly separated because of unspeakable violence in their home countries."

Cheryl Little, executive director of Americans for Immigrant Justice, said the children face special challenges.

"While so many of the children we see are thrilled to finally feel safe and have opportunities they never dared dream of, a number of them could use some help adjusting to life in America," Little said.

"Many children were forced to work at an early age in their home country in order to survive and didn't have a chance to advance in school.

Many also feel the need to work to help pay off the debt they owe coyotes (migrant smugglers) who facilitated the difficult journey."

