Early in 2014, officials noticed something unusual at the U.S. border with Mexico.

Tens of thousands of children were crossing illegally, without their parents.

The news shocked the country.

At least 51,705 children and teenagers from Central America entered the United States illegally during the 12 months through Sept. 30, 2014.

It was two and a half times the number from last year.

Most of the children eventually found places to live.

More than 3,100 of them ended up living in South Florida.

Now that the flow of children crossing the border has stopped, many wonder how they are doing.

People have different opinions on how well the children have settled in the U.S.

Some of the children are doing pretty well and some are having big problems.

Many immigrants who come the United States illegally may have to leave.

There are special papers and processes to go through to move to America.

Still, many of the children who came to the United States without permission are allowed to stay.

Nora Sandigo said she thinks half the children have been allowed to stay in the country.

Sandigo leads a group that supports immigrants called American Fraternity.

Sandigo said one problem is there are not enough lawyers to represent the children in court.

There is also not enough money for public schools for the children.

Francisco Portillo is president of another group, called Francisco Morazan Honduran Organization.

He agreed with Sandigo that there are not enough lawyers to represent the children and not enough money for local public schools.

Immigration officials also have increased pressure on many of the children's parents.

Those parents do not have papers saying they are in the country legally, he said.

Jose Cruz is a Cuban-American and former priest.

He helped young Cubans come to the U.S. in the 1960s.

He said the Central American children are facing a crisis.

Cruz and two other Cuban-Americans have formed the Peter Pan Border Operation.

The group helps the Central American children get settled in the U.S. Cruz said that nine of every 10 of the boys and girls are "living without any kind of supervision."

They also do not have help with money.

Cruz said he is also concerned that some of the children may be living in overcrowded homes.

Others may be forced to work to support their families, he said.

In addition, some of the children are facing problems in school because they don't know English, and they don't eat well.

Dr. Jorge Herrera, president of the group, said he also is worried about the children's overall health.

They do not have insurance, which would pay the medical costs if they got sick.

They also do not get regular health care, he said.

Cruz and Herrera have asked the White House to let them take charge of Central American children in the U.S.

They have also asked for money to help them do this.

The White House has not responded yet, Cruz said.

John Schuster of the Miami-Dade County public schools said the Central American children have been welcomed in the local schools.

They are adjusting as well as can be expected, he said.

Overall, Schuster said, the children might be facing problems — but not in the schools.

Schuster said the children are far away from their homes and families.

They have been separated because of violence in their home countries, he said.

Cheryl Little runs a group called Americans for Immigrant Justice.

She said the children face special challenges.

Many of the children are "thrilled to finally feel safe and have opportunities they never dared dream of," she said.

Still, "a number of them could use some help adjusting to life in America," Little said.

