The United Nations Children's Fund issued a report this week with some good news: More of the world's children are surviving to their fifth birthday.

Still, 6.3 million died last year, mostly from preventable causes.

That's nearly 17,000 young children dying every day.

While death rates have been cut in half since 1990, the world still is short of meeting a goal of a two-thirds decrease in child deaths by next year.

According to Dr. Mickey Chopra of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), things are getting better in many countries in the poorest parts of the world.

The challenge is to spread what works.

India and Nigeria, with their large populations, together accounted for more than one- third of all the deaths.

The world's highest rate of child mortality — child deaths — was in Angola, with 167 deaths for every 1,000 live births.

By region, the problem is most serious in sub-Saharan Africa, with a rate of 92 deaths for every 1,000 live births.

By comparison, the U.S. rate is seven deaths for every 1,000 live births.

However, the fact that a country is poor doesn't mean it cannot make progress, the report stressed.

Every region has made major gains since 1990.

It found that eight of the 60 countries with particularly high child mortality had lowered their rates by more than two-thirds since 1990: Malawi, Bangladesh, Liberia, Tanzania, Ethiopia, East Timor, Niger and Eritrea.

The 6.3 million figure is around 200,000 fewer deaths than in 2012.

Pneumonia, diarrhea and malaria caused about a third of all the under-age-5 deaths, the report found.

Pneumonia and diarrhea are so widespread because they are easily transmittable, Chopra said.

However, those illnesses, along with malaria, are easily preventable with inexpensive antibiotics.

"It is very, very easy to prevent those three diseases from killing kids," Chopra said.

"An antibiotic is 10, 20 cents, and that saves the life basically."

Newborns in the first month of life make up 44 percent of the deaths.

"We're making much faster progress with the older children," Chopra noted.

However, some simple steps can help, he said, including newer vaccines against childhood diarrhea and pneumonia.

For newborns, early breastfeeding and skin-to-skin contact are hugely important, Chopra added.

Even in parts of Africa and Asia where women are more likely to give birth at home, mothers may wrap their infant in cloth rather than carry them pressed against their body.

Babies lose out on their mothers' body warmth and are not able to breastfeed on demand.

How do poor countries take the steps needed to lower child mortality?

In a second report issued Tuesday, researchers took a close look at 10 low- and middle-income countries that are making progress.

They found that specific health programs, such as vaccinating children or having skilled health workers at childbirth, account for only half of those countries' improvements.

Importantly, there was no one formula for success.

The Success Factors project examined Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Egypt, Ethiopia, Laos, Nepal, Peru, Rwanda and Vietnam, and found a variety of approaches tailored to different populations.

In Nepal, for example, thousands of female health volunteers visit homes to provide immunizations, family planning materials and information on infant care.

In Peru, more women are giving birth in hospitals or birthing clinics.

However, things like clean water, improved sanitation and better roads are key to those health efforts.

"It is not enough to know where a clinic is.

You also need roads to get there," noted Shyama Kuruvilla of the World Health Organization's Partnership for Maternal, Newborn and Child Health, which coordinated the project.

Educating girls and increasing women's participation in politics and the workforce played a role, too.

"They can get a job and earn and have the resources to assure the health of themselves and their families," Kuruvilla explained.

In Rwanda, for example, 64 percent of members of parliament are women.

China, Bangladesh, Cambodia and Vietnam have developed industries that employ more women, the report said.

UNICEF also found newborn mortality rates lower for educated mothers.

Both health and social programs are necessary, according to Chopra.

Educating a woman so that she knows her infant needs vaccination does not help if there are no vaccines, Chopra said.

"It can't just be all about delivery of things.

It has to be about empowering people to demand the things," he said.

