Seven chimps made a break for it at the Kansas City Zoo.

But it wasn't careless zookeepers who were responsible for the escape Thursday afternoon.

Instead, it was clever chimpanzees.

That, at least, was Randy Wisthoff's explanation.

He runs the zoo.

Until they were rounded up, the clever chimps caused a "Code Red."

Zoo visitors had to stay where they were until the chimps were found.

"Chimps are so smart," Wisthoff said.

Wisthoff thinks one of the chimps either found or broke off a long log or branch.

The chimp leaned it against a wall and climbed to the top.

Then the "ringleader," as Wisthoff called him, convinced six friends to join him up there.

At one point, three of the seven chimps went over the wall.

They landed in an area only zoo workers can enter.

Well before that, the zoo began its emergency plans.

Zoo workers gathered visitors into locked areas to keep them safe.

At no time were any of the zoo visitors in danger, Wisthoff said.

The breakout happened about 3:30 p.m.

It took about an hour for zookeepers to herd the animals back into their area.

Twelve chimps live in the fenced-in area.

It's about the size of 75 football fields put together.

The chimps were lured with fruit and vegetables.

The zoo workers used their usual food, including carrots, celery and lettuce.

"It was almost their dinnertime already," Wisthoff said.

Most of the chimps went back quietly.

One chimp, though, didn't want to go back.

For him, zookeepers brought out a bag of malted milk balls.

"That was the clincher," Wisthoff said.

All the workers know that chimps can be dangerous, Wisthoff said.

Of the seven, the largest weighed about 150 pounds.

Chimps can be tremendously strong, he said.

On Friday, the chimp area was closed.

Zoo workers checked to make sure there were no other ways the chimps could get out.

The workers are usually careful to remove large branches from the chimp area.

That made Wisthoff wonder if the log or branch had been broken off recently.

About 1,800 people visited the zoo Thursday.

While zoo workers rounded up the chimps, the Reverend Celeste Ward of Emmanuel Repentance Temple of Kansas City, was locked in the birdcage.

She was visiting with family members.

Zoo workers politely explained the emergency, she said.

The workers gave them several free zoo tickets.

Zoo visitor Mari Cintron was visiting the penguins when the chimps escaped.

She kept three children entertained while they were locked in.

"We just visited with the penguins," she said.

"It was very calm."

Some visitors, like Cintron and Ward, spent the hour enjoying the animals.

But Brie Huffman, who lives in Missouri, was stuck in a food storage area.

She grew tired of the smell of animal food.

But she appreciated the eight free zoo tickets that were given to her.

The free passes are good until the end of the year.

Huffman said she will be using all of them.

