The Federal government plans to give more protection to chimpanzees by changing their endangered status and shielding them from experiments.

A proposal by the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service is the latest in a series of steps taken in the past two years to better protect chimps from usage in scientific research.

Fish and Wildlife wants to declare captive chimpanzees as [endangered](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species), just like their relatives in the wild, instead of threatened.

That means privately owned chimps will be off-limits to invasive experiments.

Animal rights groups cheered the move.

Man's treatment of chimps, one of our closest genetic cousins, has been hotly debated for many years.

In the mid-1980s, scientists who were working to understand HIV, which causes the disease AIDS, thought chimps would be a vital resource in finding a cure, treatment or both.

Eventually, at least 198 chimps were infected with HIV, but just one developed an AIDS-like disease and died.

Despite their similarity to humans, chimps don't react to infection in the same way.

In HIV research, for example, a possible vaccine protected the chimps but not people.

An article in the British Medical Journal concluded: "When it comes to testing HIV vaccines, only humans will do."

In early 2011, Ajit Varki of the University of California-San Diego found that chimps and humans experienced disease differently.

It called into question chimps' usefulness as human stand-ins.

"Chimps and humans are extremely close genetically, so there is this feeling that they should be a good model to study human diseases," Varki said.

"But most attention has been on what is similar.

We should also pay more attention to the differences."

The Fish and Wildlife Service says there are about 2,000 chimpanzees in captivity in the U.S.

Since 1960, chimpanzees have suffered a significant decrease in population.

The latest estimates put their worldwide population at 300,000 to 430,000.

The Chimpanzee population is threatened by encroaching human development and by hunting.

The capture of chimpanzees for the international pet trade also has been one of the causes of their decline.

Killing a female who has an infant earns twice the income for a hunter.

The mother's body is sold in the bush-meat trade and the infant enters the pet trade.

Right now, only wild chimpanzees are listed as endangered.

Captive chimps are currently classified as threatened.

The U.S. plan proposes to classify both wild and captive chimpanzees as endangered.

The government determined that the Endangered Species Act, which governs the classification system, doesn't allow for captive animals to be assigned a separate legal status from their counterparts in the wild.

"Full protection under the Endangered Species Act is long overdue for chimpanzees, our closest living relatives," Dr. John J. Pippin said.

"The new status is a tremendous change that ends the completely unprotected current status of captive chimpanzees."

The move means that privately owned chimpanzees will now likely be off-limits to invasive experiments, said Pippin, who serves in the nonprofit Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine.

The proposal has not yet been approved.

But if it is, some activities involving chimps will require permits.

For example, a permit would be required to buy a chimpanzee from another state, but not from somebody in your own state.

The import and export of chimpanzees in and out of the U.S. will require a permit.

So will activities that could harm or harass a chimpanzee.

Interstate sales of chimpanzee blood, cell lines or tissues will likewise require permits.

While some biomedical research could still be permitted under the proposal, Fish and Wildlife said it will be limited to experimentation that is used to further the breeding and survival of the species.

The organization will work with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the nation's premier biomedical-research facility, on determining what further research can be conducted on chimpanzees.

The use of chimpanzees in research has been a hot-button issue for years.

Recently it underwent a significant transformation.

In part that is due to advances in laboratory techniques made by researchers.

Knowledge once gained only by examining a live animal now can be learned in a petri dish.

And an expanding body of evidence shows that chimpanzees don't work as well as the human fill-ins that researchers once hoped they would.

The ethics of animal research also have evolved in recent years.

What once was commonplace is now controversial, and there's a growing feeling that chimps should be spared the pain and mental anguish of research.

In the past two years, the NIH has moved to curtail the funding of chimpanzee experimentation.

In its proposal, Fish and Wildlife pointed out that while some biomedical research on captive chimpanzees continues in the U.S., "there is a decreasing scientific need for chimpanzee studies due to the emergence of non-chimpanzee models and technologies."

Said Pippin, "Chimpanzees have repeatedly proven to be poor models for many areas of human disease research, such as HIV, malaria and other infectious diseases, neuroscience research and cancer."

