Young working women in China are being pressured to get married.

Their parents, the government, and even some businesses are in on it.

They are called shengnu.

It is not a nice name.

The translation means "leftover women."

Karen Xie is one of them.

Xie has met about one man a month for the last two years.

Some were too short or too fat, she says.

Some didn't show enough tenderness.

For her last date, her parents fixed her up with a man from their hometown.

Xie knew it was over as soon as she saw him.

"He was a little bald, he had no hair in the middle of his head," said Xie, 32.

Xie earns good money.

She has her own place to live on the edge of Shanghai.

She and her parents bought the apartment to help her chances of getting married.

Women like Xie should have their pick of possible husbands.

China has a rule that says a family can have only one child.

Most families try to have boys.

So there are a lot more men than women around Xie's age.

Yet more and more professional Chinese women say they just can't find a man equal to them.

Others say  they want to enjoy their freedom past age 27 since they have spent so many years going to school.

Twenty-seven is the age when women in China are expected to be married.

Parents fear that their daughters will end up childless and lonely.

They also worry the women could have money troubles.

Women like Xie are always being reminded that they are single.

Fliers and email push matchmaking events.

There are several TV shows about shengnu.

They all are alike.

Smart, beautiful, successful women try everything to get a man.

Go shopping?

See more reminders.

One store offered "Twelve products to help shengnu forget about loneliness!"

Items included rainbow-colored bedding and a one-seat couch.

"Shengnu are being demonized," said Sandra Bao.

She started a group called Leftover Attitude in Shanghai.

It supports unmarried professional women.

But the pressure on single women seems to be working.

By age 35, more than 90 percent of Chinese women have married, said Roseann Lake.

She is writing a book on marriage in China.

"Chinese women are only left over for a limited time," she said.

This "makes the fact that they're labeled 'leftovers' even" worse.

Many parents do a lot to help their children find husbands.

Lake said one mother posed as her daughter online to set up dates for her.

Others turn to matchmakers.

In Shanghai, there are about 130 such businesses.

Some charge more than $16,000, according to Zhou Juemin, head of the Shanghai Matchmaking Association.

There is a section of Shanghai's People's Park known as Matchmaking Corner.

On weekends, middle-aged women look at papers strung out like shorts on clotheslines.

Each lists a single person's age, height, and education, along with a photo.

Chinese women traditionally pair off with men of equal or more money, education and age.

So it can be difficult for top professional women to find matches.

Adding to the pressure, some women insist that a groom have a house.

Though the pressure on shengnu looks unlikely to go away any time soon, there is a small movement against it.

Bao's Leftover Attitude group has more than 2,000 members.

And in bookstores, self-help titles about finding a husband now share space with books like "Do Not Marry Before Age 30."

