Growing up in her hometown of Shaoshan in southern China, Tan Huiyan remembers the wintertime sensation of stepping inside through her front door — and into the cold.

"People in my hometown always say it's colder in your home than outside in winter," said Tan, 31, who now lives in Beijing.

"When I came home, I had to change into warmer clothes.

After taking off my winter jacket, I had to put on very thick and padded pajamas.

My Nike sneakers were not warm enough to be used at home, I always had to change into boots with furs inside, like those Ugg boots."

The temperatures in Shaoshan can drop to as low as 23 degrees in January, and the average is around 46 degrees from December to February.

However, not everyone in China has access to wintertime central heating in their homes.

About 60 years ago, the Communist Party established a dividing line that bisects China and separates the heating haves and have-nots.

Tan's house was on the cold side of the line.

Every year on Nov. 15, people who live in apartment complexes north of the boundary line rejoice as the government turns on the central heating plants.

Warmth floods into these homes.

Those who live south of the line — even by a mile — suffer through the season in the cold.

The great heating divide traces the Huai River and Qin Mountains.

The line dates from the 1950s.

Around this time, China had started to install centralized heating systems in residential areas with help from the Soviet Union.

However, the country was facing an extreme energy shortage at the time.

A government leader named Zhou Enlai suggested the Qin-Huai line as a cutoff point.

The line was not exactly a precise boundary.

The Huai River runs through two provinces, but because more than 75 percent of the people live south of the river, the city was denied heating privileges.

About 66 miles north, a town called Zhumadian enjoys central heat.

But go 43 miles north to the town of Luohe, and there are no radiators in the homes.

The line also divides two of China's largest cities, Shanghai and Beijing.

Shanghai is located below the line and has average temperatures in January of 40 degrees.

Beijing, above the line, sees chillier temperatures, with averages around 25 degrees in the same month.

This is not an easy inequality to resolve.

It will be even harder now that China and the United States have agreed to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions their countries produce.

If China decided to provide central heat to everyone living south of the line, it would need to burn an additional 50 million tons of coal each year.

In the United States, housing codes typically require that residential buildings meet certain indoor temperature minimums in cold weather.

However, Chinese cities do not have the same standards.

In areas where the government does not provide central heating, the residents in the city have to find other ways to stay warm.

In the past, many residents in the north used a kang for warmth.

A kang is a brick bed heated by wood that burns underneath it.

But people in the south had no such tradition.

These days, economic growth has raised the standard of living and private developers are building homes and apartments.

The Qin-Huai line is considered by some to be outdated, inconvenient and even inhumane.

Some cities south of the line have experienced electricity blackouts because so many people are plugging in space heaters.

According to a professor from the Institute of Heating, Ventilating and Air Conditioning and Gas Engineering at Tongji University in Shanghai, the Qin-Huai line "doesn't suit people's needs today ...

Outdoor temperature should be the decisive factor on where heating should be provided."

Two years ago, a member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference requested that the government extend the heat line southward.

A journalist for a Communist-run newspaper repeated the call last year.

"We are no longer a country in shambles," the journalist wrote.

"The Chinese government has the ability to let more people live in warm conditions in the winter."

Other people are doing research on different solutions that would extend heat privileges to more citizens.

Systems that support entire cities in the north are inefficient because hot water has to be pushed through pipes and energy is lost.

Systems that support individual households or buildings might be a better option.

In Shanghai, where the government does not provide any heat, many new apartment buildings have their own heating systems.

However, residents in the buildings have to pay significantly more than in cities where the government provides the heat.

Someone living in Beijing pays about $490 for four months of heating in a 1,076-square-foot apartment.

In Shanghai, a resident would have to use individual gas boilers or electric heaters and pay almost double that amount for gas or electricity.

Tan, who grew up below the line, moved to Beijing in 2004.

She is reluctant to visit her parents during the winter.

Although the outdoor temperature might be warmer in her hometown than Beijing, she can no longer endure the "room temperature" inside the house, which can dip below 50 degrees.

"I only spend Chinese New Year with my parents once every two years and stay with them for only two to three days each time," she said.

"Because it's really impossible for me to stand how cold it is indoors there."

