North and South Carolina used to be places where a lot of fabric for clothing was made.

Textile factories there produced cloth and other fabrics for things like bedding.

Then in the late 1990s, factories started closing.

Thousands of jobs were lost to cheaper materials and cheaper workers in other countries.

American textile factory jobs went to places like China, Brazil and Vietnam.

Now, some jobs are coming back.

Keer is a Chinese textile company.

It is building factories to make yarn in Lancaster County, South Carolina.

More than 500 jobs will be created.

Chinese companies are looking to make fabric in the United States.

They are attracted by lower costs for energy, cotton and land.

The companies are also worried about the rising cost of workers in China.

Wally Wang is deputy general manager at Keer America.

He believes more Chinese textile companies and other manufacturers will follow Keer to the United States.

That would be welcomed in Lancaster County.

Carolyn Summers worked for Springs Industries in Lancaster for 42 years.

She was laid off in 2005.

Her daughter lost her job two years later.

Summers remembers leaving the factory "in total shock" the day she heard the news.

Springs Mills in Lancaster once employed close to 20,000 people.

In 2007, the last South Carolina textile factory closed.

Lancaster County lost 11,000 textile jobs from 1995 to 2007.

Summers said people did not think textile jobs would ever come back.

At least 140 employees will begin working at Keer's new site starting in spring.

Most will make yarn on 32 production lines.

Keer will spend $218 million to move part of its yarn production to Lancaster.

While the first plant operates, construction workers will lay the foundation for a second factory to the south of it.

The construction will take less than 18 months.

After that, Keer plans to build two more factories.

A South Carolina workforce training program is helping Keer find and train local works.

These include electricians, technicians and people to sell fabric.

One-third of the people applying are former textile workers.

Textile mills came to the Carolinas because of cotton 200 years ago.

And cotton is bringing them back again.

The cost to manufacture in China has risen in the past few years.

Keer came to the Carolinas after ruling out Vietnam, India and Pakistan as possible destinations.

Keer had been using American cotton for years.

Now it simply moved closer to be able to use more.

Wang listed the benefits Keer can enjoy in South Carolina.

"It is a state built on manufacturing," he said.

Workers are also used to working at all hours.

Electricity is inexpensive and it works all the time.

Sometimes electricity in China is unreliable.

Everything is cheaper except the workers, Wang said.

It is still cheaper to make clothes in China, said professor Yingjiao Xu of N.C. State University.

Putting together clothing requires a lot of labor, she said.

Labor costs less in China.

Manufacturing yarn and fabrics, however, is done by machines.

U.S. sites are cheaper for that because energy costs less.

Keer took the lead in approaching the state of South Carolina.

John Ling, a China native who has worked for South Carolina, was surprised.

At first, he doubted a Chinese textile company would even think about coming to the United States.

A change came in 2010 when the Chinese government started loaning companies money to spend outside of China.

Now, there are 20 to 25 Chinese companies visiting South Carolina each year, Ling said.

They are looking to spend money here.

Doug Woodward, an economics professor at the University of South Carolina, described the incoming Chinese companies' spending as "small tiptoes into the U.S. for these big companies."

"It's just the beginning," he believes.

Wang is making sure things work between China and the United States.

He said Chinese business spending in the United States "was like water drops, but now there's a little stream flowing."

