Students are coming from other countries to go to high school in the United States.

Schools here are making money from it.

Yosemite High School in California is one of those schools taking foreign students.

It was running low on money.

It once offered six woodshop classes.

Because it does not have enough money, it now offers only three.

Things got worse when a new high school opened close by.

Many students transferred.

The number of students is down from 1,100 five years ago to about 700 today.

School officials are now looking to China for help.

Yosemite High could welcome 25 students from China next fall.

They would pay $10,000 or more a year for their eduction.

Two Chinese students are at Yosemite High this year.

Xiao "Travis" Ma of Inner Mongolia plays clarinet in the marching band.

Chengyu "Johnny" Zhang of Shanghai is on the running team.

The Chinese food here is not how they would like it.

But they like the clean air and open space.

Having students who pay "helps keep some of our programs more full," said Stephanie Samuels.

She is a counselor at Yosemite High.

Her American students gain from meeting people from other parts of the world, she added.

Minarets High is the new school near Yosemite.

It will soon take in foreign students as well.

There are 20 Chinese students set to start school in January for $10,000 each.

The number of foreign students who pay for American public high schools has risen sharply.

There were a few hundred nationwide in 2007.

But last year there were nearly 3,000.

The foreign students have raised worries about the work of private companies.

The companies find the students.

Then they talk to the school for the parents.

They even find homes for the kids to stay in.

The companies do this for a fee.

There are worries about the kids' safety.

They are teenagers in the United States without their parents.

"There's so much money that can be made," said Jay Chen.

He is president of a school board in California.

But because there are not many rules, lots of companies will try to get in on the business.

They won't try to help students.

Instead, they will try to make money.

Most foreign students still study at private high schools.

There were 62,000 foreign students in U.S. private schools last year.

That is up from about 6,000 five years ago.

Most are from China or South Korea.

These students plan to stay in the United States for college.

Foreign students can only study for one year at U.S. public schools.

Some then transfer to private schools.

There is no time limit at private schools.

But they are often charged more to attend those schools than their American classmates.

Some experts say more rules are needed to make sure foreign students are treated well.

But some foreign students like the schools here.

Jixian "Johnny" Wang is a 10th-grader in high school in California.

He hopes to go to Georgetown University.

He said he enjoys more free time than he did in China.

There, the school day lasted from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. School feels more free here to him.

"We can choose our classes," said Wang, 15.

"The teachers let students express their own opinions.

The teachers are more like friends."

Qianhui "Lilith" Zhou is a 17-year-old in her last year of high school.

She started studying for the SAT test to get into college as soon as she arrived in California.

She misses her family and friends in Shanghai.

But that is nothing compared to preparing for China's college entrance exam.

School is tougher in China, she said, "that's why I came to the U.S."

