The Chinese breathe in some of the dirtiest air in the world.

A new tool has been invented to fight China's pollution.

The tool is a computer app.

The app shows a map of northeastern China.

The map is covered with large orange circles.

Each circle shows one of China's largest polluters.

The app reports the amount of pollution each factory or power plant releases into the air.

The information comes from equipment at about 10,000 places.

Now, the Chinese people can use the information.

They are able to see the pollution levels on their own computers, tablets and cellphones.

The goal is to let people know how much pollution there is.

Then, they might put pressure on the government to stop pollution.

Pollution in China is among the worst in the world.

It covers China's cities in dirty clouds.

Chinese factories are one of the main causes of global warming.

Global warming is the heating up of the Earth.

It is caused by burning fossil fuels, like coal, oil and gas.

China has many laws against pollution, said Ma Jun.

Ma is one of China's best known environmental experts.

He helped make the app.

Ma said the problem is that the government does not force companies to follow the law.

In China, there is no democracy.

The government is not elected by the people.

Its courts are  controlled by the government.

People don't have many ways to force the government to change.

Ma hopes the app will help.

Through the app, people will learn about the level of pollution.

Ma hopes they will grow angry enough to push the government to clean up the air.

The app has been downloaded about 10,000 times.

It made some companies decide to change.

So far, about 200 big polluters have spoken to Ma's group about their cleanup plans.

People in China also are thinking more about pollution.

Five years ago, a polling company asked the Chinese people what they were most worried about.

The environment was not one of them.

Now, pollution is one of the main things the Chinese worry about.

A study was released last year by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.

It showed that air pollution cuts short the lives of people in northern China by 5 1/2 years.

Another study said that in 2012, 670,000 Chinese may have died young because of pollution.

China's pollution even blows across the Pacific Ocean to California.

For years, the Chinese government tried to hide information about pollution.

The government now admits the problem.

Until 2012, cities were not allowed to talk about pollution that damages human lungs, Ma said.

Now, 190 cities do.

China has promised to cut pollution over the next 15 years.

The cleanup will be expensive.

Right now, coal provides two-thirds of China's power.

Coal also causes at least half of China's pollution.

Ma said that reducing pollution is possible.

Not long ago there was a meeting in Beijing, China's capital.

Many countries were invited.

The Chinese government made a huge effort to clear the air.

By the time of the meeting there were blue skies.

China did it by shutting down polluting factories.

It also cut down on traffic, so cars burned less gas.

It showed "you don't need 30 years" to clear the air, Ma said.

China just needs to want to end pollution, he said.

