Spinning wheels will hum again in Lancaster County, South Carolina, next spring.

Keer, a textile company headquartered two hours from Shanghai, China, is building yarn manufacturing lines in Lancaster.

It will create more than 500 jobs.

Textile companies make fabric for clothes.

The Carolinas were once the center of the U.S. textile industry.

But since the late 1990s, thousands of jobs were lost to cheaper materials and labor in emerging markets.

Carolinas textile jobs went to places like China, Brazil and Vietnam.

Now, the tables are turning and Chinese companies are looking to manufacture in the United States.

They are lured by lower costs for energy, cotton and land.

The companies are also worried about the rising costs to pay workers in China.

Wally Wang is deputy general manager at Keer America.

He believes more Chinese textile companies and other manufacturers will follow Keer to the United States.

That would be welcomed in Lancaster County, where the pain of lost textile jobs is still felt by many.

Carolyn Summers worked for Springs Industries in Lancaster for 42 years before being laid off in 2005.

Her daughter lost her job two years later.

"They opened the door wider for more imports to come into the country," Summers said.

"We got flooded with a lot more cheaper textiles than we were able to produce."

She remembers leaving the factory "in total shock" the day she heard the news.

Springs Mills in Lancaster once employed close to 20,000 people.

In 2007, the last South Carolina textile factory closed.

Lancaster County lost 11,000 textile jobs from 1995 to 2007.

The greater region lost about 26,000 jobs at textile mills in the past 20 years, according to the Federal Reserve.

Since the factories closed, "we haven't had the luxury of textile here.

We didn't think that'd ever come back," Summers said.

At least 140 employees will begin working at Keer's new site starting in spring.

Most will make yarn on 32 production lines.

China's market share in the global textile industry had rocketed in the past two decades.

Lately, though, Chinese textile companies have been stressed by competition within the country.

They have also faced rising costs for labor, power and land.

Keer decided to relocate part of its yarn production line to Lancaster.

It will spend about $218 million to do so.

While the first plant operates, construction workers will lay the foundation for a second factory to the south of it.

The construction will take less than 18 months.

After that, Keer intends to build two more factories.

A South Carolina workforce training program is helping Keer recruit and train local electricians, technicians and fabric sales representatives.

One-third of the program applicants are former textile workers.

Nearly 200 years ago, cotton brought textile mills to the Carolinas, and it is cotton that will bring them back.

"Cotton price is the biggest challenge to our profit" in China, Wang said.

Cheaper cotton in the United States is a major draw.

The cost to manufacture in China has risen in the past few years.

Feeling the competition intensify, Keer looked toward the Carolinas after ruling out Vietnam, India and Pakistan as possible destinations.

Keer's yarn production had been using American cotton for years; now it simply moved closer to be able to use more.

Wang counted the list of benefits Keer can enjoy in South Carolina.

"It is a state built on manufacturing; its workforce is used to the 24/7 schedule; it has the super low labor union member rate; its government has a lot of benefiting policies; it has a variety of manufacturing industries in the region; its electricity supply is cheap and stable."

Said Wang: "Except for human labor, all other production factors are cheaper in the U.S." China retains its competitive advantage in many areas of textile manufacturing, including labor-intensive clothing production, which benefits from low labor costs, according to Yingjiao Xu of N.C. State University.

Manufacturing yarn and fabrics, however, is more automated.

U.S. sites have the upper hand there because of lower-cost energy.

Keer took the lead in approaching the state of South Carolina.

John Ling, a China native who has worked for South Carolina, was surprised.

At first, he doubted a Chinese textile company would even think about going to the United States.

"The cost difference between the two countries has certainly been narrowed greatly in recent years," Ling said.

A turning point came in 2010.

The Chinese government introduced a series of bank loan and financing benefits for private enterprises to spend outside the country.

Previously, South Carolina business authorities worked on just three to five Chinese projects every year.

Now, there are 20 to 25 Chinese companies visiting South Carolina to look at spending money there every year, according to Ling.

Doug Woodward, economics professor at the University of South Carolina, described the incoming Chinese companies' spending as "small tiptoes into the U.S. for these big companies."

But "it's just the beginning," he believes.

Wang, now based in an office in Charlotte, is coordinating things across the two hemispheres.

He said Chinese business spending in the United States "was like water drops, but now there's a little stream flowing."

