China has had a law for many years that limits many couples to having only one child.

It is about to change the law.

The change is exciting for Luo Yuannan, who has a 2-year-old son and wants another child.

Like many modern Chinese women, Luo is hoping for a girl.

"I was amazed," said Luo, 31, who lives in the southern city of Shenzhen.

"I always wanted to have a second child and now I will get the chance."

If things go as planned, there might soon be lots of new babies in China.

The Chinese Communist Party controls the country's government.

On Friday, it announced that it would ease the one-child law.

Couples in which either partner is an only child will now be allowed to have a second baby.

Previously, only couples in which both parents were only children were permitted to have a second child.

Population experts believe the change will benefit about 10 million couples, including Luo and her husband.

She is an only child, but he is not.

Certainly the stock markets are looking forward to a wave of new children.

On Monday, shares of companies that make toys, milk powder and baby goods were up sharply.

Hailun Piano Co.'s shares also jumped.

Its pianos are used by many middle-class kids.

Still, population experts are not expecting a major baby boom.

"Symbolically, it is a turning point," said population expert Wang Feng.

"But I don't think the numbers will be that large."

Currently, around 16 million babies are born in China each year.

Wang expects that number to increase by 1 to 2 million.

His estimate is based on studies of couples who are already permitted to have second children.

No more than half chose to have a second child.

"I am so busy with one child.

I can't imagine taking care of two children," said Feng Zhilan, 32, as she came out of a Beijing children's hospital with her son.

"And I'm spending about $490 to $655 a month on him for kindergarten, clothes, activities.

It is not possible."

Zhao Mei, 30, said she and her husband had been planning to have a second child all along.

But they were figuring they would have to save up the money to pay fines that can cost up to $50,000.

The fines were for having a second baby without permission.

"Now it's legal," she said.

"This is much better."

The one-child law was introduced in 1979.

Its purpose was to lower population growth in a nation that now has 1.3 billion people.

Since then, the Communist Party has allowed two children in a lot of special cases.

But overall the law has not changed much in years.

The Chinese birthrate has plunged to 1.18 births per woman.

This is considered too low because there will not be enough young people with jobs to support older people who no longer work.

Perhaps no Chinese law has been as unpopular as the limit on family size.

On Tuesday, government scholar Zhang Yansheng spoke sadly about his daughter's loneliness as a young girl.

She had grown up as an only child with few other children around.

"I feel we could have provided her with a better life.

That is a regret I hope we will make up (for) in the future," said Zhang.

The one-child law, he said, had to be changed for the good of China.

It's still not clear how the change will be phased in.

Local governments have a lot of control over the subject of having babies.

Each local government should make a plan based on local conditions, one government official said.

