Dragon kites, eagle kites, butterfly kites and mechanical kites cover Zhang Xiaodong's workshop.

There is even a kite that looks like a frog seeking to devour a praying mantis.

Zhang is one of China's most revered kite makers.

As the 65-year-old showed off some of his life's work, he ticked off the benefits of lofting wind-blown art into the sky.

"Flying a kite provides good exercise; it uses your neck and shoulder muscles.

It enhances friendships among people," he said.

"Flying a kite also elevates your mood," he added.

"You can write your worries on the kite, and when it soars high in the air, you can cut the string and your worries will fly away."

Chinese kite makers have a lot to worry about these days.

As China becomes more modern, a new generation is playing video games instead of attaching painted silk to bamboo frames.

The kite makers that remain are growing old quickly and nearly all of them are men.

China takes great pride in its kites — an invention that led to the science of aerodynamics, which made way for airplanes, space shuttles and more.

Still, the future of this traditional craft is far from certain.

That is true even in Weifang, a city southeast of Beijing.

It calls itself China's kite capital.

Han Fuling has been making traditional kites in Weifang for nearly all of his 82 years.

He can remember the special feeling when he built his first kite and saw it waft into the air.

He was only 7 years old.

Yet these days, Han doubts that any of his four children will carry on his kite making.

"Not only does my son not make kites, he gives me a hard time for continuing to make them.

He says I am old and I should rest now," Han said.

"But kites are my passion.

How can I not make kites?"

The slow downfall of kite making is part of a larger story in China.

Historic architecture, crafts and music are being overwhelmed by China's growth.

It is not able to preserve its older way of life.

Since 2006, China's Culture Ministry has set aside 3.5 billion yuan (about $574 million).

The money goes to programs trying to preserve the nation's cultural heritage.

China's kite masters have been through hard times before.

China used to have a leader named Mao Zedong.

He was trying to change China from a country with an emperor to a communist country.

In communism, personal property was not important because the government owned everything.

To show the people of China that they should listen to him, Mao Zedong created strict rules for everything, including kites.

He said the rules were part of China's "Cultural Revolution."

With his rules, traditional kites were labeled one of the "four olds," and artists were threatened with being sent to a re-education camp if they did not change with the times.

Han Fuling is one who obeyed Mao Zedong's strict rules.

He started making kites that pictured workers instead of ancient mythic figures.

Even so, he has bitter memories of that time.

"Some students destroyed some of my kites during that time.

My wife was very upset," he recalled.

"I told her, 'It is OK. As long as I have my hands I can make more.'"

In Beijing during the Cultural Revolution, a kite artist named Fei Baoling went through similar challenges.

Now 86, Fei remembers taking the painted silk off of his kites.

But at the end of the Cultural Revolution, traditional folk art came back into favor.

Fei worked to make sure that kites were included in the Second National Arts and Crafts Exhibition, held in Beijing in 1972.

China is home to many schools of kite making.

There are concentrations of artists in Weifang, Tianjin, Nantong and other cities.

In Beijing kite circles, Fei is widely known as the elder statesman.

He is an expert at intricately painted swallow kites, inspired by an 18th-century novelist and kite master, Cao Xueqin.

In 1981, Fei became so absorbed in kites that he quit his banking job to devote himself to the craft.

A friend had given him a tattered and incomplete kite book written by Cao Xueqin that had nearly disappeared from circulation after the Cultural Revolution.

With his friend's help, Fei threw himself into fixing up the book.

When he finished, his reputation grew with serious kite makers and collectors, both in China and overseas.

For the last several years, Fei's eyes have been getting worse, but that has not stopped him from taking on new apprentices to teach.

One of them is Sun He, a 36-year-old auto mechanic, who began studying with Fei in 2003 with a goal, he said, of producing swallow kites with the same accuracy and designs as his master.

Sun's living room has the faint scent of bamboo and paint, while its walls are filled with symbols of old China: kites, photographs, paintings and huzi — twisted gourds that have deep symbolism in Chinese myths.

Sun said his fascination with the past started with his grandfather, who taught him the old accents and ways of Beijing, including Beijing opera.

When Sun meets a young person interested in Chinese culture, he "seizes on those moments," he said, but they do not occur often.

"That is the problem we face.

People don't have the sentimental attachment to traditional kites," he said.

"They rarely fly them.

They buy the triangles (plastic commercial kites) and fly them at the bridges."

In 2006, a Chinese-language student named Peter Boekelheide traveled around China, conducting a survey of kite making for the Drachen Foundation, a Seattle-based group of kite devotees.

He came to the conclusion, like Sun He, that traditional kite makers in China are dwindling.

"Kite making is turning into something that people do as a hobby, if they do it at all," Boekelheide said in a telephone interview from Portland, Oregon, where he works as a software developer.

He said he did not talk to a single kite maker who was hopeful for the future.

