IJING - Dirty air hurts people's health.

It can even shorten their lives.

The proof comes from China.

Health experts studied the air in 90 Chinese cities.

Then, they looked at how long people lived.

People in the north died earlier.

People in the south lived five and half years longer.

The air in the north is dirtier.

But dirty air comes from factories that give people jobs.

China used to be a poor country.

Most people worked on farms and made very little money.

Now the country is growing richer.

But some say China is risking its own health.

China is the perfect place to study dirty air.

A river flows through the center of the country.

People on the north side of the river had coal.

The government gave it to them.

They burned the coal in winter to heat their homes.

The coal made lots of smoke.

People south of the river had no coal.

They breathed cleaner air.

People also died earlier in the north than the south.

They had a lot of heart and lung problems.

Yuyu Chen helped find the proof about dirty air.

He wants people to take the problem seriously.

China needs clean air laws, he said.

Dirty air is a big worry in China, many say.

Beijing is the capital city.

Twenty million people live there.

Beijing has had many problems with bad air.

It had some of the worst air in January.

Going outside was dangerous.

Recess and outdoor games were cancelled.

Airplane flights stopped.

Highways were closed.

Many people went to hospitals.

Towns far from Beijing also had bad air.

And more bad air hit Beijing later.

The Chinese have marched against dirty air.

They are worried about what this means for their health.

Scientists say they are right to worry.

China has made changes.

It closed factories and stopped building during the worst bad air.

The government wants factories to use modern machines.

They don't make such dirty air.

The government has told the companies to clean up.

But other people think the companies just want to make money.

They think the air in China will get better very slowly.

