On his first day of teaching Chinese in a Florida middle school, Xu Dou showed his students how Chinese characters used to look.

He wanted them to see how the writing has changed over the years.

"Most of the students love the language.

They think the language is amazing," Xu said.

He said he'd explained to his class that Chinese characters were a central part of Chinese culture.

"I tell them if you want to learn real Chinese, you have to learn how to write Chinese characters."

That will take a lot of memorization and practice, but Xu's students already have a good start.

Many began learning Chinese two years earlier at their elementary school.

Li Meng, another newly arrived teacher, is working there this year.

Xu and Li are two of 129 teachers who just arrived from China.

They are part of the largest Chinese guest-teacher program.

It is supported by the College Board and the Confucius Institute, or Hanban.

It promotes the study of Chinese language and culture.

Started in 2007, the Chinese guest-teacher program today is in 30 states.

The largest numbers of teachers are in Utah, North Carolina and Ohio.

These are places with statewide Chinese programs.

Chinese is an important language for Americans to learn.

But the government has stopped giving money for schools to teach languages before college.

Last year, Congress got rid of money for foreign language education.

Schools had used the money to pay for foreign language classes.

In 2008, one-quarter of elementary schools had language classes.

In 1997, it was one third.

A lot of schools also stopped adding classes because they could not find enough foreign language teachers.

Xu and Li are fluent English speakers.

They learned the language in China, where all students learn English beginning in elementary school.

This is their first trip to the United States.

Xu grew up, went to university and teaches high school English in north-central China.

He plans to return there after the school year.

He will rejoin his wife and 7-month-old son.

Li teaches 570 students, kindergarteners to fifth-graders.

Students see her once a week for class.

The older students have a Chinese club that learns tai chi exercises with her on Fridays.

Li, 31, has been teaching high school English for seven years in eastern China.

She said she already liked Florida because it reminded her of Qingdao, her hometown.

"I love sunshine, the beach and the sea," she said.

Farther north, the University of North Carolina is in its fourth year of promoting the guest-teacher program.

China is North Carolina's No.

2 trading partner, and companies in the state are selling more products to China.

The Chinese government pays $13,000 of each teacher's salary, said Matt Friedrick.

He runs a kindergarten through high school education program out of the University.

The government also covers their travel expense.

Desa Dawson is the president of a national council of state language program heads.

The council helped screen and select the guest teachers.

Dawson said there was a lack of language teachers for all languages, everywhere in the United States.

The American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages says learning a language gives students many skills they'll need in life.

These include practice in how to understand others and share ideas.

Learning a language also builds the ability to be comfortable in new situations.

And it gives a better understanding of other cultural viewpoints.

The College Board runs the SAT and AP tests.

It helped start the Chinese guest-teacher program in 2007.

That same year, it began its AP program in Chinese language and culture.

The guest-teacher program helps prepare students who want to take the AP course.

Three thousand students took the AP Chinese test in 2007.

In 2012, that number had grown to more than nine thousand.

But in language learning as a whole, the United States is far from filling the need, Dawson said.

"With the world becoming smaller because of technology, we have so many opportunities out there, and I think we're behind — really, we're behind most nations — in teaching second languages," she said.

