China has pledged to end the processing and sale of ivory — but has not said how quickly it will act.

If fulfilled, this move would be a major victory in the battle to end the slaughter of tens of thousands of African elephants by poachers every year.

Top Chinese wildlife official Meng Xianlin said his country was still deciding when and how it would take action, but added that China could not be expected to act alone.

Meng, China's representative to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), said countries like the United States also need to toughen their regulations.

"Some people say, 'China should take the leadership, you first, you stop everything and other countries will follow,'" he said.

"I understand, but I think we should negotiate with other countries to push these procedures gradually."

Wildlife experts say China's recent announcement represents a major shift in official attitudes, calling the prospect of an end to the country's legal trade in ivory the greatest step that can be taken to reduce poaching.

However, they added that much would depend on when China acts, and how firmly.

China's legal trade in ivory products is largely based on a stockpile imported in 2009.

Legal ivory sales provide the cover for a vast network of illegal trade that fuels poaching in Africa and related crimes all over the world.

There is no way for consumers to know whether products have been made with poached ivory.

On May 29, China destroyed nearly 1,500 pounds of illegal ivory in a public ceremony in Beijing.

Zhao Shucong, minister in charge of the State Forestry Administration, announced that China would "strictly control the ivory trade and processing, until eventually halting commercial processing and the sale of ivory and its products."

The remarks were met with enthusiasm from wildlife conservationists, but also disbelief.

China had long argued that ivory carving was part of its ancient cultural heritage.

Was it serious about closing its network of carving workshops, advocates wondered, or would it keep going until its existing supply was depleted?

Meng said there was a commitment at the highest levels of the Chinese government to build an "ecological civilization," citing one of the many slogans of President Xi Jinping's government.

Now the principle has been established, he said, and it is just a matter of pushing it into action.

Wildlife groups have been campaigning for years to hear those words.

Several groups commended the Chinese government for its leadership, saying that ending the legal ivory trade in China will make it much easier to stamp out illegal activity.

Cristian Samper, president of the Wildlife Conservation Society, said Meng's remarks should send a message to poachers all over the world.

Now that China's commitment is clear, Samper says its "government agencies responsible for regulating and managing the ivory issue will need to develop a plan and a timeline to implement this decision."

He also insisted that consumers should stop buying ivory altogether.

China imported 62 tons of ivory from Africa in 2008, and imported it in 2009.

At the time, elephant numbers were relatively healthy and limited international trade was allowed.

Since then, China has gradually released the ivory to more than 30 licensed carving workshops but refuses to say how much of its stash remains.

Meng said the Chinese government sells five tons of ivory a year to carving workshops but would "gradually" reduce that annual quota to zero.

He said a total ban on ivory processing and sales could come "very quickly," but then added: "One year, two years, three years, four years, 10 years.

Is that quick or not quick compared to the history of the world?"

Meanwhile, the African elephant population has fallen from more than 1 million in 1989 to about half a million now.

Stricter enforcement has helped reduce poaching and populations are growing in some nations.

Still, more than 20,000 animals are thought to have been killed for their tusks in each of the past two years.

Over the past five years, Tanzania and Mozambique have each lost at least half of their elephants populations.

Meng said attitudes towards conservation are changing throughout China, particularly among the younger generation.

He cited examples like decreased demand for once-popular dishes made with endangered species, like shark fin soup.

Rhinoceros horn, once used in traditional Chinese medicine, was banned in 1993 and is now hard to find.

However, Meng said China should not be the only country to act.

The United States is the world's second-largest market for illegal wildlife products.

It still allows trade in ivory acquired before the worldwide ban that went into effect in 1989.

Trophy hunters can also import ivory into the United States, as long as they do not sell it.

Europeans continue to trade ivory acquired in colonial times.

Some African countries even encourage trophy hunting for income.

In 2014, President Barack Obama ordered a tightening of the rules on ivory trading.

New York and New Jersey both passed laws outlawing it, but the United States has not banned it outright.

The National Rifle Association has influence with some lawmakers and still supports trophy hunting and the sale of guns with ivory handles.

"China's announcement puts the ball back in our court," said Peter LaFontaine.

As a campaigns officer at the International Fund for Animal Welfare, LaFontaine has written that  the U.S. must lead by example.

He believes the U.S. must not "be an active player in the devastation and eventual extinction of such a majestic and intelligent species.

"It's up to us to change the laws — and actually enforce them — before it's too late."

