It was as far from Hollywood as you can imagine: the prestigious National Center for the Performing Arts in Beijing, China's version of the Metropolitan Opera in New York City.

A strange group of merry American musicians from the American Hollywood Film Orchestra were about to go on stage.

They've been traveling the country on tour.

They've taken buses, trains and planes to more than a dozen cities from late December to mid-January.

At each stop, they offer up crowd-pleasing tunes from movies like "Titanic," "Dances With Wolves," "The Incredibles" and "The Godfather."

To save on travel expenses, the group doesn't lug around drums, upright basses or cellos or other large instruments.

Local promoters in each city provide them.

But sometimes there are problems, almost like out of a comedy.

On this Saturday evening in Beijing, two cello players opened the cases of the loaner instruments and found the bridge on one had broken completely off.

Nearby, percussionist Chris Nolan was briefly furious.

"Nicest hall in China and they give me the crappiest drum kit!"

he exclaimed, pointing at the pitted and sagging drum heads.

Stagehands with walkie-talkies, an interpreter and the local promoter buzzed around the stage, trying to figure out what to do.

But as they say in Hollywood, the show must go on, and so it did.

Nolan got his new drum heads 20 minutes before the curtain went up for the show of famous movie songs, "Classic Oscar: The American Hollywood Film Orchestra New Year's Audio-Visual Concert."

At 7:30 p.m., conductor Jason Altieri took to the stage, raised his baton and launched the group into the first song.

The orchestra has an exhausting schedule — 5:30 a.m. wake-ups, 11 p.m. dinners, with travel, practice, and performances in between.

China is investing heavily in new concert venues and classical music education.

There's a thirst for Western orchestral music.

In just the last few months, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the San Diego Symphony, the BBC Concert Orchestra, Canada's National Arts Center Orchestra and even Pierce College's L.A. Symphonic Winds have staged China tours.

Some performers are recent college graduates.

Others are senior citizens like Jack Cobos, a retired carpet salesman and former violinist with the Chattanooga Symphony who's turning 71 during this tour.

They're hardly famous.

But in smaller cities, they've been swarmed by crowds eager to take dozens of pictures after their shows.

Sometimes, the concert halls are freezing cold or still under construction.

Jason Heidelberg, a cellist from Cleveland, said this year they arrived in the eastern resort of Haiyang.

On the day of the show, "the floor was still not done — they just put red carpet over it," he said.

John Bryant, a trumpeter who has toured with the group twice, said that in 2009 the group's plane was grounded by a snowstorm in Shenyang; the musicians had to resort to a standing-room-only train.

They made it to their next concert, in Xian, 90 minutes late.

"Playing after like 18 hours of travel was crazy," he said.

"We didn't even have time to change into our tuxes; we just went straight to the concert in our traveling clothes."

At another venue, Bryant said, he was stunned to find the room filled with cigarette smoke.

"I'm a trumpet player," he said, "and when you're trying to play and the room is full of smoke, well, it's a bit tough."

In an effort to connect with the local crowds, the group performed selections from the Chinese movie "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon."

The performers also surprised the audience with a piece from the 1961 Chinese film "The Red Detachment of Women."

It was probably the first time that song has been played with the "Mission: Impossible" theme and the alien-style jazz of the Cantina Band from "Star Wars."

Most of the performers, though, say they're touring not so much for the money as the opportunity to see a bit of China.

They enjoy the companionship of their fellow musicians.

They also like to connect with audiences who speak a different language and come from a different culture.

Altieri, the conductor, said in another part of China, Ningbo, the group stumbled across a music school where an old man was teaching the erhu to kids.

The erhu is a traditional Chinese two-stringed instrument.

The Americans watched for half an hour, and the kids staged an unplanned concert.

Later, the Americans found a group of people performing karaoke in a park, and joined in.

"One of our players sang 'My Heart Will Go On' with them, and that night, all the karaoke people ended up buying tickets to our show.

They even came backstage and gave us flowers," Altieri said.

"That's what I love about doing this — making music and sharing it, having that connection with other people that goes beyond language."

