Yosemite High School once offered six wood shop classes.

Now there are three.

Things got worse when a new high school opened in a neighboring district and many students transferred.

The number of students is down from 1,100 five years ago to about 700 today.

School officials are now looking to a faraway place for salvation.

As soon as next fall, Yosemite High in California could welcome 25 students from China.

They would pay $10,000 or more each year in tuition to enjoy an American public education with the scenery of mountains nearby.

The students would bring in money and inject an international flavor into a school with few immigrant families.

Two tuition-paying Chinese students are at Yosemite High this year.

Xiao "Travis" Ma of Inner Mongolia plays clarinet in the marching band, and Chengyu "Johnny" Zhang of Shanghai runs on the cross-country team.

Though the local Chinese food is not to their satisfaction, they appreciate the clean air and the elbow room.

"Having students who pay tuition helps keep some of our programs more full," said Stephanie Samuels, a guidance counselor and international coordinator at Yosemite High.

"We don't have a lot of exposure to other cultures.

Our students benefit not only from the academic challenge but from meeting people from other parts of the world."

In looking abroad to fill seats, Yosemite is following the lead of high schools in Maine and New York, among other places.

The number of tuition-paying foreign students in American public high schools has risen sharply.

There were a few hundred nationwide in 2007 but nearly 3,000 last year.

Newly rich families are eager to educate their children in the West.

China has become the latest way for public schools to get money.

Minarets High, the new school near Yosemite, will soon cash in too.

There are 20 Chinese students set to enroll in January for $10,000 each.

School officials saw it as a way to make money while increasing the number of students.

And there's an added benefit of exposing students to different cultures as well.

The F-1 visa students, as they are known, have raised concerns about the role of private companies that find students.

The F-1 visa is given out by the U.S. government to let foreign students study here.

There are also worries about the safety of teenagers in the country without their parents.

Federal law requires public schools to charge F-1 students the full cost of their educations.

But it does not say exactly how that costs should be calculated.

"There's so much money that can be made," said Jay Chen.

He is president of a local school board.

"And because there's a lack of regulation, you're just going to see a lot of people rushing into this field driven by profit rather than the desire to provide students and schools with a quality experience."

The vast majority of tuition-paying international students still study at private high schools.

There were 62,000 last year, up from about 6,000 five years ago.

Most are from China or South Korea.

These students plan to stay in the United States for college, skipping a brutally competitive educational system back home.

Because foreign students are limited to one year of study at U.S. public schools, some then transfer to private schools.

There is no time limit, and they are often charged more money than their American classmates.

Some experts say more rules are needed to manage the boom.

In addition to finding students, the companies serve as a link between parents and schools.

They also set up the students' living arrangements.

Steven Dorsey manages the international student program at Walnut Valley.

He has been barraged by companies looking to enroll Chinese students.

But he refuses to work with them or expand beyond the 20 or so students who find the district on their own.

"I have people saying, 'I can get you 100 students right now.'

No, I don't want 100 students," Dorsey said.

"I want to see that this is a great place to study and a good experience for kids when they come over."

At Murrieta Valley High School, Jixian "Johnny" Wang said he enjoys more free time and extracurriculars than he did in China.

There, the school day lasted from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. "School here is more independent.

We can choose our classes," said Wang, 15, a 10th-grader who hopes to attend Georgetown University.

"The teachers let students express their own opinions.

The teachers are more like friends."

Qianhui "Lilith" Zhou is a 17-year-old senior.

She started studying for the SAT and working to get into college as soon as she arrived in Murrieta.

She misses her family and friends in Shanghai and hungers for real Chinese food.

But those hardships are nothing compared to preparing for China's college entrance exam.

"The tough competition in China," she said, "that's why I came to the U.S."

