Dragons, eagles, butterflies cover Zhang Xiaodong's workshop.

There are even mechanical kites.

There is one that shows a frog trying to devour a praying mantis.

Zhang is one of China's most loved kite makers.

As the 65-year-old craftsman showed off some of his life's work, he listed the benefits of kites.

"Flying a kite provides good exercise; it uses your neck and shoulder muscles.

It enhances friendships among people," he said.

"Flying a kite also elevates your mood," he added.

"You can write your worries on the kite.

And when it soars high in the air, you can cut the string and your worries will fly away."

Chinese kite makers have a lot to worry about these days.

As China becomes more modern, young people are playing video games instead of flying kites.

The kite makers are getting old.

Almost all of them are men.

China is very proud of its kites.

They are an invention that helped mathematicians and scientists later invent airplanes and other things.

Still, the future of this old craft is far from certain.

Weifang, a city southeast of Beijing, calls itself China's kite capital.

At 82 years old, Han Fuling has been making traditional kites in Weifang for nearly his whole life.

He can remember the special feeling when he built his first kite and saw it waft into the air.

He was only 7 years old.

But these days, Han doubts that any of his four children will keep making kites.

"Not only does my son not make kites, he gives me a hard time for continuing to make them.

He says I am old and I should rest now," Han said.

"But kites are my passion.

How can I not make kites?"

The slow downfall of kite making is part of a larger story in China.

Historic buildings, crafts and music are being erased by China's growth.

The country is not able to keep its older way of life.

China's kite masters have been through hard times before.

The country used to be run by an emperor but became a communist country run by Chairman Mao Zedong after World War II.

In the 1960s and 1970s, China had a "Cultural Revolution."

With communism, personal property was not important because the government owned everything.

Chairman Mao was a strict leader who wanted to make many changes.

He worked on changing art that did not support his new ideas.

Kite makers were threatened if they did not change with the times.

Han Fuling is one who obeyed Mao Zedong's orders.

He started making kites that showed workers instead of ancient mythic figures.

Even so, he has bad memories from that time.

"Some students destroyed some of my kites during that time.

My wife was very upset," he recalled.

"I told her, 'It is OK. As long as I have my hands I can make more.'"

In Beijing during that time, a kite artist named Fei Baoling went through the same thing.

Fei remembers stripping the painted silk off his kites.

But at the end of the Cultural Revolution, traditional folk art came back into favor.

Fei worked to make sure that kites were included in the Second National Arts and Crafts Exhibition, held in Beijing in 1972.

China is home to many schools of kite making.

There are concentrations of artists in Weifang, Tianjin, Nantong and other cities.

In Beijing kite circles, Fei is widely known as a respected elder.

He is an expert at painting detailed designs on kites.

These kites are inspired by an 18th-century novelist and kite master, Cao Xueqin.

In 1981, Fei became so obsessed with kites that he quit his banking job to devote himself to them.

A friend had given him a tattered old kite book written by Cao Xueqin.

The book had almost completely gone missing after the Cultural Revolution.

With his friend's help, Fei threw himself into fixing up the book.

When Fei was done fixing the book, he became famous with kite makers and collectors, both in China and overseas.

For the last several years, Fei's eyes have gotten worse, but that has not stopped him from teaching new assistants.

One of them is Sun He, a 36-year-old car mechanic who began studying with Fei in 2003 with a goal.

Sun said his hope was to produce kites with the same accuracy and designs as Fei.

Sun's living room smells like bamboo and paint, while its walls are filled with symbols of old China: kites, photographs, paintings and huzi — twisted gourds that have deep symbolism in Chinese myths.

Sun said his fascination with the past started with his grandfather, who taught him the old accents and ways of Beijing, including Beijing opera.

When Sun meets a young person interested in Chinese culture, he is eager to talk to them, he said, but it does not happen often.

"That is the problem we face.

People don't have the sentimental attachment to traditional kites," he said.

"They rarely fly them."

They buy cheap, plastic triangle kites from toy stores "and fly them at the bridges," Sun said.

