The Chinese breathe in some of the dirtiest air in the world.

People have developed a new tool to help them fight air pollution, also called smog.

The tool is a computer app.

The app shows a map of northeastern China covered with large orange circles.

Each circle represents one of China's worst polluters.

The app reports the amount of pollution each factory releases into the air as it happens.

The information comes from monitoring equipment at about 10,000 factories around the country.

The app makes the information available to millions of Chinese on their computers, tablets and cellphones.

The goal is to get people to pressure the government to force polluters to stop.

Air pollution in China is among the worst in the world.

Pollution covers China's cities in dirty clouds and makes Chinese factories one of the leading causes of global warming.

Global warming is the heating up of the Earth caused by burning fossil fuels like coal, oil and gas.

China has many laws against pollution, said Ma Jun, one of China's best-known environmentalists.

He works for the Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs, which created the app.

However, the government does not force companies to follow the anti-pollution laws.

Companies don't want to cut pollution because it would cost them money.

Many of the worst polluters are companies owned by China's government.

Others have close ties to Chinese government officials.

China is not a democracy.

There are no elections, and courts are controlled by the government.

In a democracy, elections and courts help people influence their government to make changes.

In China, lots of people must pressure the government to make changes.

Showing pollution on the app can encourage people to pressure officials to crack down on polluters, Ma said.

Over the past several months, the app has been downloaded about 10,000 times.

Whether the app will be enough to stop polluters is not known.

However, people in China are becoming more worried about pollution.

Five years ago, a polling company asked the Chinese people to rank their concerns.

The environment ranked pretty low then, said Victor Yuan, who owns the polling company.

Now, pollution is among the top problems the Chinese worry about.

A study published last year by the U.S. National Academy of Sciences showed that air pollution cuts short the lives of people in northern China by 5 1/2 years.

Another study estimated that in 2012, burning coal led to 670,000 early deaths in China.

The early deaths were caused by diseases such as heart disease, stroke and lung cancer.

Even places as far away as California are affected by Chinese pollution, which blows across the Pacific Ocean.

On some days, it makes up about one-quarter of the pollution in the California air.

After years of trying to hide information about pollution, China's government now admits there's a problem.

Until 2012, cities could not reveal the levels of a type of pollution that causes the most damage to human lungs, Ma said.

Now, 190 cities do.

The goal of Ma's app is to let people know about pollution, so they'll complain about it and put pressure on the government.

It may be working.

So far, about 200 major polluters have spoken to him about their cleanup plans.

China has promised to cut pollution over 15 years.

The cleanup will be hugely expensive.

Right now, coal provides about 70 percent of China's energy.

It is also responsible for at least half of its pollution, said Alvin Lin, who works for an environmental group in Beijing.

China will have to stop using as much coal for electricity to cut its pollution.

Officials say China also must close down its oldest and dirtiest factories.

It can be done, Ma said.

He pointed to the blue skies at a recent meeting of world leaders in Beijing as proof of what can be achieved.

The Chinese government took enormous steps to clear the air.

It shut down polluting factories.

It also reduced traffic, so fewer cars burned gas.

The results showed "you don't need 30 years" to clear the air, Ma said.

China just needs the desire to tackle the job, he said.

