Yan Meiyue, 90, said her 72-year-old daughter rarely visits.

She doesn't even come home at the annual Spring Festival when families traditionally get together.

Yan has been a widow since her husband died nearly 10 years ago.

She now spends every weekday at a modest community center near her home.

There she plays the Chinese board game mahjong and eats meals prepared by a volunteer staff.

"The volunteers keep us company," Yan said with a smile.

She is one of a rapidly growing number of "orphan grandparents" who say they feel abandoned by their younger relatives, leaving them both lonely and struggling to make ends meet.

For centuries, elder citizens were traditionally treated with great respect in Chinese society.

Younger relatives would usually look after their grandparents as they got older.

Yet in the modern world, families are being split up by China's growing wealth.

Children and grandchildren are now moving to distant cities or countries.

And the elderly feel like they have been left behind.

Charities, nursing homes and local governments are picking up more of the slack, said Robert Stowe England, an expert on population aging.

England wrote a book titled "Aging China."

The Chinese government has taken notice of the troubling trend.

A new law in China allows elderly parents to take their grown-up children to court for not visiting them enough.

The new rules started on July 1 after Chinese press reported mistreatment of the elderly.

One story told of a grandmother in her 90s who was forced to live in a pigpen for two years.

"The tradition in China is that the son is responsible for care of elderly parents," England said.

"The sons are now moving to the city, and it weakens that link."

One of Yan's neighbors is 82-year-old Ma Qiaoying.

Ma said that both of her sons live outside of China and only visit her once a year.

One son works as an executive for Germany's highway system, while the other works in Canada as a mechanical engineer.

Ma said that she depends on her other elderly friends for support.

"We're like a big family," she explained.

"We can talk to each other and share our problems."

Jiang Gong Liang is a retired businessman who used to live in Shandong province in the north of China.

Jiang moved more than 500 miles to Shanghai, China's biggest city, to live closer to his daughter.

He now spends a lot of time in Lu Xun Park.

This city park is popular with retirees and Jiang passes his days by playing the huqin (an instrument like a violin) for passers-by.

"You don't have to play well to enjoy it," he said, after entertaining a small crowd with his music.

Jiang said he was happier now that he could see his daughter daily.

But the elderly man did also admit that he misses his old home in the north where his family lived for generations.

For many years China's government strictly enforced the one-child policy.

This made it illegal for couples living in cities to have multiple children.

The law was first applied in 1979 and it has been relaxed only in recent years.

Support for this rule is falling among the Chinese public, bu it has already created problems for the country's older people.

Previous governments believed that the one-child rule would make China stronger.

But this policy has made life more difficult for older people because there are fewer children around to look after them.

About 1.34 billion people live in China, with about 180 million people over 60.

The United Nations estimates that by 2050 about 25 percent of China's population will be 65 or older.

This would mean that China would have more than 333 million older people.

This is far more than the elderly of the United States, Canada, Japan and all of Europe put together.

Respect for elders is a central belief of Confucianism, an important system of beliefs in traditional Chinese society.

The new parental-visitation law seems to suggest the government is looking for ways to save on the cost of caring for retirees by recalling China's Confucian roots, said Chen Honglin, a professor of social work at Fudan University.

Until then, China's elderly find other ways to stay busy while they long for their children.

Every morning, Wang Pei Lan comes with her husband to Lu Xun Park.

The Shanghai retiree says her three children work at the Shanghai Stock Exchange, but they aren't able to visit often enough.

"We have nothing to do at home," Wang said, while busily knitting under a large tree.

The Xintu Center for Community Health Promotion in Shanghai is an organization that focuses on care for elderly and sick people and those with disabilities.

Many of the volunteers are retirement-age people looking to help others, project manager Zhang Yan said.

The top floors of the Xintu Center shine with modernity.

Down on the bottom floor, however, the foul smell of toilets bring to mind the challenges ahead for China's elderly.

This floor provides services to people who have lost their memory or ability to communicate.

Many gather around televisions; others circle about.

Some of the elderly struggle with loneliness and some have depression, Zhang said.

The oldest without children nearby often hurt the most, she said.

So the center offers services, including psychological help line, weekly group meetings and routine visits from a hospital.

Two-thirds of the center's retiree volunteers reported that they felt depressed, she said.

It can be a challenge to get them to accept the services that they need.

"Chinese people like to help each other, but sometimes they need the help," Zhang said.

