Want a full-time teaching job, instead of that temporary gig without health benefits you're currently stuck with?

Luo Chunlei advises that you buy the school principal a box of mooncakes and follow up with an envelope of cash.

Having an operation?

Better slip the surgeon some money.

And don't forget the anesthesiologist.

"I'm absolutely disgusted by it, but this is how our system works," said Luo, a 32-year-old math teacher turned activist.

Luo is campaigning against what he sees as Chinese society's pervasive culture of corruption.

Gift-giving has long been a staple of Chinese life, but its means and expectations are increasingly colliding with more modern anti-graft laws.

This year, the government has turned party pooper, railing against excessive gift-giving.

"Gift-giving is a must, but you should avoid extravagance," advised an editorial in People's Daily, the official state paper.

Gifts of luxury brands, wine, expensive cigarettes, large amounts of cash, and sex were all warned against.

The new standards on gift-giving are part of an overall austerity campaign launched by China's new president, Xi Jinping.

The crackdown started in earnest last month with the beginning of the holiday season, which got underway with the Sept. 19 Mid-Autumn Festival.

The season ends with the Lunar New Year at the end of January.

Wang Qishan, who has been named anti-corruption czar under the new government, warned that "increasingly extravagant gifts" have "polluted our festival culture in recent years."

"China has always been a society of guanxi," or connections, said Hu Xingdou, an economist at the Beijing Institute of Technology.

"Treating people to meals, giving people gifts, is all part of the Chinese lifestyle.

This is something that goes way back and definitely clashes with the rule of law."

The crackdown has forced the Chinese to confront tough questions about how much is too much.

For the Mid-Autumn Festival, business associates generally trade hockey-puck-shaped mooncakes that sometimes cost $200 per box.

Luxury Panda brand cigarettes wrapped for holidays are designed less for smoking than for gifting to impress, with prices up to $50 a pack.

In southern China, cash is slipped in fetching red envelopes known as hongbao.

Gift certificates are another popular option since they can be readily traded for cash.

Parents are also expected to ante up a gift on Teachers' Day, a public holiday in China on Sept. 10, to help ensure that their children get good grades.

Such gifts are chicken feed compared with expensive Montblanc pens and $10,000 Rolex watches.

Or a $3 million villa on the French Riviera, the key piece of evidence in the bribery trial of former Chongqing Communist Party Secretary Bo Xilai.

Bo was recently sentenced to life in prison.

Last month, the Chinese government banned the use of public funds to buy mooncakes for the harvest festival.

According to the People's Daily, government officials had been buying expensive mooncakes with public funds to give to superiors in charge of promotions.

The gift-giving tradition is an offshoot of the intense competition in China, where a large population fights for education, health care and jobs.

Activist Luo said that his family paid 100,000 yuan — about $16,000 — in cash at a public hospital two years ago when his grandfather was having surgery for colon cancer.

They paid even though the surgery actually was covered by his insurance.

Parents in his hometown, he added, have to pay at least $3,200 if they want to transfer their child to a better school.

Gift-giving is a popular subject on the Internet, with ambivalence expressed by those receiving as well as giving.

In a blog published last year, one anonymous teacher complained of the pressure of parents constantly extending invitations to meals and offering gifts.

In fact, turning down gifts can prove risky: A doctor in Jiangxi province who rejected a red envelope of cash from the family of a man injured in a car accident was beaten up by the family members and suffered a broken skull.

It turned out they were so surprised to have their gift rejected, they assumed he'd gotten a bigger bribe from the driver of the car involved.

To highlight the problem of graft in government, Chinese activists have enlarged photographs of officials to zoom in on expensive watches that they would not be expected to to be able to afford.

Civil service salaries, after all, run no more than $850 per month.

One mid-level official was discovered to have a collection of timepieces that included a $62,000 Vacheron Constantin.

This earned him the nickname "Brother Watch" and a 14-year prison sentence.

Sales at luxury shops in Beijing spike in March, when delegates to the National People's Congress seek to ingratiate themselves with their superiors.

Under the law, officials are not supposed to take gifts valued at more than 5,000 yuan, about $820 each.

But the law is widely disregarded and unevenly enforced.

President Xi is not the first Chinese leader to speak up about corruption.

"There is a pattern in China.

Each time a new leader comes in, he sets a fire and starts to crack down very hard on corruption," said Qiao Xinsheng, a professor at the Zhongnan University of Economics and Law.

"These campaigns come and go.

But over time, it is inevitable that China will become a more transparent society with less tolerance for corruption."

Hu, the economist, said that enforcement of anti-corruption laws in China remains selective at best.

"It has to be selective.

We couldn't possibly hold all Chinese officials to the same standard because if we did, there would be no officials left standing," he said.

