Lonely Chinese parents can now take their children to court for not visiting them enough.

A new law means older people can force their grown-up kids to come home more often.

In China, grandparents have always been treated with great respect.

When people got older they could count on their relatives to include them in their households.

Their children and grandchildren would care for them as they got frail.

But times are changing.

As China becomes richer, younger people have more job opportunities.

They often move to distant cities or other countries.

And the elderly feel like they have been left behind.

The new law began on July 1 when the government noticed what was happening.

The Chinese press wrote about the bad treatment of older people.

It was even reported that one grandmother in her 90s was forced to live in a pigpen for two years.

One 90-year-old woman called Yan Meiyue said her 72-year-old daughter doesn't visit often.

Yan has been a widow since her husband died nearly 10 years ago.

She now spends every weekday at a community center near her home.

Yan plays the Chinese board game mahjong then eats meals made by volunteer staff.

"The volunteers keep us company," Yan said with a smile.

She is one of many older people known as "orphan grandparents" who feel abandoned by their families.

Robert Stowe England is an expert on aging in different countries.

He said that charities, nursing homes and governments are now caring more and more for older people.

This job used to be done by children and grandchildren.

England explained that in the past, the sons of the family would be responsible for the care of elderly parents.

Now all the sons are moving to the city.

So there is no one left to look after them.

One of Yan's neighbors is 82-year-old Ma Qiaoying.

Ma said that both of her sons live outside of China and only visit her once a year.

One son works for Germany's highway system, while the other works in Canada as an engineer.

Ma said that she looks to her other elderly friends for support.

"We're like a big family," she said.

"We can talk to each other and share our problems."

Jiang Gong Liang is a retired businessman.

He used to live in Shandong province in the north of China.

Then Jiang moved more than 500 miles to Shanghai, China's biggest city, to live closer to his daughter.

He now spends a lot of time in Lu Xun Park.

This city park is popular with retired people.

Jiang passes his days by playing a violin-like instrument called a huqin for passers-by.

Jiang said he was happier now that he could see his daughter every day.

But the elderly man did also admit that he misses his old home in the north where his family lived for generations.

About 1.34 billion people live in China.

Around 180 million of them are over the age of 60.

The United Nations estimates that by 2050 one-quarter of China's people will be over 65 years old, or 333 million.

That figure tops all the elderly of the United States, Canada, Japan and all of Europe put together.

For many years China's government had a strict one-child rule.

Couples living in cities were not allowed to have multiple children.

The law began in 1979 and it has been relaxed only in recent years.

Respect for older people is central to China's traditional beliefs.

But the new law may be about more than just Chinese family values.

It's expensive for the government to care for so many retirees.

Convincing their children that it is their duty to chip in may be a smart way for the country to save money, said Chen Honglin, a university professor in Shanghai.

Until then, China's elderly find other ways to keep their minds off the children they are missing.

Every morning, Wang Pei Lan comes with her husband to Lu Xun Park.

The Shanghai retiree says her three children work at the Shanghai Stock Exchange, but they weren't able to visit often enough.

"We have nothing to do at home," Wang said, while busily knitting under a large tree.

The Xintu Center for Community Health Promotion in Shanghai is an organization that cares for old and disabled people.

Many of the volunteers are retirement-age people looking to help others, said Zhang Yan who works at the center.

Some of the elderly struggle with loneliness and some have depression, Zhang said.

Those without children nearby often hurt the most, she said.

So the center tries to help.

It has a telephone help line staffed by counselors.

There are weekly group meetings and regular visits from a hospital.

Most of the center's retiree volunteers say they feel depressed, she said.

It can be hard to get them to accept the services that they need.

"Chinese people like to help each other, but sometimes they need the help," Zhang said.

