It was Xu Dou's first day of teaching Chinese in a Florida middle school.

He showed his students old Chinese characters.

He wanted them to see how the writing has changed over the years.

"Most of the students love the language.

They think the language is amazing," Xu said.

"I tell them, if you want to learn real Chinese, you have to learn how to write Chinese characters," he added.

That will take a lot of memorization and practice.

But Xu's students already have a good start.

Many began learning Chinese two years earlier at their elementary school.

Li Meng, another newly arrived teacher, is working there this year.

Xu and Li are two of 129 teachers from China.

They are part of the largest Chinese guest-teacher program.

It is supported by the College Board and the Confucius Institute, or Hanban.

It promotes the study of Chinese language and culture.

The Chinese guest-teacher program started in 2007.

Today it is in 30 states.

The largest numbers of teachers are in Utah, North Carolina and Ohio.

These are places with statewide Chinese programs.

Chinese is an important language for Americans to learn.

But the government has stopped giving money to teach languages in school before college.

Last year, Congress stopped offering money for foreign language learning.

Schools had used the money to pay for foreign language classes.

One-quarter of elementary schools had language classes in 2008.

In 1997, it was one- third.

Xu and Li are fluent English speakers.

They learned it in China.

All students there learn English beginning in elementary school.

This is their first trip to the United States.

Xu grew up, went to a university and teaches high school English in north-central China.

He will return there after the school year.

He will rejoin his wife and 7-month-old son.

Li teaches 570 students, kindergarteners to fifth-graders.

Students see her once a week for class.

The older students have a Chinese club.

They learn tai chi with her on Fridays.

Li, 31, has been teaching high school English for seven years in eastern China.

She said she already liked Florida because it reminded her of Qingdao, her hometown.

"I love sunshine, the beach and the sea," she said.

Farther north, the University of North Carolina has been a fan of the guest-teacher program for four years.

China is North Carolina's No.

2 trading partner.

Companies in the state are selling more things to China.

The Chinese government pays $13,000 of each teacher's salary, said Matt Friedrick.

He runs a kindergarten-to-high-school education program that is based out of the university.

The government also covers their travel.

Desa Dawson is the president of a national council of state language program heads.

The council helped choose the guest teachers.

School districts are giving up language programs.

They cannot find enough teachers, Dawson said.

Learning a language gives students many skills they will need in life.

It helps students understand others and share ideas.

Learning a language also makes people comfortable in new situations.

It gives a better understanding of other cultures.

The College Board runs the SAT and AP tests.

It helped start the Chinese guest-teacher program in 2007.

That same year, it began its AP program in Chinese language and culture.

The AP program is like a college-level class.

The guest-teacher program helps prepare students who want to take the AP course.

Three thousand students took the AP Chinese test in 2007.

In 2012, that number had grown to more than 9,000.

