China has had a law for many years that some people do not like.

The law says many couples can have only one child.

Now China is about to change the law.

The change is exciting for Luo Yuannan.

She has a 2-year-old son and wants another child.

Luo is hoping for a girl.

So are many other modern women in China who have one son.

"I was amazed," said Luo.

"I always wanted to have a second child and now I will get the chance."

Soon there might be lots of new babies in China.

The Chinese Communist Party controls the government in the country.

On Friday, it said it was changing the one-child law.

Now, if one parent is an only child, the couple will be allowed to have a second baby.

Before, both parents needed to be only children to have a second baby.

Population experts believe about 10 million couples will be affected by the change in the law.

Luo and her husband are one of those couples.

She is an only child, but he is not.

Still, population experts are not expecting a huge baby boom.

Right now, around 16 million babies are born in China each year.

Population expert Wang Feng expects that number to only go up by 1 to 2 million.

He has studied a group of couples who are already allowed to have two children.

No more than half chose to have a second child.

"I am so busy with one child.

I can't imagine taking care of two children," said Feng Zhilan as she came out of a children's hospital with her son.

"And I'm spending about $490 to $655 a month on him for kindergarten, clothes, activities.

It is not possible."

Zhao Mei said she and her husband had already been planning to have a second child.

But they were figuring they would have to save up a lot of money first.

The money would have gone to paying the fine for having a second baby without permission.

The fines can run as high as $50,000.

"Now it's legal," she said.

"This is much better."

The one-child law was introduced in 1979.

It was meant to lower population growth in a nation that now has 1.3 billion people.

The Communist Party has allowed couples to have two children in a lot of special cases.

But the law hasn't changed much for years.

There are 1.18 babies born for each woman in China now.

This is considered too low.

The one-child rule has been very unpopular.

It may be the most unpopular law in the country.

Zhang Yansheng is an important member of the Communist Party.

He remembers his daughter's loneliness as a young girl.

She grew up as an only child in a big apartment building.

There were few other children around for her to play with.

"I feel we could have provided her with a better life," he said.

The one-child law had to be changed for the good of China, Zhang said.

