When Luo Yuannan heard that China was changing its one-child law, she began trying to figure out when it would be best for her 2-year-old son to get a baby sister.

Like many modern Chinese women, Luo is hoping for a girl.

"I was amazed," said Luo, 31, who lives in the southern city of Shenzhen.

"I always wanted to have a second child and now I will get the chance."

If things go as planned, a second child for Luo could be part of a baby boomlet for China.

On Friday, the Chinese Communist Party, which rules the country's government, announced that it would ease the policy that limits many couples to having one child.

Couples in which either partner is an only child will now be allowed to have a second baby.

Demographers, who study populations, believe the change will benefit about 10 million couples, including Luo and her husband.

She is an only child, but he has a sibling.

Previously, exceptions were made if both partners were only children.

Certainly the stock markets are expecting the pitter-patter of little feet.

On Monday, the first trading day since the announcement Friday night, shares of toy, milk powder and baby goods manufacturers were up sharply.

And the stock of Hailun Piano Co., whose instruments are used by the offspring of Chinese "tiger moms," who push their children toward music lessons, rose 9.98 percent both Monday and Tuesday, before it hit the Shenzhen Stock Exchange's limit of a 10 percent change in price a day.

Despite the giddiness, demographers are not expecting a full-fledged baby boom, perhaps merely a baby bump.

"Symbolically, it is a turning point, but I don't think the numbers will be that large," said Wang Feng, a demographer who teaches at the University of California, Irvine, and Shanghai's Fudan University.

Wang expects the 16 million annual births to increase by 1 to 2 million, basing his estimates on pilot programs in Shanghai and nearby Jiangsu province.

There, in cases of couples permitted to have second children, no more than half choose to do so.

"I am so busy with one child.

I can't imagine taking care of two children," said Feng Zhilan, a 32-year-old saleswoman who was coming out of a Beijing children's clinic with her son.

"And I'm spending about $490 to $655 a month on him for kindergarten, clothes, activities.

It is not possible."

Zhao Mei, 30, who has a 15-month-old daughter, said she and her husband had been planning to have a second child all along, but were figuring they would have to save up the money to pay the fines.

Those fines for having a second child without permission run up to $50,000.

"Now it's legal," she said.

"This is much better."

The one-child policy was introduced in 1979 to rein in population growth in a nation that now has 1.3 billion people.

Since then, the Communist Party has allowed countless exceptions to the rules — for ethnic minorities, for rural couples whose first child is a girl, for couples with a disabled child.

In addition, various provinces enforce the policy differently.

However, the actual law has not been changed in any major way at the national level for years.

The Chinese birthrate has plunged to 1.18 births per woman.

This is considered too low to maintain current population levels and ensure an economically sound mix of young and old.

State planners want to avoid a situation in which a large number of non-working elderly are supported by a small percent of productive younger people.

The limit on family size may be the most emotional and debated issue in China.

During a briefing on the policy change on Tuesday, Zhang Yansheng, a senior Communist Party academic, spoke mournfully of his daughter's loneliness as a young girl.

She had grown up as an only child in a Beijing apartment compound with few other children.

"I feel we could have provided her with a better life.

That is a regret I hope we will make up (for) in the future," said Zhang.

"We came to this moment when the one-child policy had to be adjusted for the economy, society and for the renewal of the Chinese nation."

Exactly how the change in the policy will happen remains vague because local governments have a great deal of control over family planning, without Beijing's interference.

"Each province, city or district should make a specific timetable based on local conditions," Wang Peian, a government official, said.

