Large street protests are breaking out in China.

The rapidly growing country has enormous environmental problems.

Its population also has a deep distrust of government.

Online devices are becoming more popular to keep people connected.

All of those things make it unsurprising that people are voicing anger over waste incinerators, chemical plants and other industrial projects.

The latest was in the southern Chinese county of Boluo.

Thousands of people marched through the streets Saturday to protest a planned garbage incinerator, where garbage is burned.

Police detained 24 demonstrators, fewer than expected.

Observers took it as a sign that Chinese authorities knew they would have to face environmental questions now and then.

Judith Shapiro is a professor who specializes in China's environment.

She said it's still unclear whether China's government will remain somewhat tolerant of anti-pollution protests.

"There is more political 'space' for protests around environmental issues" than labor rights or Tibet, Shapiro said.

However, China's Communist Party is "desperately afraid of unrest."

Pollution is the dark side of China's economic rise.

Industrial pollution has ruined about one-fifth of China's usable farmland.

Air pollution levels in Beijing are 40 times higher than what is safe to breathe.

Dangerous levels of heavy metals keep showing up in China's rice.

Three-fourths of the nation's lakes and rivers are severely polluted, according to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

In China, there is no freedom to gather and protest in public.

Many people feel helpless in confronting big problems like pollution.

Still, a growing number are taking to the streets to protest projects in their communities they believe are threatening.

In April, hundreds of people in Maoming, near Boluo, confronted police over a planned paraxylene plant, or factory.

Paraxylene is a toxic chemical used to make polyester.

Plants like these have become very controversial in China in recent years.

In May, a protest of a new waste incinerator south of Shanghai also turned into a fight.

Ten demonstrators and 29 police officers were injured.

Saturday's protest in Boluo was organized over cellphones and social media.

Two days before the protest, messages went out on Weibo, China's Twitter.

They urged people to gather at a city square at 9 a.m. Saturday.

The incinerator "will directly pollute the drinking water and air of the entire Boluo county," said one message.

"For our families, reject cancer!"

The pitch worked.

Video from the protest suggests that thousands of people marched through Boluo, a county of 875,000 in south China's bustling Pearl River Delta.

Dealing with household garbage is becoming a headache for local governments as Chinese people buy more things.

China generates about 200 million metric tons of solid waste yearly.

In 2004, it passed the United States as the world's largest producer of garbage.

By 2030, it is expected to generate twice as much waste as the United States.

Some experts say incinerators are the best way to dispose of this waste.

In crowded parts of China, landfill space is limited.

Nie Yongfeng is a professor at a School of Environment.

He said new incinerators in China operate at or above European Union standards for limiting pollutants.

Groups opposed to incinerators rely on old numbers to make more people afraid of them, he said.

Others say the government has been hiding information.

It monitors emissions from big waste burners.

However, the numbers have not been released to the public, "so it is hard to know if the incinerators are being operated safely," said Lin Youzhu.

She is the manager of the solid waste program for Friends of Nature, China's oldest environmental group.

By the end of 2013, according to Lin, 176 waste incinerators were operating in China.

There were another 74 under construction.

She said the government helps pay for incinerator construction, which is undermining China's strong network of recycling and source separation of waste.

The government "pays little attention to reducing waste at the source and puts all its attention into disposal," she said.

Shapiro, the American University professor, said it is encouraging to see Chinese people standing together against further pollution of air, water and soil.

She is the author of the 2012 book "China's Environmental Challenges."

The protests in China are usually in well-off communities on China's eastern coast.

It raises the risk that authorities will just relocate incinerators and other controversial projects away from the coast.

They could end up in the poorer areas of China.

"Minority nationalities in China are particularly" at risk, said Shapiro.

She directs American University's Global Environment Politics Program.

These peoples' opposition to pollution could be called disloyal to the government.

The government could even try to portray them as terrorists.

