China launched a rocket to the moon early Monday.

It carried a vehicle that is expected to explore the moon's surface for three months.

The vehicle looks like a dune buggy.

A landing vehicle and the rover should touch down on the moon in about two weeks.

It would be the first soft landing on the moon since 1976.

Most moon landings are hard.

The landing vehicle breaks up as it hits the moon.

The Soviet Union made the last soft landing.

The gold rover will put a telescope on the moon's surface.

It will also explore under the surface of the moon.

The photos it takes will be sent back to Earth.

No one rides inside the rover.

But experts believe China has a plan.

It will gather knowledge on the mission.

At some point, China can use its knowledge to put a person on the moon.

"China sees the possibility of leading," said David Whitehouse.

He is a British scientist who has written a book about the moon.

"It will upset the Americans because the Americans think they own the moon."

The mission will do a lot to get Chinese people excited about space.

The rover is named Jade Rabbit.

The Chinese people voted on the name.

The name refers to the pet rabbit of the Chinese moon goddess.

The moon goddess is Chang'e.

Chang'e is also the name of the landing vehicle.

Chinese television showed the launch live.

The launch itself was relatively uncomplicated, says Morris Jones.

He is a space expert from Australia.

Getting into orbit around the moon also is not difficult.

China has already done that twice.

But the landing could be harder.

Jones says there cannot be mistakes in the landing.

Only the United States and the Soviet Union have successfully landed on the moon in the past.

The U.S. is the only nation to land people on the moon.

There was a lot of moon exploration in the 1960s and 1970s.

The big moment was when Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin landed on the moon.

But that was in 1969.

Since then, the moon's appeal has gone down.

People want to explore planets and asteroids instead.

In 2010, President Obama killed plans for the Constellation program.

The program was supposed to return Americans to the moon by 2020.

"People wanted to explore the planets.

We wanted to see more distant worlds," Jones said.

But new things have been found out about the moon in recent years, he said.

"We have found areas where there is water ice and regions colder than Pluto.

There are still many surprises."

