Many Americans reacted with a shrug when China landed its first lunar rover on the moon last month.

After all, the U.S. sent men to the moon more than 40 years ago.

And the Russians landed a rover there too.

But among lunar scientists — who study the moon — the Chang'e 3 mission has generated considerable interest.

The Chinese lander and rover are equipped with ground-penetrating radar, cameras, a telescope, and radiation-sensing instruments.

Scientists hope this will allow the mission to gather significant new information.

They're especially interested in the moon's soil.

Such information, they say, could shed light on the history of the moon.

It could also help scientists design equipment to mine the lunar surface for oxygen and other elements.

In addition, experts say, the Chinese mission is testing new equipment and technology that could be useful for future missions.

And not just to the moon, but to Mercury or Mars as well.

"The parts of the moon that have been explored are so minuscule," said former NASA astronaut Leroy Chiao.

"It's like saying you sent probes to the Earth, you looked at small areas of California and New York, and now you know everything there is to know.

That's not the case."

Stephen Mackwell is the director of Houston's Lunar and Planetary Institute.

He mentioned something else significant: The Chang'e 3 mission landed in an area of the moon very far from where previous U.S. and Russian missions touched down.

Over the years, he said, extensive information has been gathered about the moon's structure and what it's made up of.

Now, the Chinese rover, nicknamed Jade Rabbit, may help add to that.

Lunar scientists are hoping it will provide detailed information about the concentrations of elements such as titanium, aluminum, iron, potassium and sodium.

Scientists are also watching closely to see how the lander and the Jade Rabbit rover survive the freezing lunar night.

Nights on the moon last about two of our weeks.

Both lander and rover went into "hibernation mode" in late December.

They will have to endure temperatures that may dip as low as minus 292 degrees Fahrenheit, or minus 180 degrees Celsius.

And the vehicles are supposed to withstand two such long, cold nights during the course of the mission.

"This is very important for planning other missions, like one to Mercury, which could use a lander just like this one," said researcher G. Jeffrey Taylor.

"Once you get down to minus 80 or 90, the electronics may not survive.

They must be in containers with little radioactive heating units."

That keeps things "up to a certain temperature so they don't get damaged."

Chang'e 3 also carries a powerful camera.

This is to be used to monitor the Earth's atmosphere.

In addition, it carries a telescope to observe galaxies and stars.

Some scientists believe the moon's thin atmosphere and slow rotation will allow for long, uninterrupted observations.

"This (telescope) is another great test," said Taylor.

"Some people have said a telescope on the moon would be useful," he said.

"So now we'll find out if we can do observations from the moon really effectively or it's easier to do it another way."

The Chang'e 3 landing came more than two months after NASA's LADEE probe entered lunar orbit.

Initially, some American scientists were nervous that the Chang'e 3 landing would kick up a lot of material.

They worried that this might interfere with LADEE's mission, which is to gather information about the lunar atmosphere.

As it turns out, Mackwell said, LADEE had enough time to gather some measurements.

It can now monitor the changes in the atmosphere caused by the Chinese craft's landing.

"We don't understand a lot about the chemistry of the atmosphere," he said.

Scientists don't know how long dust remains in the atmosphere or "how various chemicals move around."

So, it turns out, by kicking up dust and releasing chemicals, the Chinese mission has actually given LADEE a lot of interesting activity to observe.

Mackwell and others said they believe the Chinese probably will share the findings of the Chang'e 3 mission.

NASA is currently barred by U.S. law from working with China.

But, scientists from the U.S. and around the world have been exchanging information.

Angel Abbud-Madrid is director of Colorado's Center for Space Resources.

He strongly disagrees with those who downplay Chang'e 3's landing as "been there, done that."

Abbud-Madrid said they are missing the larger point of China's carefully planned approach to moon exploration.

China's eventual goal is to land humans on the moon's surface.

"By the time they get there, it may be 50 years since we did it, and that may not be a big deal."

But, he said, what can be done on the moon just keeps getting more sophisticated.

And NASA may not be sending a manned mission anytime soon.

"You get rovers, then you send back samples, and once you send humans, you're going to want to spend more than three days there," he said.

"Then you're going to figure out, maybe we can generate some oxygen on the moon.

Then you can really start moving ahead from what was previously achieved."

Hopefully between now and then, we can talk about how to work with the Chinese, he added.

