For Americans, Chinese New Year brings to mind colorful parades and fireworks in Chinatowns across the United States.

In China, it involves millions of people returning home.

The Lunar New Year festival, or Spring Festival, starts Friday for this Year of the Horse.

Chinese workers are expected to return to their home villages for the holiday.

It's an occasion to share time and gifts with family and friends.

Yet, Chinese New Year has become a busy time of travel across the world's most populated country.

Hundreds of millions have moved from rural areas to cities in recent years.

When they return home, some call it "the world's largest human migration."

During the New Year's festivities, government officials estimate people will make 3.6 billion trips.

More than 154 million train tickets have been sold already.

For the past week, train stations in Beijing have been mobbed.

Subways were crowded with passengers carrying bags and gifts.

On a subway last Saturday, a woman with luggage dropped a box of kiwis she was carrying.

As the fruits rolled around the car, several passengers were kind enough to pick them up and return them to her.

Airports also are busy, but with a different class of customer.

They're used by wealthy Chinese who are returning home.

Others spend the week in beach resorts.

Passengers will make about 42 million air trips during the 40-day period, according to a Chinese government report.

For weeks in China, newspapers have published reports about the strain of the holiday.

Obtaining train tickets is a hassle.

Anxiety abounds about what gifts to take.

For the young unwed, there will be unavoidable questions about why they haven't yet married.

For those who don't or can't return home, there'll be some guilt.

They'll regret not following through on tradition.

Earlier this month, a Chinese woman in Guangdong province was so upset over her long-lost son that she purchased a front-page ad in the Chinese Melbourne Daily.

The newspaper is published in Australia, where the son is living.

She urged him to visit for the holiday.

"We hope you will come home for Lunar New Year," read the ad.

"Dad and Mom will never again pressure you to marry."

Relying on Chinese media for reports about Spring Festival can be tricky.

A story in the China Daily reported that 40 percent of Chinese migrant workers surveyed said they wouldn't return home for the holiday this year.

Of those who said they wouldn't return, nearly half said they were too embarrassed to.

They felt that they'd earned too little money in the past year.

The survey was taken of 13,156 migrant workers nationwide by job-hunting site daguu.com.

It was an astounding finding.

Beijing is reportedly home to 8 million migrant workers, more than a third of its population.

Most of them are young men from all corners of the country.

They moved to Beijing to take factory or office jobs, often living in run-down and crowded conditions.

The survey's findings couldn't easily be checked.

A well-known migrant community called Pi Village sits in northwestern Beijing.

Nearly everyone there, it seemed, was traveling or had plans to.

One man estimated that 90 percent of the migrant workers in Pi Village had already left.

He believed that many of the rest would be leaving soon.

One woman staying behind said she wasn't going home because her employer hadn't paid her.

When she was asked for her name and details, she got nervous and walked away.

A day earlier, Chinese officials reported that they were trying to help migrants get money they were owed.

The money could help migrants return home for Spring Festival.

Pressure on stingy and crooked bosses had recovered $1.8 billion in unpaid wages for more than 1.5 million workers across the country, according to the Chinese government.

In China, there's a popular song with a line that goes: "No matter if you have money or not, you should return home for Spring Festival."

It's a nice thought.

But for millions of workers here, returning home depends on whether they get paid.

