Most Americans know that slavery was once allowed in the United States.

Most also know what happened to Japanese-Americans during World War II: many were put in special prison camps even though they were loyal Americans, just because their families came from Japan.

Many Americans don't know that for more than 60 years, the United States officially excluded an entire ethnic group: Chinese immigrants.

The Chinese Exclusion Act, first passed by Congress in 1882, was not undone until 1943.

The law kept many Chinese people out of the United States — but not all.

Some were still able to get in, especially if they had money to start a business.

One of those early arrivals was Hoy Fung, who had grown up in Guangdong, China.

Fung set up what may have been the first Chinese restaurant in the Pittsburgh region, the Bellevue Tea Garden.

The restaurant operated from 1926 to 1997, said his daughter, Karen Yee.

In the early 1800s, many Chinese men had come to the U.S. to help build the western part of the transcontinental railroad, which stretched across America.

After work was completed in 1869, the nation's economy fell into a downturn.

Suddenly, there were 10,000 unemployed railroad workers on the West Coast.

The Chinese immigrant population was mostly male, and many Americans saw them as a threat to local workers.

In the 1920s, Yee said, it was common for Chinese families to send one son overseas to earn money to send back to China.

Her father was the one chosen for that task.

Fung's restaurant served what Americans thought of as Chinese food in those years: mostly chop suey and chow mein.

Only later did he add Cantonese dishes, egg rolls and other items.

One of the first people he hired was waitress Lorraine Kristoff, whose family was from Hungary.

"She said she knew two weeks after she met him that she was going to marry him," Yee said.

Neither family favored the union, and Kristoff's brother threatened to hurt Fung.

The two went ahead with the marriage anyway.

Fung, who followed Confucian teachings, agreed to let the children be raised Catholic.

Yee and her twin sister were born during the 1930s, and were followed over the years by two brothers and a sister.

Not only in Pittsburgh, but throughout the country most Chinese immigrants were male.

All but a few Chinese women were kept out of the U.S., because of a fear that they would become prostitutes.

The exclusion act was renewed and made permanent in 1902.

Only one senator — George Frisbie Hoar — was willing to vote against the law.

One result of the exclusion act was that Chinese-American men with families in China were often unable to see them for years at a time.

When the law was finally lifted in the 1940s, it not only allowed new Chinese immigrants into the country, it also gave Chinese men who were already here the right to live with their families.

In 2012, the U.S. Congress officially apologized for the American exclusion act.

Today, Chinese immigrants to the United States are very different from the immigrants of earlier years.

Many are highly educated doctors, researchers and businesspeople.

While never forgetting her Chinese roots, Yee has grown to love America over the years.

"I think every group that comes in to America faces difficulty — but I also think America is a country where if you really work hard and sacrifice, you can make it.

I really still think it is the best country in the world, even though it has problems," she said.

