To Americans, Chinese New Year brings to mind parades and fireworks in Chinatowns across the United States.

In China, it involves millions of people returning home.

The Lunar New Year festival, or Spring Festival, starts Friday.

This is the Year of the Horse.

Chinese workers are expected to return to their home villages.

It's a holiday of sharing time and gifts with family and friends.

Yet, Chinese New Year has become a busy time of travel.

It's the world's most populated country.

Hundreds of millions have moved from the countryside to the cities for work.

When they return home, some call it "the world's largest human migration."

During the New Year celebration, government officials expect that people will make 3.6 billion trips.

Already, more than 154 million train tickets have been sold.

For the past week, train stations in Beijing have been mobbed.

Subways were crowded with passengers carrying bags and gifts.

Airports also are busy, but with a different class of customer.

They're used by rich Chinese who are returning home.

Others spend the week on the beach.

Passengers will make about 42 million air trips for the New Year, says China's government.

For weeks, Chinese newspapers have written about the strain of the holiday.

Getting train tickets is a hassle.

Worries about what gifts to take are common.

For the young unwed, one question will be unavoidable: "Why haven't you married yet?"

For those who don't return home, there'll be some guilt.

They'll regret not keeping up the holiday tradition.

Earlier this month, a Chinese woman paid for a front-page ad in an Australian newspaper.

Her son lives in Australia.

She was upset over not seeing him.

The ad urged him to visit for the holiday.

"We hope you will come home for Lunar New Year," read the ad.

"Dad and Mom will never again pressure you to marry."

Relying on Chinese news reports about Spring Festival can be tricky.

A story in the China Daily reported on a new survey.

It found that four out of 10 Chinese migrant workers who were asked said they wouldn't return home for the holiday this year.

Of those who said they wouldn't return, nearly half said they were embarrassed to go home.

They felt that they'd earned too little money in the past year.

The survey was taken of 13,156 migrant workers.

It was an astounding finding.

Beijing is reportedly home to 8 million migrant workers, more than a third of its population.

Most of them are young men.

They moved to Beijing to take factory or office jobs.

Often, they live in run-down and crowded buildings.

The survey's finding couldn't easily be checked out it.

There is a well-known migrant community called Pi Village in Beijing.

Nearly everyone there, it seemed, was traveling.

Or had plans to.

One woman staying behind said she couldn't afford the trip home.

Her boss hadn't paid her.

When she was asked for her name and details, she got nervous and walked away.

A day earlier, Chinese officials said they were trying to help migrants get the money they were owed.

The money could help migrants return home for Spring Festival.

The Chinese government said it had gotten pay for more than 1.5 million workers across the country by putting pressure on dishonest bosses.

In China, there's a popular song that goes: "No matter if you have money or not, you should return home for Spring Festival."

It's a nice thought.

But for millions of workers here, returning home depends on whether they get paid.

