More than 300 years ago, inhabitants of this southern Chinese village built an elaborate drum tower.

The tower was built without nails.

Its 11 hexagonal levels stack up like a wedding cake 82 feet tall.

Painted roosters, chickens, peacocks and ducks, in bright blues, greens and yellows, dance around the edges, frolicking in trees and bamboo groves.

A smaller octagonal two-story tower caps the structure.

The tower was built in 1672.

In many ways, life in this faraway, remote town on a river in Guizhou province seems to have changed little since then.

There are no fast-food restaurants, no mini-marts, not even a traffic light.

Men still drive donkey carts through the cobblestone streets.

Women arrive from the hills nearby hauling bundles of firewood on their backs.

Stooped elderly women hobble through the narrow alleyways.

They sell handmade brooms.

Pigs oink from their sties and roaming roosters cluck.

Roadside butchers carve up chickens, pigs and dogs and cook them over flames.

At the center of village life, the tower stands strong and straight.

It is a place for celebrations, a site for flirting, an arena for settling disputes.

The giant drum hangs high in the tower.

It is an instrument of both welcome and warning.

In the center of the tower's open-sided ground floor, a huge fire pit beckons citizens to warm their kettles over the coals.

The people discuss important village business or simply chat.

On a recent cloudy Monday morning, 53-year-old Shi Qinghui sat next to the fire pit.

He was dressed in a blue sport coat, white shirt and red and yellow slippers.

Holding a cigarette in his left hand and a knife in his right, he delicately shaved a piece of bamboo into long green reeds.

He planned to weave them into a trap to catch river shrimp.

A few other men hovered nearby.

One occasionally rose to throw another 5-foot log onto the flames.

Except for the hottest months of the year, the fire is lit each morning and kept burning until 10 or 11 each night, Shi said.

Each of the 300 families in Zengchong is responsible for keeping the embers going at least one day a year.

"There's no chart to keep track of who's on duty when," he said.

"People just remember important stuff like that."

Like almost everyone in Zengchong, Shi has lived his entire life here and is a member of the Dong ethnic minority.

He was a child when he learned what various drumbeats signified.

"Three repeated beats — ba-bump, ba-bump, ba-bump — that's when we gather to sing," he said.

"Six beats — ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-ta — that means an enemy is coming."

Shi is old enough to remember the 1966-76 Cultural Revolution in China, when the government tried to make the country more modern by launching a campaign to smash the "four olds" — old customs, old habits, old ideas and old culture.

"They tried to get us to burn the drum," Shi recalled.

"But we wouldn't listen.

Imagine what would have happened if we had followed those orders.

This tower would be gone."

Thanks to the villagers' disobedience, Zengchong now holds the title of having China's oldest drum tower.

It has lasted 343 years.

These days, the local government sees it as a way of attracting tourists to Zengchong.

In Zengchong, a construction crew is hard at work paving the bumpy dirt slope that links the village to a main road.

The road connects it to the town of Tingdong, 29 miles away.

A new brown sign along the roadway spells out "Zengchong" in English letters, to guide foreigners.

How such developments may change Zengchong remains to be seen.

Small modern touches are already evident.

Nowadays, satellite dishes sprout from the roofs of weather-beaten huts, delivering programs such as "The Voice of China" to flat-screen televisions inside.

Small children drive battery-powered toy cars through the narrow streets.

But sightseers have yet to arrive in any real way.

There are no souvenir shops in Zengchong, no salespeople pushing postcards or T-shirts or factory-made "ethnic clothes."

