Many Americans reacted with a shrug when China landed its first rover on the moon last month.

After all, the U.S. sent men to the moon more than 40 years ago.

And the Russians landed a rover there too.

But, lunar scientists feel differently.

Their job is to study the moon.

Among that crowd, the Chang'e 3 mission has created a lot of interest.

The Chinese rover has been being nicknamed Jade Rabbit.

And it can drive around the moon like a car.

Jade Rabbit and its lander are equipped with lots of fancy equipment.

They have a radar that can sense below the moon's surface, cameras, a telescope, and instruments that sense radiation.

Scientists hope this will allow the mission to gather important new information.

In particular, they want to know about the moon's soil.

Such information, they say, could shed light on the history of the moon.

It could also help scientists design equipment to mine the moon's surface for oxygen and other elements.

Experts also say that the Chinese mission is testing new equipment that could be useful for future missions.

And not just to the moon.

The equipment might be useful for trips to Mercury or Mars as well.

"The parts of the moon that have been explored are so minuscule," said former NASA astronaut Leroy Chiao.

"It's like saying you sent probes to the Earth, you looked at small areas of California and New York, and now you know everything there is to know.

That's not the case."

Stephen Mackwell heads Houston's Lunar and Planetary Institute.

He noted something else important about the Chang'e 3 mission.

It touched down on an area of the moon very far from where earlier missions had landed.

Over the years, he said, a lot information has been gathered about the moon.

Now, the Chinese rover may help add to that.

Lunar scientists are hoping it will provide detailed information about the various elements in the moon's soil.

Elements of interest include titanium, aluminum, iron, potassium and sodium.

Scientists are also watching closely to see how Jade Rabbit and its lander react to the very cold lunar night.

Nights on the moon last about two of our weeks.

Both lander and rover went into "hibernation" in late December.

They will have to deal with temperatures that may dip as low as minus 292 degrees Fahrenheit, or minus 180 degrees Celsius.

And the vehicles will experience two such long, cold nights during the course of the mission.

"This is very important for planning other missions, like one to Mercury," said scientist G. Jeffrey Taylor.

"Once you get down to minus 80 or 90, the electronics may not survive.

They must be in containers with little radioactive heating units."

That keeps things "up to a certain temperature so they don't get damaged."

Chang'e 3 also carries a powerful camera.

This is to be used to study the Earth's atmosphere.

In addition, it carries a telescope.

That will be used to study galaxies other than ours, and stars.

The moon has a thin atmosphere and spins slowly.

Some scientists believe that will allow for long, uninterrupted observations.

"This (telescope) is another great test," said Taylor.

"So now we'll find out if we can do observations from the moon really effectively, or it's easier to do it another way."

Most American scientists believe the Chinese will share the findings of the Chang'e 3 mission.

NASA isn't allowed by U.S. law to work with China.

But scientists from the U.S. and around the world have been exchanging information.

Angel Abbud-Madrid leads Colorado's Center for Space Resources.

He strongly disagrees with those who think there's nothing important about Chang'e 3's mission.

Abbud-Madrid said such people are missing the bigger point.

China's goal is to someday land humans on the moon's surface.

"By the time they get there, it may be 50 years since we did it, and that may not be a big deal."

But, he said, what can be done on the moon just keeps getting more sophisticated.

And NASA may not be sending a manned mission to the moon anytime soon.

"You get rovers, then you send back samples, and once you send humans, you're going to want to spend more than three days there," he said.

"Then you're going to figure out, maybe we can generate some oxygen on the moon.

Then you can really start moving ahead."

Hopefully between now and then, we can talk about how to work with the Chinese, he added.

