Most Americans know about our nation's history of slavery and the later internment of Japanese-Americans in special camps during World War II.

Less well-known is that for more than 60 years, the United States officially excluded an entire ethnic group — Chinese immigrants.

The Chinese Exclusion Act, as it came to be known, was passed by Congress in 1882 and was not lifted until 1943, when politicians acted partly out of embarrassment over the fact that China was a U.S. ally in World War II.

While the law kept many Chinese out of the U.S., certain immigrants could get in, especially if they had money to start a business.

One of those early arrivals was Hoy Fung, who set up what may have been the first Chinese restaurant in the Pittsburgh region, the Bellevue Tea Garden in Bellevue, Pennsylvania, which operated from 1926 to 1997, said his daughter, Karen Yee of Bethel Park.

The legacy of official discrimination against the Chinese is one reason that Yee became involved in the 1970s with the Organization of Chinese-Americans, now known simply as OCA.

But she also joined the cultural and advocacy group because "when my father came to America, he said many of the people he met in Bellevue were very helpful and kind, and so we should try to give back."

Another OCA activist is Ted Gong, a retired State Department employee who helped set up the 1882 Foundation to educate people about the Chinese Exclusion Act.

In an interview earlier this year in Washington, D.C., Gong said the exclusion act was preceded by many discriminatory local laws in California and other West Coast states where most Chinese immigrants first settled.

"In California, for instance, if you carried your laundry and delivered it on poles, you would be taxed more than for wagon deliveries, which was clearly aimed at Chinese laundries," he said.

Many Chinese men came to the United States to help build the western part of the transcontinental railroad.

After that was completed in 1869, the nation fell into a recession, and there were suddenly 10,000 unemployed railroad workers on the West Coast, said Roger Daniels, an emeritus professor at the University of Cincinnati who wrote the 2004 book "Guarding the Golden Door: American Immigration Policy and Immigrants since 1882."

Because of earlier anti-prostitution laws that were largely aimed at Chinese women, the Chinese immigrant population was mostly male, said Gong, and they were seen as a threat to native workers.

While the exclusion act barred "skilled and unskilled laborers and Chinese employed in mining" from entering the U.S., the treaty provisions that allowed merchants and some others into the country meant the law was "essentially fraudulent," Daniels said, because it "really just ended immigration of Chinese laborers."

In the 1920s, Yee said, it was common for Chinese families to send one son abroad to earn money to send back to China, and her father took on that role.

Fung, who had grown up in Guangdong, catered to what Americans thought of as Chinese food in those years, mostly chop suey and chow mein.

Only later did he add Cantonese dishes, egg rolls and other menu items.

One of his first hires was a waitress, Lorraine Kristoff, whose family was from Hungary, and "she said she knew two weeks after she met him that she was going to marry him," Yee said.

Neither family favored the union.

When Fung asked his grandfather to send a family heirloom jade ring for the engagement, he refused.

And Kristoff's brother threatened Fung with violence.

But they went ahead after Fung, who followed Confucian teachings, agreed to let the children be raised Catholic.

Yee and her twin sister were born prematurely during the Depression, and to build up their bodies, they were fed a lot of iron-rich liver.

"To this day, I hate liver," she said with a laugh.

The twins were followed over the years by two brothers and a sister.

When she was growing up, Pittsburgh had a small but vibrant Chinatown on Grant Street and Third Avenue, Downtown, where a couple of Chinese restaurants still operate.

"At that time, Pittsburgh didn't have anything for the Chinese men, who were single when they came.

So they would come and stay for a month, because they could be hired for that long in various jobs, and then go back to New York or San Francisco."

The mostly male culture of Chinese immigrants was not unique to Pittsburgh.

Because most Chinese women had been kept out of the United States, "if you were a worker then and you had finished working on the railroad or in the mines, you might turn to the opium dens.

I think if they had been able to have wives and families, it would have been a moderating influence," Gong said.

When the exclusion act was first passed for a 10-year period, he said, 30 percent of Congress voted against it.

After it was renewed and then made permanent in 1902, only one senator — George Frisbie Hoar, an outspoken Republican from Massachusetts — was willing to vote against the law.

"All races, all colors, all nationalities contain persons entitled to be recognized everywhere as equals of other men," he said.

"I am bound to record my protest, if I stand alone."

One result of the exclusion act was that Chinese-American men who were able to go back and forth between China and the U.S. would often start families in China and then not see them for years at a time.

When the law was finally lifted in the 1940s, its chief benefit was not just to allow new Chinese immigrants, but also to give existing Chinese residents — and their families — the right to live together and become citizens in the U.S., Daniels said.

Discriminatory laws against the Chinese were not just an American phenomenon, he said.

Australia had one of the most severe anti-Chinese laws.

It included a literacy test, and allowed an immigration officer to test the applicant in any language he chose.

In one case, an Asian applicant was turned down because he didn't know Sanskrit.

In Canada, before the nation passed an exclusion law, it charged a head tax on all Chinese immigrants.

The tax reached $500 in 1903 — the equivalent of nearly $13,000 today.

Avvy Go, a Toronto attorney who fought for an apology and reparations from the Canadian government, said that by the time the government approved $20,000 individual payments in recompense in 2006, fewer than 100 survivors or their widows were left.

In 2012, Gong and others got Congress to approve a resolution apologizing for the American exclusion act.

Today, Yee knows that the Chinese immigration picture is very different from when her father came.

Highly educated doctors, researchers and entrepreneurs make up many of the new arrivals.

Pittsburgh's attitudes are also changing, she said.

She remembered a time in 1978 when her husband, Frank Yee, was coaching the Schenley High School basketball team to a state championship.

A neighbor told her that when the squad was introduced, someone in the bleachers said, "Oh, a black team."

The neighbor turned to the person and said, "Wait until you see the coach."

Frank Yee, the first Asian to play basketball for the University of Pittsburgh and be inducted into the Western Pennsylvania Hall of Fame, died in 2012.

While never forgetting her Chinese roots, Yee over the years has grown to love America.

"I think every group that comes in to America faces difficulty.

But I also think America is a country where if you really work hard and sacrifice, you can make it.

I really still think it is the best country in the world, even though it has problems," she said.

