In China's far-western province of Xinjiang, Muslim Uighurs and Han Chinese mix on the street daily but largely lead separate lives.

Many Uighurs resent Beijing's rule, disliking government efforts to fold them into the "big Chinese family."

But despite Xinjiang's tense ethnic divisions, friendships are developing — gingerly — among some Uighurs and Chinese.

Appreciation of food and music brings the two groups together, as does a love of sports.

In many cities of Xinjiang, the latest outdoors craze is parkour — a training routine that started in France and has spread worldwide.

Imagine groups of young people jumping, vaulting and flipping in the air, often using whatever structures they can find — ranging from park benches to rooftops.

As in Europe, the authorities that oversee parks and public spaces in Xinjiang are not parkour-friendly, fearing injuries or "disturbances to public order."

Even so, it's not hard to find parkour groups that include Han and Uighurs practicing their stunts in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital, and Aksu, a heavily policed city to the southwest.

Jin Xiaolong, 27, helped start a group in Urumqi six years ago that has grown to 25 members.

Many started as teenagers, learning about parkour from Internet videos.

"This kind of sport is not only popular in Xinjiang, it's also pretty popular across China," said Jin, taking a rest from one of his workouts on a Sunday afternoon.

"As soon as guys see it, they like it because it is passionate and vigorous.

When they see it, they feel like, 'Wow.

This is very cool.'"

Government officials and scholars closely watch the mindset of Xinjiang's younger generation.

Uighur men in their teens and 20s are thought to have taken part in several recent attacks against Chinese police and civilians.

Some studies have concluded that younger Uighurs are more more likely to turn against the government than previous generations.

Part of the reason is that they are so wired to events abroad, such as the "Arab Spring" uprising.

But unrest in Xinjiang is not limited to Uighurs influenced by extremist ideology.

Some are angry at Chinese restrictions on their dress and appearance — such as men wearing beards.

Others laugh at propaganda posters, visible all over Xinjiang, that portray the Chinese Communist Party as a unifying force for ethnic harmony.

Before he was arrested and sent to prison last year by a Chinese court, the Uighur intellectual Ilham Tohti wrote about employment discrimination in Xinjiang.

He said the practice has left tens of thousands of young Uighurs unemployed and sometimes lured into a life of petty crime.

"On the one hand, the Uighurs' social problems lead to increasing dissatisfaction and distrust of the government and of Han people," Tohti wrote in 2011.

"On the other, discriminatory ideas against the Uighur people among members of Han society — especially in the interior of China — grow deeper."

Which makes the cross-cultural friendships that grow up around parkour all the more interesting.

Similar to martial arts, parkour emphasizes self discipline and humility, though Jin said his group in Urumqi does not take that to extremes.

Members of the parkour club joke with each other like young competitors anywhere.

"This sport parkour brought us together from all over, regardless of ethnicity," said Wang Hui, 20, as he put his arms around two teammates — Parhat and Su Dan.

"So we don't see one another as being from other ethnicities.

We are very close.

We are like brothers — good friends."

The group's members acknowledge it is unusual in Xinjiang for Han and Uighurs to develop close ties and scholars of the region agree.

Timothy Grose, a U.S. scholar, has made several trips to Xinjiang to interview residents.

He said Uighurs and Han may forge individual friendships, but they continue to cling to the cultural stereotypes they were brought up with.

"Outside their personal relationships, several of my Uighur friends complain about 'the Han,'" said Grose, an assistant professor who specializes in Xinjiang ethnic relations.

In Aksu, a city where armored vehicles patrol the streets, the local parkour club is led by Pulat, an 18-year-old Uighur who is finishing high school.

He and his brother, a videographer, helped put Aksu on the map by producing some slick parkour videos, some set in the scenic Wensu Grand Canyon Park outside of the city.

"I can't tell you how passionate we are about this sport," said Pulat, during a trip out to the Wensu canyon with several of his friends.

Once there, they took turns practicing flips and vaults off various ledges, as Pulat shot video.

Pulat said that the park officials love the publicity they receive from the club's videos.

Officials once called his school see if he could be excused from class to finish an ongoing video project, Pulat said.

Tang Qi, a Han college student, said it is not completely surprising that Uighurs and Han would bond over a sport such as parkour.

"When you pick up a hobby with friends when you are young, you are less susceptible to propaganda," said Tang.

Whether such friendships in Xinjiang survive is hard to know and both Han and Uighurs face family pressures not to socialize closely with each other.

Marriage between the two groups remains taboo, said Grose, who specializes in ethnic identity in Xinjiang and other parts of China.

"Uighurs and Han regularly carve out their own social spaces.

Some of these social spaces overlap and are inclusive," he said.

"Others are exclusive."

