When Ma Wenfeng was a boy, the last thing he dreamed of was becoming a farmer.

His father earned next to nothing growing wheat and corn.

The family was so poor it mainly ate mantou, a kind of plain steamed bread.

Now it is his greatest hope to start a farm — but not in China.

In his country, the word "farmer" is pretty much the same as "peasant."

Most Chinese farms are small, run by poor farmers who work long past retirement age.

More and more these days, the Chinese are looking overseas.

They are hoping to find big stretches of good farmland where food can be grown for Chinese use.

They have turned their attention to many far-off places: the United States, Chile, Brazil, Russia, Ukraine, Bulgaria, Australia, and various African countries.

China is getting wealthier very quickly.

This has led to a huge demand for imported food, said Ma.

"When we look overseas, we see large tracts of land where you can operate a farm."

Chinese interest in overseas farmland makes perfect sense.

China has 20 percent of the world's population.

However, it has just 9 percent of its usable agricultural land.

"Throughout Chinese history, our land was never enough," said Professor Tian Zhihong.

Farming in China has long been difficult.

Droughts are common, and much of the land is gradually becoming desert.

In recent years, China has added to its problems by polluting the land or paving it over.

Eight million acres of Chinese farmland are now too polluted for farming.

This is roughly 2 percent of the country's agricultural land.

"We want to bring American sunshine, land and water back to China," said businessman Zhang Renwu.

He himself owns two farms in Utah.

Chinese companies are buying up farmland wherever they can.

Last year, Chinese company Shuanghui International bought Smithfield Foods and a vast amount of U.S. farmland: more than 100,000 acres in Missouri, Texas and North Carolina.

In Australia, a Chinese company has taken over a huge 200,000-acre cotton plantation.

In Chile, the Chinese company Joyvio is growing blueberries, kiwis and grapes.

It is now looking to add new crops.

China's overseas farming is not welcomed by everyone.

The Chinese government has been criticized at home for allowing too much farmland to be paved over.

Farmland has been seized to make way for apartments and shopping malls.

Worldwide in 2012, there were at least 54 Chinese agricultural projects outside the country.

Together these accounted for almost 12 million acres.

China's overseas farming projects take many forms.

Large state-owned companies are setting up plantations in Africa.

These are growing corn, rice, cassava and sesame.

Smaller Chinese businesses have been busy in Russia.

There, foreigners are not allowed to buy land outright.

Chinese companies have instead rented farms.

China's interest in farmland has many people worried.

They fear that China will suck up the world's food to feed its own 1.3 billion people.

This past September, for example, a Chinese company's plans had many upset.

The company was said to be planning to farm up to 11,562 square miles of Ukraine.

A farm that size would account for an area almost as large as Belgium or Maryland.

Moreover, much of Europe's food comes from Ukraine.

Britain's Daily Telegraph ran a startling headline: China, it said, had been "given control of 5 percent of Ukraine."

The Chinese company, Xinjiang Production &amp; Construction, quickly denied the claims.

Nonetheless, it is now farming in Ukraine.

However, a much smaller amount of land is being farmed, under a 50-year rental agreement.

Chinese companies operating in Africa have been particularly criticized.

Some have accused the Chinese of exploiting the continent.

China is far from the world leader when it comes to overseas farmland, though: The United States still comes in first.

And at least six other countries hold more overseas land than China, or around as much.

But China is closing the gap fast.

In 2012, it controlled almost twice as much overseas farmland as it did two years earlier.

"It is only the last two years that the big agricultural companies are going overseas in a big way," said Ma.

"I think you will see much more."

