Young, professional women in China are coming under a lot of pressure to get married.

Their parents, the government, scholars and even some businesses are all in on it.

The women are called shengnu.

It's not a nice nickname.

The translation is "leftover women."

Karen Xie is one of them.

Xie has met about one man a month for the last two years.

They've all been Mr. Wrong.

Some were too short or too fat, she says.

Some didn't express enough tenderness.

For her last date, her parents fixed her up with a man from their hometown.

Xie knew it was over as soon as she saw him.

"He was a little bald, he had no hair in the middle of his head," said Xie, 32.

Xie earns a good salary at a media firm.

She has her own place to live on the edge of Shanghai.

She and her parents bought it to help her chances of marriage.

"Maybe my standards are too high, but I don't require an apartment" from a husband, she said.

Women like Xie should have their pick of possible husbands.

Chinese men between the ages of 20 and 44 will outnumber women by 24 million by 2020, one forecast says.

China has a rule that says a family can have only one child.

More families try to have boys.

Yet more and more educated and working Chinese women say they just can't find a man equal to them.

Others say that after years of schooling, they want to enjoy their freedom past age 27.

That is the age when they are expected to settle down.

Parents fear that their daughters will end up childless and lonely.

They also worry the women could have money troubles.

It's become almost impossible for women like Xie to avoid being reminded of being single.

Fliers and email promote a matchmaking events.

There are several TV shows about shengnu.

They all have similar plotlines: Smart, beautiful, successful women try everything to get a man.

Not even a shopping spree can help a shengnu get her mind off marriage.

The shops are full of reminders: "Twelve products to help shengnu forget about loneliness!"

said one store ad.

Suggested items included a garlic peeler, rainbow-colored bedding and a one-seater couch.

Shengnu are being blamed for all kinds of things, explained Sandra Bao.

She started a group called Leftover Attitude in Shanghai.

It supports unmarried professional women.

"Parents are pressuring us, the media label us, there's a whole industry of matchmakers and others out there telling us it's a problem to be single."

The pressure seems to be working.

The average age of a woman's first marriage in China is rising.

But by age 35, more than 90 percent of Chinese women have married, said Roseann Lake.

She is writing a book on marriage in China.

"Chinese women are only left over for a limited time, which makes the fact that they're labeled 'leftovers' even more hideous," Lake said.

Many parents do all that they can to help their children find mates.

Lake said she knows of one mother who posed as her daughter online to set up dates for her.

Others turn to matchmakers.

In Shanghai, there are about 130 such agencies.

Some charge more than $16,000 in fees, according to Zhou Juemin, head of the Shanghai Matchmaking Association.

There is an area of Shanghai's People's Park known as Matchmaking Corner.

On weekends, middle-aged women comb through papers strung out like shorts on clotheslines.

Each lists a single person's age, height, and education, along with a photo.

Chinese women traditionally pair off with men of equal or higher income, education and age.

So it can be difficult for women at the top to find matches.

Adding to the pressure, some women insist that a groom have a house.

Though the pressure on shengnu looks unlikely to go away any time soon, there is a small movement pushing against it.

Bao's Leftover Attitude group has more than 2,000 members nationwide.

And Los Angeles-based author Joy Chen published "Do Not Marry Before Age 30."

It sits on the shelves in Chinese bookstores, alongside self-help titles about landing a man.

