Chinese grandparents can now take their children to court for not visiting them enough.

A new law means older people can force their grown-up kids to come home more often.

In China, grandparents have always been treated with great respect.

When people got older they could count on their relatives to take them into their homes.

Their children and grandkids would care for them until they died.

But times are changing.

As China becomes richer, there are more jobs for younger people.

They often move to distant cities or other countries.

The elderly feel left behind.

The new law began on July 1 when the government noticed what was happening.

The Chinese press wrote about the bad treatment of older people.

It was even reported that one grandmother in her 90s was forced to live in a pigpen for two years.

Yan Meiyue is 90.

She said her 72-year-old daughter doesn't visit often.

Yan has been a widow since her husband died nearly 10 years ago.

She now spends every weekday at a community center near her home.

Yan plays the Chinese board game mahjong then eats meals made by volunteers.

"The volunteers keep us company," Yan said with a smile.

She is one of many older people known as "orphan grandparents" who feel abandoned.

Robert Stowe England is an expert on aging in different countries.

He said that charities, nursing homes and governments are now caring more and more for older people.

This job used to be done by children and grandchildren in China when the family lived in one home.

England explained that in the past, the sons of the family would be responsible for the care of elderly parents.

Now all the sons are moving to the city.

So there is no one left to look after them.

One of Yan's neighbors is 82-year-old Ma Qiaoying.

Ma said that both of her sons live outside of China.

They only visit her once a year.

One son works for Germany's highway system, while the other works in Canada as an engineer.

Ma said that she looks to her other elderly friends for support.

"We're like a big family," she said.

"We can talk to each other and share our problems."

About 1.34 billion people live in China.

About 180 million of them are over 60.

The United Nations says that by 2050 about one-quarter of China's people will be 65 or older.

That's more old people than there are in the United States, Canada, Japan and all of Europe put together.

For many years, China's government had a strict one-child rule.

Couples living in cities were not allowed to have multiple children.

The law began in 1979 and it has been relaxed only in recent years.

That makes it harder for grown children to look after their parents.

Respect for older people is part of China's traditional culture.

But the new law may be about more than just Chinese family values.

It's expensive for the government to care for so many retirees.

The law may be a smart way for the country to save money, said Chen Honglin, a professor in Shanghai.

If more Chinese take in their parents, the state won't have to pay so much.

Until then, the elderly find other ways to keep their minds off the children they are missing.

The Xintu Center for Community Health Promotion in Shanghai cares for old and disabled people.

Many of the volunteers are retired.

They're looking to help others, said Zhang Yan, who works at the center.

Some of the elderly struggle with loneliness and some have depression, Zhang said.

Those without children nearby often hurt the most, she said.

So the center tries to help, with a telephone help line staffed by counselors.

There are weekly group meetings and regular visits from a hospital.

Most of the center's retiree volunteers feel depressed, she added.

It can be hard to get them to accept the services that they need.

"Chinese people like to help each other, but sometimes they need the help," Zhang said.

