China's government maintains careful control of what the country's citizens can see on the Internet.

Its system for blocking news it does not want people to see is known as the Great Firewall.

In the United States, a small website is trying to poke holes in China's Great Firewall.

The site, called China Digital Times, is based in Berkeley, California.

Every day, it publishes what are known as censorship directives.

These are secret instructions from the Chinese government.

They say what news should be blocked from the Internet, or given only very little coverage.

The directives are leaked to China Digital Times by sources in China.

China Digital Times also publishes news that is blocked in China.

They carry some of the most important stories China's rulers do not want Chinese citizens to read.

"There is no way you could take all these critical voices and party directives and put them together on one website in China.

It would be taken down immediately," said Xiao Qiang, the chief editor of China Digital Times.

"But outside the Great Firewall, you can do that.

And that is what we do."

Xiao started China Digital Times in 2003.

Since then, it has become a favorite destination for English speakers who want to keep up with China's Internet and its 640 million users.

China Digital Times is not only aimed at English speakers, however.

After China blocked the site in 2006, Xiao made plans for a Chinese-language site, which he launched in 2011.

China soon blocked that site as well, but Xiao's team now uses many different ways to break through the Great Firewall.

For China Digital Times, trying to outsmart the Chinese government is like fighting a giant with pebbles.

China's government has up to 100,000 workers who find and remove online posts it does not like.

China Digital Times has just six workers.

The Chinese government comes down hard on those who criticize it.

One example is Chinese blogger Ilham Tohti.

Last September, a Chinese court sentenced him to life in prison.

Still, numerous Chinese tipsters continue to supply China Digital Times with information.

These include various censorship directives.

One directive China Digital Times published on Wednesday is typical.

In it, the government ordered that there be very little reporting of recent explosions at a factory.

The factory produces paraxylene, a highly poisonous chemical.

"Do not place news of the Zhangzhou, Fujian PX explosion in lead story sections of news agency websites," the directive read.

Several websites quickly obeyed the orders.

China Digital Times has up to 500,000 readers a month.

About two-thirds of them are in mainland China.

Sarah Cook is an American expert on news in China.

Xiao and China Digital Times, she said, have provided a real service by tracking and publishing the "Minitrue" directives.

"Minitrue" is short for China's Ministry of Truth.

"They must have quite a network of contacts in the country," she said.

Xiao says it is "an uphill struggle" to raise money to run China Digital Times.

He keeps trying, he said, because many readers tell him they really appreciate what he is doing.

Xiao believes China's leaders are cracking down more these days because they are worried.

It may be only a matter of time before many Chinese begin calling for real change.

Xiao thinks the country's current leadership could end up losing power.

If jobs are still plentiful and people are making good money, the government can hold on for 10 years or longer, Xiao said.

"But they know they are in trouble."

For Xiao, changes in China's government cannot happen soon enough.

The Chinese government forbids him from returning to China, even to visit his family.

Xiao said his 80-year-old father is ill and unable to visit him in the United States.

Asked about China's future, Xiao said that he believes China will be able to change, but says: "What I fear is that I will not be able to see my father before he dies."

