IJING - A new study says that dirty air shortens human lives.

The study shows people live for about five and half years less in northern China than in southern China.

Experts believe pollution is to blame.

The air has more dirt and dust than it does in the south.

The study came out last Monday.

The writers looked at the cleanliness of the air in 90 Chinese cities between 1981 and 2000.

They then compared that information with the amount of people who died across China from 1991 to 2000.

The work shows that more air pollution cuts people's lives short.

But the pollution comes from factories that give people jobs.

China used to be a poor country.

Most people worked on farms and made very little.

Now the country is growing richer as cities grow and factories expand.

But some argue that China is risking the health of its people to grow richer.

In China, scientists found the perfect place to study air pollution.

The Huai River flows through the center of the country.

The government gave coal to the people who lived north of the river.

They burned the coal in winter to heat their homes.

This kind of central heating created lots of smoke.

Those who lived south of the river had no coal at all.

These people may have been colder.

But they breathed cleaner air.

The experts compared the people south of the river to those in the north.

The results showed air pollution made a difference in a person's health.

Air pollution is measured by TSPs.

A TSP is a tiny speck of dust, smoke or dirt carried in the air.

TSPs can cause people to develop diseases.

Michael Greenstone is one of the authors of the study.

He found that there were many more TSPs north of the Huai river than south of the river.

People also died earlier in the north than the south.

The study says this is because people in the north lived with more pollution.

Heart and lung problems were common north of the river.

These are often caused by dirty air.

The researchers say that 500 million people altogether lost 2.5 billion years from their lives  in the 1990s.

Yuyu Chen helped to write the study.

He said that pollution in China is damaging health more than experts first thought.

Chen wants people to take air pollution seriously.

He thinks the government should write new laws to make the air cleaner.

Many Chinese cities have average TSP readings of 200 to 300 micrograms.

In the U.S., the average TSP reading is 20 to 30 micrograms.

Dirty air is a very serious concern in China, many say.

Beijing is the capital city.

It has a population of 20 million people.

New York City doesn't have half as many people.

Beijing has had many problems with air quality.

It had some of its worst air ever in January.

This was caused by the weather and smoke from burning coal.

This pollution meant going outside was dangerous.

Many outdoor activities had to be cancelled.

Airplane flights were stopped and highways were closed.

Huge numbers of people were sent to hospitals.

Towns as far away as 1,100 miles from Beijing were affected.

And more terrible air hit Beijing in June.

The Chinese people have protested about air pollution in recent years.

They are concerned about what this bad air means for their health.

This new study says they are right.

China's government has taken emergency measures against the problem.

It ordered some factories and construction sites to close during the worst of Beijing's bad air.

The government wants big industries such as steel manufacturing to use the most modern machinery.

This cuts down on the amount of pollution the factories produce.

The government has asked companies to reduce their pollution.

Some companies must cut down their smoke and waste by nearly one-third in the next four years.

Yet other people think the companies are more interested in making money than stopping pollution.

These critics believe that the dirty air in China will improve very, very slowly.

