China has promised to stop selling ivory — it just has not said when it will actually do it.

Still, this change could be a major victory in the battle to stop elephant poachers.

Top Chinese wildlife official Meng Xianlin said his country was still deciding when and how to take action.

Meng pointed out that China is not the only one that needs to make changes.

He said countries like the United States need tougher regulations, too.

"Some people say, 'China should take the leadership, you first, you stop everything and other countries will follow,'" he said.

Meng believes a long-term solution will require more cooperation between countries.

It will not happen overnight.

Meng's announcement is a major change for China.

Selling ivory is against the law in many parts of the world, but not in China.

Wildlife experts say that making it illegal to sell ivory in China is the best way to stop poachers from killing elephants to get their tusks.

If China stops selling ivory, it will be harder for poachers to find people to buy their ivory.

There is no way for customers to know whether elephants were killed to get the ivory they are buying.

Poached ivory can still wind up in China's legal ivory stores.

That means shoppers' money might go to poachers without them knowing it.

Most of China's ivory was imported in 2009.

Last month, China destroyed nearly 1,500 pounds of poached ivory in a public ceremony.

Chinese government official Zhao Shucong announced that China would start keeping a closer eye on its ivory trade.

Zhao said that, eventually, China would completely stop selling ivory products.

Wildlife experts were surprised to hear Zhao's announcement.

Several groups praised the Chinese government for its leadership.

They say ending the legal ivory trade in China will make it much easier to stop illegal activity.

Other groups weren't so quick to celebrate.

Some people wondered whether China was serious about shutting down its network of carving workshops.

The government used to say that ivory carving was an important part of Chinese history.

Some say it is hard to believe the government has changed its mind about that.

They think it might just keep selling ivory to workshops until its supply is gone.

Cristian Samper is president of the Wildlife Conservation Society in New York.

He said Meng's remarks should be a warning to poachers all over the world.

Now that China has made up its mind about ivory trading, Samper says the government needs to make a plan.

It needs to figure out how to make sure ivory trading stops.

Samper also says people should stop buying ivory.

That way, poachers won't have a reason to kill elephants.

The Chinese government bought 62 tons of ivory from Africa in 2008.

Then China imported it in 2009.

At the time, elephant numbers were relatively strong.

Since then, China has sold smaller amounts of its ivory to more than 30 licensed carving workshops.

Meng said the Chinese government sells five tons of ivory a year to carving workshops but would "gradually" reduce that amount to zero.

China won't say how much ivory it still has left.

Meanwhile, the African elephant population has been cut in half over the past 16 years.

More than 40,000 animals have been killed for their tusks in just the past two years.

Meng said attitudes towards animal conservation are changing throughout China, particularly among young people.

Fewer people want to eat shark-fin soup because it is made from an endangered animal.

Rhinoceros horn was once a popular Chinese medicine.

It was banned in 1993 and now it is hard to find.

Meng's speech said China should not be the only country to take action.

The United States is the world's second-largest market for illegal wildlife products.

People in the U.S. are still allowed to buy and sell ivory harvested before 1989.

That was the year a worldwide ban went into effect.

Hunters can also bring ivory into the United States as long as they do not sell it.

In 2014, President Barack Obama said the U.S. needed tougher rules for ivory trading.

New York and New Jersey both passed laws outlawing it, but the U.S. has not completely banned it.

Peter LaFontaine works for the International Fund for Animal Welfare.

LaFontaine believes the United States must lead by example.

He says China's announcement "puts the ball back in our court.

"It's up to us to change the laws — and actually enforce them — before it's too late."

