A 59-year-old woman in China got a big surprise when she visited the new local cemetery.

She said her name was written in gold letters on one of the tombstones.

Hundreds of other people had the same thing happen to them.

These people were all very much alive but had tombstones at the cemetery.

One tombstone had the name Yao Ming.

He is China's most famous basketball player and a former star in the National Basketball Association in America.

The woman complained to the cemetery staff but did not get any real answers, according to a report in Beijing's Jinghua Times.

Wang recently went to court, saying that people who built the cemetery had hurt her name and her family's reputation.

Three relatives also had fake graves, she said.

She wants the people who run the cemetery to say they are sorry.

She also asked for $16,000 for her emotional pain.

Cemeteries are a big business in China, a country that is running out of room to bury people.

Gravesites can sell for $5,000 to $8,500 each.

Cemeteries can make a lot of money, but the burial business also has some problems.

About 10 million people die in China each year.

Space for graves in the country of 1.3 billion is limited by rising land prices and an aging population.

This has caused costs for a burial plot, or place to bury somebody, to soar.

Many Chinese complain that it is too expensive to die.

They are only sort of joking.

The problem has gotten so bad in Beijing that the city government started encouraging families to be buried at sea.

Families who bury people in the ocean can receive about $640.

The sea burials help save space on land.

Demand for cemetery pace has stayed about the same, but prices keep going up, said Guo Yu.

She is a 25-year-old sales representative at Wanfo Huaqiao cemetery near Beijing.

The cemetery is one of the city's most respected.

Guo said while the government restricts grave plots to 32 square feet, the cemetery has boosted the money it makes by building graves with thicker, higher-quality stones.

"They look grander that way," she said.

Local governments control most graveyards in China.

The governments earn a lot of money selling plots or giving land to cemetery builders.

The money involved makes the business a good place for cheating.

China is quickly running out of space for graves.

In 2013, the government said the country would be out of burial spaces by 2019.

The Changping local government has been investigating the China Dragon court case.

It has also put up a sign in front of the graveyard.

The sign calls it an "illegal cemetery," according to local media reports.

People told judges in court that the operators of the cemetery were eager to attract customers.

The operators began selling the graveyard even before they had permission from the government, the judges were told.

This is common for Chinese businesses, said Qi Lianfeng.

He is a Beijing lawyer.

The government is not strict about enforcing the rules, he said.

A lot of businesses trying to make money will open before they have all the government papers they need, he said.

Qi said he had never heard of such a fake-grave case before.

"It just goes to show, the grave business is doing well," he said.

The graveyard was advertised as a beautiful location.

The ad even noted that a brother of a Chinese emperor was buried nearby.

Authorities said about half of the 600 tombs at that cemetery were fakes.

Among people in the countryside, writing the name of a living person on a gravestone is considered "very bad luck," Wang told the newspaper.

"They said I was dead so they could earn money; I think this is a violation of my rights."

