Theme park designer Edward Marks and his team have dreamed up some of the most thrilling attractions in the United States.

They have invented high-tech rides, glow-in-the-dark parades and 3-D simulators teeming with mummies, aliens and crazy clowns.

But to cash in on China's theme park boom, Marks is learning that they need more than a creative vision.

They must become experts on local folklore and cultural superstitions, and arm themselves with an ample supply of patience.

"We've had to flip entire buildings, move attractions and change elements because of feng shui reasons," said Marks.

He is the chief executive of the Producers Group, a Los Angeles-area theme park design and construction firm.

Feng shui, which means wind-water in Chinese, is a traditional belief that buildings must be oriented in certain directions to ensure good luck and ward off evil spirits.

Buildings with four roof peaks?

Don't even think about building one in China, where the number 4 — which sounds like the word for "death" in Mandarin Chinese — is considered bad luck, Marks said.

These are welcome challenges for Marks and others in Southern California's thriving theme park industry.

An increase in theme park construction in China — 59 projects are in the pipeline — has led to a high demand for designers, who are adapting their skills to local tastes.

The popularity of theme parks overseas is also leading to more jobs here.

Heavy workloads have added six to 12 month delays to many projects, and design firms are struggling with shortages of artists, designers and technicians.

Marks anticipates his team of 45 could grow to 70 by year's end.

American companies charge $500,000 to $7 million apiece just to design the amusement parks.

More detailed construction plans cost up to $15 million, industry experts estimate.

In 2013 alone, Chinese developers spent nearly $24 billion on theme park construction, according to a study by engineering firm AECOM.

In comparison, just $9 billion was spent in 2011.

Gary Goddard is the founder of Gary Goddard Entertainment, which designs theme parks, attractions and upscale resorts.

He estimated that about half his work in the last few years has been in Asia and the Middle East.

He's hired nearly 60 additional consultants and freelance workers to help his staff of 25 meet the demand.

Goddard said his team is also designing projects in China that are sensitive to cultural demands.

A resort casino in Macau, scheduled to open this summer, features a double Ferris wheel attraction that resembles the number 8.

"That was a very deliberate move to make the number 8, because that is considered a lucky number over there," he said.

China's demand for theme parks has been fueled by several factors.

China's growing middle class is one of them.

They have money to spend but few options for leisure activity.

A recent move by the Chinese central government to make it easier to obtain building permits for theme parks has also spurred development.

By 2020, AECOM predicts China will outnumber the United States in parkgoers.

Parks operated by a Chinese tourism company already attract more than 26 million visitors a year.

Only Walt Disney Attractions, Merlin Entertainment Group, and Universal Parks and Resorts draw more people, according to the AECOM study.

Looking for a piece of the action, United States theme park giants are investing heavily in Asia.

The $4 billion Shanghai Disney resort is expected to open late this year.

The $1.8 billion Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005.

Universal Studios is scheduled to open its own $3.3 billion movie theme park in Beijing in 2019.

Six Flags has announced plans to build and operate several parks in China over the next decade.

In China, the parks draw on themes and stories from Chinese history or fairy tales.

In the United States and Europe, theme parks rely heavily on inspiration from movies and books.

Goddard's Kingdom of Poseidon in Harbin, China, combines a water park and an aquarium to create the experience of the lost world of Atlantis.

When it opens next year, the park will sprawl across about 250 acres, nearly three times the size of Disneyland in Anaheim, California.

United States theme park designers say they have to adjust to the differing expectations of Chinese developers.

Chinese developers, for example, don't realize it takes years to dream up, design and build a theme park.

Many are in a rush to complete their projects to they can start making money.

"A lot of them have never done this before," Goddard said.

"China doesn't have a 50-year history of theme park operations."

Once United States designers finish work, Chinese developers typically hire Chinese companies to build the parks.

But many projects will never be built.

Some Chinese developers don't understand the high cost of building and routinely renovating a theme park, American designers say.

"Until you know how the sausage is made, you don't know how expensive it is to make that sausage," said Josh Updike.

He is the creative director of Rethink Leisure &amp; Entertainment, which is working on several projects in China and elsewhere in Asia.

Whatever the intention, it's paying off for the local theme park industry.

"Everyone I know in town is busy," Updike said.

And the extra work means designers are spending a lot of time on international flights to Asia.

Goddard has racked up 3 million miles on American Airlines, and Updike said he has logged more than 200,000 air miles last year alone.

