People in China are upset and are protesting in the streets.

The country is growing very quickly, but it also has big environmental problems.

Chinese people don't trust the government.

They are protesting new waste burners, chemical factories and other projects that cause pollution.

The latest protest was in the southern Chinese county of Boluo.

Thousands of people marched through the streets on Saturday.

They wanted to stop a garbage burner from being built.

The burners help destroy garbage, but they also make pollution.

With more than a billion people, China has a lot of garbage.

Police arrested 24 people at the protests.

That was fewer than expected.

Observers took it as a sign that the Chinese government is ready to allow some protests like this.

Pollution is one of the bad parts of China's growth.

It has ruined about one-fifth of China's farmland.

Air pollution in Beijing makes it unsafe to breathe.

Heavy metals keep showing up in rice, making it dangerous to eat.

Three-fourths of the nation's lakes and rivers are very polluted.

In China, there is no freedom to gather in public.

Many people feel helpless.

They fear they cannot do anything about the pollution problem.

But a growing number of people are gathering in the streets.

They protest new projects in their communities they feel are threatening.

In April, hundreds of people confronted police.

They were against a new chemical factory.

Factories like these have become troubling in China in the past few years.

In May, a protest near Shanghai also turned into a fight.

It was against a new waste burner.

Ten demonstrators and 29 police officers were injured.

Saturday's protest in Boluo was organized using cellphones and social media.

Messages went out on Weibo two days before the protest.

Weibo is like China's Twitter.

The messages told people to gather at a city square.

"For our families, reject cancer!"

one message said.

The messages worked.

Thousands of people marched through Boluo.

Dealing with garbage is becoming a problem for city governments.

Chinese people are buying more and more things.

China became the world's largest producer of garbage in 2004.

Before 2004, that was the United States.

Some experts say waste burners are actually good.

They are the best way to get rid of waste, they say.

In crowded parts of China, there isn't much room for landfills.

Nie Yongfeng is a professor of the environment.

He said new burners are safe.

People against garbage burners use old information to spread fears about them, he said.

Others say the government has not been clear with its numbers.

The government says it keeps an eye on pollution from big waste burners.

But the details have not been given to the public.

It is hard to know if the burners are being operated safely, said Lin Youzhu.

She works for China's oldest environmental group.

By the end of 2013, there were 176 waste burners working in China.

There were 74 more being built.

Lin said the government helps pay for new garbage burners.

This is hurting China's strong network of recycling.

Judith Shapiro is a professor.

She studies the Chinese environment.

Shapiro said it is good to see Chinese people coming together to fight damage to their air, water and soil.

She wrote the book "China's Environmental Challenges."

The protests are usually in richer cities on China's eastern coast.

Because of this, the government might just move the problem.

It could move the burners away from the coast, but they would just end up in the poorer areas in China.

