The Chinook Native American tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when the explorers arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.

The tribes helped members of the expedition through the winter, bringing them food and assisting with navigation.

More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution, a tribal council and annual meetings.

They are not, however, recognized by the U.S. government.

"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our (ancestral) land," Chinook Councilwoman Kate Elliott said.

The Chinook may gain recognition under proposed revisions to the process the U.S.

Interior Department uses to officially recognize [Indian tribes](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Native+American).

The new process was announced May 22.

It is part of an effort to make tribal recognition more efficient and transparent, according to the department.

The revisions include establishing the 1930s as the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence.

Currently, the law requires them to show they existed continuously since "historical times."

Also, tribes may reapply for federal recognition under certain situations, something previously prohibited.

Federal recognition is desirable.

It makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal money as well as services such as health care, according to the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).

A federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the United States.

It possesses the right to create and enforce laws.

It can also control activities within its territory and determine who may be a member.

For some Washington tribes, the proposed changes could make federal recognition easier.

These tribes, however, acknowledge that they still have a long road ahead.

"We are pleased by the proposed changes; however, we know that there is still a ways to go in the process," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians.

The Snohomish have fought for more than 30 years to gain federal recognition.

The Chinooks and the Seattle-area Duwamish Tribe received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the administration of President Bill Clinton.

But their recognition was quickly reversed by President George W. Bush's administration.

Bush's administration said there was a period of time when the Duwamish did not have a tribal government.

Also, they said the Duwamish and Chinook communities had not existed continuously through history.

That means that they couldn't show that they were descendants of the historic Duwamish and Chinook tribes.

One proposed change is known as the "Part 83 process."

It requires tribes to show community and political authority only from 1934.

The existing law requires them to show that they have existed continuously from "historical times."

This could be helpful to the Chinooks.

That nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history of ancestral stories, Elliott said.

She said the change will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking recognition.

"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork," Elliott said.

Finding records from the late 1800s to the 1930s is especially difficult, she said.

During that time, the U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools.

The government's purpose was to strip them of their Indian culture and "civilize" them.

"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they have been keeping documents?"

she asked.

The current rule forces tribes to relive the more "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis.

He is an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office of Hobbs, Straus, Dean &amp; Walker LLP.

The law firm focuses on legal issues affecting Native Americans.

The proposed changes would also allow tribes, who have been rejected, to request recognition.

In order to do so, however, those tribes would have to have the consent of others.

For example, tribes that previously had appealed their recognition would have to support the petition.

Elliott called this last rule "really heartbreaking."

"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, which is the reason we are still here," she said.

"We are not giving up.

This is only a final draft."

Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes still don't take away from the tribe's goal: The recognition they won and lost in 2001.

"No Indian person in the United States should have to prove who they are," Hansen said.

"I have been doing this for 39 years.

Why should I have to go through another set of regulations?"

The BIA will hold hearings in July.

Federally recognized tribes and the public may comment on the proposed changes.

