A sport called parkour is bringing together two groups of people in a part of China.

One group is the Uighurs.

They belong to the Muslim religion.

The other group are Han Chinese.

Most of the people who live in China are Han.

The groups live in a far-Western part of China called Xinjiang.

They usually do not spend a lot of time together.

Many Uighurs do not like the government in China.

They say the government treats them unfairly.

Parkour is starting to help some Han and Uighurs become friends.

Parkour was first used for training soldiers.

It started in France.

In China, groups of young people jump and flip in the air doing parkour.

They use everything from park benches to rooftops to do their jumps.

Authorities who are in charge of parks and public spaces in Xinjiang do not like parkour.

They fear injuries.

They worry parkour will disturb the peace.

Still, it is easy to find groups of Han and Uighurs practicing their jumps in Urumqi, Xinjiang's capital.

Jin Xiaolong helped start a group in Urumqi six years ago.

The group now has 25 members.

Many started as teenagers, learning about parkour from Internet videos.

Jin said the sport is popular across China.

Guys see people doing parkour and say " 'Wow.

This is very cool,' " Jin said.

Government officials pay a lot of attention to what younger people in Xinjiang are thinking.

People say young Uighur men have taken part in several recent attacks in China.

The targets were police and ordinary people.

Some studies say that younger Uighurs may be likely to turn against the government.

One reason is that the Uighurs closely follow news events outside of China.

They see other young people turn against their government.

One example they saw was the "Arab Spring" movement in the Middle Eastern countries.

The young people in those countries protested the governments.

They said their people were not being treated fairly.

The Chinese government is afraid young Uighurs will do the same thing in China.

There are other reasons that young people may not be happy in China.

Some are angry at Chinese rules about how they dress.

There are rules against men wearing beards, for example.

The Muslim religion of the Uighurs, however, say that men should wear beards.

One well-known Uighur teacher is Ilham Tohti.

He said that Uighurs in Xinjiang are sometimes prevented from getting jobs because they are Uighurs.

He said some Uighurs do not trust the government and the Han.

Some Han also think poorly of Uighurs, he said.

This makes the friendships between Han and Uighurs that grow from parkour more interesting.

Timothy Grose is a U.S. professor.

He has made several trips to Xinjiang to interview residents.

Grose said Uighurs and Han may form individual friendships with one another.

However, they also stick to the same ideas about the other group that they learned growing up.

In the other city called Aksu, government vehicles watch over the streets.

The parkour club there is led by Pulat, an 18-year-old Uighur who is finishing high school.

He and his brother helped make Aksu famous by making parkour videos.

Pulat said he and his friends care a lot about the sport.

It is hard to say whether such friendships in Xinjiang will survive, though.

Both Han and Uighurs hear from their families.

They are told not to socialize closely with each other.

