A woman in China visited the new cemetery in her neighborhood.

She got a bad surprise.

She said she saw her name on one of the tombstones in the graveyard.

She also saw the names of three other family members.

The problem was none of them were dead.

The woman was not alone.

Other living people found their graves in the cemetery.

One of the names was Yao Ming.

He is China's most famous basketball player.

He is also still alive.

The cemetery is called the China Dragon Garden.

The woman complained, according to a Chinese newspaper.

She did not get good answers, the newspaper said.

The woman's family name is Wang.

She was angry at China Dragon Garden.

She said it hurt her family name.

Now she is asking for the people who run the cemetery to say they are sorry.

She also thinks they owe her money.

They are going to court to settle the argument.

Burying people is a big business in China.

Gravesites can be very expensive.

The people who run the cemetery may have put up fake graves to make more money.

They wanted the cemetery to seem popular.

They could sell more graves that way.

China is running out of land to bury people.

The country has 1.3 billion people.

About 100 million die each year.

The government has said that China would run out of room to bury people by 2019.

The government even gives people money to bury loved ones in the ocean.

These sea burials save space on land.

Local governments are in charge of most of the cemeteries in China.

The governments earn a lot of money selling graves.

The also make money giving land to people who build cemeteries.

The money can make people break the rules.

People in court said the people who run the cemetery really wanted to get money.

They started selling graves before the government gave them permission.

This is not unusual, Qi Lianfeng said.

He is a lawyer.

The government is not strict about the rules for lots of businesses, he said.

The local government has been looking into the court case, the newspaper said.

Wang said the people who run China Dragon Garden hurt her.

She is from the countryside in China.

She says there, people think writing a living person's name on a tombstone is bad luck, she said.

