!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/CHINA_YANGTZE_BOAT_Edit.png) JIANLI, China — A Chinese passenger ship turned over during a rainstorm Monday night.

A total of 458 people were on board the Eastern Star.

At least 15 people were taken to safety during the rescue effort.

Three of them were pulled from the boat Tuesday.

At least five people died in the disaster, the Xinhua News Agency reported.

The boat was carrying mostly elderly tourists on the Yangtze River.

They were sailing from Nanjing to the southwestern city of Chongqing.

Divers saved a 65-year-old woman.

Later, they rescued two men who also had been trapped in the ship, Chinese television station CCTV reported.

It said that more people had been found and were being rescued.

CCTV video showed rescuers in orange life vests climbing on the ship.

One of them lay down and tapped with a hammer.

The rescuer listened and then gestured downward to show that he heard sounds in the boat.

Chen Shoumin is the military commander of Hubei province, where the boat overturned.

He said that the government will do everything possible to rescue everyone from the boat.

The ship's captain and chief engineer both survived the accident.

Police took them to be questioned.

The captain and engineer said the boat was caught in a cyclone, which is like a hurricane.

A Chinese newspaper said the ship tipped over within two minutes.

The water was 50 feet deep.

Zhang Hui, a tour guide, survived the disaster.

He said the ship tilted and he grabbed a life jacket.

Bottles rolled off tables.

Suddenly, the boat turned all the way over.

Zhang cannot swim.

He said he drifted in the river all night and reached the shore just before dawn.

"The raindrops hitting my face felt like hailstones," Zhang said.

Some people survived by swimming to the shore.

Others were rescued more than 12 hours after the boat overturned.

In total, more than 50 boats and 3,000 people helped look for survivors.

Fast-moving water made the rescue difficult.

A 65-year-old woman was saved by divers.

They taught her how to use breathing equipment and then brought her to safety.

That woman "had a very strong will and learned very fast," Chen said.

The overturned ship drifted almost 2 miles before stopping.

This was a good sign.

It meant there was enough air inside for the boat to float.

It also meant there might be enough air for people to breathe, said Park Chi-mo.

He is a professor at South Korea's Ulsan University.

The boat had been carrying 411 passengers and a crew of 47.

Most of the passengers were 50 to 80 years old.

In Shanghai, relatives of the passengers were angry.

They demanded to know whether the captain made sure the passengers were safe.

Huang Yan cried because she thought her husband and his father were on board.

She said she could not be sure because she had not seen a passenger list.

"Why did the captain leave the ship while the passengers were still missing?"

Huang shouted.

She said the family members want the government to let them know who was on the boat.

The Eastern Star ship was 251 feet long and 36 feet wide.

The Yangtze is the world's third-longest river.

It sometimes floods during the summer rainy season.

CCTV reported that 6 inches of rain had fallen in the area in the past 24 hours.

Winds reached 80 miles an hour during the accident.

