China is building more theme parks than ever.

Many California companies are planning them.

However, the design teams must do more than just invent thrilling rides.

They have to become experts on Chinese folktales and beliefs.

They also need a good dose of patience.

A building with four roof tops?

Don't even think about building one in China.

The number 4 sounds like the word for "death" in Chinese.

It is considered bad luck, said Edward Marks.

He is the head of the Producers Group, a theme park design and construction company.

Marks has worked on many projects in Asia.

Theme park designers also have to respect local beliefs.

One of them is feng shui, Marks said.

In Chinese, feng shui means wind-water.

Many Chinese believe that buildings must face a certain direction for good luck and to keep away evil spirits.

Marks said his company has had to turn around buildings and move rides to improve their feng shui.

Marks and others in California's theme park industry are happy to learn those rules.

China is spending billions on theme parks.

Some of that money is going to the California companies.

Their business is booming and creating many U.S. jobs.

American companies earn $500,000 to $7 million to plan a theme park.

More detailed construction plans cost up to $15 million.

AECOM is an engineering firm near Los Angeles.

In 2013, Chinese developers spent nearly $24 billion on building theme parks, AECOM said.

That is more than double what they spent in 2011.

That year, they spent $9 billion.

Gary Goddard started Gary Goddard Entertainment.

His company designs theme parks and resorts.

About half his work recently has been in Asia and the Middle East.

Goddard said his team respects the local culture.

A resort in Macau features a double Ferris wheel.

It looked like the number 8.

Designers do it on purpose.

"That is considered a lucky number over there," Goddard said.

China's demand for theme parks has several reasons.

China's growing middle class is one of them.

They have money to spend.

However, they do not have very many places to have fun.

By 2020, AECOM predicts that more people will go to Chinese amusement parks than American ones.

Parks operated by a Chinese company already attract more than 26 million visitors a year.

United States theme park giants are building in Asia.

The $4 billion Shanghai Disney resort will open late this year.

The $1.8 billion Hong Kong Disneyland opened in 2005.

Universal Studios and Six Flags are building their own parks.

In China, the parks use themes from Chinese history or fairy tales.

Parks in the United States and Europe base rides on movies and books.

Chinese developers are new to the theme park business.

They do not realize it takes years to plan and build a theme park.

Many rush to complete their projects, say American designers.

They want to start making money immediately.

Many projects will never be built.

Some Chinese developers don't understand how much it costs to build a theme park.

Nor do they realize how expensive they are to keep in good repair.

Still, there's plenty of work to go around.

The Californian theme park industry is growing rich.

"Everyone I know in town is busy," said Josh Updike.

He is with Rethink Leisure &amp; Entertainment.

The company is working on several projects in China and Asia.

