Many Americans weren't too impressed when China landed its first rover on the moon last month.

After all, the U.S. sent men to the moon more than 40 years ago.

And the Russians landed a rover there too.

But lunar scientists feel differently.

They study the moon for a living.

For them, the Chang'e 3 mission is exciting.

The Chinese rover is equipped with a lot of fancy equipment.

It has cameras and a telescope.

It also has a device that can sense below the moon's surface.

And the rover can drive around the moon like a car.

Scientists hope the rover will find important new information.

They are hoping especially to learn more about the moon's soil.

Such information could tell us about the history of the moon.

It could also help scientists design equipment.

Some scientists want to mine the moon's surface.

It contains things humans need to survive.

Scientists believe the moon's surface may contain oxygen and other useful things.

In addition, experts say, the Chinese mission is testing new equipment.

That equipment could be useful for future missions.

And not just to the moon.

The equipment could be used for trips to Mercury or Mars as well.

Very little of the moon has been explored, said astronaut Leroy Chiao.

It's as if "you looked at small areas of California and New York, and now you know everything there is to know" about the Earth.

"That's not the case."

Stephen Mackwell heads Houston's Lunar and Planetary Institute.

He noted something else important about Chang'e 3: where it landed.

It touched down on a part of the moon far away from where earlier missions had landed.

Lunar scientists hope the Chinese rover can tell them more about the moon.

Particularly about what's in the moon's soil.

The rover has been nicknamed Jade Rabbit.

Scientists also want to see something else: whether the lander and rover can take the very, very cold lunar night.

Temperatures can drop as low as minus 292 degrees Fahrenheit, or minus 180 degrees Celsius.

And nights on the moon last about two of our weeks.

Chang'e 3 also carries a special camera.

This will be used to study the Earth from space.

In addition, it carries a telescope to observe other planets and stars.

Some scientists believe the moon would be a perfect place to set up a telescope.

"This (telescope) is another great test," said Taylor.

Scientists will be able to find out if keeping a telescope on the moon is a good idea.

Most American scientists believe the Chinese will share what Chang'e 3 finds.

NASA is not currently working with China.

But scientists from the U.S. and around the world have been exchanging information.

Angel Abbud-Madrid leads Colorado's Center for Space Resources.

He strongly disagrees with those who think there's nothing important about Chang'e 3's mission.

Abbud-Madrid said they are missing the larger point: China's goal is to someday land humans on the moon.

"By the time they get there, it may be 50 years since we did it," he said.

So it probably won't seem like a "big deal."

But NASA may not be sending a manned mission anytime soon.

And we can do so much more on the moon than we used to be able to do, he pointed out.

"Once you send humans, you're going to want to spend more than three days there," he said.

And that will allow for real progress.

Perhaps by then, he added, we will be working together with the Chinese.

