China's government controls what can be read on the Internet there.

It blocks news and anything it does not want Chinese people to see.

It is as if the government has put up a wall that keeps out news.

For that reason, the government's news-blocking is known as the Great Firewall.

In the United States, a small website is fighting back.

It is trying to poke holes in China's Great Firewall.

The website is called China Digital Times.

Its offices are in California.

Every day, China Digital Times publishes secret orders from the Chinese government.

The orders are known as censorship directives.

They list what news is supposed to be blocked from the Internet.

China Digital Times learns of the directives from people inside China.

China Digital Times also publishes news that is blocked in China.

They carry stories China's rulers do not want anyone to read.

Xiao Qiang runs China Digital Times.

He is originally from China.

His website "would be taken down immediately" if he ran it there, he said.

Xiao started China Digital Times in 2003.

Articles are published in both Chinese and English.

Outsmarting the Chinese government is not easy.

It is like fighting a giant with pebbles.

China's government has about 100,000 people removing news it does not like.

China Digital Times has only six people working for it.

The Chinese government comes down hard on those who anger it.

One example is Chinese blogger Ilham Tohti.

Last September, a Chinese court sentenced him to life in prison.

Yet many Chinese continue to give China Digital Times secret information.

For example, on Wednesday China Digital Times published a new censorship directive.

It was about a dangerous explosion at a factory.

The government said the story could be reported.

But it said it should not be given much attention.

China Digital Times has as many as 500,000 readers a month.

About two-thirds of them are in China.

Sophie Beach is in charge of the English-language articles.

Keeping track of what is happening on the Chinese Internet is a huge job, she said.

"Every day, there is just so much out there."

Xiao said that raising enough money to keep China Digital Times running is very difficult.

His readers keep him going.

Many tell him they really like what he is doing.

Xiao says China's leaders are cracking down even more than they used to.

He thinks this is because they are worried.

Many Chinese may soon begin calling for more changes in the country.

China's leaders could end up losing power.

China's leaders "know they are in trouble," Xiao said.

They might be able to hang on to power for another 10 years, or even longer, he said.

However, change will come.

For Xiao, it cannot happen soon enough.

He thinks China will be able to change.

But for now, the Chinese government will not let him return home.

Xiao said his 80-year-old father is sick.

"What I fear is that I will not be able to see my father before he dies," he said.

