The strange mix of merry American musicians were about to go on stage in one of China's most famous music halls.

They're called the American Hollywood Film Orchestra, and they were far from California.

The musicians, who are in a large group called an orchestra, have been traveling all around China.

Beijing was their latest stop.

They've been traveling the country by bus, train and plane.

They'd been to more than 12 cities from late December to mid-January.

At each stop, they offer up crowd-pleasing tunes from movies like "Titanic," "The Incredibles" and "The Godfather."

To save money, the group doesn't lug large instruments.

Promoters in each town let them borrow drums and other instruments.

But sometimes there are problems.

On this Saturday evening in Beijing, two players opened the cases to the instruments they were borrowing.

They found some of them were damaged.

Drummer Chris Nolan was furious.

"Nicest hall in China and they give me the crappiest drum kit!"

he exclaimed.

He pointed at the loose drum heads.

Helpers with walkie-talkies, an interpreter and other workers buzzed around the stage deciding what to do.

But as they say in Hollywood, the show must go on.

And so it did.

Nolan got his new drum heads 20 minutes before the curtain went up for the show of famous movie songs.

At 7:30 p.m., conductor Jason Altieri got on stage.

He raised his arm and the concert began.

They tried to connect with the Chinese crowd.

The group performed music from "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," a popular Chinese movie.

The performers also surprised the audience with a song from an old Chinese movie but with a twist from "Mission: Impossible" and "Star Wars" mixed in.

The orchestra has long, hard days.

They wake up at 5:30 a.m.

They don't eat dinner until 11 p.m. Travel, practice, and shows are in between.

Their busy days show how popular they are.

Some performers just graduated college.

Others are older, like Jack Cobos.

He's a retired carpet salesman who used to play violin with another music group.

And he's turning 71 during this year.

They're not famous.

But in smaller cities, they have been swarmed by crowds eager to take pictures after their shows.

Sometimes, the concert halls are freezing cold.

Or they're still being built.

Jason Heidelberg, a cellist from Cleveland, said this year they arrived in a town called Haiyang.

"The floor was still not done — they just put red carpet over it," he said.

John Bryant plays the trumpet.

He has toured with the group twice.

He said that in 2009 the group's plane was grounded by a snowstorm in another area of China called Shenyang.

The musicians had to ride on a crowded train.

They made it to their next concert, in Xian, 90 minutes late.

"Playing after like 18 hours of travel was crazy," he said.

They didn't even have time to change, he said, "we just went straight to the concert in our traveling clothes."

Most of the performers say they're not touring for the money.

They have the chance to see a bit of China.

They enjoy the companionship of their fellow music lovers.

And they have a chance to connect with people who speak a different language and live in a different land.

Conductor Altieri recalled being in an area of China called Ningbo.

The group stumbled across a music school where an old man was teaching children the erhu.

It is a traditional Chinese two-stringed instrument.

The Americans watched for half an hour.

The kids staged an unplanned concert for them.

Later, the Americans found a group of people performing karaoke in a park, and joined in.

"All the karaoke people ended up buying tickets to our show.

They even came backstage and gave us flowers," Altieri said.

"That's what I love about doing this — making music and sharing it."

