For years, people who love chocolate had something to be happy about: Chocolate can be good for you.

It's long been known that bittersweet dark chocolate is good for the heart.

Somehow, the tasty stuff helps prevent diseases that attack the heart.

However, scientists have never known exactly why.

Until now, that is.

On Tuesday, scientists announced that they had solved the chocolate mystery.

Tiny organisms called microbes are responsible.

They are in our guts and they love to eat chocolate.

The microbes turn the chocolate into something useful: a substance that fights inflammation.

Inflammation causes pain and swelling in the body and can lead to dangerous health problems.

Scientists started their study by setting up test tubes.

The idea was to copy what goes on in the human gut.

The gut is known by scientists as the gastrointestinal, or GI, tract.

It is something like a long tube.

It starts at the mouth and leads into the stomach.

It stops at the rear end.

The food we eat goes through the GI tract.

As it travels it gets digested and broken down.

The scientists poured powdered chocolate, called cocoa, into the test tubes.

Then they added digestive juices and enzymes.

This is the stuff the body uses to break down food.

The scientists observed something interesting: Not everything in the cocoa got digested.

Long molecules called polyphenolic polymers stayed in the gut.

Molecules are the smallest part of just about everything.

The polyphenolic polymers are too large to get through the wall of the gut, said scientist John Finley.

So they can't be absorbed into the rest of the body as nutrients.

Nutrients provide food and nourishment for the body.

They are what keeps our body's motor running.

Polyphenolic polymers didn't seem to be of much use at first.

They "do nothing for us except travel down the GI tract," Finley said.

That is, until they run into some of the many microbes that live in the human colon: in particular, certain types of bacteria.

The colon is the main part of the intestine.

And the intestine is part of the GI tract.

The intestine runs from the bottom end of the stomach to the rear end.

"These little guys say, 'Hey — there's something in there that I can use,'" Finley said, about the bacteria.

"They start to break it down."

The result of this breaking down is smaller molecules.

These _can_ travel through the wall of the gut.

Once they leave the gut, they can be used by the body.

These small molecules are "anti-inflammatory," Finley said.

They bring down inflammation, which is pain and swelling inside the body.

These molecules help lower the risk of heart disease and heart attacks.

Dark chocolate can also make blood vessels widen.

This allows blood to flow more easily.

And that in turn lowers blood pressure.

High blood pressure can be dangerous: It leads to heart attacks and other serious health problems.

White chocolate and milk chocolate don't provide this benefit, however.

Only dark chocolate does.

It has more cocoa in it than the other types of chocolate.

That makes it more powerful.

There is a problem with dark chocolate, though, Finley said: It has a lot of fat and sugar.

He said a healthy alternative to candy is putting cocoa powder on oatmeal.

That's what Finley does.

Finley said that the healthful stuff in cocoa powder might one day be put into pills.

He noted that Mars Inc. is interested in doing just that.

Mars is the company that makes M&amp;M candy.

But he wasn't very excited by the idea of taking a pill.

"I would rather eat a big old chocolate cookie," he said.

