When the air-raid alarms sounded on May 4, 1939, people hid in bomb shelters.

They ran for the caves dug into the mountains.

There were not enough hiding places from the Japanese bombs, and not enough for Chen Guifang's parents.

Seven-year-old Chen was huddled inside a crowded cave in Chongqing while bombs fell outside.

Small bits of metal rocketed everywhere, wounding Chen and killing both of her parents.

Now 83, Chen wept as she recalled being alone in Chongqing, which was then China's wartime capital.

The wounds from the bombing are still visible on her face and arm.

Co-workers of her parents buried them in a garden.

"I was an orphan," she said.

"I was crying every day calling for my parents and asking why the plane did not blow me up."

Japan's invasion of China in 1937 terrified tens of millions of people.

No Chinese city was pounded as hard as Chongqing.

From 1938 to 1941, Japanese warplanes carried out more than 200 separate bombing raids on Chongqing in southwest China.

Nearly 12,000 people were killed, most of them civilians.

Thousands were killed on two horrible days of bombing — May 3 and 4, 1939.

For many years, histories of World War II gave little mention to what Chongqing experienced.

In recent years, however, that has changed.

As China prepares to remember the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, which ended in 1945, Chongqing's suffering is being recognized.

Historian Rana Mitter wrote "Forgotten Ally" about China during World War II.

The book describes how Chongqing and China resisted Japan at the cost of 14 million Chinese lives.

"The important thing about Chongqing is that this was the first of the big terror raids that became common in World War II," Mitter said.

"For the people of Chongqing, it was terrifying," Mitter said.

"Very few cities worldwide had before been bombed like that, for such a long period."

Chongqing lies at the mouth of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers.

For modern visitors, it is hard to imagine that this city was once nearly destroyed.

Dotted by skyscrapers, Chongqing now has a population of 29 million.

After Japan invaded the Chinese cities of Shanghai and Nanjing, refugees fled into cities in the heart of China.

Its government, led by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, moved west from Nanjing to Wuhan, a city on the Yangtze River downstream from Chongqing.

Chiang was unable to beat the Japanese.

He and his government then retreated to Chongqing, bringing thousands of refugees and soldiers with them.

Wang Xifu, now 80, made the journey with his parents.

The family had owned a restaurant in Shanghai, but fled during the 1937 invasion.

Wang said that his family walked for 20 days to Wuhan, and then waited for days before getting on a boat to Chongqing.

On May 3, 1939, Japanese planes started bombing the city center.

Wang's family ran to a nearby sawmill and hid between stacked boards.

The falling bombs destroyed the sawmill, killing Wang's mother and father.

Wang was just 4 years old at the time.

To survive, Chen said she lived in a tent and collected leftover coal to sell.

She eventually found a job in a textile factory, got married, and became a mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.

Wang became homeless at age 9.

He earned money by looking through the city's sewers for lost tools and coins.

"One way I was able to eat was by offering to fan people in restaurants, in exchange for eating their leftovers," he said.

After the war ended, Chongqing was forgotten.

Over the last two decades, both China and Chongqing have become more open about this history.

The city's Three Gorges Museum includes displays of the Japanese bombing.

Chongqing has restored Chiang Kai-shek's mountain retreat outside the city.

The city has also sought to highlight the United States-China partnership during the war.

One of its tourist attractions is a museum honoring the "Flying Tigers."

The group of mostly American pilots helped to defend China in 1941 and 1942.

Nearby is the wartime home and headquarters of United States Army General Joseph "Vinegar Joe" Stillwell, who commanded a few thousand troops from the Chinese army.

A sign at the museum's entrances notes how "the Chinese and American peoples fought shoulder to shoulder against the Japanese."

