When the air-raid alarms sounded, people hid in the shelters and ran for the caves dug into the mountains.

But there were never enough hiding places from the Japanese bombs, and not enough for Chen Guifang's parents.

On May 4, 1939, 7-year-old Chen was huddled inside a crowded cave in Chongqing when bombs rained down outside.

Shrapnel rocketed everywhere, wounding Chen and killing both of her parents.

Now 83, Chen wept as she recalled being alone amid the smoldering embers of Chongqing, then China's wartime capital.

The wounds from the bombing are still visible on her face and arm.

"Colleagues of my parents buried them in a garden, next to the roadside," she said.

"I was an orphan.

I was crying every day calling for my parents and asking why the plane did not blow me up."

Four years before Pearl Harbor was bombed, three years before Nazi Germany's bombing of London, Japan's invasion of China in 1937 terrorized tens of millions of people.

No Chinese city was pounded as hard as Chongqing.

From 1938 to 1941, Japanese warplanes carried out more than 200 separate bombing raids on Chongqing, killing nearly 12,000 people, most of them civilians.

Thousands were killed on two horrendous days of bombing — May 3 and 4, 1939.

For decades, histories of World War II — written both inside and outside of China — gave little mention to what Chongqing endured.

But in recent years, that has changed.

As Beijing prepares to remember the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, Chongqing is getting wider recognition.

In his book, "Forgotten Ally," historian Rana Mitter writes how Chongqing and China resisted Japan, at the cost of 14 million Chinese lives.

"The important thing about Chongqing is that this was the first of the big terror raids that became common in World War II," Mitter said.

Although more lives were lost in London during the Nazi bombing that started in 1940, Chongqing had to bear bombings with no real air defenses, he said.

"For the people of Chongqing, it was terrifying," Mitter said.

"Very few cities worldwide had before been bombed like that, for such a long period."

For modern visitors to Chongqing, it is hard to imagine that this city at the mouth of the Yangtze and Jialing rivers was once devastated.

Dotted by skyscrapers, Chongqing is now an economic boom town with a population of 29 million.

After Japan invaded Shanghai and Nanjing — with soldiers executing and raping thousands — Chinese refugees fled to inland cities.

China's government, led by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek, moved from Nanjing to Wuhan, a city on the Yangtze River downstream from Chongqing.

Outgunned by Japan, Chiang and his government then retreated to Chongqing, bringing thousands of refugees and soldiers with them.

Wang Xifu, now 80, made the journey with his parents.

The family had owned a restaurant in Shanghai, but then fled during the 1937 invasion.

Wang said that his family walked for 20 days to the outskirts of Wuhan, and then waited for days before getting on a boat to Chongqing.

With savings they had brought from eastern China, the family started a Shanghai-style restaurant in Chongqing, which soon became a success.

On May 3, 1939, people rushed out of the Wang family restaurant as Japanese planes started bombing the city center.

Unable to find a bomb shelter, Wang's family ran to a nearby sawmill and hid between stacked boards.

When the bombs fell, the sawmill was destroyed, killing Wang's mother and father.

Wang was just 4 years old at the time, and he did not immediately realize what had happened.

But the next day, family friends took him to a cave, where people were screaming in the dark as the bombs fell.

Japanese leaders tried to break the spirit of Chongqing and prompt a surrender.

But the bombings may have had an opposite effect, leading the Chinese to defend their country at all costs.

To survive day to day, people in Chongqing resorted to desperate measures.

Chen, an orphan, said she lived in a tent and collected leftover coal to sell.

She eventually found a job in a textile factory, got married, and became a mother, grandmother and great-grandmother.

Wang, another orphan, also became homeless, at age 9.

He earned money by looking through the city's sewer system for lost tools and coins.

"One way I was able to eat was by offering to fan people in restaurants, in exchange for eating their leftovers," he said.

Yet after the war ended, Chongqing slipped off the international radar.

Over the last two decades, both China and Chongqing have become more open about this history.

The city's Three Gorges Museum includes displays and dioramas of the Japanese bombing, and Chongqing has restored Chiang Kai-shek's mountain retreat outside the city.

The city has also sought to highlight the United States-China collaboration during the war.

One of its tourist attractions is a museum honoring the "Flying Tigers," a group of mostly American pilots paid by China to defend the country in 1941 and 1942.

Nearby is the wartime home and headquarters of United States Army General Joseph "Vinegar Joe" Stillwell, who served as Chiang's chief of staff and commanded thousands of troops in China's military.

A plaque at the museum's entrances notes how "the Chinese and American peoples fought shoulder to shoulder against the Japanese fascists."

