Three months ago, the Archangel Michael Christian church was attacked by hundreds of people.

Six people tried protect this place of worship from attack.

Rida Gaballah, 49, was one of them.

But he now stands among the ruins of the building.

Gaballah is upset by the crushed benches where people used to pray, the charred paintings of Jesus and the cross ripped off from the front door.

He just keeps repeating the words "This scene is horrible."

The Egyptian government promised to repair this church.

But work has yet to begin here.

It is one of 74 churches destroyed since the army removed President Mohammed Morsi from power on July 3.

The destroyed building reveals the attacks that were carried out by Morsi's Islamist supporters.

It also shows the government's failure to protect old churches.

But Gaballah, like other Christians, doesn't want to complain about the new government.

"Of course they are doing enough," Gaballah said when he was asked about the government's efforts.

But the destroyed church around him told a different story.

The wave of attacks on churches sparked anger in the weeks just after Morsi left power.

Now, both Christian and Muslim Egyptians are completely silent.

Yet the attacks continue across the country.

At least 74 attacks on churches happened between June 30 and Sept. 30.

There have been more since, but nobody knows exactly how many.

About one out of every 10 Egyptians are Christian.

But they have never had an easy time in the country.

The Egyptian Christians have been often stuck between a strictly non-religious government and a big Muslim population.

Egyptian governments have done little to protect Christians from attacks by Muslims.

No one has ever been jailed in Egypt for destroying Christian churches.

The first church was burned in Egypt in 1972.

Yet Christians don't want to complain about the new government.

They don't want to get on the bad side of the latest rulers and the new government has not spoken out against Christians.

Many of the attacks on Christians were caused by Muslim preachers.

The Muslim preachers claimed that the Christians had caused President Morsi's downfall.

He was a Muslim and associated with the Muslim Brotherhood.

This group is again banned in Egypt.

Ishak Ibrahim is an Egyptian Christian.

He thinks that Christians want to live under a strict, army government instead of a government controlled by Muslims who want everyone in Egypt to be Muslim.

"The choice before people is freedom or the right to live," Ibrahim said.

Youssef Sidhom is the editor-in-chief of Watani, Egypt's biggest Christian newspaper.

He said that Christians and many Muslims were united against Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood.

But now Morsi is gone, and Sidhom thinks that the Christians are "terrified to speak" after the attacks on their churches.

So there is little pressure on the government to do more for Christians.

The police say they don't have enough forces to protect 2,000 Christian churches in Egypt.

It is more difficult for them because the police stations have also been attacked.

A top police officer said there will be no special efforts to find the people who destroyed the churches.

"Our job is not to protect churches," the policeman said, speaking in secret.

He said that villagers were too scared to talk about who started the fires in churches.

The officer said that the police have bigger battles to fight.

The officers first want to find out who destroyed their stations and capture members of the banned Muslim Brotherhood.

Other people believe the police have their own reasons for the lack of protection.

Every attack on Christians gives the government more reasons to chase after their Islamist enemies.

Ahmed Ragab has studied the attacks on the churches.

He said that when churches are burned, the government can blame the Muslim Brotherhood and win support for their crackdown on the Muslims who are trying to attack Christians.

Pope Tawadros II is the leader of Egypt's Christian church.

He made a statement after Archangel Michael Church was destroyed.

Tawadros called for national unity and forgiveness.

He also asked for Christians to stand with the government.

"If the hands of evil kill, destroy and torch, then God's hands are greater and they build," he said.

