New Jersey Governor Chris Christie chomped down on a jelly doughnut and mocked his own weight on "The Late Show with David Letterman."

Ten days later, he underwent a secret medical procedure to help him lose weight.

And then it was back to work, as if nothing had happened.

No mention of the procedure at an event two days after the surgery or at any of the other meetings Christie held that week.

"If I had the choice, I wouldn't have ever talked about it," Christie said on Tuesday, confirming a news report about his surgery nearly three months ago.

The governor, who throughout his career has joked about his weight, said it was his plan all along never to acknowledge publicly that he had undergone gastric band surgery.

The procedure is commonly known as lap band surgery.

"It's nobody else's business," Christie said, adding that it became public only because a reporter from the New York Post asked him a direct question about the procedure.

"I would never have lied about it."

It is, Christie said, a deeply private matter for a man who has struggled for decades with his weight.

And he insisted it has absolutely nothing to do with politics, even though he is up for re-election and is said to be a potential 2016 Republican candidate for president.

Christie told reporters in a televised news conference on Tuesday that he decided to have the surgery because of his wife, Mary Pat, and their four children.

He sealed the choice after turning 50 in September.

"My long-term goal is to get myself into a position where I'm healthier and I can live a longer life and be an active parent and hopefully someday grandparent," Christie said, adding that his youngest two children are in elementary school.

"I want to try to put myself, as I get older, in the best position I can be to spend as much time with them as I possibly can," he said.

How much weight he has lost, how much he weighs now, and how much he plans to lose were all questions Christie said he would not answer.

He said they are nobody's business and called the media attention "ridiculous" and "silly."

Unlike when he travels out of state, Lieutenant Governor Kim Guadagno did not serve as acting governor while Christie underwent the 40-minute procedure.

"I was in charge," he said.

"It's like asking if I decide to take a nap on Saturday afternoon."

The only people in the administration who knew were his chief of staff and chief counsel, Christie said.

And he discussed the procedure with no one outside his family.

New York Jets coach Rex Ryan offered his personal experiences with the same surgery, but Christie said he never told the coach that he was considering the surgery at the time.

Christie said he has no plans to become an example for weight loss, like former presidential candidate Mike Huckabee.

"I do not see myself nor do I care to be a role model in this regard for anyone," he said.

"This is an intensely personal issue for me."

Less than two weeks before his surgery, Christie appeared on "The Late Show," where he pulled a doughnut out of his pocket and took a bite as Letterman asked Christie if his jokes about the governor's weight bothered him.

Christie replied his heft was "fair game" but also said, "I'm basically the healthiest fat guy you've ever seen in your life."

The next day, former White House physician Connie Mariano, who described herself as a Christie fan, told CNN that she worries about his "dying in office."

The remark, which Christie said his children heard, drew fire from the governor, who called Mariano a "hack who wants five minutes on TV."

The governor has been open about his struggle with his weight.

During a news conference after the Letterman appearance, he said "there's always a plan" to shed pounds.

He said he works with a personal trainer four days a week, something he's been doing since running for office in 2009.

He said he began using the personal trainer three times a week in 2008 and the workouts involve lifting weights and cardio exercises.

Former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine, a Democrat, tried to make an issue of Christie's weight in the 2009 gubernatorial election.

Christie responded at the time saying, "I don't know what that has to do with being governor."

Christie beat Corzine.

Pollster Patrick Murray said that while some voters described Christie as overweight in polls, it didn't stop them from supporting him.

"Now that he's governor, it doesn't matter because as long as he hasn't had a health scare, and the only thing that we know about is a trip to the emergency room for an asthma attack, the only thing people judge him on is his performance," Murray said.

But Murray said running for president would be different, because it would put Christie on a stage with other candidates, making his weight a factor.

He pointed to an October 2011 poll in which 20 percent of those surveyed said it was appropriate to talk about weight in a presidential race.

And Murray said that doesn't account for the people who were thinking that, but didn't want to admit it.

He doesn't doubt that Christie wanted to lose the weight for his family, but said political ambitions are likely at play.

"You have to take him on his word on that because he's been talking about that for years, but you have to think that the looming presidential election in three years, which we all know he wants to run in, gave him that extra push to try something he wouldn't have otherwise," Murray said.

Christie insisted that politics played no part in his decision.

And he's also said that he doesn't think his weight should be a factor if he decides to seek higher office.

