New Jersey Gov.

Chris Christie signed a bill that makes it against the law to try to change children from gay to straight.

The governor said Monday that he signed the bill even though he was not very willing.

Some people believe it is possible to change who a person is attracted to a person of the same sex through treatment.

Others say it's not possible and that it does harm.

The topic can get very heated and emotional.

Christie said he is afraid the bill limits parents in the choices they make about how to care for their children.

But he said he decided to sign it into law after thinking about what doctors had to say about the treatment.

He pointed to the American Psychological Association's opinion.

The group says the treatment can lead to a lot of problems.

Children can become deeply sad for a long time.

They can abuse drugs and they can think about harming themselves.

"I believe that exposing children to these health risks without clear evidence of benefits that outweigh these serious risks is not appropriate," Christie wrote.

The decision comes at an important time.

Christie will run for re-election in New Jersey this year.

He also may be getting ready to run for president in 2016.

His past comments set him apart from some parts of the Republican Party.

They consider homosexuality a sin.

They think that people choose to be homosexual and are not born gay.

Christie does not.

Christie did not answer questions when asked about the bill signing at an event on Monday morning.

He told reporters to read his written statement.

Christie's office also gave out a 2011 video of the governor being interviewed about homosexuality on CNN.

Piers Morgan asked Christie if homosexuality is a sin.

The governor, who is Catholic, responded that his religion says it is.

But Christie said in the interview he believed that gay people were born with the likelihood to be homosexual.

"And so I think if someone is born that way, it's very difficult to say then that's a sin."

The bill won wide support from New Jersey lawmakers.

But supporters of the practice said the law infringes on parents' rights.

Christie said he was concerned about that.

"Government should tread carefully into this area and I do so here reluctantly," he wrote.

He looked closely at the law with that in mind, he said.

The law says licensed counselors cannot try to change a child away from being gay.

Counselors include psychologists, social workers and therapists.

The lawmakers held hearings before voting on the law.

Witnesses at the hearings described very bad childhood experiences in which people tried the therapy on them.

The law passed the Assembly by a 56-14 in June.

Seven lawmakers chose not to vote.

The Senate approved it by a vote of 28-9 that same month.

A group that supports gay rights issued a statement Monday praising Christie's decision to sign the bill.

The group said it hoped that Christie would realize that the best way to protect gay youth was to make sure they were treated equally.

Christie has mostly been criticized by supporters of gay people.

He stopped a bill last year that would have allowed same-sex marriage in New Jersey.

He insists that the measure should be put to the voters instead.

Others argue that same-sex marriage is a civil right, and such rights should not be decided by popular vote.

