Chris Christie is the governor of New Jersey.

In February, he appeared on "The Late Show with David Letterman."

He chomped down on a jelly doughnut.

He made fun of his own weight.

Ten days later, he had a secret surgery to help him slim down.

And then it was back to work, as if nothing had happened.

No mention of the surgery at any of the meetings Christie held that week.

"If I had the choice, I wouldn't have ever talked about it," Christie said on Tuesday.

He said that a news report about his surgery was indeed true.

Christie has joked about his weight throughout his career.

However, the governor said it was his plan all along never to admit publicly that he did the surgery.

"It's nobody else's business," Christie said.

He added that it became public only because a reporter from the New York Post asked him a direct question about the surgery.

"I would never have lied about it."

It is, Christie said, a deeply private matter for a man who has struggled for decades with his weight.

And he insisted it has absolutely nothing to do with politics.

Christie is up for re-election soon.

Political watchers say he is a possible 2016 Republican candidate for president.

Christie told reporters at a news conference on Tuesday that he decided to have the surgery because of his family.

He has a wife and four children.

He made the decision in September when he turned 50.

"My long-term goal is to get myself into a position where I'm healthier and I can live a longer life and be an active parent and hopefully someday grandparent," Christie said.

He mentioned that his youngest two children are in elementary school.

"I want to try to put myself, as I get older, in the best position I can be to spend as much time with them as I possibly can," he said.

Christie declined to say how much weight he has lost.

Nor would he say how much he weighs now or how much he plans to lose.

He said such questions are nobody's business.

He called the media attention "ridiculous" and "silly."

The only people in his office who knew of the surgery were his chief of staff and chief counsel, Christie said.

Other than that, he discussed the procedure with no one outside his family.

New York Jets coach Rex Ryan has had the same surgery.

He shared his personal experiences with the governor in a phone call.

But Christie said he never told the coach that he was thinking about doing it himself.

Christie said he has no plans to become an example for weight loss.

"I do not see myself nor do I care to be a role model in this regard for anyone," he said.

"This is an intensely personal issue for me."

Less than two weeks before his surgery, Christie appeared on "The Late Show."

He pulled a doughnut out of his pocket and took a bite as Letterman asked Christie if his jokes about the governor's weight bothered him.

Christie said his size was "fair game."

He added, "I'm basically the healthiest fat guy you've ever seen in your life."

The next day, former White House doctor Connie Mariano told CNN that she worries about his "dying in office."

Her remark drew fire from the governor.

Christie said his children heard it.

He called Mariano a "hack who wants five minutes on TV."

The governor has been open about his struggle with his weight.

During a news conference after the Letterman show, he said "there's always a plan" to shed pounds.

He said he's been working with a personal trainer four days a week since running for office.

His workouts involve lifting weights and cardio exercises.

Former New Jersey Governor Jon Corzine tried to make Christie's weight an issue in the 2009 race for governor.

Christie responded at the time saying, "I don't know what that has to do with being governor."

Christie beat Corzine.

Patrick Murray polls voters.

Murray said one-fifth of people polled in 2011 said it's OK to talk about weight in a presidential race.

Murray said that doesn't account for the people who were thinking that, but didn't want to admit it.

He said it's likely that Christie wanted to lose the weight for his family.

But Christie's career goals also matter.

"You have to think that the looming presidential election in three years, which we all know he wants to run in, gave him that extra push to try something he wouldn't have otherwise," Murray said.

Christie denied that politics was the reason for the surgery.

He's also said that he doesn't think his weight should be a factor if he decides to run for higher office.

