Chris Collier's grandfather was an Eagle Scout.

Collier was an Eagle Scout.

But his son never will be.

Collier is leaving the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) for Trail Life USA, a new Christian alternative to the Boy Scouts.

It will form its first troops at the end of September.

Collier will be among those starting a Trail Life troop.

He said one day it will include his son, who's now 4 years old.

"I'm glad I am building something my son can enjoy from next year to when he's 18," said Collier, a 41-year-old utilities field manager from Windermere, Fla. "I left the BSA because they compromised their own belief system.

Trail Life USA is going to stick to the standards that the BSA abandoned."

The new organization was formed after the Boy Scouts decided in May to drop its rule against openly gay Scouts.

In many ways Trail Life reflects the BSA.

It is a character-building, outdoors-oriented youth group.

Its leadership comprises former Scouts and Scout leaders.

To some, Trail Life comes across as off-brand Boy Scouts — a close imitation, but not the real thing.

"It's Boy Scouts lite," said Randy Stephens.

He is a former Boy Scout and head of a gay community center organization in Orlando.

While the two groups mirror each other in many ways, there are some significant differences.

Boys of any race and religion can join Trail Life, same as the Boy Scouts.

But all adult leaders must be Christian — no Jews, no Muslims, no Buddhists.

The BSA opens its leadership to adults of all faiths.

Many churches and religious groups adopt Boy Scout troops.

But they basically just provide meeting spaces for them.

Trail Life troops will be part of the outreach of the churches that start them.

Trail Life will not let openly gay boys join.

And if a child shows signs of being attracted to other boys or "gender confusion," he will be counseled by the church along with his parents.

"Twenty-five percent of younger boys experience some sense of gender confusion or sexuality fluidity, and we will help guide him in a way that affirms his God-given physical biology," said John Stemberger, head of the Trail Life board.

Stemberger, who had earned the rank of Eagle Scout, is an Orlando lawyer.

He fought BSA's inclusion of gay Scouts.

Stemberger's OnMyHonor.net gave birth to Trail Life.

He contends that Trail Life isn't an imitation of the Boy Scouts — it's better.

"We are aiming to build a program that is safer, stronger and more principled in every way," he wrote.

To Collier, Trail Life represents a return to the original Boy Scouts before they adapted their values to keep up with the times.

"We are honoring the legacy of BSA, but raising the standard," Collier said.

"The BSA compromised their standards.

We will not compromise this mission by being weak and succumbing to pressure."

Stephens views Trail Life as a desperate and doomed escape to a past that no longer exists.

"What they want is the Norman Rockwell Boy Scouts.

Well, we're not in the Norman Rockwell world anymore," Stephens said.

Stemberger argues Trail Life is poised to capture those unhappy with the new role of gays in society and the Scouts.

Trail Life expects to formally launch on Jan. 1 when the Boy Scouts' rule on accepting gay Scouts goes in effect.

At a meeting held in Nashville, Tenn., this month, Trail Life attracted about 1,200 adult leaders from 44 states.

What is happening with the Boy Scouts now is what happened to the Girl Scouts of America in 1995 when they started accepting lesbian girls, Stemberger has asserted.

That decision led to the founding of American Heritage Girls, which now has more than 20,000 members, compared with 2.3 million Girl Scouts.

So far, there's no sign of a mass stream of Boy Scouts to Trail Life.

The Central Florida Council of Boy Scouts says only three churches have withdrawn their sponsorship of Scout troops.

Since the decision was announced in May, the seven-county district has added 2,000 new families, and expects to attract 6,500 by the end of October, said Bill Gosselin, head of operations.

"This year we are on pace to have more growth than last year," Gosselin said.

BSA National Commissioner Tico Perez says fewer than 1 percent of the group's 2.6 million youth members have left the Boy Scouts since the change in rules.

"Ninety-nine percent of our units are happily still with us," Perez said.

"We are trying to serve all of America, and we believe that we're are doing it successfully."

It doesn't matter to Collier of Windermere how many boys join Trail Life or how many troops the group has or how big Trail Life becomes.

He's excited to be part of building something he believes in, instead of remaining with an group in which he is disillusioned.

"It is like coming home," he said.

"When the BSA did that in May, you lost your home."

