Chris Collier's grandfather was an Eagle Scout.

Collier was an Eagle Scout.

But his son never will be.

Collier is leaving the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) for Trail Life USA.

Trail Life will do similar things as the Boy Scouts.

The difference is that it is formed as a Christian group.

It will start its first troops at the end of September.

Collier will start a Trail Life troop.

He said one day it will include his son.

He is now 4 years old.

"I'm glad I am building something my son can enjoy from next year to when he's 18," said Collier.

He says BSA changed their beliefs.

That's why he left.

"Trail Life USA is going to stick to the standards that the BSA abandoned."

Trail Life was started after the Boy Scouts decided to drop its rule against letting openly gay Scouts join.

It is similar to the Boy Scouts in many ways.

It is an outdoors youth group.

Its leaders used to be Scouts and Scout leaders.

But there are some important differences.

Boys of any race and religion can join Trail Life, same as the Boy Scouts.

But all adult leaders must be Christian.

That means no Jews or Muslims or Buddhists.

The Boy Scouts opens its leadership to adults of all religions.

To some, Trail Life comes across as off-brand Boy Scouts.

It's a close imitation, but not the real thing.

"It's Boy Scouts lite," said Randy Stephens.

He is a former Boy Scout and leader in Orlando's gay community.

Many churches and religious groups adopt Boy Scout troops.

But they only give them meeting spaces.

Trail Life troops will be part of their churches' activities.

Trail Life will not let openly gay boys join.

If a child shows signs of being confused or attracted to other boys, he will be counseled by the church ministry.

His parents will join in, too.

"We will help guide him," John Stemberger.

He is the head of the Trail Life board.

He was an Eagle Scout who fought against dropping the ban on gay Scouts.

Stemberger thinks Trail Life isn't an imitation of the Boy Scouts.

It will be "safer, stronger and more principled in every way," he wrote.

Stephens thinks Trail Life is desperate.

He says it's a doomed escape to a past that no longer exists.

"What they want is the Norman Rockwell Boy Scouts.

Well, we're not in the Norman Rockwell world anymore," Stephens said.

Stemberger thinks Trail Life is ready to succeed.

It will take in people who are unhappy with the new role of gays in society and the Scouts.

Trail Life expects to start activities on Jan. 1.

The Boy Scouts will begin accepting gay Scouts that same day.

Trail Life held a meeting in Nashville, Tenn., this month.

About 1,200 adult leaders from 44 states attended.

So far, there's no sign that large numbers of Boy Scouts will quit and go to Trail Life.

The Central Florida Council of Boy Scouts says only three churches stopped sponsoring Scout troops after the decision on gay Scouts was announced in May.

Since then, the seven-county district has added 2,000 new families.

It expects to attract 6,500 by the end of October.

"This year we are on pace to have more growth than last year," Bill Gosselin said.

He is head of operations for BSA.

Not even 1 percent of Boy Scouts have left, says Tico Perez.

He is the BSA National Commissioner.

"Ninety-nine percent of our units are happily still with us.

We are trying to serve all of America."

It doesn't matter to Collier of Windermere how many boys join Trail Life.

Or how many troops the group has.

Or how big Trail Life becomes.

He's excited to be part of building something he believes in.

It's better than staying with a group that has let you down.

"It is like coming home," he said.

"When the BSA did that in May, you lost your home."

