Chris Collier's grandfather was an Eagle Scout.

Collier was an Eagle Scout.

But his son never will be.

Collier is leaving the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) for Trail Life USA.

Trail Life is a new group formed by Christians who want a choice besides the Boy Scouts.

It will start forming its first troops at the end of September.

Collier will be starting a Trail Life troop.

He said one day it will include his son, who's now 4 years old.

"I'm glad I am building something my son can enjoy from next year to when he's 18," said Collier.

He said he left the Boy Scouts because they changed their rules and their belief system.

"Trail Life USA is going to stick to the standards that the BSA abandoned."

Trail Life is just like the Boy Scouts in many ways.

It is a character-building youth group focused on outdoor activities.

Trail Life's leaders are former Scouts and Scout leaders.

But it was formed after the Boy Scouts decided in May to drop its rule against openly gay Scouts.

To some, Trail Life comes across as off-brand Boy Scouts.

It's a close imitation, but not the real thing.

"It's Boy Scouts lite," said Randy Stephens.

He is a former Boy Scout and head of a gay community center in Orlando.

While the two groups mirror each other in many ways, there are some big differences.

Boys of any race and religion can join Trail Life, same as the Boy Scouts.

But all adult leaders must be Christian — no Jews, no Muslims, no Buddhists.

The BSA opens its leadership to adults of all faiths.

Many churches and religious groups adopt Boy Scout troops.

But they basically just provide meeting spaces for them.

The churches that start the Trail Life groups will include the troops in their activities.

Openly gay boys are banned from Trail Life troops.

If a child shows signs of being attracted to other boys, he will be counseled by the church leaders along with his parents.

"We will help guide him in a way that affirms his God-given physical biology," said John Stemberger.

He is the chairman of Trail Life.

Stemberger was an Eagle Scout who fought allowing gay Scouts in the BSA.

Stemberger's OnMyHonor.net gave birth to Trail Life.

He argues that Trail Life isn't an imitation of the Boy Scouts — it's better.

"We are aiming to build a program that is safer, stronger and more principled in every way," he wrote.

Stephens thinks Trail Life is desperate.

He says it's a doomed escape to a past that no longer exists.

"What they want is the Norman Rockwell Boy Scouts.

Well, we're not in the Norman Rockwell world anymore," Stephens said.

Stemberger thinks Trail Life is well-placed to take in people who are unhappy with the new role of gays in society and the Scouts.

Trail Life expects to launch on Jan. 1.

The Boy Scouts' rule on accepting gay Scouts goes in effect that day.

Trail Life held a meeting in Nashville, Tenn., this month.

About 1,200 adult leaders from 44 states attended.

What is happening with the Boy Scouts now is what happened to the Girl Scouts of America in 1995, Stermberger says.

That's when they started accepting lesbian girls.

That decision led to the founding of American Heritage Girls.

It now has more than 20,000 members, compared with 2.3 million Girl Scouts.

So far, there's no sign of a mass stream of Boy Scouts to Trail Life.

The Central Florida Council of Boy Scouts says only three churches have stopped sponsoring Scout troops.

Since the decision was announced in May, the seven-county district has added 2,000 new families.

It expects to attract 6,500 by the end of October.

"This year we are on pace to have more growth than last year," Bill Gosselin said.

He is head of operations for BSA.

Not even 1 percent of Boy Scouts have left since the rules change, according to Tico Perez.

He is the BSA National Commissioner.

"Ninety-nine percent of our units are happily still with us," Perez said.

"We are trying to serve all of America, and we believe that we're are doing it successfully."

It doesn't matter to Collier of Windermere how many boys join Trail Life.

Or how many troops the group has, or how big Trail Life becomes.

He's excited to be part of building something he believes in.

It's better than staying with a group that has let you down.

"It is like coming home," he said.

"When the BSA did that in May, you lost your home."

