New Jersey Governor Chris Christie announced his 2016 campaign for president on Tuesday.

Never one to aim small, he declared that he is "out to change the world."

The Republican governor held the kickoff rally of his campaign in the gymnasium of his old high school.

A one-time Republican favorite, Christie has faded in popularity and is now trying to climb back.

Christie said his last 13 years as a U.S. attorney and governor have been about "fighting for fairness and justice and opportunity" and that he wants to do the same for the country.

"America is tired of hand-wringing and indecisiveness and weakness in the Oval Office," he said.

"We need to have strength and decision-making and authority back in the Oval Office.

And that is why today I am proud to announce my candidacy for the Republican nomination for president of the United States of America."

Hours earlier, Christie spoke by phone with donors, friends and out-of-state supporters.

"The idea of going back to where you were when you were 15, or 16, or 17 years old, and to be able to stand in front of that group of people and offer yourself to the presidency is a really, really amazing moment," Christie told them.

He said he is "ready to go" on what he hopes will be "a really noble and successful effort to try to lead our country and to change the world."

Four years ago, some of Christie's backers tried to persuade him to challenge President Barack Obama.

In the years since, he won re-election to the governorship with ease, but struggled to revive New Jersey's sagging economy and create jobs.

Christie has also battled with the state's Democratic-controlled legislature over the state budget and pensions that pay for the retirements of public workers including teachers and police.

Christie's turn as head of the Republican Governors Association was widely viewed as a success in the 2014 midterm elections for seats in Congress.

However, he has faced fallout from the actions of three former aides.

Those onetime aides were charged with creating politically motivated traffic jams to punish a Democratic mayor who declined to endorse Christie's re-election.

The governor faces a tough sell with many conservatives.

Nonetheless, he has seemingly found his stride at times in visits to early voting states with the lively town hall meetings he is known for at home.

There will be plenty more of those now that he is a confirmed candidate.

Emboldened by his political successes in heavily Democratic New Jersey, Christie sees himself as a leader who can work across party lines.

