Last week, Ireland decided to give cigarette packages a makeover.

The new packages aren't going to look fancier.

In fact, they will all look just the same.

Ireland is the first European country to try plain packaging laws for cigarettes.

Now cigarettes sold in Ireland will come in green packages.

The packages will not have any logos on them.

The point is to make cigarettes less attractive.

If the packages are uglier, kids may not want to smoke.

The only pictures on the packages will show unhealthy lungs that have been damaged by smoking.

Cigarette packages already have a health warning on them.

Now, the warning will be twice as big.

It will cover more than half of each box.

Ireland got the idea for the new packages from Australia.

In 2012 Australia passed a law about cigarette packages.

It made cigarette companies get rid of their logos, colors and extra words.

Australia was the first country to do so.

The World Trade Organization decides on business between countries.

It is taking a close look at Australia's laws.

The group might decide Australia's laws are unfair.

It could tell Australia to let cigarette companies use their old boxes again.

Ireland knew tobacco companies would be angry, but the country still wanted laws like Australia's.

Now the U.K. wants to try a plain packaging law, too.

British lawmakers will vote on the law on Monday.

Plain packaging laws are bad news for cigarette companies.

They are already having a hard time making money.

Fewer people are smoking now in the U.S. and Europe.

Four of the biggest cigarette companies are getting ready to take the Irish government to court.

They don't want to change their packages.

The cigarette companies say the new laws are unfair.

They say the Irish government is taking money from them.

They also say that the government can't prove that plain packages will make anybody healthier.

If the cigarette companies win their case, they will get to use their old packages again.

Ireland could lose a lot of money fighting the cigarette companies in court.

It's a chance Ireland is willing to take.

People all over Ireland support the new law.

James Reilly is the Irish official behind the new law.

He has a message for the cigarette companies.

He said the tobacco companies can try to fight the Irish government.

Yet, he said, "they must understand we will win."

They may have tons of money, he said, "but we have the truth and the people on our side."

> Update: On March 16, British lawmakers voted to add plain cigarette packaging in England.

