Ireland and the U.K. are firing the first shots in Europe's latest war on tobacco.

It's a battle that may end up being fought in the courtroom.

Last week, Ireland became the first European country to pass a plain packaging law.

Now cigarettes sold in Ireland will come in olive green packets covered with images of damaged lungs.

The new packages won't have the large brand logos that makes them so recognizable.

The goal is to make cigarettes seem less attractive to people who might pick up smoking.

As the U.K. rushes to follows Ireland's lead, four of the world's biggest tobacco companies are racing to take legal action.

The lawsuit they are preparing may decide what happens to cigarette packaging throughout the European Union.

This comes at a bad time for the tobacco industry, which is already struggling with falling smoking rates in the U.S. and Europe.

"I have a message for the tobacco industry," said James Reilly, the Irish government minister behind the law.

"They come to pursue us, but they must understand we will win, and we will pursue them for all our costs.

They may have billions behind them, but we have the truth and the people on our side."

Within two years, cigarette boxes in Ireland will all look the same, with the health warning doubled to 65 percent of the pack's surface.

Ireland is following the example of Australia, the first country in the world to make such a move.

Since 2012, Australia has kept logos, colors and promotional text off of cigarette packaging.

Their policies could still be held up at the World Trade Organization — the group that decides trade rules between countries — but that hasn't stopped Ireland and the U.K. from pursuing similar restrictions.

Lawmakers in British Parliament will vote on the plan on Monday.

Tobacco companies said they would challenge the U.K. law.

P.J.

Carroll, Ireland's oldest tobacco company, said it considers such legislation illegal.

The company says the Irish government is basically taking property from companies without paying them for it.

Japan Tobacco Inc. calls the new standards unlawful and unjustified.

The company says that there is no "evidence to suggest (plain packaging) will result in public health benefits."

Philip Morris and Imperial Tobacco Group Plc.

are also preparing to take legal action.

Ireland has a history of setting the tone on tobacco regulation.

When the nation banned smoking in bars and restaurants in 2004, most of Europe and the U.S. did the same.

According to Bloomberg, the number of Irish adults who smoke has dropped to about 23 percent, though that's still above the global rate of 20 percent.

"Plain packaging is the biggest single threat to the cigarette industry," said Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Kenneth Shea.

Plain packaging takes away a cigarette producer's ability to set their brand apart from their competition.

Shea says that leaves producers with very little control over the price of their cigarettes.

But tobacco companies aren't the only ones worried by the new rules.

John Cridland is the director general of the Confederation of British Industry.

His organization represents U.K. employers.

He says it makes sense for a cigarette producer to be upset about losing such a big part of what people recognize about their brand.

If the courts decide plain packaging is unjustified, the government may have to pay cigarette producers for any lost money.

But plain packaging has the support of people and political parties across Ireland, so that's a risk that the country's government is willing to take.

> Update: On March 16, the U.K. passed a law to require plain cigarette packaging in England.

