Ireland and the U.K. are firing the first shots in Europe's latest war on tobacco.

It's a battle that may end up being fought in the courtroom.

Last week, Ireland became the first European country with plain packaging laws.

Now cigarettes sold in Ireland will come in olive green packets with no logos.

The goal is to make cigarettes seem less attractive to people who might pick up smoking.

The only pictures on the packets will show lungs that have been damaged by smoking.

The boxes already have a health warning, but now it will be twice as big.

It will cover 65 percent of each box.

It could take up to two years, but eventually cigarette boxes in Ireland will all look the same.

Ireland is following the example set by Australia, the first country in the world to outlaw traditional cigarette labels.

Australia has had plain cigarette packaging since 2012, but the World Trade Organization is still looking at the laws.

The WTO decides on rules for trade between countries.

It might decide Australia's laws are unfair.

Worries about the WTO didn't stop Ireland from passing a law like Australia's.

Ireland has a history of trendsetting tobacco laws.

Ireland banned smoking in bars and restaurants in 2004.

Then, most of Europe and the U.S. did the same.

According to Bloomberg, the number of Irish adults who smoke has dropped to about 23 percent, though that's still above the average of 20 percent in countries around the world.

Now the U.K. is hurrying to join Ireland and Australia in the fight against smoking.

British lawmakers will vote on the plan to add a plain packaging law on Monday.

This is bad news for the tobacco business.

Tobacco companies are already having a hard time right now because fewer people are smoking in the U.S. and Europe.

Four of the world's biggest tobacco companies are getting ready to take the Irish government to court.

They don't think they should have to change their labels.

The tobacco companies have said they will fight the U.K. law as well.

The court cases may decide what happens to cigarette packaging throughout Europe.

"I have a message for the tobacco industry," said James Reilly, the government official behind the Irish laws.

"They (can come after) us, but they must understand we will win...

They may have billions behind them, but we have the truth and the people on our side."

P.J.

Carroll is Ireland's oldest tobacco company.

The company says the new packaging standards are against the law.

The company says the Irish government would basically be taking property from companies without paying for it.

Japan Tobacco Inc. calls the new standards unfair.

The company says that there is no "evidence to suggest (plain packaging) will result in public health benefits."

Other tobacco companies are also preparing to take legal action.

If the cigarette producers win their case, they will get to go back to their old packaging.

The Irish government may also have to pay tobacco companies for their court costs and the sales they lost.

But plain packaging is something the whole country seems to want, so it's a risk the Ireland government is willing to take.

> Update: On March 16, the U.K. passed a law to require plain cigarette packaging in England.

