Shirley Booker doesn't want to live next to a farm.

But all she sees is green when she opens her front door.

Corn and soybeans are all around her.

Booker has lived in her St. Louis home for 37 years.

She lives in a neighborhood called St. Louis Place.

Until last summer, she felt like she lived in a city.

Then people planted vegetables all around her house.

She doesn't like it.

About one mile of the neighborhood is now a farm.

It is run by a company called Family Roots International.

The company was founded by an Olympic athlete from East St. Louis named Jackie Joyner-Kersee.

Family Roots has planted vegetables in the once empty mile of land.

The company wants to find ways to grow good crops in ground that might not be so healthy.

The ground might have lead or pavement in it.

Family Roots would like to make the soil healthy, grow plants, bring jobs and make money.

But what Family Roots wants is very different from what some of the people who live in the neighborhood want.

Homeowner Joyce Cooks doesn't want to live in a cornfield.

She wants to keep living in a city.

"I'm all for progress," she said.

"But I don't want to live on a farm.

I'm a city girl."

Family Roots attorney Maurice Foxworth says that he spoke with people who lived in the neighborhood before planting began.

But some people who live there said that they only learned about the farming early last summer.

That's when people came to spray chemicals in the area to keep bugs and mice away.

Booker says that the spray didn't keep the bugs and mice away.

Animals have arrived in backyards since the farming began.

She says bugs, possums, foxes, deer, fat rats and even a peacock can be seen.

Booker also says that the eight-foot corn stalks have led to car racing on public roads.

Car racing is against the law.

Karen Hancock has lived in a little red brick house in the neighborhood for almost 50 years.

She says she finds the corn stalks a little "weird."

She also says they are a little scary.

That's because she caught a man who was hiding from the police in the corn.

She was able to chase him away.

A St. Louis policewoman said crime in the area has not increased.

But some people living in there still don't feel safe.

The few people who live in the neighborhood all know each other.

Several said they felt a sense of safety when they saw each others' houses across the mostly-empty blocks.

Now some say they can't see anybody anymore because of the corn stalks.

Foxworth said he understands neighbors' worries about the tall corn.

He wants the people in the neighborhood to know that Family Roots can grow something other than corn.

He says the company can "find a way around it."

Next year, Family Roots may plant something much shorter that corn.

For now, Family Roots has begun to harvest the sweet corn that's been grown.

It hired people who live in St. Louis to pick it, Foxworth said.

The vegetables were given to food banks and churches, and to anyone from the neighborhood who asked for some.

Foxworth took some home, too.

He said it was delicious.

But Booker, Cooks and Hancock all said they don't want to eat any of the vegetables growing in their backyards.

Having to live in the middle of cornfields is enough.

The other weekend Booker bought some other corn for dinner.

She cooked it, put it on the table, and watched as her children ate it.

"But I just couldn't," she said.

