A small but growing number of parents are bucking the trend of the last few decades: Instead of moving their families to the suburbs, many are choosing to stay in or near downtown.

Some are seeking an urban lifestyle, while others want to shorten commutes or stay close to restaurants, museums and other attractions.

These parents are pushing cities to be more welcoming to families.

In Seattle, Minneapolis, Denver and other cities across the country, parents are banding together to call for downtown schools, more playgrounds and more affordable family-friendly housing.

"The benefit of living in the city so far outweighed what we would get by moving out to the suburbs," said Jenny Kelly, 32, a marketing consultant who helped form a parents group in 2013, now called Parents for a Better Downtown Seattle.

Kelly and her husband Michael moved to downtown Seattle in their 20s and stayed when they had 2-year-old Elea.

Both parents walk to work from their loft apartment in Pioneer Square, where the laundry room also serves as the toddler's bedroom.

Kelly and other parents recently pushed for a public school downtown.

They also lobbied to include a playground in a redesign of the city's waterfront.

The city of Seattle offers real estate developers benefits if they provide space for a school: the developers can then build higher buildings.

Still, no one has taken the city up on the offer.

Some cities are trying to respond to families, though it's a slow process.

Portland, Oregon, revised its building codes to allow courtyard housing — houses gathered around a common courtyard — that is considered family-friendly.

Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake has pledged to expand her city by 10,000 families.

"Families with children are indicator species about the health of an urban neighborhood," said Gary Johnson, Seattle's city center coordinator.

For decades, Seattle has had a well-earned reputation as a childless city.

In the 1960s and 1970s, as more families moved to the suburbs, the number of children in the city dropped.

Compared with the rest of the state of Washington or the United States, Seattle has a small percentage of children.

Still, recent trends suggest Seattle is doing a better job of holding onto those kids, according to Sightline Institute, a think tank based in Seattle.

The city is increasing its share of kids under 15 at a time when that percentage is declining elsewhere.

"We seem to be closing the child gap," said Eric de Place, the group's policy director.

Between 2007 and 2012, the number of downtown kids enrolled in kindergarten to eighth grade jumped nearly 30 percent, according to the Downtown Seattle Association, a business group that has worked to get more families downtown.

Parents used to stay until their kids reached age 5, then many would leave downtown, said Jon Scholes, the association's CEO, who is raising 5-year-old twins downtown.

Now, Scholes said, parents are staying longer.

Schools, parks and other amenities matter, he added.

In Minneapolis, Melissa and Aaron Whitney traded in their 2,700-square-foot home with five bedrooms in the suburbs for an apartment half that size downtown.

"We thought once we got married, we had to buy a house in the suburbs," said Aaron Whitney, 40, a technology consultant.

"We drank the Kool-Aid."

The couple quickly realized they didn't want to spend their time on home repairs or yard work.

They found themselves downtown so much during leisure time, they moved back with their son, who is now 2.

The couple said they would like to see more green spaces and affordable housing in the city.

A new school opens up downtown this fall.

They're watching its progress to decide where they'll enroll their son.

After moving from Atlanta to Seattle last year with his wife and toddler, Bradley Calvert, 33, joined with other parents to push for a downtown public school.

Last month, the district tried, but failed, to buy a vacant federal building downtown to use as a school.

Calvert said a downtown school and more affordable housing will be keys to keeping families in the urban center.

A city benefits when there's a diverse mix of people downtown, Calvert said.

Attracting families — not just young professionals or older empty nesters — creates a sense of community.

Lindsey Carillo, 31, grew up in a suburb of Detroit but wanted to expose her kids to city life.

"It gives them a different way of living," said the mother of two kids, who are 8 and 1.

"I want my kids to have a cultured experience growing up."

Her family of four shares a two-bedroom high-rise apartment in downtown Seattle.

Occasionally, her son wishes he had a back yard and could walk to school, but "he loves to show off where we live as well," she said.

Paul Hughes and his wife Heidi didn't want to give up on urban living when they had a son.

The couple likes that their second-grader son, Silas, is exposed to more experiences in the city.

Still, they want to see more playgrounds and a school.

They also wish there were more playmates for their son in the building.

"It's nowhere near as challenging as people think it is," Hughes said.

"The more people see it working, the more they think it's possible."

