It's not easy to build a modern streetcar, even though it is an old-fashioned type of transportation.

The streetcars built at TIG/m Modern Street Railways may look like they are from the 1800s.

Inside, though, they are filled with high-tech machinery and modern materials.

However, the wheel system is still cheaper to build with parts from old vehicles.

Sometimes, the company finds the old parts in a streetcar graveyard deep in a Pennsylvania forest.

"It's like a jungle in there," said Brad Read, who is 61 years old and president of the company.

"And when we go to buy them, the owner has to go in with a chain saw and cut down the trees just to get them out."

Read and his co-owner, Alvaro Villa, think this mixture of old and new is the future of streetcars and other types of transportation.

They build streetcars that do not need overhead wires and do not cause pollution.

So far, the streetcars mainly carry tourists in the Caribbean island of Aruba and the Middle East.

Read and Villa think they have a solution for poor U.S. cities.

They believe streetcars that make short trips around downtown areas can make these cities more lively and attractive to visitors.

"Our mission is to make it more affordable to reintroduce the electric streetcar in the United States," Read said.

"That is why we developed this technology."

The owners say that their streetcars are more affordable than older ones.

Their streetcars do not require expensive overhead electric wires like the old-fashioned kind.

Instead, their cars are powered by hydrogen fuel cells or banks of batteries.

Both of these can be recharged with solar power.

They also do not need to travel on tracks.

Read said the cost of putting in tracks with an overhead wire can cost up to $20 million a mile.

"When we remove the overhead wire ... we reduce that cost by at least $5 million a mile," he added.

Also, Villa said, "no pollution is involved.

It's totally green."

The company recently has gotten new projects overseas.

As a result, it now has 35 workers.

Read and Villa are looking for a factory twice the size of their current one.

Villa and Read are both engineers.

They were introduced more than 10 years ago by a friend who knew they liked the same things.

Read was president of a company that built a double-decker streetcar.

Today, it travels from a Los Angeles shopping center to a farmers market next door.

Read says that streetcar was the model for everything they are creating today.

Villa is 73 years old and an expert in robotics.

He spent several years working at the Walt Disney Company.

Then he founded his own company.

It specialized in carnival rides and animatronics, which is the technology used to make robotic animals and other figures in movies and theme parks.

"I was intrigued by what Read's company was doing," said Villa, who built the electric car he drove to work at Disney.

"Since I was very young," Villa said, "I believed in this kind of electric vehicle technology.

Our business has given me a chance to do something I've always wanted to do: design the best kind of electric transportation system that works with zero pollution."

The company's streetcars can operate without wires to power them.

They use a system similar to that used in hybrid cars, which stores a lot of electricity in its batteries.

Its most sophisticated streetcars use hydrogen fuel cells as a power source.

In Aruba, two of the company's streetcars will travel from a cruise line dock to the capital city.

In April, the company delivered its first car to Dubai, a city in the Middle East.

It will run on the Downtown Dubai Trolley System.

Customers can choose from hundreds of streetcar designs.

Some date back to the 1800s and some are more futuristic-looking.

The amount of artistry involved in each streetcar means they can cost up to $3 million each.

For Dubai, where the temperature is 90 degrees or higher seven months of the year, special doors were designed to close the streetcar and allow air conditioning.

Dubai is now one of the world's most popular tourist destinations.

Read said the company hopes to grow enough so that it can build 20 streetcars a year.

Villa, who is 73, said it was possible, joking about how many more years he could devote to building the company.

"I'm still young," Villa quipped.

"We can grow a few more years."

