Shirley Booker doesn't want to live next door to a farm.

But when she looks out her front door, all she sees is green.

Booker has lived in her St. Louis home for 37 years.

Up until last summer, she felt like she lived in a city.

Then people came to her neighborhood, called St. Louis Place, and planted vegetables all around her house, including corn and soybeans.

She doesn't like it.

About one mile of Booker's neighborhood is now a farm.

A farming company called Family Roots International runs the farm, which is on 62 acres of St. Louis Place land.

The company was founded by an Olympic athlete from St. Louis named Jackie Joyner-Kersee.

Family Roots planted vegetables in the once empty land.

The company is on a mission.

It wants to find ways to grow good crops like corn an other vegetables in ground that might not be so healthy.

The ground might have lead or pavement in it, which makes it hard for plants to grow.

Family Roots would like to make the soil healthy, grow plants, bring jobs and make money.

It agreed to lease 62 acres to complete its mission.

But what Family Roots wants to do and what some of the people who live in the neighborhood want is very different.

Homeowner Joyce Cooks wants to live in the city, not in the middle of a cornfield.

"I'm all for progress," Cooks said.

"But I don't want to live on a farm.

I'm a city girl."

Family Roots attorney Maurice Foxworth says that he spoke with St. Louis Place residents before planting began, but some people who live there say that is not true.

They claim that they only learned of the farming plan early last summer.

That's when people who spray chemicals to keep bugs and mice away came into the neighborhood.

But Booker says that the spray didn't keep the pests away.

Bugs, possums, foxes, deer, fat rats and even a peacock can be seen roaming, she says.

Booker also says that the eight-foot corn stalks have attracted car racing on the streets, which is against the law.

Karen Hancock has lived in a little red brick house in the neighborhood for almost 50 years.

She says she finds the tall corn stalks a little "weird."

She also says they are a little scary.

A few weeks ago, a man who was running from the police fled through the corn to hide in her yard.

She was able to chase him away.

People who work for Family Roots don't agree that crime is going up in the neighborhood because of corn stalks.

They say complaints have been exaggerated.

A St. Louis police spokeswoman said there was no jump in crime in the area over the summer.

But still the neighbors are nervous because of the corn.

The few people who live in the neighborhood all know each other.

Several said there was once a sense of safety in being able to see each others' houses across the mostly-empty blocks.

"I can't see anybody now," Hancock said.

Foxworth said he understands neighbors' worries about the tall corn stalks.

He wants the people to know that Family Roots can grow something other than corn.

He says the company can "find a way around it."

Next year, something shorter may be planted.

For now, Family Roots has begun to harvest sweet corn.

The company hired locals to pick it, Foxworth said.

The vegetables were given to food banks and churches, and to anyone from the neighborhood who asked.

Foxworth took some home, too.

"It was delicious," he said.

But Booker, Cooks and Hancock all said they don't want to eat any of the vegetables growing in their backyards.

Having to live in the middle of cornfields is enough for Booker.

The other weekend, she said, she bought some corn to make for dinner.

She put it on the table and watched as her grown children ate it.

"But I just couldn't," she said.

