Streetcars are an old-fashioned way to get around.

They were used before there were cars.

They are still being used in some places today.

But they are not easy to build.

One company is building them in a new way.

They look old on the outside, but inside they are very high-tech.

Brad Read and Alvaro Villa run the new company that makes streetcars.

Sometimes they use old streetcar parts.

Sometimes they use new parts.

The two men like the idea of combining the old and the new.

They build streetcars that do not cause pollution.

They have sold streetcars to different countries around the world.

Read and Villa think their streetcars can help poor U.S. cities.

They're cheaper than older ones because they don't need tracks.

Old streetcars run on tracks.

They are almost like a train.

The tracks cost a lot of money.

Read and Villa's cars also do not need large wires for electricity.

Old streetcars have electricity wires connected to them.

The new streetcars just have big batteries to power them.

Read and Villa also think their streetcars can make cities more fun for visitors.

The company has been sending more streetcars to other countries.

It is making more streetcars, so it needs more workers.

The owners are looking for a bigger building to work in.

Villa and Read are both engineers.

That means they like to make things.

They were introduced more than 10 years ago by a friend who knew they liked the same things.

Read ran a company that built a double-decker streetcar.

It had an upstairs and a downstairs.

Villa used to work for the Walt Disney Company.

He built robots.

Then he started his own company.

Read liked the work that Villa was doing.

One of the company's streetcars will go to Aruba.

It is an island in the Caribbean Sea.

The streetcar will bring people from the beach to the island's main city.

In April, the company delivered its first streetcar to Dubai.

It is a city in the Middle East.

The streetcar will be used in downtown Dubai.

The streetcars can come in many different sizes, shapes and colors.

People who buy them can choose the one they like best.

Read and Villa hope the company will grow.

They want to build 20 streetcars every year.

