Shirley Booker didn't sign up to live next door to a farm, but these days, when she looks out her front door, all she sees is green.

Tall corn stalks and soybeans surround her.

Booker, who has lived in her St. Louis home for 37 years, doesn't consider her new, lush surroundings inviting.

Just the opposite.

She looks at the vegetables growing across the road or in her backyard as an insulting nuisance.

The new farmland stretches across approximately 10 blocks in the St. Louis Place neighborhood.

The land was bought from the city last year by Paul McKee of NorthSide Regeneration LLC.

A farming company called Family Roots International later leased about 62 acres of vastly unused and unoccupied blocks from McKee.

The lease runs year to year.

Family Roots is an agricultural organization bringing farming into cities.

It was founded by former Olympic athlete and East St. Louis native Jackie Joyner-Kersee.

Roots not only put vacant land to use when it rented land in St. Louis Place, it also began one of the country's largest city farming experiments.

The company is trying to find ways to grow good crops in ground that might contain lead, asphalt or old filled-in basements.

It is land that also might have inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than found in a rural field where crops are grown.

It's all part of a broader plan to bring the growing plant sciences industry to inner cities, Family Roots attorney Maurice Foxworth said; the goal being job opportunities and, yes, make a little money in the process.

"This is a for-profit business," Foxworth said.

"The whole point is to be sustainable and provide jobs and grow things."

As soon as McKee wants to use it for development, Family Roots will move somewhere else in St. Louis, Foxworth said.

"I don't think there's a shortage of vacant land."

Family Roots is not the only company setting up farms in the middle of a city.

Urban farming is all the rage these days.

In St. Louis and cities across the country, groups are planting vegetable gardens in vacant lots and selling the produce at local farmers markets.

Gateway Greening, a nonprofit that supports city agriculture in St. Louis, works with more than 200 community gardens.

According to Gateway employee Mara Higdon, planting cornfields in the St. Louis Place neighborhood means possibilities like job training for local residents.

But she also said that the nonprofit — which is not involved in the St. Louis Place project — typically recommends lots of public outreach to involve the community.

Some neighborhood  residents claim that no one from Family Roots consulted them about the current farming program.

"No one asked us.

No one told us this was coming," Booker said.

"And this isn't happening next to where they live," she said, referring to Family Roots employees.

Booker's complaint is one of the many challenges of reinventing city neighborhoods in need.

There is a significant gap between the visions of companies in charge of projects like the one Family Roots has founded and the expectations of the people who actually live in the community where these projects are in development.

Foxworth claims that he spoke with area residents ahead of time, but several members of the community said they only learned of the project when insecticide sprayers came through early last summer.

Despite the spray, since the fields sprang up Booker says so have new pests.

Bugs, possums, foxes, deer, fat rats and even a peacock can be found roaming the area, she said.

In addition to pests, Booker says that the eight-foot corn stalks have attracted illegal drag racing to the area's back streets.

Booker's neighbor, Karen Hancock, who has lived in a little red brick house in the area for nearly 50 years, finds the corn stalks a little "weird."

"I call myself the 'children of the cornfield lady," Hancock says with a laugh.

But, she says, it's a little scary.

A few weeks ago, a man who was running from the police fled through the corn to hide in her yard, she says.

Then there's the jarring shift  from living in a depopulated city neighborhood to living in something that resembles the cornfields of Iowa.

"I'm all for progress," said resident Joyce Cooks.

"But I don't want to live on a farm.

I'm a city girl."

The few people who live in the neighborhood all know each other and go back generations.

Several said there was once a sense of security in being able to see each others' houses across the mostly-empty blocks.

"I can't see anybody now," Hancock said.

McKee and Family Roots spokesmen said crime concerns have been overblown.

A police spokeswoman said there had been no noticeable uptick in criminal activity in the area during the summer.

But Foxworth said he understands neighbors' worries about the tall stalks.

His group may plant something shorter next year.

"They have concerns that are legitimate that we should and can address," he said.

"We don't have to grow corn.

We don't have to have things high.

We can find ways to get around that."

Despite the dispute over corn, Family Roots started to harvest sweet corn earlier this month.

It hired city residents to pick it, and gave the produce to food banks and churches and anyone from the neighborhood who asked, Foxworth said, adding that he took some home, too.

"It was delicious," he said.

But Booker, Cooks and Hancock all said they have no stomach for the produce of these fields in their neighborhood.

In fact, Booker said, the whole experience of living amid corn had turned her off to the vegetable altogether.

The other weekend, she said, she bought some for a family dinner, cooked it, put it on the table, and watched as her grown children had some.

"But I just couldn't," she said.

