For the past five decades or so, there has been a common pattern: Young people move to city centers, while families move out to the suburbs.

Now, a growing number of parents are choosing to keep their families downtown.

For some families, it's the lure of an urban lifestyle: living in a dense, vibrant city where a car isn't necessary.

Other families are living in the city to be closer to work or to restaurants, museums and other attractions.

These parents are now pushing cities to be more family friendly.

Parents in Seattle, Minneapolis, Denver and elsewhere are joining together to call for more schools, playgrounds and affordable housing in downtown areas.

"The benefit of living in the city far outweighed what we would get by moving out to the suburbs," said Jenny Kelly, 32.

She helped form a parents group in 2013 called Parents for a Better Downtown Seattle.

Kelly and her husband Michael moved to downtown Seattle in their 20s.

They stayed when they had 2-year-old Elea.

Both parents walk to work from their apartment in Pioneer Square, where the laundry room also serves as the toddler's bedroom.

Kelly and other parents recently pushed the city to build a public school downtown.

They also lobbied to include a playground in a redesign of the city's waterfront.

The city of Seattle offers real estate developers benefits if they provide space for a school: The developers can then build higher buildings.

Still, no one has taken the city up on the offer.

Some cities are trying to respond to families.

Portland, Oregon, changed building codes to allow courtyard housing — houses gathered around a common courtyard — that is considered family friendly.

Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake has pledged to expand her city by 10,000 families.

In an urban neighborhood, families with children are a good sign of the neighborhood's health, said Gary Johnson, Seattle's city center coordinator.

For decades, Seattle has had a reputation as a childless city.

In the 1960s and 1970s, more families moved to the suburbs, and the number of children in the city dropped.

Indeed, Seattle has a smaller percentage of children than Washington state or the nation at large.

Still, it seems Seattle is doing a good job of holding onto those kids, according to the Sightline Institute, a think tank based in Seattle.

The city is increasing its percentage of kids under 15 at a time when that percentage is declining elsewhere.

"We seem to be closing the child gap," said Eric de Place, the group's policy director.

Between 2007 and 2012, the number of downtown kids enrolled in kindergarten to eighth grade jumped nearly 30 percent, according to the Downtown Seattle Association, a business group that has worked to get more families downtown.

Parents used to stay in downtown Seattle until their kids were age 5, then many would leave, said Jon Scholes, CEO of the association.

He is raising 5-year-old twins downtown.

Now parents are staying longer, Scholes said.

Schools, parks and other conveniences matter, he added.

In Minneapolis, Melissa and Aaron Whitney traded in their 2,700-square-foot home with five bedrooms in the suburbs for an apartment half that size downtown.

"We thought once we got married, we had to buy a house in the suburbs," said Aaron Whitney, 40, a technology consultant.

But once in the suburbs, the couple quickly realized they didn't enjoy home repairs or yard work.

They seemed to always be visiting downtown to have fun.

Eventually they moved to downtown Minneapolis with their son, who is now 2.

The couple said they would like to see more green spaces and affordable housing in the city.

A new school opens in downtown this fall.

They're watching its progress to decide where they'll enroll their son.

Bradley Calvert, 33, moved from Atlanta to Seattle last year with his wife and toddler.

He has joined with other parents to push for a downtown public school.

The school district tried to buy a vacant building downtown to use as a school, but it was not successful.

Calvert said a downtown school and more affordable housing will be keys to keeping families in the urban center.

A healthy city should have a diverse mix of people downtown, Calvert said.

Attracting families — not just young professionals — creates a sense of community.

Lindsey Carillo, 31, grew up in a suburb but wanted to expose her kids to city life.

"It gives them a different way of living," said the mother of two kids, who are 8 and 1.

"I want my kids to have a cultured experience growing up."

Her family of four shares a two-bedroom apartment in a high-rise building in downtown Seattle.

Sometimes her son wishes he had a back yard and that he could walk to school, but "he loves to show off where we live as well," she said.

