To manufacture an advanced rail streetcar, sometimes a chain saw is required.

The vintage-looking trolley cars produced at TIG/m Modern Street Railways are crammed with high-tech machinery and modern materials.

The wheel system, however, is cheaper to build using parts from old vehicles.

One source of materials is a streetcar graveyard deep in a Pennsylvania forest.

"It's like a jungle in there," said TIG/m co-owner and President Brad Read, 61.

"And when we go to buy them, the owner has to go in with a chain saw and cut down the trees just to get them out."

This mixture of new and old is propelling the Los Angeles-area company into what co-owners Read and Alvaro Villa think is the future for transportation technology: streetcars that don't need overhead wires and don't pollute.

So far, the trolleys mainly carry tourists in the Caribbean island of Aruba and the Middle East.

The partners think they have a solution for cash-poor U.S. cities — short streetcar loops to revitalize downtown areas.

"Our mission is to make it more affordable to reintroduce the electric streetcar in the United States," Read said.

"That is why we developed this technology."

TIG/m's owners say they can dramatically cut the costs on some projects because their streetcars do not require an expensive system of overhead electric wires.

The cars are powered by hydrogen fuel cells or banks of batteries, which can be recharged with solar power.

The cost of putting in track including an overhead wire is at least $10 million to $20 million a mile, Read said.

"When we remove the overhead wire, all of the poles and substructure, all of the transformers and feeder stations to get electricity to the alignment, we reduce that cost by at least $5 million a mile," Read said.

Moreover, Villa said, "no pollution is involved.

No fossil fuels are used.

It's totally green."

The company recently has landed projects in Dubai, Qatar and Aruba.

As a result, the company's workforce has risen to 35, and Read and Villa are looking for a factory twice the size of the current 25,000-square-foot plant.

Villa and Read, both engineers, were introduced more than 10 years ago by a friend who knew they were both fascinated with gadgets.

Read was president of Transportation Innovations Group, which built the double-decker trolley that travels from a shopping center near Los Angeles to the farmers market next door.

Read, who grew up in Cleveland and whose father worked for Republic Steel, says that trolley was the model for everything they're doing at TIG/m.

Villa, 73, is from Colombia and is an expert in robotics and animatronics, the technology of designing animated robots for special effects in movies or theme parks.

He spent several years at Walt Disney Compoany as an "imagineer," which is what Disney calls its engineers.

He went on to found his own company, AVG Inc., which specialized in audio-animatronic figures and amusement park rides.

Villa says one of his most complicated jobs was a $400,000 robotic figure of American artist Andy Warhol.

The robot was able to mimic 54 human movements, including a shoulder shrug and a bobbing Adam's apple.

The show it was planned for never happened because the money ran out, but the Warhol robot was bought by a private collector.

"I was intrigued by what Read's company was doing," said Villa, who built the electric car he drove to work at Disney.

"Since I was very young," Villa said, "I believed in this kind of electric vehicle technology.

Our business has given me a chance to do something I've always wanted to do: design the best kind of electric transportation system that works with zero pollution."

The company's streetcars can operate without wires or an outside power source because they use onboard energy storage and regenerative braking similar to the system used in hybrid cars.

Its most sophisticated streetcars use hydrogen fuel cells as a power source.

In Aruba, two of TIG/m's streetcars will run a short route from the cruise line docks to its capital city, Oranjestad.

In April, the company announced that it had delivered its first car to Dubai for its Downtown Dubai Trolley System.

Customers can choose from hundreds of old-fashioned streetcar designs that date to the 1800s as well as more streamlined futuristic looks.

The amount of craftsmanship involved in each streetcar translates to a price range from $1.4 million to $3 million.

For Dubai, where the temperature is 90 degrees or above seven months out of the year, special doors were designed to close the streetcar and allow air conditioning.

Dubai is now one of the world's most popular tourist destinations.

Read said the company hopes to scale up to be able to build 20 streetcars a year.

Villa said it was possible, joking about how many more years he could devote to building the company.

"I'm still young," Villa quipped.

"We can grow a few more years."

