Streetcars are an old-fashioned type of transportation that are not easy to build today.

Many look like they are from the 1800s.

Now, one company is doing something different with them.

It fills them inside with modern, high-tech machinery.

TIG/m Modern Street Railways is the new company.

It may build high-tech streetcars, but the wheel system is still made from old parts because it's cheaper.

The company goes to what it calls a streetcar graveyard to find the old parts.

It is located in the woods of Pennsylvania.

"It's like a jungle in there," said Brad Read.

He is 61 years old and is the president of the company.

"And when we go to buy them, the owner has to go in with a chain saw and cut down the trees just to get them out."

Read and his co-owner, Alvaro Villa, think this mixture of old and new is the future of streetcars.

They build streetcars that do not need overhead wires and do not cause pollution.

So far, they have sold streetcars to the Caribbean island of Aruba and countries in the Middle East.

Read and Villa think their streetcars can help poor U.S. cities.

They would like to see their streetcars making short trips around downtown areas.

They believe streetcars can make these cities more fun and bring in more visitors.

"Our mission is to make it more affordable to reintroduce the electric streetcar in the United States," Read said.

"That is why we developed this technology."

The owners say that their streetcars are more affordable.

That is because they do not use expensive overhead electric wires like the old-fashioned kind.

Instead, their cars are powered by hydrogen fuel cells or giant batteries.

Both of these can be recharged with power from the sun.

They also do not need to travel on tracks.

That saves cities on the cost of laying down tracks.

The company recently got new projects in other countries.

As a result, it has had to hire more people.

Read and Villa are looking for a factory twice as big as the one they have now.

Villa and Read are both engineers.

They were introduced more than 10 years ago by a friend who knew they liked the same things.

Read was president of a company that built a double-decker streetcar.

Today, it travels from a shopping center in Los Angeles to a farmers market next door.

Read says that streetcar was the model for everything they are creating today.

Villa is 73 years old and an expert at making robots.

He spent several years working at the Walt Disney Company.

Then he started his own company, which designed carnival rides and robots used in movies.

"Since I was very young," Villa added, "I believed in this kind of electric vehicle technology."

He has always wanted to "design the best kind of electric transportation system that works with zero pollution."

In Aruba, two of the company's streetcars will carry tourists from their boat dock to the island's capital city.

In April, the company delivered its first car to Dubai, a city in the Middle East.

The streetcar will be used in the downtown area.

Customers can choose from hundreds of streetcar designs.

Some date back to the 1800s and some look like they are from the future.

A great deal of artistry goes into building each streetcar.

All that works means they can cost up to $3 million each.

In Dubai, the temperature is usually 90 degrees or higher.

The company had to design special doors to allow air conditioning.

Dubai is now one of the world's most popular cities for tourists.

Read said the company hopes to grow enough so that it can build 20 streetcars a year.

Villa said it's possible.

"I'm still young," he joked.

"We can grow a few more years."

