Shirley Booker didn't sign up to live next door to a farm.

But when she looks out her front door, all she sees is green.

Tall corn stalks and soybeans surround her.

Booker has lived in her St. Louis home for 37 years.

She doesn't consider her new, lush surroundings inviting.

Just the opposite.

She looks at the vegetables growing across the road as an insulting nuisance.

The new farmland stretches across about 10 blocks in the St. Louis Place neighborhood.

The land was bought from the city last year by Paul McKee of NorthSide Regeneration.

A farming company called Family Roots International later leased close to 62 acres of mostly empty blocks from McKee.

Family Roots is an agricultural organization that brings farming into cities.

The company was founded by former Olympic athlete and East St. Louis native Jackie Joyner-Kersee.

Roots not only put empty land to use when it rented land in St. Louis Place, it also began one of the country's largest city farming experiments.

The company is also trying to find ways to grow good crops in bad soil.

The ground might also contain lead, pavement or old filled-in basements.

It is ground with inconsistent irrigation and different types of weeds than are found in a country field where plants usually grow.

It's all part of a broader plan to bring plant sciences to inner cities, company attorney Maurice Foxworth said.

The goal is creating job opportunities and, yes, making a little money while doing so.

"This is a for-profit business," Foxworth said.

"The whole point is to be sustainable and provide jobs and grow things."

Family Roots is not the only company setting up farms in the middle of a city.

Urban farming is all the rage these days.

In St. Louis and cities across the country, groups are planting vegetable gardens in empty lots and selling the produce at farmers markets.

Gateway Greening, a nonprofit group that supports city-based agriculture in St. Louis, works with more than 200 community gardens.

According to Mara Higdon, who works for Gateway, planting cornfields in the St. Louis Place neighborhood means possibilities like giving the local residents job training.

She also recommends lots of involvement with the community.

But some people from the neighborhood claim that no one consulted them about the current farming project.

"No one asked us.

No one told us this was coming," Booker said.

Booker's complaint is one of the many challenges of reinventing poor city neighborhoods.

There is a significant gap between the visions of companies in charge of such projects and what the people who actually live there want.

Foxworth said that he spoke with area residents ahead of time, but several members of the community said they only learned of the project when insecticide sprayers came through early last summer.

Since the fields sprang up, so have new pests.

Bugs, possums, foxes, deer, fat rats and even a peacock can be found roaming the area, Booker says.

In addition to the pesky animals, she says that the eight-foot corn stalks have attracted car racing in the area's back streets, which is against the law.

Booker's neighbor, Karen Hancock, has lived in a little red brick house in the area for nearly 50 years.

She finds the corn stalks a little "weird."

"I call myself the 'children of the cornfield lady," Hancock says with a laugh.

But, she says, it's a little scary.

A few weeks ago, a man who was running from the police dashed through the corn to hide in her yard, she said.

Then there's the hard change of living in a depopulated city neighborhood to living in something that resembles the cornfields of Iowa.

"I'm all for progress," said homeowner Joyce Cooks.

"But I don't want to live on a farm.

I'm a city girl."

The few people who live in the neighborhood all know each other and go back generations.

Several said there was once a sense of safety in being able to see each others' houses across the mostly-empty blocks.

"I can't see anybody now," Hancock said.

McKee and Family Roots spokesmen said crime concerns have been overblown.

A police spokeswoman said there was no noticeable increase in crime in the area over the summer.

Foxworth said he understands the neighbors' worries about the tall stalks.

His group isn't married to corn.

Next year, it may plant something shorter.

"They have concerns that are legitimate that we should and can address," he said.

"We don't have to grow corn.

We don't have to have things high.

We can find ways to get around that."

Meanwhile, Family Roots has begun to harvest sweet corn.

They hired city locals to pick it, Foxworth said, and gave the produce to food banks and churches and anyone from the neighborhood who asked.

Foxworth took some home, too.

"It was delicious," he said.

But Booker, Cooks and Hancock all said they have no stomach for the produce of the fields in their neighborhood.

In fact, Booker said, the whole experience of living amid corn had turned her off to the vegetable altogether.

The other weekend, she said, she bought some for a family dinner, cooked it, put it on the table, and watched as her grown children had some.

"But I just couldn't," she said.

