Usually, families with kids will move from the city center to the suburbs.

In the suburbs, they can find peace and quiet, more space and good schools.

Now more and more parents are choosing to keep their families downtown.

City centers offer something much different than the suburbs: a city lifestyle.

This means living in a crowded city with lots of things going on, being closer to work and not needing a car.

These parents are pushing cities to become more family-friendly.

In Seattle, Minneapolis, Denver and elsewhere, parents are calling for more schools and playgrounds.

They're also looking for cheaper housing for families near city centers.

"The benefit of living in the city far outweighed what we would get by moving out to the suburbs," said Jenny Kelly, age 32.

Kelly helped start a parents group in 2013 called Parents for a Better Downtown Seattle.

She and her husband Michael moved to Seattle in their 20s.

They moved downtown, to the city center.

They stayed when they had 2-year-old Elea.

Both parents walk to work from their apartment in Pioneer Square.

In the small space, the laundry room also serves as Elea's bedroom.

Kelly and other parents recently pushed the city to build a public school downtown.

As Seattle discussed changing the area along the water, the parent group asked for a playground.

The city of Seattle is offering home builders benefits if they provide space for a school.

Still, no one has taken the city up on the offer.

Some cities are responding to families' needs.

Portland, Oregon, changed building rules to allow family-friendly apartments with outdoor courtyards.

Baltimore has promised to add 10,000 families to the city.

Families with children are a good sign of a neighborhood's health, according to Gary Johnson.

He works for the city of Seattle.

For decades, Seattle has had a reputation as a city without children.

In the 1960s and 1970s, families moved to the suburbs.

The number of children dropped.

Seattle has a smaller percentage of children than the rest of the state of Washington or the United States as a whole.

Still, Seattle is holding on to the kids it has, according to one study.

While some cities are seeing the percentage of kids go down, the number is going up in Seattle.

There are more kids going to school in downtown Seattle, according to the Downtown Seattle Association, a local business group.

The number of kids who were in kindergarten through eighth grade jumped by nearly one third between 2007 and 2012.

Parents used to stay in downtown Seattle until their kids were age 5, then many would leave, said Jon Scholes, who runs the business group.

He is raising 5-year-old twins downtown.

Now parents are staying longer, Scholes said.

Schools, parks and other conveniences matter, he said.

Melissa and Aaron Whitney moved to Minneapolis, Minnesota.

They sold their large house in the suburbs and bought a small apartment downtown.

"We thought once we got married, we had to buy a house in the suburbs," said Aaron Whitney, age 40.

In the suburbs, though, the couple quickly realized they didn't enjoy home repairs.

They also did not like yard work.

They frequently went downtown to have fun.

Eventually they moved to downtown Minneapolis with their son, who is now 2 years old.

The couple said they would like to see more green spaces in the city.

They also want cheaper housing.

A new school opens up in downtown this fall.

They will might send their son to school there.

Lindsey Carillo is 31 years old.

She grew up in a suburb but wanted to expose her kids to city life.

"It gives them a different way of living," said the mother of two kids.

"I want my kids to have a cultured experience growing up."

Her family of four shares an apartment in a tall building in downtown Seattle.

It is small, with only two bedrooms.

Sometimes her son wishes he had a back yard and that he could walk to school.

Still, she says, "he loves to show off where we live."

