Music has been a big part of the struggle for civil rights for a long time.

It still is today.

The recent movie "Selma" has an example.

The movie is about people marching in Alabama in the 1960s to make sure African-Americans could vote.

At the time, voting was legal for African-Americans.

But many white officials in the South stopped them from voting.

They would threaten them and make it harder for them to vote.

The movie has a song called "Glory."

It is performed by the rapper Common.

He tells how words, music and a protest were brought together.

"Glory" won best original song at the Academy Awards on Sunday.

Many African-Americans were badly hurt during the march from Selma 50 years ago.

Now, there are new issues facing black people in America.

"The movement is a rhythm to us, freedom is like religion to us," Common raps.

Then he mentions the 1950s civil rights pioneer, Rosa Parks.

Parks refused to move from her seat on a city bus for a white person.

Common connects Parks with last year's protests in Ferguson, Missouri.

Those protests started after a police officer shot a black teenager.

His name was Michael Brown and he didn't have a weapon.

People were angry about the death of Brown.

They were also upset about the death of Eric Garner in New York.

He was black, did not have a weapon, and was killed by a white police officer.

Newsweek magazine talked about the fight for civil rights in 1964.

There had never been a fight for rights that was so full of music, Newsweek said.

During the 1960s, there were African-American "freedom songs."

They helped inspire protesters to march into dangerous situations.

The songs also spread news of the struggle to a bigger audience.

The gospel, or religious music of black churches, talked about a better life in heaven.

There were other types of music as well.

Soul music, jazz music and R&amp;B talked about life changing for the better.

Chicago's Curtis Mayfield, Sam Cooke and the Staples Singers were musicians at the time.

Mayfield wrote and sang on records that had a message.

The songs were inspired by pain and struggle.

The three Selma marches in 1965 were meant to draw attention to the struggle for black voting rights.

They were important events in the struggle.

Police used weapons on the protesters.

They hit them and let their dogs attack them.

They also used a special gas.

The gas would hurt the protesters' eyes and make it hard to breathe.

The protesters had no weapons.

They had no way to protect themselves.

Many watched the protests and were shocked.

Even the president noticed.

Soon, Congress passed a law.

The law made it harder for states to stop people from voting.

Pops Staples led a well-known Chicago gospel group.

It was called the Staples Singers.

He saw news coverage of the event.

Staples was horrified.

He had become friends with Martin Luther King Jr.

Staples and his family had been appearing at Civil Rights rallies with King.

What he saw and experienced with King made him political.

He wrote a song called "Freedom Highway."

"If he can preach it, we can sing it," he told the members of his group.

Pops continued writing and singing about the movement until just before he died.

His final recording shows this.

"Don't Lose This" was released this week.

It was recorded with his children in the years before his death in 2000.

On "Sweet Home," Pops and his daughter, Mavis, sing a duet.

The struggle they joined during the '60s shows no sign of ending.

"Lord, I wonder will I ever get home?"

they sing.

Their voices sound tired.

Still, they are fighting for their rights.

They are still on the "freedom highway."

