Fifty-four years ago, nine black South Carolina men were sent to jail.

In 1961, they committed a crime by trying to eat in a whites-only restaurant.

The men were known as the Friendship 9.

In 1961, there were Jim Crow laws in the South.

The laws were unfair to black people and kept them separate from white people.

Keeping the two races apart was called segregation.

It kept blacks out of many public places that were meant only for whites.

Blacks were not allowed to enter many restaurants, hotels and movie theaters.

To protest segregation, the Friendship 9 entered a restaurant called McCrory's in Rock Hill, South Carolina.

They sat down at the lunch counter.

At the time, McCrory's served only whites.

Blacks were not allowed to sit at the counter and order food.

A white man named Elwin Wilson was also at McCrory's during the sit-in.

Back then, Wilson was angry at the protesters.

He tried to pull one of them from his stool.

The nine men were arrested for sitting at the lunch counter.

Eight of the Friendship 9 were students.

They all attended Friendship Junior College.

Their names were W.T.

"Dub" Massey, Willie McCleod, Robert McCullough, Clarence Graham, James Wells, David Williamson Jr., John Gaines and Mack Workman.

Thomas Gaither was the other member of the Friendship 9.

He worked for a national group that was fighting for civil rights.

Kim Johnson is an author.

She wrote a book on the Friendship 9.

Its title is "No Fear For Freedom: The Story of the Friendship 9."

Last year, Johnson went to speak to Kevin Brackett, the chief law officer for the Rock Hill area.

She wanted to see what could be done to clear the men's records.

Having the men's records cleared is important, Johnson said.

It means that what happened to them "should have never happened in the first place."

On Wednesday, Judge Mark Hayes ruled that the court in 1961 was wrong.

The men should never have gone to jail, he said.

"We cannot rewrite history, but we can right history," Judge Hayes said.

Hayes announced that the court had cleared the jail time from the group's permanent records.

The packed court room burst into cheers at his words.

Lawyer Kevin Brackett apologized to the men.

Eight of the men were in the courtroom.

The ninth member of the Friendship 9 died in 2006.

"Sometimes you just have to say you're sorry," Brackett said.

Today, the names of the men are engraved on the stools at the counter of McCrory's restaurant.

It is now called the Old Town Bistro.

A sign outside marks the spot where the men were arrested.

Even Elwin Wilson has changed his thinking over the years.

In 2009, he returned to the same counter where he pulled the men from their stools.

He met with some of the Friendship 9.

The men forgave Wilson after he told them he was sorry for what he had done.

