One day in 1960, Nashville police officers carried John Lewis to a police wagon.

His crime?

He was African-American and had dared to sit at a whites-only lunch counter.

At the time, African-Americans and white people could not sit together at restaurants.

Nashville has changed much since then.

Now, just down the block from where Lewis was arrested, people who are training to be police officers are having a different experience.

They are learning about the difficult history between police and African-Americans.

About 60 police trainees, called recruits, gathered recently in the Civil Rights Room in Nashville's main library.

They listened to stories about Lewis and the other college students.

These students helped make Nashville the first Southern city that allowed African-Americans and whites to sit together at restaurants.

On the walls of the library were the words, "If not us, then who?

If not now, then when?"

Lewis said this 55 years ago to urge the students to stay strong and not give up.

Today there are again clashes between the African-American community and police.

Many African-Americans feel that the police treat them unfairly.

Police leaders around the country are looking for new ways to get people to trust them.

In Tennessee, they have turned to the Nashville library, which has many books and papers about the civil rights movement.

The movement used peaceful activities to win equal rights for African-Americans in the U.S.

The Police Department is teaching new recruits about the civil rights movement at the library.

It hopes this will help the recruits treat people fairly.

The library's Civil Rights Room is lined with pictures of Nashville.

They were taken during the civil rights movement.

The first class at the library was in April.

Teachers used pictures, films and the stories of people who lived through that time to teach police about the movement.

Micah Wright, one of the recruits, said that people are hurt when their rights are ignored.

The pictures show that, he said.

Andrea Blackman, who is in charge of the library program, said police chiefs from across the country have visited the library.

Some of them have asked her to put programs together for their departments.

Chuck Wexler is the head of the Police Executive Research Forum.

Police leaders across the country belong to the group.

Today's young officers were not even alive during the civil rights movement, Wexler said.

Yet, its history is alive in people's memories and cannot be ignored.

He said the Nashville Police Department is being a leader by teaching its recruits about civil rights.

Some of the famous civil rights leaders feel the same way.

Bernard Lafayette is one of them.

During the lunch counter sit-ins, he and other protesters were attacked, and the Nashville police did nothing, he said.

The library's program will help police understand that they must protect the public.

Police also need to know just how much people trust them, he said.

Police can help build a feeling of community in a city, Lafayette said.

"Because, in my opinion, there is no separation between police and community."

During the civil rights movement, James Lawson trained students in nonviolent protest.

He taught them to respond peacefully when they were attacked.

Lawson said the police program is important.

It helps officers say "'I'm going to treat this person exactly as I want to be treated.'"

