High school students in Arizona are now required to pass the U.S. citizenship test in order to graduate.

Arizona is the first state to pass such a law.

The exam tests knowledge about the Founding Fathers, the Bill of Rights and U.S. presidents.

Immigrants to the United States must pass the citizenship test before they can become citizens with the right to vote.

A handful of other states are expected to adopt a similar law this year.

State officials want to improve people's knowledge of civics, the study of how the government works.

But some experts say the citizenship test is not the best way to do that.

They say people need to know more than just what is on the citizenship test.

Not even 12 states make students take any test about American government to graduate high school.

In some states, students don't even need to pass.

In most states, government classes are only given during one semester of U.S. history.

"This has been building for a long time," said Ted McConnell.

He is the head of the Campaign for the Civic Mission of Schools.

It is a civics learning group which is partly run by former U.S. Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor.

McConnell said he and others are worried that lawmakers are only skimming the surface of what students need to know.

Civics educators and experts "are pushing for a much, much more well-rounded approach," said Paul Baumann.

He runs the National Center for Learning and Civic Engagement.

For years, education leaders have expressed worry about the state of civics education.

In 2010, a national test measured educational progress.

Only 13 percent of high school seniors received a passing score in American history.

Poor understanding of citizenship can lead to less voting.

The number of people who voted in the most recent elections for Congress was the lowest in years.

The Joe Foss Institute in Arizona has set a goal of having all 50 states adopt the U.S. citizenship test for high school students by 2017.

That year will be the 230th anniversary of the U.S. Constitution.

The institute says 15 states are expected to consider it this year.

The Foss Institute promotes the test to states.

It sees it as a way to increase students' knowledge of basic government.

The leader of the Institute is former Congressman Frank Riggs from California.

The Arizona law requires high school students to correctly answer 60 of 100 questions on the civics portion of the test.

Passing is required to earn a high school or GED diploma.

The law goes into effect for the 2016-17 school year.

McConnell said people pushing for the citizenship test have the "right problem, wrong solution."

"This exam does not capture (what) we're looking for students to develop," Baumann said.

Baumann preferred other states' civics exams.

Those test knowledge that the U.S. citizenship exam does not.

They ask questions about equality before the law, the purpose of democratic government, and good citizenship practices.

The citizenship exam, on the other hand, only requires "very basic knowledge of U.S. government," he said.

The U.S. citizenship test rule also comes as part of a larger debate over testing.

There are concerns about the No Child Left Behind act and other laws.

They have resulted in fewer topics being studied by students in school.

One effect of testing is that there is less time for instruction in topics like civics.

One study found that more than a quarter of the school districts reported reducing time on social studies.

