Experts have studied school class sizes for more than 40 years.

Many think smaller classes are better.

They believe students get more help in small classes.

The idea is popular.

At least 40 states have cut class sizes in the past 15 years.

Experts generally agree that smaller classes are good, at least in early grades.

Test scores are higher in the smaller classes.

Fewer students quit school.

More students graduate.

They do not agree, however, if the benefits are worth the money.

Smaller classes means hiring more teachers.

Many states do not have much money right now.

Recently, experts have been trying to figure out why smaller classes work.

They also want to know who benefits most.

The answers would help show what else can be done to help students.

Is there something to do besides just shrinking classes?

The studies have shown some surprises.

There was an important experiment in Tennessee to test class size.

The experiment was called Project STAR.

Students in small classes there did better than students in larger groups.

Project STAR was conducted in Tennessee from 1985 to 1989.

The study involved more than 1,200 teachers.

It had almost 12,000 students, said Jeremy Finn.

He is a professor who helped set up the experiment.

The experiment led California and Wisconsin to cut class sizes in 1996.

Wisconsin's smaller classes seemed to help.

California's did not do as well.

The differences showed that simply making classes smaller is not enough.

In 2003, Finn wrote a paper.

It said that many studies showed smaller classes are better.

Still, he said no one knows quite why.

People thought that teachers gave students more one-on-one instruction in smaller classrooms.

However, this did not actually happen.

Most keep teaching the same as before.

Finn came up with a different explanation: Students cannot hide in the back of the classroom in smaller classes.

They behave better and are more involved.

He saw the change himself visiting classrooms in Buffalo, New York.

Smaller, quieter classes may have their biggest effect on kids who do not pay attention and try to avoid looking the teacher in the eye.

That's because they cannot hide.

But there was another question.

Wouldn't smaller class sizes work even better if teachers changed what they do, too?

That is the question Elizabeth Graue and her coworkers at the University of Wisconsin have been studying.

They have been looking at schools involved in a project called SAGE.

The SAGE program began in 1996.

It started with 30 schools around Milwaukee.

The program eventually spread to almost 500 schools around the state.

Graue and her team studied several schools and found big differences.

For example, sometimes schools would put two experienced teachers in the same room.

Doing this lowered the class size.

But one teacher might actually be doing paperwork while the other taught all the kids.

Then the class wasn't really smaller.

If teachers did not have enough physical space it could affect learning.

"We saw classes that were in former locker rooms," Graue said.

There were also classes where bookcases were used as a wall.

Things would stop in a class when the class next door did anything noisy, Graue said.

Smaller class sizes worked best when teachers changed their teaching to meet each student's needs.

Getting to know students families also helped.

