Sometimes, little things can bring big changes.

Justice Crawford and Nathaniel Nitkin are learning this.

A violin and a cello are instruments bringing big changes for them.

Justice and Nathaniel are in sixth grade at Northwest School of the Arts.

Their school is for people who want to learn about music, art and performance.

Before, they used to go to Winterfield Elementary School.

Winterfield has a program with the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra (CSO).

The CSO program teaches kids how to play musical instruments.

Justice learned to play the violin.

Nathaniel learned to play the violin and the cello.

They are the first students from the program to go to Northwest.

For the past six years, the CSO has taught after-school classes at Winterfield.

Kids in grades 2 through 5 learned how to play music.

More than three-quarters of the students come from poor homes.

Their families are not able to afford music lessons.

The CSO wants to know if the music class helps kids in other ways.

They hope it helps them stay out of trouble, have better attendance and get better grades.

Music helped Justice and Nathaniel get into a good middle school.

Endora Crawford is Justice's mom.

She said she is very happy that he does well in class, and he likes it.

She said she would love for him to play in an orchestra one day.

Neil Nitkin is Nathaniel's dad.

He said that the music helps Nathaniel focus.

He said, "It makes a big difference."

When the program started, the goals were simple, but important.

First, the program wanted to teach kids to take responsibility for something valuable.

They are allowed to take smaller instruments home to practice.

Second, the program encouraged cooperation.

Students spend time with children they might not know outside of the program.

Third, the program taught students to practice.

When students get better after practice, they learn that practice is smart.

This transfers to studying for other classes in school.

The same kids cannot always come back every year.

Chris Stonnell is in the CSO.

He said, "Winterfield has a constantly changing population, and we struggle with that.

Not a lot of kids go there for four straight years.

But this year, we're working with 83 students."

Stonnell said that the music is important, but so is the community.

He wants to get the parents to come to school and be involved, too.

Before the program, music was something Justice and Nathaniel found on the Internet.

They did not think of it as something to play.

Justice had never picked up a stringed instrument before coming to Winterfield two years ago.

Nathaniel had not until he joined the music program a year before that.

Students use the first year to explore and find a "forever instrument," as Courtney Hollenbeck calls it.

Hollenbeck is a teacher at Winterfield.

She started the music program in 2009\.

Justice tried out the clarinet and cello before selecting a violin.

Nathaniel enjoyed the trumpet but decided on the cello and violin.

"When I started, it actually looked easy, but I knew it would get tougher," says Nathaniel.

"Practicing is a pleasure.

I'm always trying to get a song perfect, so I'm playing 15-20-25 minutes a day, plus working on my keyboard.

It's a big step for me, going to a school where almost everything you do is (related to) the arts."

