It seems obvious that giving teachers fewer students to teach is a change that makes sense.

Students should get more individual attention and perform better.

The idea is popular with parents and lawmakers alike.

In fact, at least 40 states have cut class sizes in the past 15 years.

But despite more than four 40 years of research, it has been hard to measure the results of reducing class sizes.

Researchers generally agree that smaller classes are linked to educational benefits, at least for the earlier grades.

Among the positives are better test scores, fewer dropouts and higher graduation rates, especially for poorer children.

They disagree, however, on whether those benefits outweigh the costs.

Lowering class sizes means hiring more teachers, which many states feel they can't afford right now.

In recent years, researchers have been trying to figure out why smaller class size works and who benefits most.

The answers would help show what else can be done besides just shrinking classes to get the best results for the money.

The studies were based on classroom observations and interviews.

They have revealed some surprising information.

The most persuasive class-size research in the United States comes from a large experiment in Tennessee.

Students in small classes there outperformed students in larger groups.

Project STAR was conducted in Tennessee from 1985 to 1989.

The study involved more than 1,200 teachers and almost 12,000 students, according to Jeremy Finn, a professor at the University of Buffalo who helped set up the experiment.

The Tennessee results inspired California and Wisconsin to cut class sizes statewide in lower grades in 1996.

Back then state governments had extra money to hire teachers.

Wisconsin's smaller classes benefited students.

California seemed not to as much.

Some people said California hired inexperienced teachers and didn't have enough space for the smaller classes.

The different results showed that simply making classes smaller is not enough.

In 2003, Finn wrote a paper that identified a big hole in the puzzle.

It said that many studies show positive effects.

Still, research has yet to show a specific reason that makes small classes work.

People thought that teachers gave students more individualized instruction in smaller classrooms.

However, observers did not actually see this happen.

Several studies have found that teachers teach the same way they always have, even with smaller class sizes.

Finn and his coworkers proposed a different explanation: Students behave better and get more involved when they can't hide in the back of the classroom.

He saw the change himself visiting classrooms in Buffalo.

"In a big class, everybody in the back of the room is talking and giggling, and the little kids are throwing things at each other," Finn said.

"But in a small class, the first thing a teacher says is 'Let's all bring our chairs around me here in a circle.'"

Smaller, quieter classes (fewer than 20 students) may have their biggest effect on kids who are inattentive and try to avoid looking the teacher in the eye.

The reason is they can't hide.

Finn compared the performance of fourth-graders considered to be disruptive, inattentive or neither.

He used information from Project STAR to do this.

"Most people I talk to predict that the disruptive kids are the worst, but they're not.

The inattentive, withdrawn kids are by far and away poorer students than all the others," Finn said.

But wouldn't smaller class sizes work even better if teachers and principals changed what they're doing, too?

That's the question Elizabeth Graue and her coworkers at the University of Wisconsin-Madison have been studying at schools involved in a project called SAGE.

The SAGE program began in 1996 and has studied almost 500 schools around the state.

Graue and her team found big differences among the schools.

For example, sometimes schools would put two experienced teachers in the same room, which lowered the class size on paper.

But in practice, one teacher might be doing paperwork while the other was teaching all the kids.

Then the class size had really gone up for those kids.

Small classes also did not work as well if teachers lacked enough physical space to teach in.

"We saw classes that were in former locker rooms," Graue said.

"I don't know how many classrooms I saw where they used a row of bookcases as a wall ... and anytime the other class did anything noisy, everything ground to a halt in the class next door."

Smaller classes worked best when teachers were trained in how to better tailor instruction to each student's needs and spent more time getting to know their students' families.

"Class-size reduction alone will only get fewer children in a class," Graue said.

"It doesn't translate directly to a change in achievement."

