It seems obvious that giving teachers fewer students to teach would help students learn better.

Students should get more individual attention.

Parents and lawmakers both like the idea.

At least 40 states have cut class sizes in the past 15 years.

There has been more than 40 years of research on class size.

Still, it has been hard to measure when it works and why.

Experts mostly agree that smaller classes are good, at least in the earliest grades.

Smaller classes lead to better test scores, fewer dropouts and higher graduation rates.

They don't agree, however, on whether those benefits outweigh the costs.

Keeping classes small means hiring more teachers.

At the moment states have little money for that.

In recent years, experts have been trying to figure out why smaller class size works.

They also want to know who benefits most.

The answers would help show what else can be done to help students.

Is there something besides just shrinking classes that gets the best results for the money?

Studies have shown some surprising information.

The most respected class-size study in the United States comes from a large experiment in Tennessee.

Students in small classes there did better than students in larger groups.

Project STAR took place in Tennessee from 1985 to 1989.

The study involved more than 1,200 teachers.

It had almost 12,000 students, said Jeremy Finn, a professor at the University of Buffalo in New York state who helped set up the experiment.

Project STAR led California and Wisconsin to cut class sizes in 1996.

Back then the states had more money to hire teachers.

Wisconsin's students did better with small classes.

California students did not.

The differences showed that simply making classes smaller is not enough.

In 2003, Finn wrote a paper.

It described the many studies that show how small classes help.

Still, he discovered that experts had not found out why.

People thought that teachers gave students more help in smaller classrooms.

However, observers said this did not actually happen.

Finn and his coworkers came up with a different explanation.

They said students may behave better and be more involved when they can't hide in the back of the classroom.

He saw the change himself visiting classrooms in Buffalo.

Smaller, quieter classes (fewer than 20 students) may have their biggest effect on kids who do not pay attention and try to avoid looking the teacher in the eye.

The reason is they can't hide.

"Most people I talk to predict that the disruptive kids are the worst, but they're not," he said.

The shy kids who do not pay attention were "by far and away poorer students than all the others," Finn said.

But there was another question.

Wouldn't smaller class sizes work even better if teachers changed what they're doing, too?

Elizabeth Graue and her coworkers at the University of Wisconsin-Madison have been studying that question.

They have been looking at schools in a project called SAGE.

The SAGE program began in 1996 with 30 schools around Milwaukee.

It eventually spread to almost 500 schools around the state.

Graue and her team studied several schools and found big differences.

For example, sometimes schools would put two more experienced teachers in the same room.

Doing this lowered the class size.

But in practice, one teacher might be doing paperwork while the other was teaching all the kids.

Then the class size had really gone up for those kids.

Putting fewer students in a class also did not work if the classroom was too small, or did not have enough privacy.

"We saw classes that were in former locker rooms," Graue said.

There were also classes where a row of bookcases was used as a wall.

"Anytime the other class did anything noisy, everything ground to a halt in the class next door," Graue said.

Smaller classrooms worked best when teachers changed their teaching to meet each student's needs and got to know the students' families.

