The U.S. Department of Justice announced Tuesday that Cleveland has agreed to overhaul its police department to address officers' recent patterns of excessive force and other abuses of power.

Federal supervision will ensure that tough new officer conduct standards are properly enforced.

This settlement between the Justice Department and the city of Cleveland is the result of a recent investigation of Cleveland's police practices.

Plans for reform have been underway since the Justice Department published its review of the police department in December 2014.

Use-of-force guidelines, accountability reforms and a mental health advisory committee are all key elements of the new agreement.

Due to tensions between police and Cleveland's black community, the plan also emphasizes community engagement and includes training on bias-free police practices.

Three days before the settlement, white patrolman Michael Brelo had been found not guilty in the shooting deaths of two unarmed black suspects.

Following a high-speed chase in 2012, Patrolman Brelo and his fellow officers fired 137 shots at the suspects.

Cleveland has since paid the victims' families a total of $3 million to settle a federal civil rights lawsuit.

The Brelo verdict led to mostly peaceful protests, but also more than 70 arrests.

Church groups marched through downtown Cleveland on Tuesday afternoon as the Justice Department announced the new agreement.

Two other high-profile deaths involving police officers still hang over the city: that of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old black boy who was carrying a pellet gun at a playground when he was fatally shot by a white rookie patrolman on Nov. 22, 2014, and that of 37-year-old Tanisha Anderson, a mentally ill woman who died from lack of oxygen while officers held her down on the ground on Nov. 12, 2014.

According to the Justice Department's review, examples of Cleveland police officers' excessive use of force weren't limited to shooting at suspects and cars.

Patrol officers also hit people over the head with guns and used stun guns on handcuffed suspects.

The Justice Department determined that supervisors encouraged some of the officers' bad behavior and often did little to investigate it.

Some supervisors even told investigators that they tried to make officers look as good as possible when writing their reports.

The department found that only six officers had been suspended for improper use of force over a three-year period.

One incident the Department of Justice found especially concerning involved an allegation that police officers beat a mentally ill man named Edward Henderson in 2011.

Henderson received numerous injuries after a chase in Cleveland, and blurry footage from a helicopter appeared to show officers kicking him as he lay on the ground.

Despite an FBI investigation and a grand jury probe, no charges were brought against the four officers involved.

Each one refused to say how Henderson received his injuries.

Meanwhile, Henderson was sentenced to three years in prison for assaulting a police officer.

He later received $600,000 from the city of Cleveland in a lawsuit settlement.

This investigation is not the first time the Department of Justice has taken issue with Cleveland police officers' use of force.

In 2004, the Justice Department left it up to local police to clean up their own act, but now federal authorities are taking things a step further.

Like many of the nation's most problematic police departments, Cleveland must now cooperate with additional supervision.

The Justice Department has investigated more than 20 police forces in the last five years, including agencies in Ferguson, Missouri, and Baltimore, Maryland.

They have intervened in 15 of those police departments, with eight having been ordered to receive the same level of supervision Cleveland now requires.

When the Cleveland report went public, community members sent city leaders their petitions and recommendations for police reforms.

Requests included reopening police mini-stations at community centers and establishing a citizen-police panel on crisis interventions.

Others suggested creating an online system to make police data and procedures available to the public.

