Things are changing for Cleveland, Ohio.

First, the city will be hard to beat in football and basketball.

Famous NBA player LeBron James announced he would come back to the Cleveland Cavaliers.

James, who is from Ohio, played for them before joining the Miami Heat.

A star college quarterback, Johnny Manziel, signed with the NFL's Cleveland Browns.

Cleveland is getting political, too.

In 2016, a political event will attract thousands of visitors.

It will be where the Republican Party meets to announce who it wants to run for president of the United States.

Cleveland residents say it means the city is coming back from hard times.

Roz Quarto decided to pack up and move to Cleveland two years ago.

She just thought it seemed like a nice place.

Friends in her hometown of New York City did not understand why.

Still, she and her partner bought a big yellow house.

Quarto says when her friends from New York visit now, they understand.

Her partner's boss even bought a second home in Cleveland.

He lives in Alaska.

The Republicans and LeBron will speed up a process that's already started, said Richey Piiparinen.

He studies population changes at Cleveland State University.

Changes were already happening in the city.

New construction is booming.

Fancy restaurants are opening.

Cleveland still has problems.

There are a lot of poor people.

Many homes are empty from when people moved out of the city years ago.

"It's still same old, same old here," said Vickie Williams.

She works downtown and has seen the changes there.

But she says her neighborhood has not gotten better.

People there still beg for money outside the dollar store.

Tall weeds grow in empty lots where there used to be houses.

Still, people are moving to Cleveland from places like Chicago and Brooklyn.

More people with college degrees are living there, too.

Many young people fled Cleveland and other cities in the 2000s.

They went to places such as Chicago, San Francisco and New York, Piiparinen said.

Then those cities became more crowded and expensive.

Now, he said, people are moving home, but not just to Cleveland.

They are also moving back to Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Buffalo, New York.

Roz Quarto moved to Cleveland partly because it costs a lot of money to live in New York.

She feared she and her partner would never get ahead financially there.

On a road trip from Alaska to New York, Quarto and her partner, Gail L. Palmer, stopped in Cleveland.

They planned to stay three days.

They stayed for 10.

It wasn't long before they decided to try living here.

"We figured we'd see if we liked it," Quarto said.

"Then we fell deeper and deeper in love with the city."

Something about Cleveland was beginning to bring back young people.

Like LeBron, they just needed time somewhere else first.

