The U.S. Department of Justice announced Tuesday that Cleveland has agreed to make dramatic changes within its police department.

Current practices will be revised to help put a stop to officers' use of excessive force.

Federal supervision will make sure tough new officer conduct standards are properly enforced.

This settlement between the Justice Department and the city of Cleveland is the result of a recent investigation.

Plans for reform have been underway since the Justice Department published its review of Cleveland's police department in December 2014.

As in many cities across the nation, Cleveland's black community and its local police officers have a tense relationship.

The new plan for the police department emphasizes community engagement, bias-free police training and mental health concerns.

It also includes very specific guidelines for the use of force and for accountability.

Just three days before the settlement, a local police controversy was back in the news.

White patrolman Michael Brelo was found not guilty in the 2012 shooting deaths of two unarmed black suspects.

Patrolman Brelo and his fellow officers fired 137 shots at the suspects after a high-speed chase.

Cleveland has since paid the victims' families a total of $3 million to settle a lawsuit.

The Brelo verdict led to mostly peaceful protests, but also more than 70 arrests.

Church groups were marching through downtown Cleveland on Tuesday afternoon when the Justice Department announced the news about the police reforms.

Two other police-related deaths still haunt the city: that of Tamir Rice, a 12-year-old black boy who was carrying a pellet gun at a playground when he was fatally shot by a white rookie patrolman on Nov. 22, 2014, and that of 37-year-old Tanisha Anderson, a mentally ill woman who died from lack of oxygen while officers held her down on the ground on Nov. 12, 2014.

According to the Justice Department's review, Cleveland officers didn't just use excessive force when shooting at suspects and cars.

Patrol officers also hit people over the head with guns.

They even used stun guns on handcuffed suspects.

The Justice Department found that supervisors encouraged some of the officers' bad behavior and often did little to investigate it.

Some supervisors even told investigators that they tried to make officers look good when writing their reports.

In three years, they suspended only six officers for improper use of force.

One incident the Department of Justice found especially concerning involved an allegation that police officers beat a mentally ill man named Edward Henderson.

Henderson received numerous injuries after a 2011 chase in Cleveland.

Blurry footage from a helicopter appeared to show officers kicking him as he lay on the ground.

Despite an FBI investigation, no charges were brought against the four officers involved.

Each one refused to say how Henderson received his injuries.

Henderson was still sentenced to three years in prison for assaulting a police officer.

He later received $600,000 from the city of Cleveland in a lawsuit settlement.

This investigation is not the first time the Department of Justice has confronted Cleveland about its police officers' use of force.

In 2004, the Justice Department left it up to local police to clean up their own act.

Now authorities are taking things a step further.

Like other troubled police departments, Cleveland must now cooperate with additional supervision.

The Justice Department has investigated more than 20 police forces in the last five years, including agencies in Ferguson, Missouri, and Baltimore, Maryland.

They have taken action in 15 of those police departments.

Eight have received the same level of supervision Cleveland now requires.

When the Cleveland report went public, community members sent city leaders their ideas for police reforms.

Suggestions included reopening small police stations at community centers and establishing a team of citizens and police offers to help decide how to handle emergencies and other tense situations.

Others recommended creating an online system to make police rules and records available to the public.

