The U.S. Department of Justice made an important announcement on Tuesday.

After months of planning, the city of Cleveland, Ohio, agreed to make big changes in its police department.

The police department in Cleveland has had lots of problems.

Officers have been too rough.

Some police officers have even killed people who might not have done anything wrong.

New rules for police officers will help put a stop to these problems.

The Department of Justice is from the national U.S. government.

They will send someone to stay in Cleveland and make sure the police don't ignore the rules.

In Cleveland, police officers have been on everyone's mind lately.

A court just made a decision about a white officer named Michael Brelo.

Brelo shot two black people in 2012.

The court said he did not kill them on purpose.

Many people in Cleveland did not agree with the court.

Brelo and the other police officers with him fired 137 shots.

The people they shot at did not have any weapons.

The news about Officer Brelo led to protests.

Most of the protests were peaceful, but not all of them.

More than 70 people were arrested.

People in Cleveland still have bad memories of two other people killed by police last year.

A 12-year-old black boy named Tamir Rice was shot by a white officer.

Rice had been carrying a toy gun on a playground.

Tanisha Anderson was a 37-year-old mentally ill woman.

Officers held her down on the ground and she stopped breathing.

The Justice Department has been studying Cleveland's police department for a while.

They learned that Cleveland police officers shot at suspects and cars when it was not necessary.

Officers also hit people over the head with guns.

They even used stun guns to shock suspects who were wearing handcuffs.

The Justice Department said police chiefs pretended not to know about the problems.

Some police chiefs even told officers to be rough on suspects.

In three years, only six officers got in trouble.

This is not the first time the Justice Department has asked Cleveland to do something about its police officers being too rough.

In 2004, the Justice Department gave Cleveland a warning.

They gave the police there a chance to make changes on their own.

This time is different.

Now Cleveland's police officers will have someone else in charge of them.

Cleveland is not the only place having problems with rough police officers.

In the last five years, the Justice Department has studied police in more than 20 different cities.

They have had to send someone to keep an eye on eight cities like Cleveland.

When people in Cleveland heard about the Justice Department's announcement, they had lots of ideas about how to help.

They sent their ideas to the city's leaders.

People in Cleveland are ready for things to change.

