The city of Cleveland, Ohio, has had a lot go its way lately.

The NBA star LeBron James decided to come back to the Cleveland Caveliers.

Big-time college quarterback Johnny Manziel signed with the NFL's Cleveland Browns.

Aside from sports, thousands of visitors will flock to a political event in the city, too.

In 2016, it will be where the Republican Party meets to announce its nomination for president of the United States.

People in Cleveland say this is the latest sign that the city is coming back.

Roz Quarto decided to pick up and move to the city two years ago.

She just thought it seemed like a nice place.

Friends in her hometown of New York City all reacted the same.

"They said, 'Cleveland, as in, Ohio?'"

Quarto said while sitting in Cleveland's Ohio City neighborhood.

Now, she and her partner own a big yellow house not far from this neighborhood.

When friends from New York come to visit, Quarto says, they get it.

Her partner's boss, who lives in Alaska, even purchased a second home in Cleveland.

The Republicans and LeBron are going to speed up a process that's already started, said Richey Piiparinen.

He studies how populations change at Cleveland State University.

Changes can already be seen in the city.

Downtown, a new convention center just opened.

Developers are rushing to build hotels and luxury condos to keep up with demand.

Ohio's first casino opened downtown in 2012.

Meanwhile, restaurants are opening where you can order fancy meals like frog legs and rabbit pie.

To be sure, Cleveland still has its problems.

There are a lot of poor people.

Half of the city's children lived in poverty in 2012.

The city's poverty rate is second only to that of Detroit, according to the National Center for Children in Poverty.

The years of people leaving the city have also led to neighborhoods with many empty homes.

"It's still same old, same old here," said Vickie Williams.

She works downtown and has seen the changes there.

Still, she says that no boom has trickled into her neighborhood.

People there still beg for money outside the Dollar General store and tall weeds grow in empty lots where houses once stood.

Yet Cuyahoga County saw more people move from Brooklyn and Chicago between 2007 and 2011 than it sent to those places, Piiparinen said.

The Cleveland area added 40,000 people with college degrees during that period.

Also, the number of educated 25- to 34-year-olds grew 68 percent, according to Piiparinen's research.

Many young people fled Cleveland and other Rust Belt cities in the 2000s.

They went to places such as Chicago, San Francisco and New York, Piiparinen said.

But as those cities became more crowded, costs began rising.

Now, he said, people are moving home.

They are coming back not just to Cleveland, but to Pittsburgh, St. Louis and Buffalo, New York, as well.

Roz Quarto was motivated to move to Cleveland in part by the high cost of living in the New York City area.

She feared she and her partner would never make enough money there because the city is too expensive.

On a road trip from Alaska to New York, Quarto and her partner, Gail L. Palmer, stopped in Cleveland and intended to stay three days.

They stayed for 10.

It wasn't long before they decided to try living here.

"We figured we'd see if we liked it, and sign a year lease," Quarto said.

"Then we fell deeper and deeper in love with the city."

Something about Cleveland was beginning to lure back young people.

Like LeBron, they just needed some time elsewhere before they returned.

