The first surfers in California were three Hawaiian princes.

These young men brought surfing to the United States in 1885.

They rode simple wooden boards made from California redwood trees.

Surfing has changed a lot since then.

Today, surfers wear wetsuits to stay warm.

They check the weather on their cellphones before heading out.

Another big change to surfing might be coming in the future.

It is not the surfers changing this time.

Now it's the waves.

Global climate change may affect surfing spots around the world.

The Earth has been getting warmer.

As it does, ice is melting at the North and South Poles.

The melted ice is causing sea levels to rise.

Climate change is also causing different types of storms.

In the future, places famous for big waves may no longer have them.

That is the concern here in Santa Cruz, on Monterey Bay.

"It definitely worries me," big-wave rider Jake Wormhoudt said.

In the 35 years he has surfed in Santa Cruz, he has already noticed some changes.

The water temperature and weather patterns are changing, he said.

Waves that surfers ride often start far out in the ocean.

Storms in the middle of the ocean send swells toward the California coast.

Swells are groups of waves.

Scientists think that by the year 2100, these storms could move.

The swells might not come in toward the coast.

They could move parallel to the coast instead, or alongside it.

Different swell patterns could affect waves.

So could higher sea levels.

Together they could wipe out many famous surfing spots.

To predict weather patterns far in the future, scientists use computers.

They design computer models using math and science.

The scientists look at past weather and current weather.

Then they add in estimates of climate change.

Scientists recently used the models to study how climate change might affect waves, said Li Erikson.

She works for the U.S. Geological Survey in Santa Cruz.

The results surprised both scientists and surfers.

Both groups thought a warmer and stormier future might make more waves along the California coast.

"I thought so, too," Erikson said with a laugh.

She explained that there might be more storms in the future.

But many of those storms will be over land.

They may not cause big waves on the coast.

Surfers look for large, well-shaped waves.

Those types of waves depend on many different things.

Swells form in the deep ocean.

As they move to the coast, wind and storms can change them.

The swells must move in just the right direction to make waves good for surfing.

Climate change may upset this balance.

Higher sea levels could cause smaller waves.

As the ocean warms, ice will melt at the poles.

Sea levels along Northern California could rise 1 1/2 feet to 6 feet.

Scientists expect it to happen by 2100.

Waves that surfers want are created when water flows over bumps on the sea floor.

Higher water means fewer waves.

If these scientists are correct, Santa Cruz and areas close by could see worse surfing conditions in the future.

But the changing weather could still create better surfing conditions in other places along the California coastline.

It is impossible to say where.

Some surfers are worried for the future.

Others take a different view.

Pete Ogilvie has been a Monterey Bay surfer for more than 30 years.

"When waves die in one spot and pick up in another, you move to that spot."

