In 1885, three young Hawaiian princes brought surfing to North America.

On a summer day, they surfed in Santa Cruz, California, using simple surfboards made from coastal redwood trees.

Today, surfers check satellite weather forecasts on their smartphones before heading to famous spots such as Steamer Lane and Pleasure Point in Santa Cruz.

But the biggest change in surfing could come in the next 100 years: the waves themselves may be changing.

Global climate change could affect many of the best surfing spots worldwide, as the Earth continues to heat up and storm patterns change.

In California, Monterey Bay's famous big waves might be in trouble.

The forecast here is not certain, but it does not look good.

"It definitely worries me," said big-wave rider Jake Wormhoudt, who has already noticed changes in water temperature and weather during the 35 years he has surfed in Santa Cruz.

The waves that surfers ride in California often start out in the open ocean.

Storms far out in the ocean send swells — sets of waves — toward the California coast.

By the year 2100, these storms could shift, sending the swells parallel to the coast instead of toward it.

A change in swells and a rise in sea-levels could wipe out many of today's beloved surfing spots.

Scientists used global climate models to look almost 100 years into the future.

With computers and calculations scientists are able to make predictions using past conditions, current trends and expected greenhouse gas levels caused by burning oil, gas and coal.

Recently, researchers used the models to study how a warming world might affect waves, said Li Erikson, a coastal engineer with the U.S. Geological Survey in Santa Cruz.

The results surprised both scientists and surfers who had assumed a warmer and stormier future might push more waves to the coast.

"Well, I thought so, too," Erikson said with a laugh.

But, she explained, storms on land may not lead to higher waves along the coast.

Good surfing conditions — large, well-shaped waves — depend on many different factors.

Swells form in the deep ocean, and they are affected by local winds and storms.

The swells must be sent in just the right direction to push up perfect waves.

Climate change may upset this balance.

"We'll roll with it," said Pete Ogilvie, a Monterey Bay surfer for more than 30 years.

He is facing the possible changes with a laid-back Surf City vibe.

Climate change may affect waves in several ways.

As the ocean warms, polar ice caps will continue to melt.

This will cause sea levels along the Northern California coast to rise between 1 1/2 feet and 6 feet by the end of the century.

Higher sea levels will change how waves break against the coast.

"As we increase sea level … those same size waves won't break over those nice bedrock ridges in the same spots that they used to," said Curt Storlazzi, a geologist and oceanographer, with the USGS office in Santa Cruz.

"They're going to break much closer to shore."

John Dee has been surfing in and around the bay for 20 years.

He is concerned about losing the area's low-tide surf spots — areas where waves are best when water levels are low.

"If there's a 3-foot tide, everyone's out here," he said recently as he headed out to Steamer Lane.

"If there's a 5-foot tide, nobody's out here."

Climate models predict larger storms and waves on the high seas.

But the North Pacific swell — which creates many of the Monterey Bay's major winter waves — is expected to shift.

"As the temperature rises, especially in the Arctic, the big winter storms are moving farther north," Storlazzi said.

"So areas along California are going to become less impacted from waves."

That's a bummer for local surfers.

Many of the bay's best waves come from North Pacific swells.

There is also a weather patten that's a wildcard in wave prediction.

It's called El Niño, and it is almost impossible to predict over the long term.

El Niño brings warm and high waters to the Pacific coast.

Those are perfect conditions for strong storms to drive waves and winds directly into California's coast.

That could improve surf conditions around Monterey Bay, at least temporarily.

"(The El Niño waves) hammer the shoreline," Storlazzi said.

"They're the biggest and best waves."

If the predictions are true, Monterey Bay could end the 21st century with poor surfing waves.

Still, the shifting climate and rising seas could create better surfing conditions in other places along the California coastline.

It is impossible to know just where.

This uncertain future may leave some surfers looking for hard answers.

Others are taking a different view.

"When waves die in one spot and pick up in another, you move to that spot," Ogilvie said.

