People have long suggested that extreme heat can unleash the beast in man.

But there has been very little study of the theory that high temperatures fuel violence.

Now scientists are taking some small steps to see if they can show how much effect [climate warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global warming) might have on human conflict.

They are using examples as varied as road rage, ancient wars and Major League Baseball.

Three researchers at the University of California have pulled together information from dozens of studies.

They concluded that there could be as much as a 56 percent rise in wars and civil unrest by 2050 because of higher temperatures and extreme rainfall patterns.

Episodes of violence between individuals, such as murder and domestic abuse, could increase as much as 16 percent.

Their study was published on Aug. 1 by the journal _Science_.

"We find strong causal evidence linking climatic events to human conflict ... across all major regions of the world," the researchers concluded.

The study assumes a global temperature increase of at least 4 degrees Fahrenheit over the next half-century.

The assumption is based on information from the World Climate Research Program in Geneva.

It also assumes that humanity will do little to adapt to large changes in climate and rain patterns.

The team examined 60 papers.

The papers covered studies on weather, economics, political science, the human mind and other fields.

Topics ranged from minor to monumental.

Researchers in one case held up traffic at a sweltering Phoenix intersection.

They wanted to see whether motorists in cars without air conditioning were more likely to honk in anger than drivers in climate-controlled vehicles.

Psychologists in another studied Major League Baseball games.

They wanted to see if the pitchers were more likely to throw balls at opposing batters when it was hotter.

Another group used information from tree rings in Southeast Asia to determine how a severe drought contributed to the collapse of the Angkor kingdom.

Angkor, in southeast Asia, fell about 600 years ago.

No matter where in the world they looked, and no matter when, the researchers said they observed a link between temperature, rain and conflict.

They calculated that large-scale group conflict could rise 28 to 56 percent over the next 37 years.

Personal violence could increase 8 to 16 percent.

"The result is alarming," said study co-author Marshall Burke.

He specializes in how climate change affects access to food.

But mankind can still make adjustments to lessen the effects, he said.

The authors say they can only speculate on the reasons why increased temperatures and changed patterns of rainfall would move humans to violence.

One traditional explanation is that climate shifts hit farm economies particularly hard.

"People are more likely to take up arms when the economy deteriorates," study leader Solomon Hsiang said.

Hsiang and the other researchers make no attempt to establish a clear cause.

They say there might be a physiological link between heat and acting on anger.

But they are not biologists.

What they want is for their work to cause more research and planning in the face of global warming.

"We like to compare it to smoking," Burke said.

"In the 1930s scientists were figuring out there was this really strong relationship between smoking and lung cancer."

But it took decades to figure out what precisely linked smoking to cancer.

Researchers who were not involved in the study were impressed by the team's work.

The paper "presents a strong case for the effects of rapid climate change on violence," said Craig A. Anderson, an Iowa State University professor who studies violence.

Yet others said the paper fell short of its intended goal.

"The study does not give a single example of a real conflict" where all the evidence suggests the violence was partly due to a change in climate.

That is the opinion of Halvard Buhaug, a professor of political science in Norway.

An editorial by _Science _Editor-in-Chief Marcia McNutt ran in the same issue of the journal.

The geophysicist called on scientists from different fields to help study how climate change affects the earth.

"There is a need for all scientists to rise to this challenge," she wrote.

