On Sunday, Hillary Rodham Clinton jumped back into presidential politics, by announcing her much-awaited second campaign for the White House.

"Everyday Americans need a champion.

I want to be that champion," she said.

As she did in 2007, Clinton began her campaign for the 2016 Democratic nomination with a video.

But rather than follow it with a splashy rally, she instead plans to head to the early voting states of Iowa and New Hampshire.

She will be looking to connect with voters directly at coffee shops, day care centers and people's homes.

"So I'm hitting the road to earn your vote.

Because it's your time.

And I hope you'll join me on this journey," Clinton said at the end of the video, which features a series of men, women and children describing their hopes and dreams.

This voter-centric approach was picked with a purpose, to show that Clinton is not acting as if she will automatically become the Democrats nominee.

Only after about a month of tour events will Clinton give a speech outlining in more detail her reasons for running.

The former secretary of state, senator and first lady enters the race in a strong position to succeed her rival from the 2008 campaign, President Barack Obama.

Her message will focus on strengthening economic security for the middle class and expanding opportunities for working families.

The campaign is portraying her as an untiring and determined fighter who can get results and work with Congress, business and world leaders.

"Americans have fought their way back from tough economic times — but the deck is still stacked in favor of those at the top," she said in the video.

"So you can do more than just get by.

You can get ahead and stay ahead.

Because when families are strong, America is strong."

Clinton's strategy has parallels to President Barack Obama's approach during the 2012 elections.

He framed his re-election as a choice between Democrats focused on the middle class and Republicans who sought to protect the wealthy.

Clinton will likely face pressure from progressive Democrats, who want to see a strong focus on combating income inequality.

Some liberals are wary of Clinton's close ties to wealthy Wall Street donors.

They have urged her to back tougher financial regulations on banks and Wall Street and tax increases on the wealthy.

"It would do her well electorally to be firmly on the side of average working people who are working harder than ever and still not getting ahead," said economist Robert Reich, who was labor secretary during Bill Clinton's presidency.

Republicans did not wait for Clinton's announcement to begin attacking her.

The party's chairman, Reince Priebus, has outlined plans for a broad effort to try to undermine her record as secretary of state while arguing that her election would be like giving Obama a "third term."

Republicans have jumped on Clinton's use of a personal email account while she was secretary of state, saying it allowed her to hide some of her mistakes.

They have also heavily criticized her handling of the 2012 terror attack in Benghazi, Libya.

Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, in his own online video, said Sunday: "We must do better than the Obama-Clinton foreign policy that has damaged relationships with our allies and emboldened our enemies."

Kentucky Senator Rand Paul, who launched his presidential campaign last week, also pointed to the Clinton family's foundation.

The foundation has drawn criticism from Republicans for raising money from foreign governments.

Paul said it was hypocritical for the foundation to accept money from Saudi Arabia, which places public restrictions on the movement and activity of women, while Clinton carries forward with her long-standing effort to improve women's rights.

"I would expect Hillary Clinton, if she believes in women's rights, she should be calling for a boycott of Saudi Arabia," Paul said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

''Instead, she's accepting tens of millions of dollars."

Clinton is the first Democrat to get into the race.

However, there are some lower-profile Democrats considering challenging her, including former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, former Virginia Senator Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee.

The party's nominee will have to overcome history to win election.

In the last half-century, the same party has held the White House for three consecutive terms only once, during the administrations of Republicans Ronald Reagan and George H.W.

Bush.

The 2016 campaign is likely to be the most expensive in history, with total spending on both sides expected to well exceed the $1 billion spent four years ago.

This weekend, Clinton campaign fundraisers escalated their outreach to Democratic donors, who largely back her bid.

In a flurry of phone calls they urged supporters to donate as soon as possible.

