Lorella Praeli has one of the most important jobs on Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign.

Praeli, however, has never even voted in an election.

As Latino outreach director, Praeli works at Clinton's headquarters in Brooklyn.

She spends her days poring over polling data, winning endorsements from Latino leaders and fine-tuning the campaign's messages to reach the nation's fastest-growing group of voters.

A Peruvian immigrant who lived in the United States without legal status up until three years ago with her marriage to a U.S. citizen, Praeli hopes to obtain citizenship in time to vote in the election that she is helping shape.

The fact that Clinton's campaign hired her speaks to the growing influence of the immigrant youth movement she helped lead, as well as the distinct demographics of Latino voters.

The median age of Latinos in the United States is 27 — just like Praeli — and most Latino voters are either foreign-born or the children of immigrants.

To win over Latinos for Clinton in key states such as Florida, Colorado and Nevada, Praeli will have to connect with people much like herself.

But doing that is a monumental task.

Twice as many Latinos will be eligible to vote next year as in 2000, but Latinos tend to turn out at lower rates than other groups, in part because many young Latinos aren't engaged in politics.

"We have to give people a reason to vote," Praeli says.

For Praeli, who came to the United States as a child to seek medical treatment, and whose mother still lives without legal status, the race is personal.

She took the job in June, shortly after Clinton pledged to do more than President Barack Obama to shield immigrants from deportation.

Praeli, who previously worked at United We Dream, one of the nation's largest immigrant youth groups, played a crucial role in helping to persuade Obama to expand his deportation protection program to include the parents of citizens and legal permanent residents.

On the day he announced the expansion at a celebratory rally at a Las Vegas high school auditorium, Praeli stood in the front row, crying and clutching her mother, Chela.

A maid in New Milford, Connecticut, Chela would have qualified for the program.

With it, she likely could have traveled to Peru for the first time in nearly 20 years to see her ill father.

But that's all on hold after the president's effort to limit deportations was blocked in court by Republican opponents, who argue that it exceeds Obama's power.

"To all of a sudden have that pulled out from under you overnight, it makes you angry," Praeli said in a recent interview, her fists clenched.

The experience, she said, convinced her that she should leave advocacy to help elect a Democrat.

"It's not enough to sit on the sidelines," she said.

Praeli has been a fighter since her childhood in Ica, Peru.

She was 2 years old when she was hit by a car.

Shortly afterward, doctors amputated her right leg just above the knee.

She learned to walk with a prosthetic leg.

When she was 10, her family moved without legal authorization to Connecticut.

An aunt lived there, and Praeli would have access to better medical treatment.

Her mother, trained as a psychologist in Peru, found work cleaning houses and looking after other people's children.

Her father returned to Peru a few years later, unable to get the hang of American life.

In New Milford, where Praeli and her younger sister were the only Latinos at their elementary school, bullies took notice of Praeli's prosthetic leg and glossy black hair.

They would taunt her with slurs like "peg leg" and "border hopper."

She stood up to them — printing out copies of their online jeers and delivering them to school police — and took revenge by excelling in the classroom.

She attended Quinnipiac University on a full scholarship.

But even as she embarked on academic studies of how municipal policies affect immigrants in the country illegally, she kept her own status a secret.

That changed in 2010, as hopes dimmed for a bill called the DREAM Act that would have created a path to citizenship for some young immigrants who came to the United States as children, known as "Dreamers."

Praeli contacted a leader of the Dreamer movement and a few weeks later was on her way to a meeting in Kentucky with hundreds of other young people in the country illegally.

That 16-hour van ride was life-changing, she said.

Everybody seemed happy, and no one was scared.

"It's because they were building a movement," she said.

The activists, borrowing from the gay rights struggle, talked about the importance of "coming out" — publicly disclosing their lack of legal status.

"We wanted to create a moral dilemma in the country so when people say 'undocumented,' they know who they're talking about," Praeli said.

A few weeks after the Kentucky meeting, she had her own coming-out moment at a news conference in New Haven, Conn. "For years I learned to be quiet and to live in the shadows and hide," she told reporters.

"I can no longer just sit and wait for something to happen."

Now Praeli is trying to bring to the Clinton campaign the savvy messaging and grass-roots organizing that made the Dreamers among the most successful civil rights activists of recent times.

