Hillary Clinton is running for president, and Lorella Praeli has one of the most important jobs on the campaign.

Praeli, however, has never before voted in an election.

For many years, Praeli was not a legal citizen in the U.S. and was not able to vote.

She moved to the United States from Peru when she was a young girl without legal permission.

Three years ago, she married a U.S. citizen and is now hopeful to be able to vote in the next election.

Praeli's job for the Clinton campaign is to reach out to other Latinos.

Her hire to the campaign shows the growing importance of Latino voters.

Many Latinos are from South America and speak Spanish.

The number of Latinos in the U.S. has grown rapidly.

There are twice as many Latinos able to vote next year as there were in 2000.

Praeli's job is to win the votes of Latinos for Clinton.

It will be a tough job.

Latinos do not vote as much as other groups.

Also, many young Latinos are not interested in voting.

"We have to give people a reason to vote," Praeli says.

It will be plenty of hard work for Praeli.

Praeli has been working hard since she was little.

She was 2 years old when a car hit her.

Doctors had to cut off her right leg.

She learned to walk with a prosthetic, or fake, leg.

When she was 10, her family moved to the United States without legal permission.

Praeli and her younger sister were the only Latinos at their elementary school in Connecticut.

Bullies made fun of Praeli's prosthetic leg and hair, and teased her with names like "peg leg."

They also made fun of her for being an immigrant.

Praeli stood up to them by printing out copies of their online teasing and delivering them to school police.

She took revenge by excelling in the classroom.

She went to college for free, on a full scholarship.

After college, Praeli worked at United We Dream, one of the nation's largest immigrant youth groups.

She helped to persuade Obama to expand his immigration plan to protect immigrants who were in the United States illegally.

Many immigrants were being deported, or sent back to their home country.

Children were safe from deportation, but not their parents.

Praeli worked to expand the protection program to include parents.

When Obama made his announcement of the expansion, Praeli and her mother stood in the front row.

They cried from happiness and hugged each other.

The program, however, was put on hold.

President Obama's effort was blocked in court.

It was argued that Obama's decision went beyond his power as president.

"To all of a sudden have that pulled out from under you overnight, it makes you angry," Praeli said.

The experience, she said, convinced her that she should leave the youth group and to help elect Clinton, who promised to continue Obama's protection program.

"It's not enough to sit on the sidelines," she said.

One of Praeli's most important decisions to get off the sidelines happened in 2010.

Congress was considering a law that would have created a path to citizenship for some young immigrants who came to the United States illegally as children.

The law would have applied to Praeli, but it looked like it would not get enough votes to become law.

Praeli contacted a leader of a group pushing to get the law passed.

A few weeks later, she was on her way to a meeting in Kentucky.

She met hundreds of other young people who were in the country illegally.

That experience was life-changing, she said.

"For years I learned to be quiet and to live in the shadows and hide," Praeli said.

"I can no longer just sit and wait for something to happen."

