Lorella Praeli has one of the most important jobs on Hillary Clinton's presidential campaign, even though she has never voted in an election.

As Latino outreach director, Praeli spends her days at Clinton's headquarters in Brooklyn.

Her work involves examining information from polls, winning endorsements from Latino leaders and creating the campaign's messages to reach the nation's fastest-growing group of voters.

Praeli came to the U.S. from Peru when she was a young girl.

She was without legal status up until three years ago, when she married a U.S. citizen.

Now 27 years old, Praeli hopes to obtain citizenship in time to vote in the election that she is helping shape.

Praeli's hire to the Clinton campaign shows the growing influence of the immigrant youth movement and the distinct population of Latino voters.

The average age of Latinos in the United States is 27, and most Latino voters are either foreign-born or the children of immigrants.

To win over Latinos for Clinton, Praeli will have to connect with people much like herself.

But doing that is a monumental task.

Twice as many Latinos will be eligible to vote next year as in 2000.

However, Latinos tend to turn out at lower rates than other groups, partly because many young Latinos aren't engaged in politics.

"We have to give people a reason to vote," Praeli says.

For Praeli, who came to the United States as a child to seek medical treatment, and whose mother still lives without legal status, the race is personal.

She took the job in June, shortly after Clinton pledged to do more than President Barack Obama to shield immigrants from deportation.

Praeli previously worked at United We Dream, one of the nation's largest immigrant youth groups.

While there, she helped to persuade Obama to expand his deportation protection program.

Previously, the program did not include the parents of citizens and legal permanent residents.

When Obama made his announcement of the expansion, Praeli stood in the front row, crying and clutching her mother, Chela.

Her mother works as a maid in Connecticut and would have qualified for the program.

With it, she likely could have traveled to Peru for the first time in nearly 20 years to see her ill father.

But that's all on hold after the president's effort to limit deportations was blocked in court by his Republican opponents.

They argued that it went beyond Obama's presidential power, and against the rights of states to make their own rules.

"To all of a sudden have that pulled out from under you overnight, it makes you angry," Praeli said, her fists clenched.

The experience convinced her she should leave her job at the youth group to help elect Clinton, who promised to continue Obama's protection program.

"It's not enough to sit on the sidelines," she said.

Praeli has been a fighter since her childhood in Peru.

She was 2 years old when she was hit by a car.

Shortly afterward, doctors amputated her right leg just above the knee.

She learned to walk with a prosthetic leg.

When she was 10, her family moved without legal authorization to small-town Connecticut.

An aunt lived there, and Praeli would have access to better medical treatment.

Her mother, trained as a psychologist in Peru, found work cleaning houses and looking after other people's children.

Her father returned to Peru a few years later, unable to get the hang of American life.

In Connecticut, Praeli and her younger sister were the only Latinos at their elementary school.

Bullies took notice of Praeli's prosthetic leg and glossy black hair and taunted her with insults like "peg leg" and "border hopper."

She stood up to them by printing out copies of their online jeers and delivering them to school police.

She took revenge by excelling in the classroom.

She attended Quinnipiac University on a full scholarship.

Yet even as she embarked on academic studies of how government policies affect immigrants who are in the country illegally, she kept her own status a secret.

That changed in 2010.

Hopes were dimming to pass a bill called the DREAM Act that would have created a path to citizenship for some young immigrants who came to the United States as children, known as "Dreamers."

Praeli contacted a leader of the Dreamer movement and a few weeks later was on her way to a meeting in Kentucky.

There, she met with hundreds of other young people who were in the country illegally.

That 16-hour van ride was life-changing, she said.

Everybody seemed happy, and no one was scared.

"It's because they were building a movement," she said.

A few weeks after the Kentucky meeting, she had her own coming-out moment at a news conference in New Haven, Connecticut.

"For years I learned to be quiet and to live in the shadows and hide," she told reporters.

"I can no longer just sit and wait for something to happen."

