Donald Sterling was banned for life from the NBA.

Sterling owns the Los Angeles Clippers.

The league banned him because of racist comments it says he made in a recorded conversation.

NBA official Adam Silver said he will try to force Sterling to sell his team.

Silver also fined Sterling $2.5 million.

Silver was clearly outraged over the comments.

He said after that some investigating, the NBA found that Sterling was in fact the person on the audiotapes that were released over the weekend.

Sterling has been an NBA team owner longer than anyone else.

"We stand together in condemning Mr. Sterling's views," Silver said.

"They simply have no place in the NBA."

Sterling admitted that he was the man on the tape, Silver said.

Sterling can't go to any NBA games or practices and he cannot be in any Clippers office or building.

He also cannot help with any business or player hiring or firing decisions involving the team.

In addition to not being able to help make decisions about the Clippers, he is also banned from making decisions about the NBA in general.

"This league is far bigger than any one owner," Silver said.

Or "any one coach and any one player."

The fine will be donated to groups dedicated to anti-discrimination and tolerance efforts.

They will be jointly selected by the NBA and the Players Association, Silver said.

Sterling's comments were released over the weekend by two news sources.

Many NBA owners and players have condemned them.

Even President Barack Obama weighed in on the issue.

The announcement of the punishments came just hours before a game when the Clippers would play the Golden State Warriors.

The NBA gets its money from businesses that buy ads or support teams.

Several companies were very upset by Sterling and either ended their business dealings with the team or put them on hold on Monday.

Deals that some of those companies have with Clippers stars like Chris Paul and Blake Griffin will keep going and were not affected.

Still, it was a clear statement that companies, like just about everyone inside the league, were angry.

The tapes were released just over the weekend.

But the issues raised represent just another chapter in Sterling's long history of being at the center of trouble.

In the past, he's faced several charges of civil rights violations and race discrimination in his business dealings.

He has also been accused of harassing women because of their gender.

Some of his statements would be described as shocking.

