Donald Sterling, the Los Angeles Clippers owner, was banned for life from the NBA.

The league acted in response to racist comments it says he made in a recorded conversation.

NBA Commissioner Adam Silver said he will try to force Sterling to sell his team.

Silver was appointed to make big decisions about the NBA.

Sterling has also been fined $2.5 million for the racist comments he made.

Silver made no effort to hide his outrage over the comments.

He said a league investigation found that Sterling was in fact the person on the audiotapes that were released over the weekend.

Sterling has been the owner of an NBA team longer than anyone else.

"We stand together in condemning Mr. Sterling's views," Silver said.

"They simply have no place in the NBA."

Sterling acknowledged he was the man on the tape, Silver said.

Sterling is immediately blocked from attending any NBA games or practices, he cannot be present at any Clippers office or building, and he cannot participate in any business or player hiring or firing decisions involving the team.

He also cannot participate in any league business.

"This league is far bigger than any one owner, any one coach and any one player," Silver said.

The fine will be donated to organizations dedicated to anti-discrimination and tolerance efforts.

They will be jointly selected by the NBA and the Players Association, Silver said.

Sterling's comments were released over the weekend by two news sources, and numerous NBA owners and players have condemned them.

Even President Barack Obama weighed in on the comments.

The announcement of the punishments came just hours before a game when the Clippers would play the Golden State Warriors.

The NBA gets its money from companies that pay for ads or sponsorships.

However, after Sterling's comments, many companies either ended their business dealings with the team or put them on hold on Monday.

Individual deals that some of those companies have with Clippers stars like Chris Paul and Blake Griffin will continue and were not affected.

Still, it was a clear statement that companies, like just about everyone inside the league, were outraged.

The tapes were released just over the weekend.

But the issues raised represent just another chapter in Sterling's long history of being at the center of trouble.

In the past, he's faced extensive federal charges of civil rights violations and race discrimination during his time as a businessman.

Some of his race-related statements would be described as shocking.

He has also been sued in the past for sexual harassment by former workers.

Even V. Stiviano has bad things to say about him.

She is described as Sterling's girlfriend and she is also the woman whose voice can be heard on the tapes at the center of this story.

Stiviano is being sued by Rochelle Sterling, the owner's estranged wife.

She is seeking to get back at least $1.8 million in cash and gifts that her husband allegedly provided Stiviano.

