The NBA banned Donald Sterling for life.

Sterling owns the Los Angeles Clippers.

The league banned him because of racist things he said.

It says he made the comments in a conversation that was recorded.

NBA official Adam Silver said he will try to force Sterling to sell his team.

Silver is also making Sterling pay $2.5 million because of the comments.

Silver was clearly outraged over what Sterling said.

He said the league found that Sterling was the person on the audiotapes.

The tapes were released over the weekend by two different news websites.

Sterling has owned his NBA team longer than any other team owner.

"We stand together in condemning Mr. Sterling's views," Silver said.

"They simply have no place in the NBA."

At first, many thought the recording was not real.

Sterling confirmed he was the man on the tape, Silver said.

Sterling can't go to any NBA games or practices.

He cannot be in any Clippers office or building.

He can't take part in any decisions involving the team.

He also cannot take part in any NBA business such as a meeting of the owners.

"This league is far bigger than any one owner," Silver said.

Or "any one coach and any one player."

Sterling's comments were released over the weekend by two news websites.

Many NBA owners and players have condemned them.

Even President Barack Obama had something to say about it.

The announcement of the fines came just hours before a game.

The Clippers would play the Golden State Warriors.

The NBA gets a lot of money from businesses.

They buy television commercials and support the teams.

Several companies decided they didn't want to support the team.

The companies were very angry about the comments.

The tapes were released just over the weekend.

But Sterling has been in trouble before.

He has a long history of being at the center of trouble.

Sterling has been sent to court before.

When he was a businessman, he was accused of violating his workers' civil rights and discriminating against people because of their race.

He has also been accused of harassing women.

Some of his race-related statements would be described as shocking.

