Spencer Hawes plays forward-center for the Los Angeles Clippers basketball team.

Before that, he was a star basketball player in college.

He was not in college for very long, though.

When he was asked to join the Clippers, he left school before getting his degree.

Hawes loves playing basketball for the Clippers and he is paid very well for doing it.

Still, he wants to go back to college to get his degree.

For one thing, he promised his mother he would.

Hawes is not unusual for the Clippers.

Eleven players on the team do not have a college degree and each said they planned to get one.

You might think the players would not feel that they need a college degree.

After all, they get paid tons of money to play in the National Basketball Association (NBA).

They already have millions of dollars in the bank.

Plus, they have few days off during basketball season, which can last up to eight months.

"It's just so hard to do it," point guard Austin Rivers said of going back to college.

"You're so busy during the season," he said.

"When you finally get time off, it's like, do you want to go to school or actually spend time with your family?"

Rivers spent only one year in college before becoming a pro basketball player.

He still has many classes to complete before he can earn a college degree.

Rivers said he plans to take courses every summer, even though it will take him a long time to finish that way.

Rivers thinks the extra hard work is worth it.

He has to think about what he will do after he stops playing basketball for a living.

A college degree could lead to a job in TV sports broadcasting and later coaching, he said.

Rivers is inspired by the example of his father, Doc, who was also an NBA basketball player.

While playing basketball, Doc Rivers went back to college in the summers.

Eventually, he managed to earn his degree.

He then went on to become a sports broadcaster.

Today, he coaches the Clippers.

"I went back my first two years," Doc Rivers said.

"Everyone told me, including my professors, 'If you didn't go back right away, you're probably not going back,' so I went back."

Point guard Nate Robinson needs to finish one more year of coursework to get his degree.

He is studying acting at school and has been in several ads for Pepsi already.

A college degree in acting may get him more work as an actor, he said.

Forward Jordan Hamilton spent only two years in college before becoming a full-time basketball player.

He now plans to go back to school.

He hopes a college degree will allow him to work in television later on.

Some might wonder why any of the Clippers would bother going back to school.

After all, they are all already very rich.

For example, Clippers point guard Chris Paul has already earned around $116 million.

On top of that, he has made a lot of extra money from starring in a series TV ads.

Chris Paul said he too wants to get a degree.

He will be taking classes soon.

Paul said he promised his mother he would return to college and earn a degree.

"I'm going to get it," he added.

