Sixteen-year-old Audrey Dimitrew recently won a spot on a club volleyball team in Virginia, where she lives.

She hoped to impress high school coaches and possibly even college coaches.

But after lots of practices, her coach did not give her playing time.

Then the league told her she could not join another team.

So she and her family filed a lawsuit.

They went to court to formally complain that the club team was being unfair.

Audrey said she could miss an important volleyball season this spring.

She thinks the league has forgotten its main goal of encouraging kids to play sports.

The league knows Audrey is upset about not getting playing time, but it said if it allows her to switch teams then many other kids would also want to change.

Some parents get upset when their children are cut, benched, yelled at by coaches or even fouled too hard.

Lately, many of these parents have been turning to the court system for help.

Some people see this as a movement in youth sports toward being much more competitive.

Teams and leagues aim to give players a better chance at getting a scholarship that would pay for their college education.

Parents are spending thousands of dollars and giving up weekends for kids to be on travel teams and play in competitive high school programs.

Audrey's mother said the family will spend about $6,000 on her daughter's volleyball this year.

They are not alone.

Club teams are expensive.

Project Play is a group that tries to get more kids playing sports.

It says the average travel team parent is spending about $2,300 a year.

Parents of top players might spend $20,000 a year or more.

Experts say parents want proof that the money they are spending is worth it.

Some are willing to go to the courts if they do not get it.

Audrey said she is not sure whether she will play in college.

Her family believes the spring season of 10th grade is an important one for Audrey to be able to work with coaches who can help her get better.

Audrey cannot understand why her league will not let her join another team.

The problem began after Audrey and about 75 other girls competed for spots on the under-16 Chantilly Juniors in November.

The coach told Audrey she was the best setter at the tryout and would get playing time.

Audrey signed a contract with the team.

It means she can only play for that team.

This is common among youth travel teams today.

When the season began, Audrey got practice play with her team, but was on the bench for the first two games.

The coach told Audrey she was not ready to be a setter on the team and would not play much for the rest of the season, even though she had college-level skills.

The family was disappointed and confused.

They felt they had not been given what they were promised after paying a lot of money.

"She is devastated," Audrey's mother wrote to her daughter's coach.

"It is important that she plays, and plays the position you offered her of setter as that is the position she plays in high school."

The coach gave Audrey two choices: She could be a practice player for the Juniors or transfer to another team in the league.

She decided to transfer and her parents found a team willing to take her.

The league has to OK changes like this, but decided not to approve Audrey's request.

It said allowing Audrey to make the switch would set a bad example.

Players can switch teams only if they can prove that they have a difficult situation that makes it necessary to change.

The league did not allow her to change teams.

So the Dimitrews went to court.

They are not the only parents complaining.

A recent study found that many parents feel youth sports are too expensive and time-consuming.

They also thought winning was becoming too important, instead of just having fun.

Audrey probably will not play this season, but her mother said the fight will continue.

"I never imagined in my wildest dreams there would be a lawsuit over this," she said.

"But I think it's the right thing to do."

