Should you have to be Christian to lead a Christian student group?

A new rule at California State University says no, and is sparking a national debate.

InterVarsity Christian Fellowship is a national Christian group for college students.

Its members say they want to welcome all college students.

Yet the group requires that its leaders be Christian.

As a result, it has found itself in a standoff with Cal State and other universities.

The conflict at Cal State began when the university changed its rules regarding student group membership.

Under the new "all-comers" rule, a student can join any group regardless of his or her background.

In addition, groups must allow anyone to be president of the group, no matter what their religion.

InterVarsity and some other Christian groups refused to sign on to Cal State's all-comers rule.

The university responded this fall, by removed them from the list of official student groups.

Unofficial groups can continue meeting.

However, they no longer get university privileges, like free or cheap meeting rooms.

They also cannot be a part of student fairs or receive money from student associations.

InterVarsity members consider the new rules to be unfair.

Leadership positions, they say, should be held by students who fit the group's values.

For example, leaders in InterVarsity lead Bible study and prayers.

InterVarsity believes these leaders should believe in the religious teachings they pass on.

Some go as far as saying that the new rules silence religious groups.

Gregory L. Jao works for InterVarsity.

He argues that the all-comers rule forces religious groups out of universities.

For some in InterVarsity, not signing the all-comers rule was a matter of principle.

"I don't think a non-Christian would want to be a leader in a Christian group," said Cal State student Jasmine Kim.

Still, she opposed the all-comers rule.

The rule does not just apply to religion, however.

It also says that no student can be shut out based on his or her background.

It means that a white student could lead the Chinese Student Association.

A nonmusician could be selected to lead the classical guitar club.

Cal State is not the only university dealing with this issue.

Other universities around the country have put in place similar rules.

They are also wrestling with the same tough question: Should religious groups be held to the same standards as everyone else?

In 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court answered these questions.

A Christian group at a California law school did not accept gay students.

As a result, the school took it off the list of official student groups.

The group then sued the university for violating its rights.

The Supreme Court ruled that what the law school did was legal.

Since then, universities have become tougher on groups that are not open to all.

Vanderbilt, Tufts and other universities have added all-comer rules like the one at Cal State.

The conflict at Cal State is especially important, though.

It is the nation's largest university system, with 450,000 students.

Some legal scholars say that what is happening to religious groups at colleges is happening across the country.

They argue that religious groups have less independence than they used to.

Edward Whelan is president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, a group that supports religious values in government.

He disagrees with the all-comer rule and argues that Christian groups should be able to choose Christian leadership.

He claims that this is part of the constitutional right of individuals to meet and form groups.

Part of this freedom, he says, is the ability for groups to set their own standards and choose their own leaders.

Other experts, however, say the Cal State all-comer rule is legal as long as it applied to everyone.

Daniel Mach works for the ACLU, a group that fights for the rights of individuals.

He pointed out that universities are not keeping Christian groups from meeting.

The new rule only affects whether a group has an official relationship with the university.

The school will only give money and support to groups that are open to all, but it will not prevent unofficial groups from meeting.

