The head of Cargill Inc., a massive U.S. agriculture company, never used the words "child labor" in the 30-minute keynote address he delivered earlier this month to the World Cocoa Foundation.

Instead,  CEO Greg Page talked at length about "sustainability."

That term has become code for big cocoa players like Cargill that are trying to stop child labor abuses on cocoa farms while keeping production high.

Government and media reports of kids forced to drop out of school — or worse, abducted and made to work without pay — have dogged the cocoa industry for more than a decade.

Companies have made many attempts to reduce child labor.

But those efforts have fallen well short.

Hordes of children continue to work on cocoa farms, some in unsafe conditions.

Cargill says solutions to child labor abuses lie in making cocoa farming more productive and profitable.

Then the goal would be to work from the inside to convince farmers and governments that they would be better off educating children than taking advantage of them.

"Protecting children's rights" is a principle of Cargill's "Cocoa Promise," a cocoa playbook of sorts that the company unveiled in November.

Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa believes Minnesota-based Cargill and its big cocoa competitors — Archer Daniels Midland, Mars, Nestle, Hershey and others — are only partway there.

Harkin was behind a 2001 congressional action that has put heat on the cocoa and chocolate companies.

It is called the Harkin-Engel Protocol.

Harkin wrote in an email to the Star Tribune that progress in combating child labor in the cocoa industry has not come quickly enough.

On the plus side, the cocoa industry committed $10 million to remedy the problem as part of a 2010 agreement among the cocoa industry, the U.S. Department of Labor and governments of the world's two largest cocoa producers, Ivory Coast and Ghana.

But given the scope of the child labor problem, more investments are needed, Harkin said.

And while companies associated with major chocolate brands have been at the forefront of the industry's efforts, "the companies that process cocoa, such as Cargill and ADM, have been less engaged."

Cargill's competitor Archer Daniels Midland said it does "actively develop, support and fund several programs to help eliminate the worst forms of child labor."

Cargill officials say the company is among the industry's leading investors in the child labor fight.

Cargill has spent $5 million in the past three years in Ivory Coast and Ghana on a program designed to end child labor abuse.

That's according to Cargill's sustainable cocoa manager, Taco Terheijden.

And Cargill should soon announce a three-year extension of that initiative.

But progress will continue to be "incremental," Terheijden cautioned, because Cargill's program "is based on empowering communities so they can take control of their own future."

Job one has been increasing productivity to attack the poverty that forces children to leave school to work on cocoa farms, he said.

About 70 percent of the world's cocoa production comes from West Africa.

Unlike many types of farming — from corn in the U.S. Midwest to palm oil in Southeast Asia — cocoa growing is dominated by small farms.

An estimated 1.8 million children work on cocoa farms in Ivory Coast and Ghana combined.

Companies like Cargill buy cocoa from farmers and process it into cocoa butter and chocolate liquor.

Cargill trades cocoa and sells some processed cocoa to chocolate makers.

But it's also a major producer itself.

Child labor practices in the cocoa industry came under the spotlight around 2000 after news reports about child trafficking and slave labor.

One of the worst practices is trafficking children into the Ivory Coast from neighboring countries Burkina Faso and Mali, then forcing them to labor on cocoa farms.

Then there's work that could harm children's health and safety, such as spraying pesticides or wielding machetes.

Working on cocoa farms isn't supposed to interfere with a child's education, either.

In some ways, the attention that fell on the cocoa business was similar to the one on the clothing industry today after a rash of deadly factory accidents in Bangladesh.

The heat on cocoa hasn't died down a decade later.

Since the Harkin-Engel Protocol was signed, the U.S. Labor Department has paid several million dollars to Tulane University in New Orleans to monitor child labor in Ivory Coast and Ghana.

The cocoa industry and nonprofit groups made efforts to remedy child labor in 290 communities in the two countries, the report said.

Still, the cocoa industry's funding of anti-child-labor issues had not been sufficient, the report concluded.

And the industry had fallen well short of a key goal: determining the standards that would allow companies to certify that cocoa was produced free from the worst forms of child labor.

Essentially, the Harkin-Engel Protocol failed in its goal of ending the worst forms of child labor by 2005.

Its mission now is a 70 percent reduction in child labor abuses by 2020.

The mixed results in the past decade call into question whether such goals can be met, Tulane concluded.

Meanwhile, Cargill is educating cocoa farmers in both countries.

A significant part of that training involves improving crop yields.

But Cargill employees teaching production techniques have themselves been trained to recognize signs of child labor.

If the teachers find child labor, Cargill's Terheijden said, Cargill's reaction must be more persuasive than scolding.

"What we do not want to do is punish the community," he said.

"You make the problem discussable.

You take it out in the open so you can solve it."

