Greg Page is CEO of Cargill Inc., a huge U.S. company that trades and produces foods including grains, livestock and cocoa.

In a 30-minute speech he delivered earlier this month to the World Cocoa Foundation, be never once mentioned the words "child labor," but the subject was on everyone's mind.

Page talked, instead, about "sustainability."

That term has become code for big cocoa players like Cargill that are trying to stop child labor abuses.

But, while stopping abuse on cocoa farms, they still want to keep production high.

Government and media reports have described kids forced to drop out of school — or even abducted and made to work without pay.

These reports have dogged the cocoa industry for more than a decade.

There have been many corporate-backed attempts to cure the child labor problem.

But those efforts have fallen short.

Hordes of children continue to work on cocoa farms, some in unsafe conditions.

Cargill says child labor abuses can be fixed by making cocoa farming more productive and profitable.

Then farmers and governments could be convinced to educate children rather than taking advantage of them.

"Protecting children's rights" is a principle of Cargill's "Cocoa Promise."

That's a plan that the company unveiled in November.

Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa believes Minnesota-based Cargill and other big cocoa companies are only partway there.

Besides Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland, Mars, Nestle, Hershey and others are big players.

Harkin was behind a 2001 congressional action that has put heat on the cocoa and chocolate companies.

It is called the Harkin-Engel Protocol.

"While progress has been made in combating child labor in the cocoa sector since the Harkin-Engel Protocol was signed in 2001, it has not come quickly enough," according to Harkin.

He wrote that in an email to the Star Tribune.

On the plus side, the cocoa industry committed $10 million to remedy the problem.

That came as part of a 2010 agreement among the cocoa industry, the U.S. Department of Labor and governments of the world's two largest cocoa producers, Ivory Coast and Ghana.

But given the size of the child labor problem, more investments are needed, Harkin said.

He said companies associated with major chocolate brands have been at the forefront of the industry's efforts.

But, "the companies that process cocoa, such as Cargill and ADM, have been less engaged," he said.

Archer Daniels Midland is a giant farming company based in Illinois.

It said it does "actively develop, support and fund several programs to help eliminate the worst forms of child labor."

Cargill officials say the company is among the industry's leading investors in the child labor fight.

Cargill has spent $5 million in the past three years in Ivory Coast and Ghana on a program designed to end child labor abuse.

That's according to a Cargill representative, Taco Terheijden.

And Cargill should soon announce a three-year extension of that plan.

But progress will continue to be slow, Terheijden cautioned.

Cargill's program "is based on empowering communities so they can take control of their own future."

Job One has been increasing productivity to attack the poverty that forces children to leave school to work on cocoa farms, he said.

About 70 percent of the world's cocoa production comes from West Africa.

Unlike many types of farming, cocoa growing is dominated by smaller farms.

An estimated 1.8 million children work on cocoa farms in Ivory Coast and Ghana combined.

Companies like Cargill buy cocoa from farmers and process it into cocoa butter and chocolate liquor.

Cargill trades cocoa and sells some processed cocoa to chocolate makers.

But it's also a major producer itself.

Child labor practices in the cocoa industry became well known around 2000.

At that time, media reports came out about child trafficking and slave labor.

One of the worst practices is trafficking children into the Ivory Coast from neighboring countries Burkina Faso and Mali.

They're then forced to work on cocoa farms.

That work could harm children's health and safety.

Spraying pesticides or wielding machetes are dangers.

Working on cocoa farms can also interfere with a child's education.

In some ways, the spotlight that fell on the cocoa business was similar to the one on the clothing industry today.

The clothing industry has been under a microscope after a rash of deadly factory accidents in Bangladesh.

The heat on cocoa hasn't died down in the ensuing decade.

Since the Harkin-Engel Protocol was signed, the U.S. Labor Department has paid several million dollars to Tulane University in New Orleans to monitor child labor in Ivory Coast and Ghana.

The cocoa industry and nonprofit groups had made efforts to remedy child labor in 290 communities in the two countries.

The efforts reached about 650,000 people, a report by Tulane said.

Still, the cocoa industry's funding of anti-child labor practices has not been sufficient, the report concluded.

And the industry had fallen well short of a key goal.

It wants a standard so companies can certify that cocoa was produced free from the worst forms of child labor.

The Harkin-Engel Protocol failed in its goal of ending the worst forms of child labor by 2005.

Its mission now is a 70 percent reduction in child labor abuses by 2020.

The mixed results in the past decade call into question whether such goals can be met, Tulane found.

Meanwhile, Cargill is educating cocoa farmers in both countries.

Much of that training involves improving crop yields.

But Cargill employees doing training are also supposed to recognize signs of child labor.

If the teachers find child labor, Cargill's Terheijden said, Cargill's reaction must be to persuade, not punish.

"What we do not want to do is punish the community," he said.

"You make the problem discussable.

You take it out in the open so you can solve it."

