Without cocoa, there would be no chocolate.

And without companies like Cargill Inc., Americans might not be able to enjoy as many cocoa-based products as they do.

Cargill produces and trades cocoa, along with many other foodstuffs like grains and livestock.

While cocoa brings delight to many children around the world who eat, it can mean hard work and a dim future for those who must work on cocoa farms.

Big companies like Cargill are trying to stop child labor abuses in the cocoa trade.

At the same time, they still want to keep production high.

Cocoa is a valuable crop.

It sells for a high price and there's been more and more demand for it.

To meet the demand, farmers seek cheap child labor.

Government and news reports have described kids forced to drop out of school.

Some have even been abducted and made to work without pay.

These reports have hung over the cocoa trade for more than a decade.

Companies have made many attempts to cure the child labor problem.

But those efforts have fallen well short.

Millions of children continue to work on cocoa farms, some in unsafe conditions.

Cargill says child labor abuses can be fixed.

It believes making cocoa farming more productive and profitable is the way to do it.

Then farmers and governments might educate children rather than abuse them.

In November, Cargill introduced a plan called "Cocoa Promise."

The plan aims to improve the quality of cocoa and cocoa-farming communities.

Protecting children's rights was one of the main points in the promise.

Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa believes cocoa companies must do more.

Besides Cargill, Archer Daniels Midland, Mars, Nestle, and Hershey are big cocoa players.

Harkin led a 2001 congressional action that pressured cocoa and chocolate companies.

It is called the Harkin-Engel Protocol.

Progress has been made in combating child labor in the cocoa sector since the Harkin-Engel Protocol was signed in 2001.

"But, it has not come quickly enough," according to Harkin.

He wrote that in an email to the Star Tribune.

On the plus side, the cocoa industry offered $10 million to fix the problem.

That came as part of a 2010 agreement.

It was among the cocoa industry, the U.S., and the two largest cocoa-producing countries.

Those countries are Ivory Coast and Ghana.

But the child labor problem is large.

Therefore, more investments are needed, Harkin said.

He said companies linked to major chocolate brands have taken steps.

But, "the companies that process cocoa, such as Cargill and ADM, have been less engaged," he said.

Archer Daniels Midland is a giant farming company.

It is based in Illinois.

It said it works to "actively develop, support and fund several programs to help eliminate the worst forms of child labor."

Cargill says it is a leading company in the child labor fight.

Cargill has spent $5 million in the past three years in Ivory Coast and Ghana to end child labor abuse.

That's according to a Cargill spokesman Taco Terheijden.

But progress will be slow, Terheijden said.

Cargill's program is to help communities "so they can take control of their own future."

About 70 percent of the world's cocoa comes from West Africa.

Roughly 1.8 million children work on cocoa farms in Ivory Coast and Ghana.

Companies like Cargill buy cocoa from farmers.

Then they process it into cocoa butter and chocolate liquor.

Cargill trades cocoa and sells some processed cocoa to chocolate makers.

But it's also a major producer itself.

Child labor in the cocoa industry became well known around 2000.

Media reports about child trafficking and slave labor created notice.

One of the worst practices is trafficking children.

Children in Ivory Coast come from neighboring countries Burkina Faso and Mali.

They're then forced to work on cocoa farms.

There are several ways farming could harm children's health and safety.

Spraying pesticides or using machetes are dangers.

Working on cocoa farms can also interfere with a child's education.

Since 2001, the U.S. Labor Department has paid several million dollars to Tulane University in New Orleans.

Tulane is paid to monitor child labor in Ivory Coast and Ghana.

The cocoa industry and charities made efforts against child labor.

They were aimed at 290 communities in the two countries.

The efforts reached about 650,000 people, a report by Tulane said.

Still, the cocoa industry's funding wasn't enough, the report concluded.

And the industry had fallen well short of a big goal.

It wants to develop a standard.

That way companies can prove that cocoa was produced free from the worst forms of child labor.

The Harkin-Engel Protocol failed in its goal.

It wanted to end the worst forms of child labor by 2005.

It now wants a 70 percent reduction in abuses.

Its goal is for that to happen by 2020.

But the lack of success in the past decade leaves doubts that goal can be met, Tulane concluded.

Tulane's report said cocoa companies have failed to meet one major goal: setting rules that would certify if cocoa is free of the worst form of child labor.

That way, kids could enjoy their chocolate bars knowing no other children had to suffer for it.

