Nineteen-year-old Mavis Batey was sent to a rundown old mansion at Bletchley Park in 1940.

World War II had started in 1939 and she joined a group of code breakers whose job was to help Britain and its allies outwit the Axis powers.

Batey was a college student studying the structure of the German language.

She became one of Bletchley Park's nimblest decoders.

She broke the code on a message that led to a stunning British victory over the Italian navy.

She also was the first to crack the secret messages of the Abwehr, the German intelligence service.

That breakthrough helped ensure the success of the D-Day landings, "She was the last of the great break-in experts ... who broke codes or ciphers that no one else had ever broken," said British historian Michael Smith.

He wrote several books on Bletchley Park.

Batey also earned recognition as a garden historian before her World War II work was publicly revealed.

She died of natural causes on Nov. 12, said Katherine Lynch of the Bletchley Park Trust.

She was 92.

Batey knew nothing about Enigma, an encryption device developed in Germany around 1918, when she arrived at her wartime assignment.

Enigma resembled a typewriter, with 26 lettered keys.

But it was far more complicated.

It had three or four electrically wired rotors capable of producing endless combinations of coded letters.

To make deciphering even more difficult, there were a number of different models, each with its own way of changing the message.

According to Batey, one new decoder fled Bletchley after hearing a detailed description of Enigma's insides.

Batey hardly received any introduction.

"Hello, we're breaking machines.

Have you got a pencil?"

said her boss, legendary code breaker Alfred Dillwyn "Dilly" Knox, when they met.

He then handed her a stack of coded messages that none of the resident geniuses had been able to crack.

One day she was examining a message sent on the Italian navy's Enigma.

She noticed there was not one L in it.

Knowing that the machine never encoded a letter as itself, she suspected that she was looking at a test message a lazy operator had made by repeatedly pressing the L key.

With this discovery, "Mavis broke the main Italian naval Enigma," Smith told the Los Angeles Times last week, "and reconstructed its inner workings on the basis of one single message."

In March 1941 she decoded a far more important message.

The Italian navy had transmitted a message that said, "Today's the day minus three," signaling a major attack in three days.

The next intercepted message supplied details of the battle plan.

The information allowed Britain's Royal Navy to hand Italy its worst defeat at sea: the Battle of Cape Matapan, off the Greek coast.

Five Italian ships were destroyed and more than 2,000 Italian sailors died.

Batey's most important contribution came in late 1941, when she worked with Knox and Margaret Rock to break the ultra-complex Enigma machine used by the Abwehr.

Batey decoded a message between Berlin and Belgrade.

That message allowed her team to understand how the machine coded a message.

Days later, she broke the code of a second Abwehr machine.

These breakthroughs were very important for the success of the Double Cross System.

Double Cross was a British operation that used captured German spies to feed false information back to Germany.

With the aid provided by Bletchley Park, Britain was able to confirm the success of its massive deception.

The phony intelligence included misleading reports about where the main Allied invasion force would land.

They pointed at the northern tip of France in Pas de Calais, rather than Normandy, to the northwest.

Hitler took the false information and sent extra forces to Pas de Calais, dooming his chances of fighting off the historic D-Day assault on June 6, 1944.

President Dwight D. Eisenhower later said the secrets broken at Bletchley Park shortened the war by two years.

"There is nothing like seeing a code broken, that is really the absolute tops," Batey told Smith in his 1998 book "Station X: The Code Breakers of Bletchley Park."

Batey was born Mavis Lillian Lever in south London on May 5, 1921.

She was enrolled at University College, London, when she was recruited for the job she thought would make her a glamorous spy.

Instead, she spent the war years in a dank cottage at Bletchley Park.

She was surrounded by brilliant people such as Alan Turing, the Cambridge mathematician who laid the foundation for modern computing with a code-breaking machine he called the Bombe.

Batey also met her future husband there, Keith Batey.

He was a mathematician in the unit that decoded German army and air force Enigma messages.

They married in 1942.

She was a model for the code breaker played by actress Kate Winslet in "Enigma," the 2001 movie about Bletchley Park.

By then, Batey was regarded as a national heroine.

But she was not comfortable with such praise.

"I was just part of a team.

We were all part of a team.

The heroes," she told London's Daily Telegraph last year, "were the chaps who were fighting on D-Day."

