In 1940 Mavis Batey was sent to a rundown mansion in Bletchley Park during World War II.

She was 19.

She joined a group that broke the German code so that Britain and its allies could understand their enemy's secret messages.

Batey was a college student.

She was studying the structure of the German language.

She became one of Bletchley Park's best decoders.

She broke the code on a message that led to a stunning British victory over the Italian navy.

She also was the first to crack the secret messages of the Abwehr, the German spy group.

That breakthrough helped ensure the success of the D-Day landings.

"She was the last of the great break-in experts ... who broke codes or ciphers that no one else had ever broken," said British historian Michael Smith.

He wrote several books on Bletchley Park.

Batey also became known for her work as a garden historian.

She died of natural causes on Nov. 12, said Katherine Lynch of the Bletchley Park Trust.

She was 92.

Enigma was the name of the German device that turned messages into code.

It was developed in 1918.

Batey knew nothing about Enigma when she got to Bletchley Park.

Enigma resembled a typewriter.

It had 26 lettered keys.

But it was far more complicated.

It had three or four electrically wired wheels.

The wheels could produce endless combinations of coded letters.

To make deciphering even more difficult, there were a number of different models.

Each model had its own way of changing the message.

Batey hardly got any introduction.

"Hello, we're breaking machines.

Have you got a pencil?"

said her boss, legendary code breaker Alfred Dillwyn "Dilly" Knox, when they met.

He then handed her a stack of coded messages.

One day she was examining a message sent on the Italian navy's Enigma.

She noticed there was not one L in it.

Enigma never encoded a letter as itself.

So an L in a message was not an L when it was first written.

Batey suspected that she was looking at a test message a lazy operator had made by repeatedly pressing the L key.

With this discovery, "Mavis broke the main Italian naval Enigma," Smith told the Los Angeles Times last week.

She did this based on one message.

In March 1941 she decoded a far more important message.

The Italian navy had sent a message that said, "Today's the day minus three."

The message signaled a major attack in three days.

The next intercepted message supplied details of the battle plan.

The decoded information allowed the Royal Navy to hand Italy its worst defeat at sea.

Batey's most important contribution came in late 1941.

She worked with Knox and Margaret Rock to break the super-tough Enigma machine used by the Abwehr.

Batey decoded a message between Berlin and Belgrade.

That message allowed her team to understand how the machine coded a message.

Days later, she broke the code of a second Abwehr machine.

These breakthroughs were very important for the success of the Double Cross System.

Double Cross was a British operation that used captured German spies to feed false information back to Germany.

The phony intelligence included misleading reports about where the main Allied invasion force would land.

Based on the bad information, Germany moved its forces to the wrong place.

That doomed its chances of beating back the historic D-Day landing on June 6, 1944.

President Dwight D. Eisenhower later said the secrets broken at Bletchley Park shortened the war by two years.

"There is nothing like seeing a code broken, that is really the absolute tops," Batey told Smith in his 1998 book "Station X: The Code Breakers of Bletchley Park."

Batey was born Mavis Lillian Lever on May 5, 1921.

She was studying at University College, London, when she was noticed and asked to take the code breaking job.

She thought the work would make her a glamorous spy.

Instead, she spent the war years in a damp and dreary cottage at Bletchley Park.

But she was surrounded by brilliant people.

Batey also met her future husband there, Keith Batey.

He was a mathematician in the unit that decoded German army and air force Enigma messages.

They married in 1942.

Keith Batey died in 2010.

Mavis Batey is survived by their son and two daughters.

Later in life, Batey became one of England's best-known garden historians.

She was also a model for the code breaker played by actress Kate Winslet in "Enigma," the 2001 movie about Bletchley Park.

By then, Batey was known as a hero to her fellow Britons.

But she never much cared for that title.

"I was just part of a team.

We were all part of a team," she told a British newspaper last year.

"The heroes were the chaps who were fighting on D-Day."

