ICAGO, Ill. - Eight-year-old Claire Dormanen embraced her role as a summer camper this month in all the typical ways: She wore a comfy T-shirt and shorts, ate a sack lunch, and ran to avoid getting hit in a game of dodgeball.

But Claire added a new activity to her daily camp schedule: computer coding.

For three hours on a recent Friday, campers built creatures out of Legos and then wrote computer programs to make them move.

"This is where the world is going," said Claire's mother, Audrey Dormanen.

She enrolled her daughter in the full-day sports/coding combination camp at Code Play Learn, a local business in Oak Park, Illinois.

Claire's mother believes the camp is embracing technology and teaching her daughter a skill that will be essential for her future.

Coding was once reserved for students who wanted to work in the tech industry.

Now, however, it has become a skill for everyone.

Many traditional summer camps across the Chicago area have added lessons in computer programming.

This new option appears next to the more traditional camp activities like arts and crafts, soccer and rock climbing.

Camp directors say including coding in traditional summer programs gives students the needed exposure to the advancing digital world.

It also meets the new demand from parents who are eager to expose their children to the latest technology and potential careers in STEM fields: science, technology, engineering and math.

Some parents and digital experts question the need to teach young children computer coding.

They argue that such highly technical lessons are unnecessary at early ages.

They believe that the younger generation will be digital wizards because they are immersed in all types of technology on a day-to-day basis.

These people say that kids should not have to give up the early carefree days in the sun.

"For me, the idea of having kids coding at 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 years old is just absurd," said Jim Taylor, a professor of psychology at the University of San Francisco.

Professor Taylor is also the author of "Raising Generation Tech: Preparing Your Children for a Media-Fueled World."

He believes that time spent playing is more valuable than time spent coding because playing is important for creativity, social growth and the development of motor and social skills.

But the movement to teach children how to code has only grown in popularity in recent years.

In December, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel announced a partnership with tech companies to expand computer-science offerings in schools, beginning with 46 Chicago Public Schools this fall.

Proponents believe that children should learn coding for several reasons.

Ed Lazowska is a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Washington.

He believes that all fields - from anthropology to zoology - are increasingly becoming information fields.

As such, the ability to program a computer for use within any discipline is a valuable skill.

Lazowska also points to projections from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics that say 71 percent of all new jobs in STEM fields in the next decade will be in computer science.

"It's not that kids should be learning this because they want to work at Google and Microsoft and Facebook," Lazowska said.

He added that even if students never go into tech fields, those who learn to code learn valuable "computational thinking" skills - like, for instance, the ability to analyze problems and "debug" or solve them.

Wil Greenwald is the owner of Code Play Learn.

Within weeks of adding code/sports summer camps for kindergartners through sixth-graders, nearly all 70 available spots were filled.

For half the day, students at Greenwald's camps build computerized boats, giant cranes and dancing birds.

They learn about a whole range of computer science skills like loops, if-then statements, and other aspects that Greenwald believes will stay important in the quickly evolving field.

After lunch, campers fill up water bottles, fasten their sneakers and spend the afternoon playing soccer, dodgeball, and other fast-paced games.

Greenwald said moms and dads "want their kids to be active, mentally and physically.

For the parents, it just really checks off a variety of boxes for them."

At the Steve and Kate's camps, developers worked for months to create coding studios at 40 locations across the United States this summer.

At any time of the day, campers can head to a classroom filled with iPads to play a video game that teaches coding or use a program to develop their own apps.

Apps created by campers can then be sent to their parents' cellphones, said Ben Chun, the developer of the software used in the coding studios at Steve and Kate's camps.

By offering coding alongside bread-making, dance, water slides and music, the camp is able to provide valuable technological lessons without the complicated process that comes with changing school programs, Chun added.

Betty Hintch was pleasantly surprised when the email arrived explaining that her 9-year-old son, Mateo, could learn coding at Steve and Kate's Mount Prospect camp.

Hintch said she could understand why the parents of children who are always behind a computer might not like coding at camp.

But for Mateo, a little exposure to technology among sports and other activities couldn't hurt, she said.

"He's going to assume it's just fun and free play, but they're getting some sort of instruction snuck in there with all the fun stuff," Hintch said.

"It's a great balance.

It's really a good thing."

