ICAGO, Ill. - Eight-year-old Claire Dormanen is at camp just like every summer.

This year is a bit different, though.

She is adding something new to her camp activities.

Claire is learning to write computer code.

Computer programming is when someone writes a set of rules that make a computer work.

The rules are called codes.

All types of technology use codes.

They are used in our phones and even our dishwashers.

Some summer camps now teach kids how to code.

At camps, kids can build things out of Legos.

Then they write codes to make the Legos move.

Many parents think teaching children how to code is a good thing.

Many experts agree.

Other people are not so sure.

They think kids should wait until they are a little older to code.

They say kids should spend more time playing.

Some parents want their kids to learn everything they can about computers.

Other parents and experts think something different.

They think these lessons are too soon.

Kids already use technology every day.

They think children should enjoy summer days outside instead of in the classroom.

Jim Taylor is a teacher at the University of San Francisco.

He thinks kids younger than 10 years old should not learn to code.

Taylor thinks that it is more important for children to play.

When children play, they learn things they cannot learn in a classroom.

They learn how to make friends.

Kids can also play video games at camp.

The video games teach them how to code.

Kids can even make their own apps.

Then they can send their apps to their parent's phones.

Camps are a good place for kids to learn.

Sometimes it is hard for schools to teach kids how to code.

It is hard because schools cannot always add new classes.

There are too many rules they have to follow.

Summer camps can add any classes they want.

Betty Hintch has a son named Mateo.

Hintch understands why some parents may be upset.

They do not want their kids looking at a screen all summer.

Hintch is not upset.

She wants Mateo to learn how to code.

Mateo wants to play sports at camp.

His mom says he can learn coding and play sports at camp.

"It's really a good thing," Hintch said.

