Eight-year-old Claire Dormanen experienced summer camp this month in all the traditional ways: She wore comfy clothes, ate a sack lunch, and ran to avoid getting hit in dodgeball.

Yet Claire also added a new activity to her daily camp schedule: computer coding.

For three hours on a recent Friday, campers built creatures out of Legos and then wrote computer programs to make them move.

"This is where the world is going," said Claire's mother, Audrey Dormanen.

She put her daughter in the sports/coding combination camp at Code Play Learn in Oak Park, Illinois.

Claire's mother believes the camp is embracing technology and teaching her daughter important life skills.

Coding was once only for students who wanted to work in the tech industry.

Yet now it has become a skill that even kids learn.

Traditional summer camps across the Chicago area have added lessons in computer programming.

The new option appears next to the more traditional camp activities like arts and crafts, soccer and rock climbing.

Camp directors say that these lessons are necessary.

They believe the lessons give children much needed exposure to the world of computer science.

It also meets the new demand from parents who are eager to expose their children to the latest technology and careers in STEM fields: science, technology, engineering and math.

Some parents and experts question the need to teach children how to code.

They think that such highly technical instruction is unnecessary for children, because children already use so much technology on a day-to-day basis.

Instead, they believe children should enjoy carefree days in the sun.

Jim Taylor is a professor at the University of San Francisco and the author of "Raising Generation Tech: Preparing Your Children for a Media-Fueled World."

He said that teaching children how to code at early ages like 5 to 10 years old is ridiculous.

Professor Taylor believes that it is more important for children to play because playing lets them develop important motor and social skills.

Many people still believe that children should learn how to code.

Ed Lazowska is a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Washington.

He believes that in the future, knowing how to code will be a very valuable skill in all types of jobs.

Lazowska also points to recent information provided by the U.S. government.

The government estimates that 71 percent of all new jobs in STEM fields in the next 10 years will be in computer science.

"It's not that kids should be learning this because they want to work at Google and Microsoft and Facebook," Lazowska said.

Even if students never go into tech jobs, learning how to code teaches valuable "computational thinking" skills.

He said they learn how to recognize a problem and "debug" or solve it, for example.

Wil Greenwald is the owner of the Code Play Learn summer camp.

Within weeks of adding code/sports summer camps for kindergartners through sixth-graders, nearly all 70 available spots were filled.

For the first half of the day, students at Greenwald's camp build computerized boats and dancing birds.

Then, they learn different computer science skills.

After lunch, campers stop coding.

They fasten their sneakers and spend the afternoon playing games like soccer and dodge ball.

Greenwald said moms and dads "want their kids to be active, mentally and physically.

For the parents, it just really checks off a variety of boxes for them."

At the Steve and Kate's camps, developers worked for months to create coding studios at 40 locations across the United States this summer.

At any time of the day, campers can play video games that teach them how to code.

They can even create their own apps and share them with their parents' cellphones.

Ben Chun is the developer of the software used in the coding studios at Steve and Kate's camps.

He believes that by offering coding alongside the more traditional camp activities like dance, water slides and music, the camp is able to provide students with technological lessons without the complicated process of changing school programs.

Betty Hintch was pleasantly surprised when she found out her 9-year-old son, Mateo, would be able to learn coding at Steve and Kate's Mount Prospect camp.

Hintch said she could understand why some parents are upset.

Yet for her son, she thinks a little exposure to technology along with sports couldn't hurt.

"He's going to assume it's just fun and free play, but they're getting some sort of instruction snuck in there with all the fun stuff," Hintch said.

"It's a great balance.

It's really a good thing."

