Computer programming can be a great job.

Most high school students, though, do not know much about it, like Darius Taplet.

Still, Darius has one advantage that teens in wealthier school districts do not have.

He goes to Wells Community Academy in Chicago.

All Wells students get the chance to learn coding.

It is the set of instructions for computers to carry out a task.

"They said you could build your own game and I said, great!"

said Darius.

He is 17 years old.

Darius created a simple computer program with a "Star Wars" theme during a school coding event.

"When I built it, it was amazing.

I never realized it would come out like that."

He thinks that maybe he can do game design in the future.

Computer science is one of the best-paying jobs.

There are not enough people who can do it well.

About half a million computer science jobs are empty, the government said.

Yet most students still go through school without learning anything about it.

Not long ago, Google discovered something interesting.

It found that 3 out of 4 middle and high schools do not offer coding classes.

Some Chicago school districts are trying to change that.

They are increasing the number of computer programming classes.

They are also including coding lessons in other subjects.

Chicago Public Schools has even announced that students will soon have to take computing to finish high school.

There are plenty of challenges though.

There are not enough qualified teachers.

Also, it can be hard convincing school officials to spend time and money on it.

Yet, some say that it could soon be as important as math or science.  "We're starting to see more computer science in the schools, though it hasn't quite broken through yet," said Steve Svetlik, a computer science teacher.

"But it's about to break open, and in a really big way."

One problem is that most coding students are white males.

A group called Code.org is trying to change this.

It is encouraging girls and students from different background to code.

Its goal is get coding into every American school, starting in kindergarten.

Code.org works with 90 of the nation's largest districts.

One of its largest programs is in Chicago Public Schools.

The district has announced a plan to offer computer science programs for all grades.

"I've never worked in any project where there's been so much excitement," said Brenda Wilkerson.

She is in charge of the district's computer science program.

So far, the district says, more than 100 schools are offering the program.

The rest will do so within the next four years.

One of them is Wells school.

"The enjoyable part is just creating something that I want to create," said A.J.

Moore, who is 17 years old.

"I've seen simple games like Flappy Bird make so much money, and all (their creators) did is learn how to code."

A.J.

said there are a lot of jobs out there dealing with coding and computer science.

People do not know about them, he said.

Shadia Daniels is Well's computer science teacher.

She has to convince students that coding skills are important.

Some students have trouble believing they can actually become computer scientists one day.

