Computer programming can be a ticket to the good life.

Like most high school students, though, Chicago high school student Darius Taplet does not know much about it.

Still Darius has one advantage that teens in wealthier school districts do not share: He goes to Wells Community Academy, and all Wells students get the chance to learn coding.

"They said you could build your own game and I said, great!

Maybe I can do (game design) in the future," said Darius, 17.

He created a simple "Star Wars"-themed computer program during a schoolwide coding event.

"When I built it, it was amazing.

I never realized it would come out like that."

Computer science is one of the fastest-growing fields.

There are a lot of high-paying jobs.

Yet qualified workers are so scarce that companies cannot find anyone to fill a half a million jobs, according to the federal government.

Amazingly, most students still go through school without learning anything about it.

A survey by Google found that 3 out of 4 middle and high schools do not offer coding classes.

Those that do usually stop short of the Advanced Placement (AP) courses.

These are college-level classes that give students college credit if they do well enough on a test.

Now some Chicago school districts have vowed to change that.

They are expanding the number of computer programming classes and including coding lessons into other subjects.

Chicago Public Schools has even announced that it plans to make computing a requirement to graduate high school.

Plenty of challenges stand in the way.

Chicago schools still must find enough qualified teachers and convince school administrators to spent time and money on a subject that isn't on standardized tests.

Yet some say parent and student demand is growing so quickly that it could soon become a core subject like math and science.

"We're starting to see more computer science in the schools, though it hasn't quite broken through yet," said Steve Svetlik.

He is a high school teacher who leads a Chicago chapter of the Computer Science Teachers Association.

"But it's about to break open, and in a really big way."

Take the AP exam in computer science.

The number of students who take the test has more than doubled since 2010\.

However, it is still a fraction of the students who take AP tests in subjects such as English, history and calculus.

One problem is that those taking the exam tend to come from similar backgrounds.

Of those taking the test, just 22 percent, or about 1 out of 5, are girls.

One-tenth are Hispanics, and blacks make up only 3 percent.

To get more different students interested, a nonprofit group called Code.org is trying to get the subject into every American school.

It wants kids to start coding in kindergarten.

The group has trained teachers and designed courses.

It is also urging state lawmakers to make computer science count toward high school graduation.

Code.org works with 90 of the nation's largest districts.

One of its largest programs is in Chicago Public Schools.

The district has announced a plan to create computer science programs in all the grades.

"I've never worked in any project where there's been so much excitement," said Brenda Wilkerson.

She is the district's computer science program manager.

So far, the district says, more than 100 schools are offering the program.

The rest are on track to do so within the next four years.

One of them is Wells school.

"The enjoyable part is just creating something that I want to create," said A.J.

Moore, 17, a high school junior.

"I've seen simple games like Flappy Bird make so much money, and all (their creators) did is learn how to code.

There are a lot of jobs out there dealing with coding and computer science itself, but people don't know about" them.

Hundreds of elementary students are interested in attending Wells because of its computer science program.

"I think the hurdle (for some students) is believing they can be computer scientists — believing that the skills are important," said Shadia Daniels.

She is the school's computer science teacher.

