Colleges send people to visit high schools to find students they want to enter their college.

These people are called recruiters.

Colleges do not send people to visit high schools in poor areas very often.

But, they do send them to schools in rich areas a lot.

Visits from recruiters are important.

They allow students to discover colleges far beyond their hometowns.

And they help colleges discover talented students.

The Webb Schools is a private high school in California.

It attracts college recruiters from around the country.

All these recruiters are trying to get Webb students to attend their college.

This fall, 113 schools sent recruiters to Webb.

That is more than the 106 students in the senior class.

Some of the recruiters were even from the Ivy League.

It is a group of some of the best schools in the country.

The story is different at Jefferson High School.

Jefferson is a public school.

It is in a poor part of South Los Angeles.

It has 280 seniors.

Only eight recruiters showed up there.

And all were from nearby colleges.

Education experts say students lose out when recruiters skip their schools.

Students may find it much harder to get into college.

And they may find it harder to get help paying for college.

Across Southern California, the story is the same: Schools with a lot of poor and non-white students have fewer visits from college recruiters.

Schools in rich areas get lots of visits.

For instance, La Canada High School had 127 visits from recruiters between August and November.

Palisades Charter had 133.

The private Marlborough School had 102.

But in poor areas, Pasadena High School had 20 visits over the fall semester.

Compton High had five.

Santa Ana High had five.

Belmont High near downtown Los Angeles had about 25.

Jefferson principal Michael Taft said it is harder for poorer schools to set up visits from colleges.

His school can no longer afford a full-time college counselor.

That counselor had worked hard to attract recruiters.

Part of the job was to convince colleges not to be prejudiced against Jefferson.

Colleges say they are not against poor high schools on purpose.

But, they say they do not have the time to visit every school.

It's easier just to keep going back to certain schools.

These are schools where most students are already ready for college.

And where colleges have found lots of students in the past.

But some colleges do admit one thing: They want students who can easily afford to pay for college.

Education expert Gregory Wolniak points out something else unfair: Poor students need the recruiter visits more than rich students do.

They often need extra information.

And they need lots of encouragement.

This is because many have parents who did not go to college.

Visits from colleges are very important for them, Wolniak said.

They can make up for some of those differences in family background.

Roosevelt senior Beverly Vasquez found the college presentations at her public school helpful.

But she thinks there should be more visits.

They would help students learn about colleges they might not be familiar with.

"I think it would make a huge difference," Vasquez said.

Her classmate Javier Evangelista said some colleges probably stay away from public schools like his.

They don't think there could be a student in his school who might "come up with a new technology or change the world."

He added, "I do believe they are making a mistake."

Education expert Shaun R. Harper agrees.

He has studied young Latino and black men with good grades in New York City.

Harper found that many colleges avoided their high schools.

Recruiters were thinking the wrong way, he said.

They believed that "nothing good is going on" in schools like those.

