Twenty-year-old Kelsey Pearsall-Brandon wants to be a police officer, but one thing is standing in her way.

Algebra.

Pearsall-Brandon, a student at Elgin Community College in Illinois, must take remedial math to teach her what she failed to learn in high school.

And she must pass the class, which costs her $400, in order to earn a degree that could boost her chances of getting a good job.

Does she think she'll use algebra as a cop?

"Not really," she said.

"I gotta catch the criminal.

I'm not going to be finding X."

More than half of American college students, like Pearsall-Brandon, are enrolled in remedial classes, which cost them more than $3 billion yet rarely lead to graduation.

Experts are starting to take the problem seriously.

And remedial math, the subject that most often holds students back, is coming under the heaviest criticism.

Some researchers and teachers are calling for a fundamental redesign of the subject in community college.

Math requirements that are heavy on algebra often have no connection to students' career plans.

Meanwhile, they never learn statistics and other math problem solving skills they will need to do their jobs.

This lack of connection between what students must take to graduate and what they actually need for their jobs leaves many students trapped.

They are forced to spend money on classes that don't count toward degrees and that greatly increase the odds that they will drop out.

"(Remedial) mathematics is the graveyard," said Anthony Bryk of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

"If you can't get through (remedial math), you can't go on to career opportunities."

That has led some Illinois community colleges to experiment with a new model that takes a real-world approach.

This approach gives students a chance to speed through remedial math by tackling practical problems.

The new model is called "math literacy."

It's designed to give students the skills they'll need, while speeding past the types of math they'll likely never use in their jobs.

"We're not saying, 'Let's reduce standards.'

We're saying, 'Let's change the way we teach (them),' " said Kathy Almy, a professor at Rock Valley College in Illinois, who has written a math literacy textbook.

In college, students who score lowest on the math placement tests are required to take remedial math.

They start with basic math and then take three or more classes, none of which count toward graduation.

Experts say the expense and frustration often leads students to quit school.

Only 14 percent of Illinois community college students who take remedial classes graduate in three years, according to Complete College America, a nonprofit that's trying to change the remedial education system.

Community colleges require two years of coursework to graduate, unlike four-year colleges.

And students earn an associate's degree.

Chicago-area colleges have responded to the high dropout rate by coming up with new ways to help students pass remedial classes.

But the math itself is usually the same as it has always been.

"I took all this in high school," said Rebeka Sendroiu, an aspiring medical technician working on algebra word problems at Oakton Community College in Illinois.

"I don't think I should be taking it again, but it's a requirement."

This is what the math literacy movement is hoping to change.

Traditional math classes begin with theory and proceed to problems, but Almy helped design a one-semester course that works the other way around.

Teachers give students real-world questions — figuring out how an Internet video goes viral or a scientific claim about global warming — and then show them how to use math to find the answers.

Almy said students who struggle with math can answer practical problems taken from real life.

Consider a problem her class took up: You go to a restaurant's 25-cent chicken wing night with a $20 in your wallet.

After buying a $5 pitcher of soda pop, how many wings can you get?

The class had no trouble with that answer — 60 wings.

But the problem grew steadily more difficult as Almy added factors like side dishes, tax and tip, eventually creating an equation with parentheses, brackets and decimals.

"Would algebra make it easier?"

Almy asked.

"If it does, try it."

Verenice Sandoval, 18, a business major who wants to open her own photography studio, said she appreciated the class's practical approach to math.

"What's different about this course is that it applies more to real life.

So we're doing a lot more with something we'll actually use compared to algebra class in high school, where we're just working with formulas," she said.

"In some situations it's really helpful because it seems more understandable."

Almy said the course allows students to complete their remedial math requirement in one semester, rather than two or three or more.

There are no good data or numbers yet to show whether the students are more likely to get their degrees.

The City Colleges of Chicago, where 88 percent of students must take remedial math, are trying out math literacy classes.

But some professors doubt it will be a cure-all, pointing out that many students come in with enormous weaknesses in basic math and even reading.

Students majoring in science or technology will need to learn more advanced math.

But math literacy appears bound to catch on.

"Eventually we'll have most if not all colleges doing this," said Brian Durham of the Illinois Community College Board.

Almy said she hoped the math literacy programs will make education more realistic.

Traditional math education, she said, "treats all students like they want to become doctors.

Well, not everyone's going to be a doctor."

