The Webb Schools, a private high school in Claremont, attracts college recruiters from around the country and even the world.

This fall, 113 Ivy League and other schools sent representatives to the campus.

That's more than the 106 students in the senior class.

The story is different at Jefferson High School.

It's a low-income public school in South Los Angeles with 280 seniors.

Only eight recruiters from local universities showed up there.

Recruiters' visits often are an important first contact for students.

It allows them to discover schools far beyond their hometowns.

And for colleges they offer an opportunity to discover talented students.

Counselors and education experts say students lose out when recruiters skip their schools.

They may be left behind in the competition to get into college and receive help with tuition for classes.

Across Southern California, the story is the same: Campuses with a high proportion of low-income and minority students have fewer visits from college recruiters.

Among schools in well-off communities, La Canada High School had 127 visits from recruiters between August and November.

Palisades Charter had 133; the private Marlborough School, a girls school, had 102.

In contrast, schools in low-income areas received far fewer visits.

Pasadena High School had 20 visits over the fall semester; Compton High, five; Hoover High in Glendale, 15; Santa Ana High, five; Belmont High near downtown Los Angeles, about 25.

Schools in poorer communities have trouble getting money and, as a result, visits from recruiters, said Jefferson Principal Michael Taft.

He said his school lost funding for a full-time college counselor.

That counselor had arranged visits.

The counselor had also encouraged recruiters to overcome bad views about low-income, heavily minority public schools.

Colleges, particularly from out of state, say they do not discriminate against those schools.

But they say they have limited time.

And lack of money makes them return to schools where they've been successful in enrolling students.

Some say that students' ability to pay for classes without a lot of help from the schools can sway their choices.

According to education expert Gregory Wolniak, students at high schools receiving few recruiters often need more information and encouragement than do students at better-off schools.

This is because they are more likely to come from families with less college experience.

"Having visits from schools can serve to compensate for some of those family background differences," said Wolniak.

Roosevelt senior Beverly Vasquez said she found the college presentations at her public school helpful.

But she believes more visits could expand students' horizons.

It could help particularly with private and out-of-state colleges.

"I think it would make a huge difference," said Vasquez, who wants to study engineering.

Her classmate Javier Evangelista also wants to study engineering.

He said some colleges probably stay away from public schools like his because they don't think there could be a student in the school who could "win the next Nobel Prize, come up with a new technology or change the world."

He added, "I do believe they are making a mistake."

According to education researcher Shaun R. Harper, too many colleges stick to traditional recruiting efforts.

Many, he said, concentrate on high schools with lots of students who are the most ready for college.

They also focus on schools that have previously sent graduates to enroll as freshmen.

"That is shameful since so many talented students are not given a chance or not introduced to the vast landscape of higher education opportunities," he said.

In research that tracked young Latino and black men with good grades in New York City, Harper found that many colleges avoided their high schools.

They wrongly assumed, he said, "that nothing good is going on."

Recruiters say they seek talented minority and low-income students through other means than school visits.

They find them through large college fairs, citywide recruiting sessions, online outreach and videotaped presentations.

Some join community-based organizations that help young people enter college.

Not receiving visits may hurt students' chances of getting into schools.

Students who impress college representatives during high school visits may have a leg up in getting into schools.

This is because recruiters usually help make decisions about who gets into the colleges and universities.

Joshua Vincent, a Webb senior, said college visits to his school proved "super-important."

"I got to know the people who might have my fate in their hands," he said.

He said it doesn't feel like he handed his college application to complete strangers.

