Nearly 900 fifth graders filled Western Washington University's gym in October.

Buzzing with fifth-grade energy,  the gymnasium had all the excitement of a pep rally before a big game.

It rocked with the sound of the college band.

The school's Viking mascot high-fived his way across the room.

These 10- and 11-years-olds are at the start of an important phase of life.

In the next few years, how they see themselves, as smart or just average, may determine whether they go to college.

Western's goal is to convince these kids that college should be in their future.

Much of the talk about college-going rates has been focused on high-poverty schools.

But in Whatcom County, where the university is located, the number of high school graduates who go to college is lower than the state average.

And the Washington state average is low to begin with.

Fewer than 1 in 4 high school graduates in two districts in Whatcom County go to four-year colleges.

Just a little over half of all graduates in surrounding districts go to college at all.

And the majority head to community colleges, which have even higher dropout rates.

Students graduate from community colleges after two years.

Western isn't the first university to use college students to help younger kids.

What makes the program different is that it starts in fifth grade.

That is a critical time when kids start to compare themselves with other kids.

Three times a year, Western sends about 400 student-mentors into 29 schools.

The program is called Compass 2 Campus.

Since it began five years ago, it has sent college students into 350 classrooms.

The program has touched the lives of about 9,000 school kids.

The college students spend three weeks learning how to work with kids from different backgrounds.

The college students spend seven weeks working in classrooms as tutors and role models.

The university doesn't know if the program works yet.

For that the university has to wait until the original group of fifth-graders graduates from high school.

Then it will see how many of them go to college.

But Compass 2 Campus is building an important part of getting more kids to go to college.

The program is creating a college-going atmosphere in schools.

Recently, three college students watched a social studies class at Shuksan Middle School in Bellingham.

The lesson was on the Middle East.

The students worked on reading a map, taking a quiz and presenting a report.

The college students are trained to watch for educational hiccups.

These are moments when a student has trouble with an idea or a project.

The college students watched, sharp-eyed and ready to step in.

They leaned over students working on the maps and gave gentle praise.

And they coached groups of students practicing their reports.

"They're smart, they're college students, they've done this before," said the teacher John Sage.

"I love having them in my room."

Shuksan Principal Jay Jordan has asked teachers to set aside time each week.

During that time, the college students talk to the younger kids about college.

"Hey, 35 college kids in our school ... that's a great connection," Jordan said.

As the college students talk about their lives, they are also imparting a subtle lesson: I'm a college student.

I'm like you, just a few years older.

Study hard, and you can go to college, too.

Studies link better jobs and higher salaries with at least some college.

Washington state ranks 46th in students who go to college full time after high school.

This is according to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), State lawmakers are concerned.

They are trying different ways to get more kids to go to college.

Other colleges are beginning programs like Compass 2 Campus.

At the heart of Compass 2 Campus lies two ideas.

The first is that middle school students form strong ideas about their own skills and abilities.

The second idea is that starting in fifth grade is important.

That way schools can encourage more students to go to college.

Between elementary and middle school is the time when achievement and motivation go down, said Eric Anderman.

He chairs the Department of Educational Studies at Ohio State University.

Anderman has done research on this issue.

Fifth grade is an important time "get kids thinking about their futures," he said.

