Western Washington University's gym buzzed with fifth-grade energy.

Nearly 900 10- and 11-year-olds filled the gym.

The scene felt like a pep rally before a big game.

It rocked with the sound of the college band.

And the school's Viking mascot high-fived his way across the room.

These fifth-graders are at an important turning point.

How they see see themselves — as smart or stupid — may decide if they go to college.

Western University wants to convince them that college is in their future.

Western University is located in Whatcom County.

Not many Whatcom County high school graduates go to college.

The number is lower than the state average.

And the Washington state average is low to begin with.

Less than 1 in 4 high school graduates in two districts there go to four-year universities.

Just over half of the graduates in nearby districts go to college at all.

And most head to community colleges.

These have even higher dropout rates.

Western sends college students into 29 schools through a program called Compass 2 Campus.

The program began five years ago.

Since then, it has touched the lives of about 9,000 kids.

The college students work with kids in the classrooms as tutors and role models.

Western isn't the first university to help younger students.

What makes its program different is that it starts in fifth grade.

That is an important time for kids.

They start to compare themselves with others and decide what they are good at.

The university doesn't know if the program works yet.

The university must wait until the original group of fifth-graders graduates from high school.

Then it will see if more kids go to college.

But Compass 2 Campus is already playing an important role.

The program is creating a college-going feeling in schools.

Recently, three Western students watched a social studies class at Shuksan Middle School.

The lesson was on the Middle East.

The school kids read a map, took a quiz and presented a report.

The college students are trained to watch for educational hiccups.

These are moments when a school kid messes up an idea or a project.

The college students watched the younger kids, ready to step in.

They gently praised kids working with maps.

They also helped kids practicing their reports.

"They're smart.

They're college students.

They've done this before," said teacher John Sage.

"I love having them in my room."

Once a week, the college students talk to the kids.

As they talk about their lives, they also share an important lesson.

They are saying: I'm a college student.

I'm like you, just a few years older.

Study hard, and you can go to college, too.

"Hey, 35 college kids in our school ... that's a great connection," said Shuksan Principal Jay Jordan.

Studies link better jobs and higher salaries to college.

However, not many students in Washington state go to college.

This makes Washington lawmakers concerned.

They are trying to find ways to get more kids to go to college.

Other colleges are beginning programs like Compass 2 Campus.

At the heart of Compass 2 Campus are two ideas.

The first is that middle school students have strong ideas about their own skills and abilities.

The second idea is that fifth grade is the best time to start.

By starting young, schools can encourage more kids to go to college.

Eric Anderman heads the education department at Ohio State University.

He says that student achievement goes down between fifth and sixth grades.

This is when many kids lose their enthusiasm for school.

Fifth grade is an important time to "get kids thinking about their futures," he said.

