Twenty-year-old Kelsey Pearsall-Brandon wants to be a police officer, but one thing is standing in her way.

Algebra.

Pearsall-Brandon is a student at Elgin Community College in Illinois.

She must take remedial math to teach her the math skills she should have learned in high school.

And she must pass the class, which costs $400, in order to graduate from college.

Does she think she'll use algebra as a police officer?

"Not really," she said.

"I gotta catch the criminal.

I'm not going to be finding X."

More than half of American college students, like Pearsall-Brandon, are enrolled in remedial classes.

Remedial classes give students, who do badly in a subject like math or reading, the skills and information necessary to catch up.

At the college level, remedial classes cost students more than $3 billion each year, but few of them count toward graduation.

Remedial education is a huge problem that experts are starting to take seriously.

Math is the subject that most often holds students back.

Remedial math education is coming under heaviest criticism.

Some experts and teachers say remedial math must be changed.

Math classes that are heavy on algebra often have no connection to jobs in the real world.

Meanwhile, students never learn the real-life math problem solving skills they actually need to do the jobs they will get.

This lack of connection between what students must take to graduate and what they actually need to perform their jobs leaves many students trapped.

They are forced to spend money on classes that don't count toward degrees.

These classes also greatly increase the odds they will drop out.

Remedial math kills students' career ambitions, said Anthony Bryk.

He works at the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.

If you can't get through remedial math, you can't graduate and get a job.

That has led some Illinois community colleges to experiment with a new model.

The new model is called math literacy.

It's designed to spend more time on practical math skills students will actually need in life and less time on types of math they'll likely never use.

"We're not saying, 'Let's reduce standards.'

We're saying, 'Let's change the way we teach (them),' " said Kathy Almy.

She is a college professor in Illinois who has written a math literacy textbook.

In college, students who score lowest on the math placement tests are required to take remedial math.

They start with basic arithmetic and work their way through three or more classes.

None of these classes count toward graduation.

Experts say the expense and frustration often leads students to quit school.

Only 14 percent of Illinois community college students who take remedial classes graduate in three years.

Community colleges are designed to take two years to graduate.

Almy helped create a one-semester course that uses real-world math problems.

Students may be asked to figure out how an Internet video goes viral, for example, or a scientific claim about global warming.

Teachers then show them how to use math to find the answers.

Almy said students who struggle with math can answer problems from real life.

Consider a problem her class took up: You go to a restaurant's 25-cent chicken wing night with a $20 in your wallet.

After buying a $5 pitcher of soda pop, how many wings can you get?

The class had no trouble with that answer — 60 wings.

But the problem grew steadily more difficult as Almy added factors like side dishes, tax and tip.

"Would algebra make it easier?"

Almy asked the students.

"If it does, try it."

Verenice Sandoval, 18, is a business major who wants to open her own photography studio.

She said she appreciated the class.

"What's different about this course is that it applies more to real life.

So we're doing a lot more with something we'll actually use compared to algebra class in high school, where we're just working with formulas," she said.

"In some situations it's really helpful because it seems more understandable."

Almy said the class allows students to complete their remedial math requirement in a much shorter time.

It's not known yet if students who take the class are more likely to graduate from college.

At the City Colleges of Chicago, 88 percent of students must take remedial math.

So, they decided to try out math literacy classes.

But some professors doubt it will do much good, pointing out that many students come to college knowing little basic arithmetic and have weak reading skills.

Also, students majoring in science or technology will need to learn more advanced math.

Still, math literacy appears bound to catch on.

"Eventually we'll have most if not all colleges doing this," said Brian Durham of the Illinois Community College Board.

Almy said she hoped the math literacy programs will make education more practical.

Traditional math education, she said, "treats all students like they want to become doctors.

Well, not everyone's going to be a doctor."

