The Webb Schools, a private high school in Claremont, attracts college recruiters from around the country and even the world.

This fall, 113 Ivy League and other schools sent representatives to the campus.

That's more than the 106 students in the senior class.

The story is different at Jefferson High School.

It's a low-income public school in South Los Angeles with 280 seniors.

Only eight recruiters from local universities showed up there.

Recruiters' visits often are an important first contact for students.

They allow them to discover campuses far beyond their hometowns.

And for colleges they offer an opportunity to discover talented applicants.

According to counselors and education experts, students may be left behind in the competition for college entrance and financial aid when recruiters skip their campuses.

Across Southern California, campuses with a high proportion of low-income and minority students had far fewer visits from college recruiters.

Among schools in well-off communities, La Canada High School had 127 visits from recruiters between August and November.

Palisades Charter on the Westside had 133; the private Marlborough School, a girls school, had 102.

Corona del Mar, a public school in wealthy Newport Beach, had 85.

Sometimes it books as many as six in a single day.

In contrast, schools in low-income areas received far fewer visits.

Pasadena High School had 20 visits over the fall semester; Compton High, five; Hoover High in Glendale, 15; Santa Ana High, five; Belmont High near downtown Los Angeles, about 25.

"Underserved communities have trouble getting resources and access to things like that," said Jefferson Principal Michael Taft.

He said his school lost funding for a full-time college counselor.

That counselor had arranged visits and had encouraged recruiters to overcome negative images about low-income, heavily minority public schools.

Colleges, particularly from out of state, say they do not discriminate against those schools.

But they say limited time and tight budgets compel them to return to schools where they've been successful in enrolling students or at least gathering applications.

Some say that students' ability to pay tuition without substantial financial aid also can sway their choices.

According to education expert Gregory Wolniak, students at high schools receiving few recruiters often need more information and encouragement than do students at better-off schools.

This is because they are more likely to come from families with less college experience.

"Having visits from schools can serve to compensate for some of those family background differences," said Wolniak.

Roosevelt senior Beverly Vasquez said she found the college presentations at her public school helpful.

But she believes more visits could expand students' horizons, particularly with private and out-of-state colleges.

"I think it would make a huge difference," said Vasquez, who wants to study engineering.

Her classmate Javier Evangelista is applying as a mechanical engineering major.

He said some colleges probably stay away from public schools like his.

He believes it's because they don't think "there could be a student in this school who has the potential to win the next Nobel Prize, come up with a new technology or change the world."

He added, "I do believe they are making a mistake."

According to education researcher Shaun R. Harper, too many colleges stick to traditional recruiting efforts.

Many, he said, concentrate on high schools with substantial numbers of students who meet eligibility requirements and those that have previously sent graduates to enroll as freshmen.

"That is shameful since so many talented students are not given a chance or not introduced to the vast landscape of higher education opportunities," he said.

In research that tracked young Latino and black men with good grades in New York City, Harper found that many colleges avoided their high schools.

They wrongly assumed, he said, "that nothing good is going on."

Recruiters say they seek talented minority and low-income students in other ways.

They search for them through large college fairs, citywide recruiting sessions, online outreach and videotaped presentations.

Some join community-based organizations that help young people enter college, such as the national Posse Foundation, Bright Prospect in Pomona and One Voice in Los Angeles.

Admissions recruiters from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign travel to about 800 high schools nationwide.

Representatives tend "not to visit a school where the majority of the population may not be mobile and are not going to leave a certain radius of home," said recruitment director Mike Drish.

And they avoid schools where kids are unlikely to be able to afford out-of-state education even with some aid, he said.

Given limits on recruiters' time, the pattern of high school visits can be "self-perpetuating," said Robert Springall, admissions dean at Pennsylvania's Bucknell University.

"The downside is that it locks you into a circle" of visiting the same schools, he said.

It doesn't "give you great opportunities to discover completely new schools."

His representative visited about two dozen high schools in the Los Angeles region this fall, but no schools in a poorer L.A. district.

To help compensate for that, Springall said, Bucknell is part of the Posse Foundation.

It connects bright public school students to colleges that offer them full-tuition scholarships.

Bucknell annually enrolls 30 Posse freshmen, including 10 from Los Angeles.

Students who impress college representatives during high school visits may have a leg up.

The recruiters they meet during visits usually help make admissions decisions.

Joshua Vincent, a Webb senior, said college visits to his school proved "super-important."

"I got to know the people who might have my fate in their hands," he said.

"It doesn't feel like I am handing my application to some random strangers."

