The Webb Schools, a private high school in California, attracts college recruiters from around the country and even the world.

The recruiters are looking for students to enter their colleges.

This fall, 113 schools sent recruiters to Webb.

That's more than the 106 students in the senior class.

Some of the recruiters were from the Ivy League, a group of some of the best colleges in the nation.

The story is different at Jefferson High School.

It's a low-income public school in South Los Angeles with 280 seniors.

Only eight recruiters from nearby universities showed up there.

Recruiters' visits often are an important step for students toward college.

They allow them to discover colleges far beyond their hometowns.

And they let colleges discover talented students.

Counselors and education experts say students lose out when admissions officials skip their schools.

They may find it much harder to get into college or to get help in paying for their college costs.

Across Southern California, the story is the same: Schools with a high amount of low-income and minority students have fewer visits from college recruiters.

Among schools in well-off communities, La Canada High School had 127 visits from recruiters between August and November.

Palisades Charter had 133; the private Marlborough School, a girls school, had 102.

Things were very different for schools in low-income areas.

Pasadena High School had 20 visits over the fall semester; Compton High, five; Hoover High in Glendale, 15; Santa Ana High, five; Belmont High near downtown Los Angeles, about 25.

Jefferson principal Michael Taft says that poorer schools find it harder to set up visits from colleges.

He said his school used to have a full-time college counselor.

But, it didn't have enough money to keep the counselor.

That counselor had worked hard to convince recruiters not to be against low-income, heavily minority public schools.

Colleges say they are not against such high schools.

But, they say they don't have the time or money to visit every school.

It's easier just to keep going back to schools where they've already found many students.

Some colleges do admit that they would rather have students who can easily afford to attend college.

Education expert Gregory Wolniak points out something else unfair: Students at high schools that get few visits often need information and encouragement more than students at better-off schools do.

This is because they are more likely to come from families with less college experience.

Having visits from schools can make up for some of those family background differences, said Wolniak.

Roosevelt senior Beverly Vasquez said she found the college presentations at her public school helpful.

But she thinks more visits could open students' eyes to more choices.

This is particularly true when it comes to private and out-of-state colleges they might not be familiar with.

"I think it would make a huge difference," said Vasquez, who wants to study engineering Her classmate Javier Evangelista also wants to study engineering.

He said some colleges probably stay away from public schools like his.

He said they don't think that a student in the school could "win the next Nobel Prize, come up with a new technology or change the world."

He added, "I do believe they are making a mistake."

The way recruiters avoid poorer schools is "shameful," said education expert Shaun R. Harper.

"Many talented students are not given a chance."

Harper has done studies that tracked young Latino and black men with good grades in New York City.

He found that many colleges avoided their high schools.

They wrongly think, he said, "that nothing good is going on."

