Elion Uriana is a leader of a native group in Colombia called the Wayuu.

Uriana is a palabrero.

He is the tribe's judge.

As palabrero, Uriana decides how to handle all sorts of disagreements.

He is in charge of making sure everything stays peaceful.

Today, he has to figure out what to do about a problem between a new husband and wife.

The man's parents had given the woman's family 60 goats as a wedding gift.

A month later, the woman left her husband.

Now Uriana says her family has to return the goats to the man's family.

Uriana had helped arrange the marriage as part of his job as palabrero.

The Wayuu do not get to choose whom they marry.

"All our marriages are arranged by the families and the couple has to live by that," Uriana said.

Colombia has 65 native groups, but the Wayuu is the largest.

There are about 300,000 Wayuu.

Not long ago, most Colombians looked down on Wayuu customs like the palabreros.

Now Colombians are starting to change their minds.

They have found new respect for the Wayuu and other native groups.

The Language Law helped people see things differently.

Groups like the Wayuu had not been using their languages as much.

Colombia's native sayings were starting to disappear.

The government wanted to make sure they would not be lost.

It passed the Language Law in 2010.

The Language Law made a big difference in how the country treated its native groups.

It showed that preserving Colombia's old customs and languages was important to the entire nation.

That same year, the United Nations honored the palabreros.

The tribal judges were recognized as key parts of the world's history.

The U.N. helped everyone see how important tribal rights are.

Thanks to the Language Law, Colombia's government got to work on the problem.

It started making a list.

The list kept track of all the country's native sayings and customs.

The new list was the first time local languages had been organized since the 1950s.

The information was put into a new computer program.

It helps people learn basic phrases in Colombia's 65 languages.

People from different backgrounds can use it to talk to each other.

The government wants to help people see how special Colombia's native languages are.

It also wants the native communities to be proud of their history.

The government supports Wayuu children learning their native language.

They are making sure their schools teach language lessons.

The schools also teach classes in Spanish.

Nelson Iguaran runs one of these special schools.

Teachers at his school all speak both languages.

Iguaran says his school protects the Wayuu way of life.

Students at these special schools are taught about Wayuu customs.

They also hear interesting stories about Wayuu history and myths.

They are reminded that the good of the community is more important than anything else.

Iguaran says that some Wayuu people are not proud of their background.

However, he says that when students learn new Wayuu words and history, they go home and share it with their parents.

It makes the whole family proud.

