Rescue and recovery teams in Colorado continued their efforts on Sunday.

Major flooding has soaked the state and hundreds of people remained unaccounted for, meaning no one knew where they were.

The number of people dead and missing continued to rise.

Officials said there were at least 700 Coloradans still listed as missing in Boulder and Larimer counties.

Flooding washed out bridges and roads.

Several central Colorado communities have been cut off.

Gov.

John Hickenlooper said he hoped that many of the missing were simply unable to get in touch.

He hoped they were already out of danger or staying with friends.

"But," he added, "we're still bracing.

I mean, there are many, many homes that have been destroyed."

The governor made his comments on CNN.

Larimer County police said an 80-year-old woman had probably been killed.

That brings the death toll to six, at least for now.

A Larimer County spokesman said the woman was injured and could not get out of her house as floodwaters began surrounding it.

The house was gone when neighbors came back to get her out.

The woman is missing.

Officials assume she is dead.

It began raining on Monday.

By Wednesday the rainfall had set records.

The National Weather Service reported as much as 9 to 10 inches of rain falling in just hours in many areas.

The rain was too much for the ground to handle.

It was already soaked.

Heavy rains also stopped some rescue efforts.

Floods have damaged 4,500 square miles of eastern Colorado.

As many as 100 roadways are damaged.

Raging waters were so bad they turned into 15- to 20-foot walls of water smashing through the area.

The water destroyed dozens of bridges Boulder County was the hardest hit.

Officials said that by Saturday, 3,500 people wre still ordered to stay away from home in the city of Boulder.

Another 5,500 were under those evacuation orders in Longmont.

At least 3,600 customers were without gas and 3,000 were without electricity just in Boulder.

Things were worse in the mountains.

Power has been out for days.

People have been told to boil their water while waiting for supplies and evacuation.

Thousands of evacuees sought shelter.

As of Sunday morning, there are 234 people unaccounted for in Boulder County, said Liz Donaghey of the Boulder Office of Emergency Management.

Larimer County authorities said 482 people were unaccounted for.

Donaghey stressed that not everyone on the list was missing.

She hoped the number would become more clear as authorities try to remove names that are on the list more than once.

It has been difficult to get accurate numbers of the missing because phones are not working in some of the hardest-hit areas.

Phone service was restored to some areas, so authorities hoped they could reach more people.

The National Guard has rescued 1,700 people from isolated areas.

But heavy rains have sometimes grounded helicopters, which have been important tools for reaching people where roads washed out.

Still, Larimer County Sheriff Justin Smith said things were starting to look up.

"I can tell you, while I felt hopeless on Friday, I felt a lot of hope, a lot of energy yesterday," Smith said.

He became emotional as he described how he thought the communities would come back from the disaster "inch by inch, mile by mile, community by community."

"They're doing it," Smith said, his voice breaking.

"People are getting those things done out there."

