The gold and silver mines up in the mountains enriched the cities in the valley below.

However, it came at a large price.

On Aug. 5, an environmental cleaning team was almost hit by a 20-foot-high wall of orange water that poured out of the Gold King Mine.

The mine is located about 12 miles north of Silverton, Colorado.

About 3 million gallons of water filled with poisonous chemicals poured into tiny Cement Creek and from there into the Animas River.

Colorado and New Mexico officials cautioned people to stay out of the water.

They also temporarily cut off water to farms before restoring some water last week.

On Monday, the Environment Protection Agency (EPA) announced it will investigate the spill.

The Gold King Mine spill is not the only source of pollution here.

Other closed mines continue to pour 540 to 740 gallons of toxic water per minute into the Animas.

Who is to blame?

The mining companies?

The officials who allowed the companies to plug a drainage ditch and let the water build up inside the mountain?

Or the citizens of this town, who battled an EPA plan to clean up the area for more than 20 years?

No one can say for sure, but one thing is clear: The Gold King spill was years in the making.

What started it all?

asked Mitchell Gillon, who worked the mines for three years.

"Plugging that mine, then letting that water sit and letting the companies get away with it," he said.

"The EPA didn't make them fix it, and they're not going to do it on their own."

The mines' history is complicated.

No one can say whether one mine is connected to another and, if so, whose polluted water came out of Gold King.

"We love the place we live," Gillon said, his comments delivered in a slight drawl.

"I want my kids, when I have them, to scratch their knees and bump their elbows here," he said.

"We don't want this city gone, but we need mining back, responsible mining that won't dump metals like they did" in the 1890s.

Gold King closed in the 1920s, but another gold mine, the Sunnyside, was believed to have access to the same area.

To reach it, Standard Metal drilled a massive pipe into the mountain in 1959.

The American Tunnel, as it was called, collected water from Sunnyside Mine, and possibly from other mines.

Then it dumped the toxic water into a creek.

The Sunnyside Mine was closed in 1991, but poisonous mine waste remained.

Company officials' solution was to seal the hole with a concrete plug the size of a railway car.

A similar plug was used at Gold King.

Polluted water continued to seep out of the mine.

For years, that seemed to be the end of the story.

Silverton is a tourist town now.

Locals and the mining companies joined forces, seeking to avoid being labeled a Superfund site.

The government program cleans up sites, where companies dumped poisonous materials.

Now, the owners of Gold King and Sunnyside are pointing fingers at each other.

They are both blaming the EPA.

Todd Hennis owns the Gold King Mine and blames the spill on Sunnyside.

"I believe Sunnyside knew it was going to happen and they stalled any action because it will cost them money to fix it," he said.

Kinross Gold Corp. now owns the Sunnyside.

The mining company denied that it was responsible for the spill.

Kinross said that Hennis was making false charges against the company.

"It did not cause the water buildup at Gold King," Kinross said.

EPA officials and mine experts say that right now it is impossible to know if the mines are connected and what may have connected them.

The answer could be cracks in the rock or even holes drilled later to look for gold and silver.

Since the spill, locals have complained that the EPA ignored warnings about toxic mine water.

They also say the EPA either did not give them clear answers to their questions or gave them no answer at all.

