Widespread rescue and flood recovery efforts continued Sunday in Colorado.

Hundreds of residents remained unaccounted for and the death toll — as well as the number of missing — continued to rise.

Officials said there were at least 700 Coloradans still listed as missing in Boulder and Larimer counties after the disaster.

The flooding has washed out bridges and roads and isolated several central Colorado communities.

Gov.

John Hickenlooper, appearing on CNN on Sunday morning, said he hoped that many of the missing were simply unable to get in touch, and have "already gotten out or (are) staying with friends."

"But," he added, "we're still bracing.

I mean, there are many, many homes that have been destroyed."

Larimer County law enforcement officials said an 80-year-old woman had probably been killed.

That brings the death toll to six, at least for now.

Larimer County spokesman John Schulz said the woman was injured and not able to get out of her house as floodwaters began surrounding it.

When neighbors returned to get her out, the house was gone.

The woman is missing and presumed dead.

It's common in disasters to have large numbers of missing people who have simply been displaced and briefly cut off from contact.

The numbers usually peak early and then decline as people are located.

In Colorado's floods, however, the number of missing has continued to rise.

It began raining on Monday.

By Wednesday the rainfall had set records.

The National Weather Service reported as much as 9 to 10 inches of rain falling in just hours in many areas.

The rain was too much for the already saturated ground to handle.

Heavy rains have also hindered some rescue efforts.

The eastern portion of the Colorado has had flood damage across about 4,500 square miles.

As many as 100 roadways got damaged.

Dozens of bridges were brought down by raging waters so fierce they turned into 15- to 20-foot walls of water smashing through the area.

Boulder County was the hardest hit.

By Saturday, officials said, 3,500 people remained under evacuation orders in the city of Boulder while 5,500 were under evacuation orders in Longmont.

At least 3,600 customers were without gas and 3,000 were without electricity just in Boulder.

As bad as the cities were, the mountain regions were worse.

Power has been out for days and people have been told to boil their water while waiting for supplies and evacuation.

Thousands of evacuees sought shelter.

As of Sunday morning, there are 234 people unaccounted for in Boulder County, an increase from 218 on Saturday, said Liz Donaghey of the Boulder Office of Emergency Management.

Larimer County authorities said 482 people were unaccounted for, up from 350 on Saturday.

Donaghey stressed that not everyone on the list was missing.

She hoped the number would become firmer later Sunday as authorities try to remove names that are on the list more than once.

It has been difficult to get accurate numbers of the missing because communications were not working in some of the hardest-hit areas.

Phone service was restored to some areas, so authorities were hoping they could reach more people.

Larimer County's Schulz attributed the growth in the numbers of missing to growing concern from relatives and friends.

People assume they will hear from loved ones, but become increasingly frantic when days pass and they still have not, he said.

The National Guard has rescued 1,700 people from isolated areas.

But heavy rains have sometimes grounded helicopters, which have been important for reaching people where roads are impassable.

Still, Larimer County Sheriff Justin Smith said things were starting to look up.

"I can tell you, while I felt hopeless on Friday, I felt a lot of hope, a lot of energy yesterday," Smith said.

He became emotional as he described how he thought the communities would come back from the disaster "inch by inch, mile by mile, community by community."

"They're doing it," Smith said, his voice breaking.

"People are getting those things done out there."

