Two lawmakers who worked to pass Colorado's strict gun laws lost their jobs on Tuesday.

Senate President John Morse and state Senator Angela Giron were defeated in a close vote in a special election to kick them out of office.

The state election turned into a national debate over gun control.

Morse and Giron were important people when it came to getting the gun laws passed.

Some gun owners and their supporters do not like the laws.

They collected thousands of signatures earlier in the year and organized a vote.

This asked the people of Colorado Springs whether they wanted Morse and Giron to continue working or not.

It was called a recall vote.

Both lawmakers lost narrowly.

They will be replaced by two men who were against the gun restrictions.

It was the first time that this happened in Colorado.

Morse and Giron helped pass strict gun control laws last winter.

The laws were written after several mass shootings in 2012.

These included a school in Newtown, Connecticut, and a movie theater in Aurora outside Denver.

The new Colorado laws said that guns should only hold 15 bullets at a time.

They also demand background checks on every gun owner.

But some gun owners felt that their opinions were ignored when the laws were made.

The laws took effect on July 1.

Morse said he would continue to fight for control of guns.

He believes that the laws he made make Colorado safer.

Morse said that this was worth the sacrifice of losing his job.

"If it cost me my political career, that's a small price to pay."

Giron told her supporters that "this will make us stronger."

She said that she had no regrets about voting for the stricter gun laws.

"I'm a fighter," she said.

"We will win in the end, because we are on the right side."

This vote was important to many people across the country.

Some believe there should be more rules about who owns guns.

They believe this would mean that shootings like those in Newtown and Aurora would happen less often.

Other voters think that owning a gun is matter of freedom.

They believe the government should not get involved in gun laws.

The supporters of both sides spoke in the debate in Colorado.

The gun owners felt that Morse and Giron had made the laws without asking the public first.

The campaign against them started in Colorado.

But the arguments were watched from all over the United States.

And thousands of dollars were spent by those on both sides.

The National Rifle Association campaigned against the state senators.

The NRA believes that there should be no more laws on guns.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg supported Morse and Giron.

Bloomberg thinks that there should be more control over who can own guns.

Both sides argued hard in the days leading up to the vote.

It turned the vote into an intense debate in Colorado and across the United States.

The people who do not believe in gun control are hoping to organize another vote in 2014.

They want to get rid of the new gun laws completely.

A group of sheriffs has asked a judge to throw out the laws.

The results of Tuesday's vote pushed forward Morse's retirement date.

He was first elected in 2006.

He would have left the senate in 2014.

Giron had hoped to win re-election next year.

