Many of the red roses and other flowers that are such a central part of Valentine's Day come from one place.

They are picked from the fields around Colombia's capital city of Bogota.

Fifty years ago, Colombia shipped its first batch of fresh-cut flowers to Miami.

Since then, Colombian flowers have grown into a billion dollar industry.

Back when that first batch of Colombian flowers was shipped, flowers in the United States were expensive luxury goods sold only at specialized shops.

Today, they are available widely.

They now can be bought everywhere from grocery stores to gas stations to street corners.

As flower sales increased in the United States, Colombia became a global flower power.

The country will export 500 million flowers for Valentine's Day and 3 out of every 4 stems delivered for the occasion will likely come from here.

The story of how Colombia became the world's second-largest flower exporter can be traced back to a handful of adventurous businessmen and a clever college student.

The godfather of the nation's flower trade was Edgar Wells.

A Colombian of English descent, he saw the astronomical flower prices in Washington, D.C., and recognized the business opportunity.

At the time, most of America's fresh-cut flowers were coming from California and Colorado, and were rare, expensive and reserved for special occasions.

Wells returned home and set up a flower company, named Flores Colombianas.

He made his first shipment to Miami in October 1965.

Charles Weston is 83 years old now but he began managing Flores Colombianas in 1969.

"He saw that Washington was full, full of socialites and all they did was go to parties and take each other presents, which were often flowers," Weston said of Wells.

"He said, 'Why don't we get into that business.'"

His timing was perfect.

In 1961, President John F. Kennedy launched the Alliance for Progress, which aimed to create a better relationship between the United States and its Latin American neighbors.

Colombia was made a showcase for the effort.

To help Colombia develop its agricultural industry, the United States sent university researchers and agricultural experts to the country.

One of them was a Colorado State University student named David Cheever.

Inspired by Wells' work, Cheever wrote a paper in 1967 about Bogota providing flowers for countries around the world.

Cheever saw opportunity in Colombia's climate and its high-altitude plains.

He noted too that newly introduced jet flights from Bogota to Miami made going back and forth between Colombia and the United States easier than ever.

Cheever's paper changed the flower industry forever.

John Vaughan, a Colombian of English descent, was one of the first to get into the new flower industry.

In 1969, he and two brothers started growing carnations on a 2.5-acre plot of land.

At the time, there were only two other growers, including Flores Colombianas, but the flower rush was on.

Cheever himself decided to put his ideas to the test by launching Flor America that same year.

In the beginning, the pioneers were collaborators rather than competitors, Vaughan said, and Cheever was seen as an innovator.

"We used to just copy what (Cheever) did," Vaughan said.

The greenhouse structures that are still in use today on flower farms were largely developed by him.

"He was very generous with his ideas and knowledge."

The early years were trial and error, and Vaughan recalls having to hand-carry boxes of flowers to Miami.

Buyers were hard to find at first, but eventually Vaughan helped convince U.S. grocery stores that flowers made sense.

"They work by the square foot," he said of chain stores such as Costco and Walmart.

"So we had to prove to them that it was better to have flowers than, say, Campbell's soup — that's a tough sell."

Things began to take off in the early 1970s after Weston established El Dorado Trading Company in Miami.

"After that, flowers were going straight into refrigeration, and we had sales girls who could talk to all of the cities in the United States," he said.

The industry has only blossomed since then.

Now, there are an estimated 350 flower growers in Colombia who employ 130,000 workers.

The industry shipped 200,000 tons of flowers in 2013 worth about $1.3 billion.

The future looks even brighter, according to Colombian Agriculture Minister Aurelio Iragorri.

Soon, many people in the U.S. "will not only want flowers for Valentine's Day but as a year-round consumer good," he said.

