It was just another day at the office for Elion Uriana, a palabrero, or tribal judge, in Colombia's native Wayuu community.

As the leader of his goat-herding clan, he was trying to decide what to do about an arranged marriage that had fallen apart.

The groom's parents had given the bride's family a dowry of 60 goats, but the bride left him for another man just a month after they were married.

The bride's parents blamed the groom and said he had mistreated their daughter.

The families could not settle the dispute in the end, so the bride's family had to pay back the goats.

Uriana had helped arrange that marriage as part of his function as palabrero, a title that literally means "the word."

When it comes to matrimony, Uriana said that freedom of choice is not a legitimate option within the Wayuu culture: "All our marriages are arranged by the families and the couple has to live by that."

For the Wayuu, one of 65 native groups in Colombia, Uriana's role of mediator is essential.

His other tasks include resolving land disputes, monitoring debt payments and dividing lumber and other community assets.

"My duty is to mediate the peaceful resolution of conflicts.

The traditional legal system is one thing; we Wayuus have our own."

With 300,000 members, the Wayuu native group is Colombia's largest, accounting for more than 40 percent of the population of the northeastern province of La Guajira.

The community also inhabits parts of neighboring Venezuela.

Not long ago, most Colombians looked down upon palabreros and other Wayuu customs.

Now experts on the region's native cultures say that the country's condescending attitudes are finally starting to shift.

Colombians are gaining a newfound respect for the Wayuu and other native groups.

For Colombia's native peoples, the 2010 enactment of the Language Law served as a critical turning point.

The Language Law made preservation of the customs and languages of the Wayuu and the other native communities a national priority.

The law was passed after warnings that up to half of the native sayings in Colombia faced extinction unless measures were taken to preserve them.

That same year, the tribal judges were recognized by UNESCO, the United Nations' cultural arm, as key elements of the world's cultural history.

The move highlighted the importance of tribal rights and gave the Wayuu's struggle for cultural preservation a significant boost.

"Each native language gives a vision of the world, a way of perceiving and organizing things that we cannot afford to lose," said Olga Ardila, a linguistics professor at National University of Colombia in Bogota.

"And there is also the social function of language, how it binds communities together."

As a result of the Language Law, the Ministry of Culture created an organized record of all the country's native sayings and customs, plus several variations used by Afro-Colombians and criollos (people of Spanish descent).

Completed in 2013, it was the first such effort since the 1950s, said Moises Medrano, the ministry's director of communities.

The ministry also produced a computer application with basic greetings in 65 native tongues.

The ministry aims to promote more interaction between native speakers and non-native speakers, Medrano says.

They want to give people a better appreciation for Colombia's incredible diversity of native languages and help members of the native communities feel more pride in their history.

The ministry also has made a push to ensure the Wayuu language is taught alongside Spanish in native communities.

The Wayuu are perhaps the most advanced in primary education, with a dozen schools teaching both languages — most of them in and around Riohacha, the capital of the province.

At one such school in the El Arroyo neighborhood, 270 Wayuu first- through eighth- graders are taught by instructors who speak both languages.

School director Nelson Iguaran says these bilingual schools are essential to preserving the Wayuu way of life and shielding students from outside pressures.

"The attitude of people in general in our community is to undervalue themselves because they are (Wayuu)," Iguaran said.

"But these kids go home and teach their parents words they didn't know."

Children are taught Wayuu cultural traditions that place the good of the community above all else.

They also learn about authority figures like sonadoras, or dreamers, the matriarchal figures whose dreams can determine a community's future course of action.

They even hear about myths like a supernatural spider passing its weaving talents on to the Wayuu women, who are known for making colorful shoulder bags called mochillas.

Consuelo Vengoechea, an anthropology professor at National University of Colombia, said the Culture Ministry's efforts are positive but inadequate.

She said the Education Ministry should train more bilingual teachers and stop trying to impose the "education models that work in the cities."

Maidoll Arredondo is the director of FDHC Guajira, a native rights advocacy group.

Arredondo said the ministry's efforts to expand bilingual education provide a rare ray of hope in a province plagued by poverty, organized crime, drought and government neglect.

