Many of the red roses and flower bouquets that are such a central part of Valentine's Day can be traced to one place: the grassy fields around Colombia's capital city of Bogota.

Fifty years ago, Colombia shipped its first batch of fresh-cut flowers to Miami and jump-started a billion-dollar industry.

In a handful of decades, flowers in the United States went from being high-end luxury goods sold only at specialized shops to being commonplace.

They now can be bought everywhere from grocery stores to gas stations to street corners.

In the process, this Andean nation became a global flower power: The country will export 500 million flowers for Valentine's Day and 3 out of every 4 stems delivered for the occasion will likely come from here.

The story of how Colombia became the world's second-largest flower exporter can be traced back to a handful of adventurous businessmen and a clever college student.

The godfather of the nation's flower trade, many agree, was Edgar Wells.

A Colombian of English descent, he saw the astronomical flower prices in Washington, D.C., and recognized the business opportunity.

At the time, most of America's fresh-cut flowers were coming from California and Colorado, but they were rare, expensive and reserved for special occasions.

Wells returned home, set up Flores Colombianas, and made his first shipment to Miami in October 1965.

"Wells was a playboy but he had the idea," said Charles Weston, 83, who began managing Flores Colombianas in 1969.

"He saw that Washington was full, full of socialites and all they did was go to parties and take each other presents, which were often flowers — and he said, 'Why don't we get into that business.'"

His timing was perfect.

In 1961, President John F. Kennedy launched the Alliance for Progress, which aimed to create a better relationship between the United States and its Latin America neighbors.

Colombia was a showcase for the effort and Kennedy came to Bogota that December.

It was the same year that the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) was launched.

Among its first tasks was to help Colombia develop its agricultural industry, said the U.S. Embassy's Agricultural Counselor Michael Conlon.

"So they spent hundreds of millions of dollars during the 1960s working on agriculture and focusing a lot of it on nontraditional agricultural exports," he said.

In 1966, USAID sponsored the "Nebraska Mission," which brought U.S. university researchers and agricultural experts to Colombia to provide technical assistance.

Among that group was a Colorado State University student named David Cheever.

Inspired by Wells' work, Cheever wrote a paper in 1967, titled "Bogota, Colombia, as a Cut-Flower Exporter for World Markets."

Cheever saw opportunity in Colombia's climate, its high-altitude plains and its easy access to the U.S. via newly introduced jet flights to Miami.

Cheever's paper helped usher in the era of modern flower growers.

John Vaughan, a Colombian of English descent, was helping his father run cattle and grow cotton when he decided he wanted to get into the new "exciting" field.

In 1969, he and two brothers started growing carnations on a 2.5-acre plot.

At the time, there were only two other growers, including Flores Colombianas, but the flower rush was on.

Cheever himself decided to put his ideas to the test by launching Flor America that same year.

In the beginning, the pioneers were collaborators rather than competitors, Vaughan said, and Cheever was seen as an innovator.

"We used to just copy what (Cheever) did," Vaughan said.

The greenhouse structures that are still in use today on flower farms were largely developed by him.

"He was very generous with his ideas and knowledge."

The early years were trial and error, and Vaughan recalls having to hand-carry boxes of flowers to Miami.

At first buyers were hard to find, but over time Vaughan helped convince U.S. grocery stores that flowers made sense.

"They work by the square foot," he said of outlets such as Costco and Walmart.

"So we had to prove to them that it was better to have flowers than, say, Campbell's soup — that's a tough sell."

Things began to take off in the early 1970s when Weston, with Flores Colombianas, established El Dorado Trading Company in Miami.

"After that, flowers were going straight into refrigeration and we had sales girls who could talk to all of the cities in the United States," he said.

The industry has only blossomed since then.

Now, there are an estimated 350 flower growers in Colombia who employ 130,000 workers.

The industry shipped 200,000 tons of flowers in 2013 worth about $1.3 billion.

Even so, the industry is emerging from a rough patch.

The combination of the U.S. economic crisis in 2008 and the rise in value of the Colombian peso, which made Colombian flowers more expensive in the U.S., put many flower growers out of business.

"But this is a special year," predicted Agriculture Minister Aurelio Iragorri as he toured a flower farm recently.

The peso has devalued 17 percent in the last 12 months — making flowers cheaper for U.S. importers — and the U.S. economy has recovered.

"We're in a position where people (in the United States) will not only want flowers for Valentine's Day but as a year-round consumer good," he said.

