On Aug. 3, 1492, Christopher Columbus set sail to the New World.

Three ships accompanied him.

Only two of them made it back home to Spain.

On Christmas Day 1492, Columbus' flagship, the Santa Maria, ran aground off the coast of Haiti.

Now, an underwater explorer says he is certain that he has found the long-lost ship.

Explorer Barry Clifford said Tuesday he found the Santa Maria near where Columbus said it was shipwrecked.

"It was precisely where Christopher Columbus said it would be," Clifford said.

Years earlier, Clifford took pictures of what he now says was a 15th-century lombard in the wreckage.

A lombard is a type of cannon.

It has  since disappeared.

"There are only seven lombards that have been found in the Western world," Clifford said.

"We found the eighth."

According to Columbus, the Santa Maria drifted into a coral reef.

It sank the next day.

With the remains of the ship, Columbus ordered sailors to build a fort nearby.

Then he sailed the remaining two ships — La Nina and La Pinta — back to Spain.

Cliffords' claim still needs to be proven.

Already, it has its share of doubters.

One of them is another underwater explorer, Daniel Koski-Karell.

He also believed he had discovered the remains of the Santa Maria.

He thought he found the ship while snorkeling in 1987 off Haiti's northern coast.

He was wrong.

"There is a lot of water, a lot of history around Haiti.

And there have been many, many shipwrecks along the coast of Haiti," said Koski-Karell.

But if Clifford is right, the discovery would solve a 500-year-old riddle.

What happened to the Santa Maria is one of the great mysteries of history.

It would also be good for Haiti.

The island nation is struggling to recover from an enormous earthquake four years ago "It would be a tremendous discovery for Haiti," said Laurent Lamothe.

He is the Haitian prime minister.

But he isn't celebrating just yet.

Clifford, though, is already planning a traveling exhibit.

"This ship that changed the course of human history needs to be protected and preserved for the Haitian people.

That is much more valuable than gold," he said.

Clifford won't say where the ship is located.

But he did say it's on a reef.

The reef is in less than 20 feet of water.

He is worried that it will be stolen.

He has asked Haitian President Michel Martelly to help preserve the site.

It's important for archaeologists to test the wreckage.

This will help determine if the ship was built 500 years ago.

Indiana University plans to investigate to see if the ship is the Santa Maria.

It will begin possibly as early as this summer.

Charles Beeker directs the university's underwater science program.

He said the evidence is strong.

The cannons were first photographed in 2003.

At first, the team didn't realize what they were.

Clifford said the cannons have since been stolen.

He believes they were sold to treasure hunters.

That same year, Columbus' La Navidad fort was discovered.

The ship's wreckage is 4.7 miles from the fort, according to Clifford.

Columbus had written about the shipwreck in his journal.

The journal has become a treasure map for many explorers.

In it, Columbus told how his crew and the native Indian population saved much of the ship.

They used the material to build the fort.

This is exactly why Koski-Karell doesn't believe Clifford.

"Why would he leave cannons on the Santa Maria?"

Koski-Karell said.

Koski-Karrel also questioned how Clifford did not recognize the cannon.

There's also never been any definite proof that Fort Navidad has been found, Koski-Karrel said.

Clifford said more information could be revealed this summer.

