American women will soon be able to go to war on the front lines.

And they will go with the public's support.

The U.S. military said it would no longer ban women from combat.

A new poll shows most Americans support the decision.

Military leaders announced the decision last week.

They noted that women have already been risking their lives in war for more than 10 years.

Fourteen percent of U.S. troops are female.

The military says 152 women have died serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The Army, Marines, Air Force and Navy all accept women.

However, many jobs are off-limits to them due to the ban.

For example, they are not allowed to operate a tank.

Nor can they work with cannons and rockets.

That is all changing.

The military said many of the banned jobs will start opening up this year.

Servicewomen say that the ban hurts their careers.

Serving in combat is a stepping-stone to leadership in the military.

Major Mary Jennings Hegar was rescuing wounded soldiers in Afghanistan when her helicopter was attacked.

She got shot in the arm and leg.

Despite her injuries, she returned fire.

She held back the enemy as the wounded were transferred.

Hegar received the Purple Heart for her injuries and another medal for heroism and bravery.

But medals were not enough; what she wanted was a promotion.

However, the Air Force said she did not have official combat experience.

Without it, she could not compete for a leadership role.

Military experts say combat is changing.

It is no longer one army meeting another on a battlefield.

Nowadays, the U.S. military usually faces small groups of fighters.

These fighters plant roadside bombs.

They sometimes disguise themselves as civilians.

They often attack non-military targets.

In this kind of warfare, soldiers doing any job must be ready to fight.

Driving a truck, giving medical treatment or even sorting mail can be dangerous.

Linda Brashears was working in an Army postal unit in Iraq that was attacked.

She suffered a brain injury.

Brashears said she would not have been interested in a combat job.

Nevertheless, she believes other women will welcome the opportunity.

"A lot of people think we should still be sitting behind a desk, but the world is changing," Brashears told USA Today.

In fact, not many people do think female troops should be restricted to desk jobs.

Two-thirds of people polled said women should be allowed in fighting units.

Just over one-quarter of people said that women should be banned from those units.

Twenty-nine percent of the people in the poll said allowing women in combat would improve the military.

Almost half said the decision would make no difference.

Only 15 percent of people said it would hurt the military to have women in combat.

People who are against the change say that women are not strong enough for combat.

They warn that making fitness requirements easier will only help the enemy.

Senator John McCain, a Vietnam War veteran, supports the change but said he had some concerns.

McCain said, "We must keep the same high standards that have made the American military the most feared and admired fighting force in the world."

Army Staff Sergeant Jennifer Hunt was injured when a roadside bomb blew up her vehicle.

"Right before the (bomb) went off, it didn't ask me how many pushups or situps I could do," Hunt told The Wall Street Journal.

The New York Times reports that the military doesn't plan to make its fitness test easier.

Men and women must do the same number of situps in the Army to pass the test.

Female soldiers can pass with fewer pullups and a slower 2-mile run than male soldiers.

Some critics say that women are a distraction.

They warn that they will be victims of abuse.

But the female troops say that including more women will lead to better behavior in the military.

Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth was an Army helicopter pilot.

She lost both legs in Iraq.

She told National Public Radio that the ban reminds her of the past.

She pointed out that it used to be forbidden for black soldiers to serve alongside whites.

Japanese-American troops were once segregated into their own units, Duckworth recalled.

"That was the thought in World War II, that you couldn't integrate the military," Duckworth said.

"Down the road, we're going to look back in the distance and say, boy, that was a lot of fuss over nothing."

