American women will soon be able to fight on the front lines of war.

And they will go with the public's support.

The U.S. military said it would no longer ban women from serving in combat jobs.

Most Americans support the decision and do not believe it will hurt the military, a new poll shows.

Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta explained the decision last week.

He noted that women have already risked their lives fighting for more than 10 years.

Fourteen percent of U.S. troops are women.

The military says 152 females have been killed in Iraq and Afghanistan.

All branches of the military have been open to women since the 1970s.

However, many units – especially those in the Army and Marines – are for men only.

For example, women cannot join heavy weapons and tank units.

The military said it expects to start opening up many jobs to women this year.

Servicewomen complained that the ban hurts their careers.

Serving in a combat unit is a stepping-stone to leadership roles.

Major Mary Jennings Hegar was rescuing wounded soldiers in Afghanistan when her helicopter was attacked.

She got shot in the arm and leg.

Despite her injuries, she returned fire.

She held back the enemy as the wounded were transferred.

The Air Force awarded Hegar the Purple Heart for her injuries and another medal for bravery and heroism.

But medals were not enough; she wanted a promotion.

Because the Air Force did not consider her part of a combat unit, she could not get one.

Military experts say combat is changing.

It is no longer one army meeting another on a battlefield.

Nowadays, the U.S. military usually fights insurgents.

These small groups of fighters plant roadside bombs.

They often disguise themselves as civilians and attack non-military targets.

In this kind of modern warfare, soldiers doing any kind of job can come under fire.

Driving a fuel truck, giving medical treatment or even sorting mail can be dangerous.

Linda Brashears was working in an Army postal unit in Iraq that was attacked.

She survived with a brain injury.

The retired staff sergeant said she would not have been interested in a combat job.

Nevertheless, she believes other women will welcome the opportunity.

"A lot of people think we should still be sitting behind a desk, but the world is changing," Brashears told USA Today.

In fact, not many people do think female troops should be confined to desk jobs.

Sixty-six percent of people polled by the Pew Research Center said women should be allowed to serve in fighting units.

Just 26 percent said they were opposed.

Both women and men were equally supportive of the change.

Older Americans were less in favor of women serving in combat than were younger Americans.

Twenty-nine percent said the change would make the military more effective.

Nearly half said the decision would make no difference.

Only 15 percent of survey respondents said women in combat roles would hurt the military.

Some critics say that women don't have the physical strength to qualify for the combat jobs.

They warn that lowering the fitness requirements will only help the enemy.

Senator John McCain, a Vietnam War veteran, supports the decision but he had some concerns.

McCain said the U.S. must keep up "the same high standards that have made the American military the most feared and admired fighting force in the world."

Army Staff Sergeant Jennifer Hunt was injured in 2007 when an improvised explosive device (IED) blew up her Humvee.

Right before the IED went off, it didn't ask her how many pushups or situps she could do, Hunt told The Wall Street Journal.

According to The New York Times, the military doesn't plan to lower its fitness requirements.

Men and women must do the same number of situps in the Army to pass a fitness test.

Female soldiers can pass with fewer pullups and a slower 2-mile run than male soldiers.

Some critics say that women will be too distracting for the men in combat units.

But female soldiers and their supporters say that including more women will help end harassment and discrimination of female troops, which has been a problem in the military.

Congresswoman Tammy Duckworth lost both legs serving in Iraq as an Army helicopter pilot.

She told National Public Radio that the ban on women in combat units reminds her of the past.

She pointed out that black soldiers used to be forbidden from serving alongside whites.

Japanese-Americans were once segregated into their own battalions.

"That was the thought in World War II, that you couldn't integrate the military," Duckworth said.

"So I think, you know, down the road, we are going to look back in the distance and say boy, that was a lot of fuss over nothing."

