The two biggest U.S. cable TV companies are becoming one giant company.

Comcast Corp. is going to buy Time Warner Cable Inc. Comcast will pay about $45.2 billion.

Comcast is the biggest cable TV company and Time Warner is the second biggest.

Customers usually only have one or two choices for cable companies.

The cable companies are different depending on where the customers live.

This new giant company would be a very important entertainment business.

It will make both TV shows and movies and deliver them to U.S. homes.

Comcast is not just a cable and Internet company.

It also owns television networks like NBC.

Universal movie studio is also part of Comcast.

That studio makes movies like "Despicable Me."

Because of this, some groups do not want the deal to happen.

They think the new company would be too powerful.

It could make customers have to pay more money for TV shows and Internet.

The deal is expected to be final by the end of the year.

People who own part of the companies, called shareholders, and the government have to agree to the deal.

The price beats an offer by another cable company.

Charter Communications Inc. had also offered to buy Time Warner Cable.

It would have paid about $38 billion.

Charter had tried to buy Time Warner Cable for months.

Time Warner Cable CEO Rob Marcus kept saying "no."

He wanted more money.

For a while, Comcast waited on the sidelines.

Charter had planned to borrow money to pay for Time Warner.

It would take on $25 billion in new debt.

To help pay off the debt quickly, the company considered selling off some of the places where it had subscribers after a deal had closed.

Subscribers pay for cable television.

Comcast might have just bought some of those subscribers.

Now Comcast plans to sell off 3 million pay TV subscribers after the deal closes.

It has 22 million pay TV customers.

Time Warner Cable has 11.2 million.

The combined company will end up with about 30 million subscribers.

People do not think that is enough subscribers to worry the government.

The government has people who make rules for companies joining together.

Their job is to make sure that a company does not become too big.

If it did get too big, a company could raise prices without worrying about losing customers to another company.

Comcast argues that Comcast and Time Warner Cable don't operate in the same places.

That means when they come together, it won't get rid of competition, Comcast says.

People will still have a choice.

The combined Comcast/Time Warner Cable will face competition from AT&amp;T and Verizon.

Both AT&amp;T and Verizon are growing quickly.

AT&amp;T ended 2013 with 5.5 million pay TV subscribers.

Verizon had 5.3 million.

Some groups are against the Comcast-Time Warner deal.

Public Knowledge is one of them.

It is a Washington-based group that fights for customers.

It helps protect people from being cheated by businesses.

It said Wednesday that the government must stop the deal, because it would give Comcast power that no cable company has ever had "in several important markets."

It said, "An enlarged Comcast would be the bully in the schoolyard."

