Comcast Corp. will buy Time Warner Cable Inc. for about $45.2 billion.

The deal would combine the nation's top two cable TV companies.

The combined company would be very important in both creating TV shows and movies and delivering them to U.S. homes.

Comcast is not just a cable and Internet company.

It also owns television networks like NBC.

Universal movie studio, which makes movies like "Despicable Me," is also part of Comcast.

The deal was approved by the people in charge of both companies.

It is expected to be final by the end of the year as long as the people who own stock in the companies and the government also approve the deal.

Time Warner and Comcast are both public companies, meaning they are owned by many people who are called shareholders.

Anyone can buy part of Time Warner or Comcast on the stock market.

The people who own parts – or shares – of Time Warner would get about $158.82 per share.

The price beats an offer by another cable company.

Charter Communications Inc. offered to buy Time Warner Cable for about $132.50 per share.

The Charter offer is worth about $38 billion.

Time Warner shareholders will end up owning about 23 percent of the combined company.

Charter had pursued Time Warner Cable for months.

Time Warner Cable CEO Rob Marcus consistently rejected the offer, saying it was too low.

He said he would cut a deal for $160 per share.

For a time, Comcast stayed in the background and waited to purchase any chunk of subscribers that a combined Charter-Time Warner Cable would sell off.

Subscribers are the people who pay for cable television.

Charter had planned to borrow money to pay for Time Warner.

It would take on $25 billion in debt.

As part of a plan to pay off the debt quickly, the company considered selling off some of the places where it had customers after a deal had closed.

Time Warner Cable's Marcus was against the idea of being part of a company with huge debt.

Comcast now plans to sell off 3 million pay TV subscribers after the deal closes.

It has 22 million pay TV customers, compared with Time Warner Cable's 11.2 million.

So the combined company will end up with about 30 million subscribers after those 3 million are sold.

It is believed that having 30 million subscribers is not enough to worry government authorities who look at mergers.

Their job is to make sure that a company does not become so big that it can raise prices without worrying about competition.

Selling off some territories of subscribers could help the deal get approved more quickly.

Comcast argues that Comcast and Time Warner Cable don't serve the same markets.

Just because they become one company doesn't mean there will be less competition, Comcast says.

Comcast operates mainly in the Northeast.

It offers cable in its home base of Philadelphia and places such as Boston, Washington and Chicago.

Time Warner Cable has strongholds around its headquarters in New York as well as Los Angeles, Dallas and Milwaukee.

In many of those areas, the combined Comcast/Time Warner Cable will face competition from AT&amp;T and Verizon.

Those two companies provide both pay TV services and Internet hookups.

Both AT&amp;T and Verizon are growing quickly.

They ended 2013 with 5.5 million and 5.3 million pay TV subscribers, respectively.

Comcast and Time Warner Cable are expected to save $1.5 billion in annual costs over three years.

Charter conceded that it lost the takeover battle.

It issued a statement Wednesday saying, "Charter has always maintained that our greatest opportunity to create value for shareholders is by executing our current business plan."

Some groups opposed the Comcast-Time Warner deal.

The Washington-based group Public Knowledge stands up for customers and protects people from being cheated by businesses.

It said Wednesday that the government must stop the deal, because it would give Comcast power that no other company has had before "in several important markets."

It said, "An enlarged Comcast would be the bully in the schoolyard."

