For the first time ever, humans have landed a spacecraft on a comet.

Scientists from the European Space Agency (ESA) successfully landed Philae, a mobile laboratory, on a comet named 67P on Wednesday.

They hope studying a comet up close will unlock mysteries about the beginning of our solar system.

Comets like 67P may contain material left over from when our solar system began.

This project began in 1993 when the ESA started designing and building a spaceship and lander.

They had another comet in mind, but had to change to 67P after the launch was delayed.

Scientists said the spacecraft named Philae would land on the comet.

It was attached to Rosetta, a different spacecraft that could fly through space.

Rosetta, with Philae attached, was launched in 2004.

The Rosetta orbiter has been chasing 67P through space for 10 years.

The orbiter traveled through space for seven years before ESA scientists put it in a three-year hibernation to save energy.

The orbiter went to sleep during this time.

This January, alarm clocks on the spacecraft woke it up to prepare for landing.

Rosetta has been flying with comet 67P as it heads toward the sun, for the last three months.

Rosetta was looking for a good landing site for Philae.

This week, the final part of the mission began: landing Philae on the comet.

Early Wednesday morning, three screws turned and the Philae lander detached.

It began a 14-mile free-fall to the surface of the comet.

Philae was falling slowly.

The comet, about the size of a mountain, does have its own gravitational pull, but it is much weaker than Earth's.

The gravity of the comet is only about 1/60,000 of the gravity here.

Philae fell much slower toward the comet than it would have on Earth.

Scientists thought it could take Philae seven to 10 hours to reach 67P.

Once it hit the surface, Philae sent a message to the Rosetta orbiter saying where it had landed.

Rosetta sent the message on to Earth.

The message took 28 minutes to cross 300 million miles of space.

At the mission command center in Germany, scientists cheered as they heard the news.

There were many chances for the Philae landing to fail, the ESA had warned.

Philae needed to be upright to work properly, and many boulders on the comet made for a difficult surface on which to land.

Though the landing went smoothly, it was not perfect.

Philae was supposed to send out two harpoons — pointed metal spears — to attach itself to the comet.

ESA scientists said those harpoons did not fire.

Whether to try firing the harpoons again is a "tricky" decision, a lead ESA scientist said.

Because the comet has such low gravity, firing the harpoons could shoot the lander back into space.

The ESA scientists believe they can learn a lot from comet 67P.

They want to learn what comets are made of.

They want to know if comets might have brought water to a newly formed Earth.

They want to investigate the inside of a comet.

They are curious why the surface of a comet is so dark black.

They also believe comets can answer bigger questions about where it all came from.

The nucleus, or solid center, of a comet may contain material from the earliest days of the solar system.

It is possible that life on Earth happened because of comets.

These space scientists hope to learn more, up close, about where our solar system came from.

