Compton eighth-grader Edgar Ruelas wants to be the first in his family to attend college.

He has some help.

Talent agents from Beverly Hills are coaching him to do well in school.

The agents usually help famous actors, singers and sports figures find jobs and get paid well for their work.

Yet for the past four years, a few dozen agents from the agency William Morris Endeavor (WME)  have been meeting with students from two Compton schools.

They talk about plans for college, and how to make the most out of their time in school.

What the agents are doing is known as mentoring.

Students make regular visits to see their mentors at the William Morris offices in Beverly Hills.

"At first I was pretty nervous about meeting WME.

I was scared.

I didn't really know any mentors," said Edgar.

He attends Whaley Middle School.

"But now I do — we are pretty close now — and they are like my friends."

The students aren't the only ones who are getting something from the partnership.

Agent Nancy Josephson is one of Edgar's mentors.

She has three children of her own and says working with the 13-year-old boy has changed the way she raises her own kids.

It has helped her show her kids that working hard, staying motivated and being joyful are important, said Josephson.

Her clients include Tyra Banks and Portia de Rossi.

"Edgar is a very happy little boy," she said, noting that it's interesting how happy he can be even though he has grown up with little money.

The program is a special project for the powerful WME talent agency, whose famous clients include Ben Affleck, Oprah Winfrey and Justin Timberlake.

At Stephen C. Foster Elementary School, the library, music room and computer lab have been upgraded.

The school's bathrooms have been fixed up and its playground was replaced with new equipment.

Murals have been painted on schools walls, and there is now outdoor lighting.

In all, WME has spent more than $1 million on the improvements, mostly at Foster.

It has also gotten its stars and others to give their time and money.

But the heart of the program is the one-on-one mentoring.

Every other Wednesday, agents give up part of their workday for meals and meetings with their charges.

"They help you with your homework, and once you are done, you can have fun," said Whaley seventh-grader Tytis Barnett.

Agency leaders say the idea is simple: Treat the school like a Hollywood client.

"When you have an actor, you say, 'How can we move his career along?'

We are problem solvers," said Patrick Whitesell, co-CEO of WME.

"We say, 'What are Foster's problems?'"

Before WME got involved, Foster's problems were serious.

"The bathrooms were disgusting," said Sarah Adolphson of WME.

"We found out the kids were holding it because they didn't want to use the bathroom."

Mentors and good role models weren't around for some of the students, which was the reason the program was started.

Now 42 agents are paired with 19 students at Foster and Whaley.

Every other week during the school year, students are brought to the WME offices on a school bus.

The gatherings typically include a meal with views of the Hollywood Hills and then students head to agents' offices for one-on-one meetings.

Edgar talked about finishing middle school with a high grades.

Josephson encouraged him, and then he spoke of his dream of going to college.

Nearby, agent Liesl Copland chatted with Tytis.

He was waiting for his turn to play a game of pool at a table set up in WME's music department.

The 12-year-old boy was shy, but Copland said that she and the seventh-grader have had good moments.

She once told Tytis that "whatever it takes, you are going to college."

"I could tell, it struck a chord," she said.

"I told him, 'You aren't ever allowed to go into the Army without telling me first.'"

WME hopes their model of mentoring in schools will be used by other businesses across Los Angeles.

And the agency's schools program could lead to a different sort of change — a group of new WME agents from Compton.

At least a handful of Foster and Whaley students have said that they'd like to become talent agents.

