Compton eighth-grader Edgar Ruelas wants to be the first in his family to attend college.

He has some help: high-powered talent agents from Beverly Hills.

For the past four years, a few dozen agents from William Morris Endeavor (WME), a talent agency, have been coaching — or mentoring — students from two Compton schools to do better in their studies.

The agents typically help famous actors, singers and athletes find jobs and sign contracts that pay them well for their work.

Now, they're taking the time to work with students.

Compton students make regular visits to the agency's marble offices on Wilshire Boulevard looking out on the Hollywood Hills.

"At first I was pretty nervous about meeting WME.

I was scared.

I didn't really know any mentors," said Edgar, who attends Whaley Middle School.

"But now I do — we are pretty close now — and they are like my friends."

The students aren't the only ones who are getting rewards from the arrangement.

Agent Nancy Josephson, one of Edgar's mentors, has three children of her own and says working with the 13-year-old boy has given her "enormous perspective on parenting our very privileged kids."

"It has helped me show my kids that these qualities really matter: perseverance, motivation and a certain joyfulness," said Josephson, whose clients include Tyra Banks, Joan Cusack and Portia de Rossi.

"Edgar is a very happy little boy.

It's interesting how happy he can be without all the fancy trappings."

The program is a special project for the talent agency.

It is a Hollywood powerhouse whose A-list clients include Ben Affleck, Oprah Winfrey and Justin Timberlake.

At Stephen C. Foster Elementary School, the library, music room and computer lab have been improved.

The school's bathrooms have been fixed up and its playground equipment was upgraded.

Murals have been painted, and there is now outdoor lighting.

In all, WME has spent more than $1 million on the improvements, mostly at Foster.

It has gotten its stars and companies it works with to give their time and money.

But the heart of the program is the one-on-one mentoring.

Every other Wednesday, agents give up part of their workday for meals and meetings with the students they're matched up with.

"They help you with your homework, and once you are done, you can have fun," said Whaley seventh-grader Tytis Barnett, who is mentored by agent Liesl Copland.

Agency leaders say the idea is simple: Treat the school like a Hollywood client.

"When you have an actor, you say, 'How can we move his career along?'

We are problem solvers," said Patrick Whitesell, co-CEO of WME.

"We say, 'What are Foster's problems?'"

"It provides another ear for the students to share their lives and experiences," said A. Dee Williams, a professor of education at Cal State University in Los Angeles.

"It's important to have diverse settings, to give the students practice engaging in the real world."

The director of the William Morris Foundation, which handles WME's charity work, said that before they got involved, Foster's problems were noticeable.

Fixing The Bathrooms Too "The bathrooms were disgusting," said Sarah Adolphson.

"We found out the kids were holding it because they didn't want to use the bathroom."

Good role models for the students weren't available either and before WME's involvement, some of the students didn't have mentors, which led to the idea for the program.

Now 42 agents are paired with 19 students at Foster and Whaley.

Every other week when class is in session, students are brought to the WME offices on a school bus.

The gatherings typically include a meal on an expansive patio that offers views of the Hollywood Hills.

Then students head to agents' offices for one-on-one rap sessions.

Edgar talked about graduating from middle school with a high GPA.

Josephson chimed in to encourage him, and then he revealed his dreams of attending college.

Nearby, Copland chatted with Tytis as he waited for his turn to play a game of pool at a table set up in WME's music department.

The 12-year-old boy was shy, but Copland said that she and the seventh-grader have had good moments where they connect.

She recalled once telling Tytis that "whatever it takes, you are going to college."

"I could tell, it struck a chord," she said.

"I told him, 'You aren't ever allowed to go into the Army without telling me first.'"

WME plans to keep working with the schools, and the Compton Unified School District has renewed the program each year.

Agency executives say they hope their model of mentoring in schools will be used by other businesses across Los Angeles.

And the agency's schools program could lead to an expansion of a different sort — a slew of new WME agents from Compton.

At least a handful of Foster and Whaley students have said that they'd like to become talent agents.

