Imagine a teen named John playing basketball.

While playing ball, another player elbowed him hard in the head.

John fell to the ground, feeling dizzy.

He got back up and wanted to keep playing, but his coach said he should sit out the rest of the game.

The coach was worried that John might have a concussion.

A concussion can happen when someone is hit in the head.

A person with a concussion may get headaches, feel dizzy or confused, or have mood changes.

All of these are known as symptoms.

Resting your body and brain is important if you have a concussion.

Some doctors think kids need very long rest after a concussion.

It could mean several days at home in a dark room with no TV, music, bright lights or cellphones.

A new study has found that this longer treatment is not necessary.

Doctors at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin in Milwaukee studied children and teens who had concussions.

Half of the injured kids were put on a long rest plan for up to five days in a dark room.

The other half rested for only one or two days before starting to return to school and moving around.

The study showed that five days in a dark room did not help the kids get better any faster.

The results surprised some doctors.

Doctors were "startled" that it "was not making a difference," said Dr. Danny G. Thomas of the Children's Hospital.

It was even more surprising when kids who were resting longer complained of more symptoms, Thomas said.

The doctors think that worries over missing schoolwork and being kept away from friends led to those kids feeling more symptoms.

Getting physical and mental rest is important after a concussion.

Too much activity can mean a longer amount of time to get well.

Until now, there has not been a study that showed how much rest is best.

The symptoms of a concussion fade slowly.

It is more like a light dimming than a light being switched off, Thomas said.

It takes time for the brain to get better.

If John the basketball player has a concussion, he might feel dizzy or confused.

He could feel worried or have other changes in his mood.

He might have problems with his vision, bad headaches or neck pain.

He may feel nauseous, and want to throw up.

Different types of concussions have different effects.

And different people have different symptoms.

Dr. Micky Collins runs the sports concussion program at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

He said doctors there have found six types of concussions.

Each type should be treated in a special way designed for the patient by a concussion expert, he said.

One thing is clear from the study: Don't keep an injured child in a dark room for several days, Dr. Collins said.

Kevin M. Kelly is a neurologist at Allegheny General Hospital.

He said the study was a good one.

The doctors collected a huge amount much information, the brain doctor said.

It is important to remember that one treatment is not always right for all patients, Kelly added.

He recommended special treatment for each person and "brain rest" for most children who have head injuries.

Kelly said that a bigger study is needed.

He suggested hospitals and universities could work together to develop rules on how to treat different types of concussions.

