Imagine a basketball player named John.

Another player elbowed him in the head — hard.

John fell to the ground.

He felt dizzy.

He wanted to keep playing, but his coach said no.

The coach was worried John might have a concussion.

To keep playing could be dangerous.

A concussion can happen when someone is hit on the head.

Someone with a concussion might feel dizzy or confused and get bad headaches.

It is important to rest your body and brain if you have a concussion.

Some doctors think kids should rest for several days after a concussion.

It means spending up to five days at home in a dark room.

There is no TV, loud music or bright light.

A new study has found that this treatment might not help.

Doctors at the Children's Hospital of Wisconsin in Milwaukee studied children and teens who had concussions.

Half of the injured kids were put on a long rest plan.

They stayed in a dark room for up to five days.

The other half rested for only one or two days.

After that,  they slowly returned to school and moving around.

The study showed that five days in a dark room did not help the kids get better faster.

The results surprised the doctors.

"We were startled that it was not making a difference," said Dr. Danny G. Thomas of the Children's Hospital.

Then they were even more startled, because kids who were resting for longer complained of feeling even worse.

The doctors think being kept out of school too long made their symptoms worse.

They worried about homework and missed their friends.

Kids with a concussion may feel dizzy or confused.

They may feel worried or have other mood changes.

They might have problems seeing normally.

They could have bad headaches or neck pain.

They may feel nauseous and want to throw up.

All of these are called symptoms.

Different types of concussions have affect people differently, and different people do not have the same symptoms.

Dr. Micky Collins works at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.

He said doctors there have found six different types of concussions.

He said each type should be treated on its own.

A doctor who knows a lot about concussions can make this plan.

One thing is clear from the study: Never keep your injured child in a dark room for several days, Dr. Collins said.

