Mychal Shaw and his family pray every week before his high school football games.

His mother Ryana starts the prayer.

"We pray that you keep him safe in his football game tonight and let the angels watch over him," she says.

Shaw plays for Lee's Summit North High School.

A year ago, Shaw was in a game when suffered a brain injury called a concussion.

He was temporarily unable to walk or speak.

He also lost his memory, forcing him to stop taking two high school classes.

He could not go to his team's games, even to watch.

The lights and noise made him uncomfortable.

This season, though, he's back on the field.

Nearly 1,500 high school football players in Missouri suffered concussions in 2012.

Most of them returned to action within two weeks, according to Missouri high school officials.

The attention given to concussions has never been greater.

But what happens afterward is less sure.

It is not clear when a high school player is ready to return to the football field after suffering a head injury.

"I think we all worry about sending a kid back out there too soon.

Any doctor who says otherwise is lying," said Greg Canty.

He is director of the Center for Sports Medicine at Children's Mercy Hospital in Kansas City.

Seventeen high school football players died in 2013.

Doctors said they are even more concerned with "second-impact syndrome."

The often deadly condition occurs when a player suffers a second concussion before the first has healed.

The brain is in more danger once there are signs of a concussion, Canty said.

A second hit could case a really bad injury, he said.

Youths face the most danger from second-impact syndrome.

The reason is that their brains are still growing, says Brett Osborn.

He is a brain doctor who has studied concussions in sports.

Not all high school players with concussions are treated the same.

Brian Mahaffey wrote an article about concussions.

He says that high school athletes should be without signs of a concussion for seven days before practicing again.

A younger player should wait 10 days, he said.

Osborn thinks children should stay out longer.

He says they should not play for at least six weeks after suffering a concussion, even if it's mild.

State laws are not so cautious.

Missouri says a player must be out for only 24 hours before being checked out.

Kansas has no such rule.

A player who has suffered a concussion immediately becomes more likely to suffer another one.

As a result, Mahaffey suggests to some patients they quit football, but the question is when.

Barb Kunz's son Alex took a bad hit during practice in 2013.

A day later, Alex was having trouble with easy math.

He remembers walking to the cafeteria for lunch feeling confused.

As he sat down for lunch, he shook his two milk cartons like he did every day.

But this time, he had opened the cartons before shaking them and milk sprayed everywhere.

"It took me a good half second before I realized I was showering myself with milk," he said.

Alex left school 20 minutes later to see a doctor, who said he had a concussion.

His mother said he and his brother could never play football again.

Liberty High School defender Josh Watson hit a running back on the first play of the 2014 season.

The hit was enough to send Watson to the ground and he needed someone to help him walk to the sideline.

The team's trainers said Watson had to come out of the game because they thought he might have a concussion.

Watson rejoined the team the following Wednesday, after it was decided he did not have a concussion.

Several area high schools in Missouri and Kansas have added a new program.

So have some middle schools.

Players take a computerized test before the season, which gives them a base score.

If a player is later thought to have had some sort of head injury, he takes the test again.

Then the two scores are compared.

Canty is not sure the tests work and thinks they can make people feel incorrectly sure that a player is safe.

"Many times we need more and better evidence" to be sure, he said.

