A new reality show is playing out in a limestone cave not far from Los Angeles.

The plot is gripping.

A young California condor is home alone, waiting for his parents to return with dead meat for dinner.

He plays games on the floor of the cave, tossing feathers and bones into the air with his beak, then pouncing on them with his claws.

He stares at his toes, lifting each one as if playing a piano.

Scientists are watching all of this through a hidden video camera, fascinated.

They had installed the camera as an experimental way of monitoring the condors, a type of vulture.

The California condor is the largest flying bird in North America.

They nearly became extinct 30 years ago.

Now, the birds with red-ringed amber eyes, 9 1/2-foot wingspan and razor-sharp beaks are slowly coming back.

The high-resolution camera is, for first time, providing a full picture of their home life.

Until now, condors were observed only from very far away through binoculars.

Scientists could only guess what was going on in condor nests.

Condors live in caves and hollowed-out redwood trees where they lay just one egg a year.

If scientists wanted to get a closer look, they had to climb down cliffs and into the nests.

The scientists say the camera can also improve the care of other endangered species.

"We're already using this technique elsewhere," said Charles Eldermire.

He is the bird cam project leader at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology.

Another camera was installed this year in a remote albatross nest on the Hawaiian island of Kauai.

It has already provided a detailed, and sad, understanding of the threat posed by plastic.

Adult albatrosses eat the plastic and then feed it to their nestlings.

Cameras are even helping humans.

In Montana, cameras placed in an osprey nest help identify the species of fish the birds bring home from a nearby river.

The goal is to discover the location of mercury and lead, which poison the fish people eat.

At the condors' nest, the view has not always been happy either.

"Some of the footage is heartbreaking to watch," Molly Astelle said.

She is a condor technician at the Santa Barbara Zoo.

In July, the father condor was killed by a bobcat.

The mother began flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for her chick.

In late October, the young condor failed to return from one of its first short flights from the nest.

Scientists found its dead body nearby.

The mother still visits the cave every few days searching for signs that her fledgling is still alive.

A fledgling is a baby bird.

The video camera makes monitoring the nest much safer for birds and scientists alike.

"Prior to video, we routinely entered condor nests every 30 days to collect the harmful micro-trash they bring home," said Joseph Brandt.

He is a condor biologist with the Fish and Wildlife Service.

The trash includes bottle caps, electronics parts, broken glass and wire.

Scientists also take blood samples and vaccinate the condors against disease.

"Now, we use video footage to decide whether or not entry is even necessary," Brandt said.

Federal scientists are considering using video cameras in condor nests elsewhere in California and Arizona.

Sometime next year, they hope to stream real-time video of condor nests online.

None of that will be easy — or cheap.

Condor nests are in remote areas, which makes transmitting video difficult.

The remote station lacks a high-speed Internet connection.

It cannot stream the video online.

Still, the public can watch clips on Facebook later on.

Condors have been in danger since the 1950s.

Construction disturbed the condor habitat.

The now-banned pesticide DDT made condor eggshells so thin they often could not support life.

Some of the birds were shot or died of lead poisoning after they ate the bodies of other animals killed with lead bullets.

Today, there are about 128 free-flying condors in California.

The population worldwide is 433.

On a recent weekday, scientists from the Santa Barbara Zoo released three adult condors into the mountains.

Two of the birds had been treated for lead poisoning.

The other had an operation on an injured wing.

Emerging from large dog crates, the condors took a quick look around.

They raced on foot toward the edge of a cliff.

With black-and-white wings flapping hard, they rose into the brilliant blue sky.

They had been fitted with number tags and radio transmitters.

These will allow scientists to track their movements.

