In a cave about 75 miles from Los Angeles, a new reality TV show has unfolded.

The plot is gripping.

A young male California condor waits home alone for his parents to return with dead meat for dinner.

The energetic bird plays games on the floor of the sandstone cave.

He tosses feathers and bones into the air with his beak, then pounces on them with his claws.

He stares at his toes, lifting each one in turn as though playing a piano.

Meanwhile, scientists watching through a hidden video camera were fascinated.

They had installed the camera and wireless transmitter as an experimental method of monitoring the condors.

Nearly extinct three decades ago, the vulture species — with red-ringed amber eyes, 9 1/2-foot wingspan and razor-sharp beaks — is slowly recovering.

The high-resolution camera is for first time providing a full picture of their home life.

Until now, the condors were observed only from a great distance through binoculars or scopes.

Scientists and volunteers could only speculate on what was happening in the caves and hollowed-out redwood trees where condors live and lay one egg a year.

To get a closer look, they had to use ropes to rappel down cliffs and climb into the nests.

The scientists say the cameras hold the promise of improving the care of many other endangered species.

"We're already using this technique elsewhere," said Charles Eldermire, the bird cam project leader at the Cornell Lab of Ornithology.

Another camera installed this year in a remote Laysan albatross nest on the Hawaiian island of Kauai is providing a detailed, and grim, understanding of the threat posed by plastic — adult albatrosses eat the plastic and feed it to their nestlings.

Cameras are even helping, indirectly, study of the effects of the environment on humans.

In Missoula, Montana, cameras placed in an osprey nest help identify the species of fish the birds are bringing home from a nearby river.

The goal is to find out how heavy metals like mercury and lead, which are poisonous, get in the environment.

At the condor's nest, the view has not always been joyful, either.

"Some of the footage is heartbreaking to watch," Molly Astelle said.

She a condor technician at the Santa Barbara Zoo and has a large condor tattooed on her right arm.

In July, the father condor was killed by a bobcat.

The mother took over his responsibility of flying up to 150 miles a day in search of food for their fledgling — baby bird.

In late October, the young condor failed to return from one of its first flights from the nest.

Scientists found its dead body nearby.

The mother still visits the cave every few days searching for signs that her fledgling is still alive.

The video camera, operated by the Cornell lab, the Santa Barbara Zoo and the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service, is making the nest significantly safer for birds and scientists alike.

"Prior to video, we routinely entered condor nests every 30 days to collect the harmful micro-trash they bring home," said Joseph Brandt, a condor biologist with the Fish and Wildlife Service.

The trash includes bottle caps, electronics parts, broken glass and wire.

Scientists also took blood samples and vaccinated the birds for West Nile virus.

"Now, we use video footage to decide whether or not entry is even necessary," Brandt said.

Federal scientists are considering using video cameras in condor nests elsewhere in California and in Arizona.

Sometime next year, they hope to stream real-time video feeds of condor nests online.

None of that will be easy — or cheap.

Condor nests are in remote areas, which makes transmitting video difficult.

The experiment generates a huge amount of data, roughly eight to 10 terabytes per year.

The video is streamed to researchers, and later edited and archived at the Santa Barbara Zoo.

The remote station lacks the high-speed Internet connection necessary to stream the footage online.

Still, the public can watch clips on Facebook.

Condors have been in jeopardy since the 1950s.

Development disturbed the condor habitat, and the now-banned pesticide DDT made condor eggshells so thin they often could not support life.

Some of the birds were shot or died of lead poisoning when they ate the bodies of other animals killed with lead shot and bullets.

Scientists began recovery efforts by capturing the few remaining wild condors, breeding them in captivity and releasing them back into the wild.

Today, the number of free-flying condors in California stands at 128 — many of them hatched in the wild.

The population worldwide is 433.

Without major setbacks, the vulture may be eligible for down-listing from endangered to threatened within a few decades, researchers say.

The condor's scientific name is Gymnogyps californianus.

On a recent weekday, Brandt, Astelle and Devon Pryor, a conservation and research associate at the Santa Barbara Zoo, released three adult condors into the mountains of Ventura County.

Two of the birds had been treated for exposure to lead.

The other had surgery on an injured wing.

Emerging from large dog crates, the condors took a quick look around, then raced on foot toward the edge of a bluff.

With black-and-white wings flapping hard, they rose into the brilliant blue sky.

Like all California condors, they had been fitted with number tags and radio transmitters to allow scientists to track their movements.

