There is a Confederate battle flag on government property in South Carolina.

The flag is a symbol of the Confederacy from the Civil War.

Lawmakers from South Carolina and the 2016 Republican presidential candidates have different opinions about what to do with the flag.

Last week, nine African-Americans were killed by a gunman at a church in Charleston.

The gunman supported the Confederate flag.

During the Civil War, the Confederacy fought the Union to keep slavery in America.

They lost the war in 1865.

James Clyburn is an African-American lawmaker in the national government.

He says the flag needs to be removed.

Symbols like this flag are connected to a history of racism in America and they help racism continue, he said.

Senator Tim Scott is also an African-American lawmaker from South Carolina.

He said the Confederate flag is part of the "rich history" of the state.

Still, he said that it also represents a history of pain for African-Americans.

In 2000, the flag was taken off the top of the main government building.

It is still on a part of that government land.

Republican Senator Lindsey Graham is from South Carolina.

He is running for president.

He said it is time for the people of South Carolina to think about making a change again.

"The flag represents to some people a civil war, and that was the symbol of one side," Graham said.

"To others, it's a racist symbol, and it's been used in a racist way."

Republicans who are running for president disagree on what to do.

Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican presidential candidate, posted on Twitter asking for the flag to be taken down.

"It is a symbol of racial hatred," he said.

"Remove it now to honor Charleston victims."

Some say South Carolina needs to decide as a state.

Rick Santorum, a Republican from Pennsylvania, said that he doesn't think that the national government or people running for president "should be making decisions on everything.

This is a decision that needs to be made here in South Carolina."

Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker said that the time is not right for this conversation.

Out of respect, he said, "we should allow the families of the loved ones to bury their dead" first.

Others said the flag should come down.

Ohio Governor John Kasich is expected to announce soon that he is running for president.

He said that it is "up to the people of South Carolina to decide, but if I were a citizen of South Carolina, I'd be for taking it down."

In 2001, Confederate flags were removed from the Florida state Capitol.

Jeb Bush was Florida's governor at that time, and he is now running for president.

He said it was the right thing to do to take down the flags and put them in a museum.

It would not have been right for them to "fly as a symbol of what we are today as a state."

Senator Marco Rubio is a Republican from Florida.

He said the people of South Carolina will make the right decision for themselves.

"The next president of the United States will not make that decision."

Rubio said he supported taking down the flag in Florida.

He also supported a law that does not allow artifacts from wars to be "relocated, removed, disturbed or altered."

Carly Fiorina is a Republican running for president.

She said the Confederate flag is a symbol that makes many people upset.

Still, she does not think that her personal opinion is important.

She said the important matter is "what the people of South Carolina choose to do next."

