Leo Twiggs' paintings could be seen as upsetting by some people.

Many of his artworks make use of the Confederate flag — the flag of the rebel South during the Civil War.

Others feature faceless men with bulls-eyes on their backs.

These and other haunting images he has developed reflect his experience living as a black man in the South.

If some see the work as trying to divide people, that is not at all Twiggs' intention.

The 80-year-old South Carolina artist says he hopes the works help people understand their shared history, even for those outside the South.

"This Confederate flag, the Civil War, they are part of the history of all of us," Twiggs said.

"You take the stars off the bars, and it becomes a cross, maybe a railroad crossing.

It can become a crossing over," something that we remember, but also "cross over" and perhaps get past.

Twiggs said he is enjoying his best year as an artist.

He has had more than 70 solo art shows over his career, and three new shows recently opened in his home state.

Two of the new shows highlight his use of Confederate flags.

The flags are rendered in red, white, or blue and smudged with brown or blood-red splotches.

In several, the outlines of brown figures float in the background.

Many flags are tattered, looking tired and rough.

A black cow stands watch in some, recalling an animal Twiggs cared for as a child, growing up in racially segregated St. Stephens.

"We were poor, but we had dignity," Twiggs said of his childhood.

"Ours was a struggle that speaks to a struggle experienced by all mankind."

Gallery owner Sandy Rupp said Twiggs has been exploring flag images since the 1970s.

"He's not trying to divide everybody," Rupp said.

Rather, Twiggs is trying to color the Confederate flag with his own experience.

Twiggs sees the Confederate flag "as a historic symbol, a symbol of white supremacy that he makes into his own," Rupp said.

"He makes it his flag, and gives it his power."

It takes up to a month to complete each composition.

Twiggs starts by using a metal pen-like tool to drip warm wax on a rough piece of fabric.

He colors it with hand-mixed vegetable dyes, and then removes the wax with an iron, repeating the process over and over.

Museum director William Eiland said that for many in the South, the Confederate flag is a symbol of a South that does not feel a need to be sorry for its actions during the Civil War period.

It may even represent a South that is rising again, he said.

Twiggs, however, takes that image and alters it until it "becomes part of his experience," Eiland said.

Other themes fill Twiggs' work as well.

The rebel Confederate flag turns into a white railroad-crossing sign, symbolizing the tracks that divide many rural Southern towns, and divide white and black neighborhoods.

Black mothers from long ago pose in their Sunday-best clothes.

White male bosses in wide-brimmed hats stand over ghostly black and white figures.

Twiggs said his "Targeted Man" series of faceless men bearing bulls-eyes recalls the racist Ku Klux Klan wearing white robes and burning torches to frighten African Americans, and keep them from getting their civil rights.

Once the United States came under assault during the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, however, Twiggs said he realized the images also symbolize something larger: "We are all targeted, we all have things to fear."

