Leo Twiggs' paintings might be disturbing to some people.

Many show the Confederate flag.

During the Civil War it was the symbol of the South.

Other paintings by him show faceless men with bulls-eyes on their backs.

They are meant to reflect his life as a black man in the South.

Twiggs is not trying to upset anyone.

The 80-year-old South Carolina artist says his paintings are meant to get people thinking.

He hopes they help people to better understand our nation's history.

"This Confederate flag, the Civil War, they are part of the history of all of us," Twiggs said.

"Take the stars off the bars" of the Confederate flag, he said.

"It becomes a cross, maybe a railroad crossing.

It can become a crossing over."

He means it can become something we remember, but have moved beyond.

Twiggs said he is enjoying his best year ever as an artist.

Three new shows of his art recently opened.

Over the years, he has had more than 70 shows.

Two of Twiggs' new shows give a good idea of how he uses Confederate flags.

His flags are colored red, white, or blue.

They are smudged with brown or blood-red splotches.

In several cases, brown figures are in the background.

Many flags are tattered.

They look worn and rough.

A black cow stands watching in some of the flag paintings.

As a child, Twiggs took care of such an animal.

Twiggs has been making flag pictures since the 1970s.

"He's not trying to divide everybody," art expert Sandy Rupp said.

Twiggs changes the Confederate flag by adding things from his own experience.

"He makes it his flag, and gives it his power," Rupp said.

A single artwork can take him a month to finish.

Twiggs starts by using a metal tool to drip warm wax on a piece of cloth.

He colors the wax with dye, then removes it with an iron.

He repeats each step over and over.

Other ideas fill Twiggs' work as well.

In some pieces, the Confederate flag is made to look like a railroad-crossing sign.

It is meant to represent the tracks in many small Southern towns.

They sometimes separate black and white neighborhoods.

For many, the Confederate flag is a reminder of when whites kept blacks as slaves.

Twiggs, however, takes that flag and changes it.

It becomes part of his experience.

In that way, it becomes his flag too.

