Leo Twiggs' paintings might disturb some people.

Many of his works show the Confederate flag — the flag of the South during the Civil War.

Others show faceless men with bulls-eyes on their backs.

Such pictures reflect his experience living as a black man in the South.

Twiggs is not trying to upset anyone.

The 80-year-old South Carolina artist says he hopes his works help people understand the history that Americans share.

This is his hope even for those who do not live in the South.

"This Confederate flag, the Civil War, they are part of the history of all of us," Twiggs said.

"You take the stars off the bars" of the flag, he said, and "it becomes a cross, maybe a railroad crossing.

It can become a crossing over."

In other words, it can become something we get past, even as we remember it.

Twiggs said he is enjoying his best year ever as an artist.

Three new shows of his art recently opened.

Over the years, he has had more than 70 shows.

Two of Twiggs' new shows best portray how he uses Confederate flags.

The flags are colored red, white, or blue and are smudged with brown or blood-red spots.

In several, brown figures are in the background.

Many flags are tattered and rough.

A black cow stands watch in some, recalling an animal Twiggs cared for as a poor child growing up in the South.

Twiggs has been painting flag pictures since the 1970s.

"He's not trying to divide everybody," gallery owner Sandy Rupp said.

Rather, Twiggs is trying to make the Confederate flag his own.

He changes the flag's meaning by adding things to it that are drawn from his own experience.

"He makes it his flag, and gives it his power," Rupp said.

Creating a single artwork can take up to a month.

Twiggs starts by using a metal pen-like tool to drip warm wax on a rough piece of cloth.

He colors it with dyes he mixes himself, and then removes the wax with an iron.

Then he repeats each step over and over.

For many, the Confederate flag is a reminder of racial prejudice and slavery.

Twiggs, however, takes that flag and changes it until it becomes part of his experience.

In that way, it becomes his flag too.

Other ideas fill Twiggs' work as well.

In some pieces, the Confederate flag is made to look like a railroad-crossing sign.

It is meant to represent the tracks that divide many small Southern towns.

The train tracks sometimes separate black and white neighborhoods.

Other works show black mothers from long ago, in their Sunday-best clothing.

In still others, white bosses in wide-brimmed hats stand over ghostly black and white figures.

Twiggs said his "Targeted Man" series has more than one meaning.

The works show faceless men with bulls-eyes targets on them.

The pictures were inspired at first by memories of the racist Ku Klux Klan.

For many years, the Klan used violence to try to stop African-Americans from getting their rights.

After the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on New York City, however, Twiggs realized there was another message as well.

The pictures, he said, are also about something larger: "We are all targeted, we all have things to fear."

