Sony's new video game system, PlayStation 4, went on sale Nov. 15.

A week later, Microsoft's Xbox One hits stores.

It replaces the Xbox 360.

Sony and Microsoft are competitors.

Each company is battling to get shoppers to choose its game system.

However, they are doing it in a different way.

Sony's PlayStation 4 is aimed at serious game players.

They're hoping it stirs the kind of excitement that makes gaming fans stand in line for hours to get it.

They're also hoping the fans are excited enough to pay the $399 sticker price Meanwhile, Microsoft says the $499 Xbox One is for a lot more than just playing games.

Experts think both devices will be hot sellers this holiday shopping season.

They say as many as 5 million of them may be purchased before the end of the year.

Video games used to be seen as something for teenage boys who didn't have a lot of friends.

Now a video game customer can be just about anyone.

People spend nearly $63 billion worldwide on games.

Almost half of those who play games are women and one-third are older than 36.

In the U.S., more than half of the homes have a game system and people spent nearly $20.8 billion on video games and equipment last year, the Entertainment Software Association reported.

Some experts thought "casual" games like "Candy Crush Saga" would change the way people play games.

People can now play in their spare moments on social networks such as Facebook.

They can also play them on their smartphones and tablets.

So why would they want to spend hundreds on a game system?

In fact, such casual games are helping to sell the game systems.

They have expanded what it means to be a "gamer," explained P.J.

McNealy, who runs Digital World Research.

"It's no longer just the 14- to 30-year-old male.

It's anyone who has played 'Angry Birds,' 'Temple Run,' 'Bejeweled.'"

It's also any one who has played any game on a traditional system, he said.

The first people to buy Xbox One and PlayStation 4 are expected to be the most dedicated players.

Sony showed off the new system in San Francisco.

Leaders from the company said it is 10 times more powerful than the PlayStation 3.

They also pointed out that it has new games like "Killzone Shadow Fall" that no other company has.

Playstation 4 also lets gamers share video from within the game.

Microsoft told people about Xbox One last week, in Venice, Calif.

The company described it as an all-in-one entertainment system.

Its Kinect controller recognizes a person as they enter the room.

It automatically loads favorite games, TV channels, movies and music on the TV screen.

People can change from playing a game to watching TV or listening to music just by talking.

Game analysts say the systems have a lot of things in common.

People can use online movie and TV services like Netflix with PlayStation 4 and with Xbox One.

Xbox One, like the PS4, lets players record, upload and share game highlights.

Sony had a lot of problems when PlayStation 3 came out in 2006.

The game wasn't sold in stores until a year after the competing Xbox 360 came out.

The PlayStation 3 cost $599 which was $200 more than the top Xbox 360 system.

Sony's system ran into a problem because it did not have enough of an important part for its Blu-ray disc player.

Sony said it's trying hard not to have problems this time.

Microsoft rushed its Xbox 360 onto store shelves in late 2005 to get a jump on Sony.

It had a lot of problems too.

One was so bad that people who played the game called it the "red ring of death."

The problem cost the company a lot of money.

Both game systems overcame those hurdles.

McNealy said 80 million units of each were sold worldwide.

