Growing up in Chicago, Jesse Okwu's closest connection to the outdoors was nature programs on public television.

When he came to Washington for a program on conservation, the state's national parks became his first real experience with the wilderness.

By the end of the eight-week program, the sophomore at Knox College in Illinois was loving the outdoor field trips.

Now, he's thinking about how conservation could become part of his career.

Okwu, who is African-American, is among 26 students from a variety of backgrounds who took part in a program at the University of Washington this summer.

The  program aims to increase the diversity of students who choose to work in conservation and ecology.

Conservationists protect nature and natural resources, like waterways, forests and wildlife.

The concern: More than 80 percent of people in conservation jobs — like the National Park Service, the U.S. Forest Service, and private groups such as the Nature Conservancy — are white, and come from wealthier backgrounds.

Students who go into conservation often have a passion for nature and a mind for science, said Sean Watts.

He is director of the Conservation Scholars summer program.

But they may lack people skills or an ability to consider an issue from different points of view.

Most conservation workers come from similar backgrounds.

The lack of diversity means they may not be able to fully understand how different communities are affected by solutions to environmental problems.

Nearly 400 people applied to the program.

Watts said the students were carefully chosen from a range of backgrounds.

They were white, black, Asian-American, Native American and Latino.

Some had parents who never graduated from high school.

Others came from families where both parents went to graduate school.

Most of the students were planning to study environmental sciences.

The group also included students studying film, engineering, mathematics, business and economics.

"They are fantastic, thoughtful folks, and mature beyond their years," Watts said.

He added that he thinks that they will change the way people think about conservation issues.

During the program, the students crisscrossed Washington state.

They traveled from the slopes of Mount Rainier and Mount St. Helens to the dry grasslands of the Moses Coulee in Eastern Washington.

They visited the Elwha dam-removal project, saw the Duwamish River and the Pacific coast.

They also talked with members of the Duwamish, Quinault and Yakama Native American tribes about how their cultures view nature.

Watts hopes to get more students from all backgrounds interested in conservation at the start of their college studies.

This could have an effect on how they choose their careers, Watts said.

The students seemed to agree.

"Business has been one of the biggest polluters of the environment; I really want to change that," said Eric Katz, who is white.

He studies business at the University of Michigan.

Steven Harris is studying earth sciences and anthropology at Syracuse University.

Anthropology is the study of humans and how they evolved.

Harris knows there are not many black men like him who work in conservation.

He is not discouraged by this.

"It inspires me," he said.

The students noted that climate change is expected to have the worst effects on the poorest regions of the planet.

Climate change is the warming of the planet.

It is caused by humans burning fossil fuels, such as oil and coal.

"Climate change is going to be global," said Jordan Morgan.

He is a white student from Bemidji State University in Minnesota.

Morgan said it's important to listen to different viewpoints.

People working in conservation, though, tend to be pretty similar.

"Most of the people working in it look like me," he said.

The program was run by the UW's College of the Environment.

College Dean Lisa Graumlich said the program has another benefit.

It helps students to get a feel for the exciting part of conservation work early on in college.

Students usually spend their first two years taking difficult science classes.

Conservation Scholars isn't just a feel-good summer program, Watts said.

He is quick to point out that the program was designed to challenge how the students see the world.

For example, the students visited an organic apple farm, and met an older white farmer who employed immigrant workers to pick his fruit.

The farmer was reluctant to talk about his relationship with his workers.

At first, the students thought the farmer had something to hide.

But Watts knew that the farmer had a history of being kind to his workers.

"He treats his farmworkers really well, contributes to their education programs, gives them gas money," Watts said.

When they learned this, the students had to change everything they thought about him, Watts said.

Watts said challenging the way students think about the world can be difficult.

"It was tense at times — you don't get to those conversations without a little tension," he said.

