Sony's new video game system, PlayStation 4, went on sale November 15.

A week later, Microsoft released the Xbox One.

Now, the two rival companies will battle for customers' dollars this holiday season.

Sony describes PlayStation 4 as a system for serious gamers.

But Microsoft says people can play more than just games on its Xbox One.

Xbox One is more expensive than PlayStation 4.

It will cost $499.

The Playstation 4 is $399.

People used to think that only teenage boys liked to play video games.

Now, a game customer can be almost anyone.

About half the homes in the U.S. have video game systems.

Many of the people who like video games are women and older people.

Some experts had predicted that people would give up on game systems.

They blamed free games like Candy Crush Saga.

Games are on smartphones.

So, what's the need for a big system under the TV?

But games on phones and Facebook haven't hurt game system sales.

In fact, more people play games now, one expert said.

Sony showed off the PlayStation 4 in San Francisco.

It is much more powerful and runs faster than PlayStation 3.

It has new games like "Killzone Shadow Fall" that no other company has.

And it said its system lets gamers share video with friends even when people are still playing a game.

Meanwhile, Microsoft demonstrated its new system in Venice, Calif.

The Xbox One can do many things.

It can recognize a person when he or she enters the room.

It automatically loads the games people in the house like to play on the TV screen.

Users can change from playing a game to watching TV or listening to a song just by talking.

The two systems share much in common.

Both machines do more than play games.

People can use services like Netflix with them.

And people can record and share game highlights with their friends with both machines.

The last time the companies made new gaming systems, there were many problems.

Microsoft rushed to get its product out first in late 2005.

But it wasn't perfect.

Many systems broke down.

It cost the company a great deal of money.

Sony's PlayStation 3 came out a year later in November 2006.

It cost much more money than Xbox 360.

It ran out of an important part in the system.

Both game systems overcame those problems.

The two companies each sold about 80 million systems worldwide.

