Jesse Okwu grew up in Chicago.

He learned about the outdoors by watching nature shows on television.

This summer, he came to Washington state for a program on protecting nature.

It was his first real experience with the wilderness.

Twenty-six students from different backgrounds took part in the program.

The program is based at the University of Washington.

Its goal is to get people of different races and family backgrounds to work in conservation.

Okwu, for instance, is black.

Conservationists protect nature.

They help save rivers, forests and animals.

Conservationists work at the National Park Service and the U.S. Forest Service.

They also work for private groups to protect endangered animals like whales or sea turtles.

Most people working in conservation are white.

Many of them come from families with money.

It is important to get different kinds of people, said Sean Watts.

He is in charge of the program.

If everyone comes from the same background, they may not understand other ways of thinking.

Almost 400 people applied to the program.

The students were carefully  chosen.

They were of different races.

Their families came from different countries.

They were white, black, Asian-American, Native American and Hispanic.

Some had parents who did not finish high school.

Others had parents who went to college.

Most of students planned to study science.

The group also included students learning about math, business and even movies.

The students spent time traveling through Washington.

They visited the grasslands.

They visited Mount Rainier.

Students also met members of Native American tribes.

The students talked with them about their ideas of nature.

Steven Harris is studying earth sciences and anthropology in New York.

Anthropology is the study of humans and how they evolved.

Harris knows there are not many black men like him who work in conservation.

He is not discouraged.

"It inspires me," he said.

Jordan Morgan is a white student from Minnesota.

Morgan said it is important to listen to different viewpoints.

People working in conservation, though, tend to be alike.

"Most of the people working in it look like me," he said.

By the end of the eight-week program, Okwu loved the field trips.

Now, he is thinking about making conservation part of his career.

