A straight-talking Mexican nun has become an unlikely television star.

Florinda Ruiz Carapia, better known as Hermana Flor, is one of five finalists on Mexico's version of "Master Chef."

On the show, contestants compete for a 1 million peso prize, which equals $59,000.

She very much wants to win to help her order, the Congregation of the Passion of Jesus Christ.

It owes 7 million pesos for loans it took out to build schools, according to Alejandro Esquivel, the producer of the show.

Jose Antonio Barrientos, a missionary in the order, confirmed the debt problems.

A missionary travels to other countries to help poor people and promote Christianity.

He said Hermana Flor's order is also worried that new government rules might require expensive renovations to its schools.

Hermana Flor, 68, has already made it past several stages.

The 300 wannabe chefs have been narrowed down to five finalists.

With only three weeks left till the show's end, Hermana Flor has proven so popular that Esquivel is a little worried about problems if the nun does not win.

A panel of professional chefs judges the contestants on the taste, presentation and speed of their dishes.

"I think Hermana Flor's popularity comes from her being a very straightforward, very human, very sympathetic person," Esquivel said.

It's not all sugar and sweetness from Hermana Flor.

In fact it is her tasty, fiery chile sauces that have gotten her this far.

Hermana Flor cooks three meals a day for 150 students who are studying to be priests.

She runs a simple but healthy operation.

A small mill grinds heaps of corn for fresh tortillas, sheep graze outside the windows, and pigs and chickens eat the kitchen scraps.

Leftovers are given to local hospitals.

But it leaves Hermana Flor struggling with things like arranging food on plates and presentation.

She deesn't worry about how her food looks when hungry would-be priests pile into the dining hall.

She sets out a plate full of food for each table of 10, and everybody serves himself.

She also was baffled when the judges at "Master Chef" made her cook a lobster.

"There are a lot of things I don't know how to use, like the lobster," she said.

"That's a kind of seafood I've never cooked here.

We don't have the money for that kind of thing."

She also was a bit scared of cooking thick pieces of meat.

"I did a chop (on the show), and it came out raw, because it was so thick.

I ruined it," said the sister, who is just under 5 feet tall.

"Look at this," she said, pointing to a metal bowl of thin-cut flank steaks in the seminary's kitchen.

"The steaks we have here are paper-thin; you put them on the grill and they're done.

We don't have any medium, medium-rare, none of that here."

Hermana Flor uses classic, local ingredients that do not cost much and pack a spicy punch.

On a recent day, she was cooking beef, grilled nopal cactus, grilled onions, rice, beans and tortillas.

"There is always chile in Mexico, and lots of it, and tomatoes and onions," she said, adding, "With that, I can make you a tasty dish."

The three judges on the show agree and praise Hermana Flor's sauces.

She has earned more than 31,000 followers on her Twitter account in the 15 weeks since the show began.

Fans crowd her Facebook page with comments like, "You're an inspiration!"

and "She's Mexico's favorite nun."

But just do not try to congratulate Hermana Flor yet.

"Don't tell me I'm famous.

I'm not famous until I get that money in my hand," she said.

"I want to win, because I want to help others.

I still have five (contestants) to go, and fame hasn't done anything for me yet.

It hasn't given me 1 cent."

Keeping an eye over the helpers in her giant kitchen, Hermana Flor noted, "There's never enough money in the religious orders.

Money is never wasted."

She said she dreams of helping her order get out of debt and of funding missions to help poor people in Africa or Mexico.

"We have debts, we have missions where we provide aid, and so with this contest, and the million pesos they offer ...

I am going to be able to help," she said in a friendly but determined way.

She would also like to attract women to her religious order.

The nuns are growing older, and the order is dying out.

"I'd like to invite the girls who are watching me (on television) and want to be like me to come to the convent, so the order can grow," she said, "and so there can be many, many Hermanas Flor."

