Tim Cook, the top boss at Apple, announced last week that he is gay.

Technology companies have fought for gay rights in the United States for years.

Cook's announcement may help move them to the next step: working for gay rights throughout the rest of the world.

Cook made the announcement in an essay for Bloomberg Businessweek.

Cook's magazine essay was about more than just himself.

It said that it does not matter who a business leader dates.

It showed that companies can be creative whether their leaders are gay or straight, as long as they are authentic.

"Everyone is saying, 'Look at the most valuable company on the planet, and it's run by a gay man,'" gay-rights activist Chris Sinton said.

"Maybe someday, some kid in Russia will read that and change his view on "what a gay person can accomplish," Sinton said.

Tech companies are some of the richest and most powerful companies in the world.

With Cook's announcement, they have a new opportunity to push for gay rights everywhere.

These companies may be able to influence change in places like Russia and Pakistan.

In those countries, gays are often treated very badly.

Because tech products are quite popular in both countries, those companies might be able to have an influence.

They may be able to change attitudes toward gays.

"These big tech companies have offices overseas," said gay-rights activist Leanne Pittsford.

Cook's announcement could inspire tech companies to broaden their fight and "get more involved overseas," she said.

Taking its fight for gay rights overseas is a natural next step for the tech community.

Many tech businesses have a very open-minded attitude toward gays and lesbians.

This is partly because many of their workers are highly educated young people.

Tech companies have supported gay rights more strongly than most other kinds of companies.

Apple, for example, marches in the annual San Francisco Pride parade, which celebrates the gay community.

Google has its Legalize Love campaign.

The goal of that effort is to promote gay rights in countries where homosexuality is against the law.

When it comes to technology, tech companies have always been open to new ideas, said gay-rights activist Jonathan Lovitz.

In fact, that's what their success depends on.

Perhaps that makes them more likely to be open-minded in general, he said.

"You're watching banks and law firms that are now playing catch-up" with the tech industry, Lovitz said.

Tech "has been way out in front" when it comes to gay rights.

Many tech companies, including Google and Apple, are celebrated for treating gay workers well.

Gay people in tech feel less of a need to hide who they are than people in many other industries.

Many feel comfortable telling coworkers they are gay.

Researcher Christie Smith points to one reason that tech companies are open-minded.

Tech leaders, she says, tend to be more honest about themselves than leaders in other industries.

Before Cook's announcement, a number of well-known tech leaders had already come out as gay.

Among them are Megan Smith, who recently became the chief technology officer of the United States; Peter Thiel, PayPal's cofounder; Sam Altman, president of Y Combinator; Wesley Chan, a major investor in tech startups; and Nancy Vitale of Genentech.

However, tech companies still have their problems.

There is plenty of work to be done before they can be considered truly fair, diversity expert Jennifer Brown said.

Tech companies certainly are welcoming to the gay community.

However, they have done little to bring more women, blacks and Latinos into their workforce.

Apple's employees, for example, are 70 percent men.

Still, Cook's announcement may inspire many inside and outside the tech world, Brown said.

It may move us one step closer to a world where workplaces treat everyone equally.

