A Mexican nun has now become a television star.

Florinda Ruiz Carapia is one of five finalists on Mexico's "Master Chef."

On the show, people compete for a 1 million peso prize, which equals $59,000.

The best cook wins.

Carapia is better known to Mexicans as Hermana Flor.

As a nun, she cannot marry.

Nuns spend their lives praying to God.

They also help children and feed the poor.

Hermana Flor belongs to a Catholic group called an order.

The order she belongs to is the Congregation of the Passion of Jesus Christ.

It owes 7 million pesos, about $420,000.

It borrowed the money from the bank to build schools, said Alejandro Esquivel.

He is in charge of the TV show.

Hermana Flor is 68 years old.

She has already won several rounds on the television show.

At the beginning of the contest, 300 people who want to be chefs took part.

Now there are just five left.

There are only three weeks till the end of the contest.

A panel of professional chefs judges the contestants on the taste and look of their dishes and how quickly they cook.

Hermana Flor is so popular that Esquivel is a little worried.

If she does not win, people will be very disappointed.

Esquivel said Hermana Flor is popular because she is a very honest person.

Hermana Flor cooks at a school for men studying to be priests.

She makes simple and healthy food.

She grinds corn for fresh tortillas.

Sheep graze outside the windows.

Pigs and chickens eat the kitchen scraps.

Leftover food goes to help feed people at local hospitals.

She does not worry about how her food looks at the school.

She sets out a giant plate of food for each table of 10.

Each student serves himself.

On the show, it is important how the food looks.

She worries about that.

She also was confused when the judges at "Master Chef" made her cook a lobster.

"There are a lot of things I don't know how to use, like the lobster," she said.

"That's a kind of seafood I've never cooked here.

We don't have the money for that kind of thing."

She also was a bit scared about cooking thick pieces of meat.

She cooked a chop on the show, and "it came out raw because it was so thick.

I ruined it," said Hermana Flor.

She is about 5 feet tall.

Hermana Flor uses food grown near the school.

It does not cost much.

She cooks beef, grilled onions, rice, beans and tortillas.

"There is always chile in Mexico, and lots of it, and tomatoes and onions," she said.

"With that, I can make you a tasty dish."

The three judges on the show agree.

She has gained more than 31,000 followers on Twitter in the 15 weeks since the show began.

Fans write comments on her Facebook page.

They call her "Mexico's favorite nun."

Hermana Flor said that people should not call her famous until she wins the contest.

"I'm not famous until I get that money in my hand," she said.

"I want to win, because I want to help others."

She said she dreams of helping her order pay back the money.

She also wants to help poor people in Africa or Mexico.

She would also like to attract women to her religious order.

The nuns are growing older, and few women are coming to take their place.

Hermana Flor said she would like to invite girls to become nuns.

"So the order can grow, and so there can be many, many Hermanas Flor."

