Once they grow up, the "cool" kids in middle school may not seem so cool anymore.

What's more, the less popular kids are likely to do better.

Chances are, they will live happier, healthier lives.

So a new study says, anyhow.

The study looked at 13-year-olds whose behavior was "pseudomature."

In other words, their behavior looked grown-up, but really was not.

The kids seemed older than their age because of things they did: dating at an early age or shoplifting, for example.

Other teens thought of them as the "cool kids."

What the new study found was that these kids often had problems by their early 20s.

They had problems with drugs, and with getting along with people.

The study was published on Thursday.

It tracked nearly 200 13-year-olds for 10 years.

Different behaviors were considered.

Among them were how much students valued their popularity, how important appearance was, and if students used drugs or dated.

The researchers found that young teens who dated or broke the law in small ways were considered popular.

But as these "pseudomature" teens grew up, things changed: Their behavior was no longer linked with popularity.

Instead, they were thought to be socially unskilled, said study leader Joseph Allen.

This means people thought they did not know how to behave.

They also had more problems with drugs and alcohol.

Allen said the average "cool" teen, by age 22, seemed not to be doing that well.

They compared poorly with the average teen in the study.

They were more likely to have problems with drugs and alcohol.

They were also more likely to be involved in crime.

Teens are impressed by these kids.

Parents are impressed too.

They think the pseudomature kids "are on the fast track," Allen said.

"These kids are on the fast track, but it's really to a dead end," he said.

"They are gaining the appearance of maturity," he added.

They are not gaining real maturity.

Scientists suggest that these kids are failing to develop important life skills.

They spend all their time trying to seem cool.

Thus they do not develop the skills needed for meaningful friendships.

The study followed 86 male and 98 female middle school students for 10 years.

There were some surprises, Allen said.

The most surprising find was this: "Pseudomature" behavior is a strong sign that someone will have problems with drugs and alcohol later on.

In fact, it is more of a warning sign than drug and alcohol use in middle school.

Researchers are still following the students to see how they do later in life.

All are now in their mid- to late 20s.

Here's one thing the study suggests: Parents should not worry if their young teens are not popular.

If a kid prefers to spend Saturday nights at home reading, Allen said, it's not a problem.

Many "uncool" teenagers turn out just fine, he said.

In fact, many do much better later on than the popular kids do.

