On Wednesday, around 1,000 students from several high schools in suburban Denver participated in what was the largest yet in a series of student demonstrations.

They were there to oppose a new set of high school history standards proposed by a conservative-led school board.

Most of the young protesters gathered at a busy intersection, chanting "Education without limitation!"

and waving signs and American flags.

The afternoon demonstration lasted about three hours, authorities said.

It was directed against a plan to focus class material on topics that promote patriotism and respect for authority while discouraging civil disorder.

Later, about 75 students from another area school walked out after meeting with Jefferson County School Superintendent Dan McMinimee about the proposal.

McMinimee has offered to meet with any students about the standards, which were proposed by school board member Julie Williams.

She is one of three members of the school board's recently elected conservative majority.

Williams' proposal comes in response to a new national framework for teaching Advanced Placement (AP) history.

Supporters of the new framework say it would focus on critical thinking and classroom discussion rather than memorization.

Critics fear it would place too much emphasis on the nation's problems.

For its part, the College Board, which oversees the AP program, says the new system provides a balanced view.

The Jefferson County school board plan would establish a committee to review texts and coursework, starting with AP history.

The committee would be charged with making sure classroom materials "promote citizenship, patriotism, essentials and benefits of the free-market system, respect for authority and respect for individual rights."

It would also seek to ensure that materials do not encourage or accept "civil disorder, social strife or disregard of the law."

The district has not tried to stop the students' own form of civil disobedience and the young demonstrators have not been punished.

"We're going to allow students to make their concerns heard," district spokeswoman Lynn Setzer said.

District administrators have been sent to watch over the demonstrations to make sure students stay safe, she said.

At the large afternoon protest, students mainly from Chatfield and Dakota Ridge high schools peacefully gathered as deputies and school officials looked on.

"There are kids here" just skipping class, student organizer Scott Romano said, "but the majority of us are out here for the right reasons."

The proposal was introduced last week, but a vote hasn't been scheduled.

The next school board meeting is set for Oct. 2.

The protests began Friday with an action organized by teachers upset over the plan and other issues.

Teachers staged a so-called "sick out" by taking sick days at the same time, causing two schools to shut down.

Students began walking out of classes in waves on Monday, an action organized largely through social media like Facebook and Twitter.

Hundreds of students from at least six area schools have participated so far.

The dozens of students who left Alameda International High School in Lakewood asked McMinimee about the school board plan and teacher concerns including pay.

McMinimee said he was worried that students were not fully informed.

"I think sometimes, as a student," he said, when "you hear what is going on, you don't necessarily have the whole picture."

