On Wednesday in suburban Denver, around 1,000 high schoolers took part in a large student demonstration.

They had turned out to oppose a new set of high school history standards.

The standards had recently been proposed by the area's school board.

Most of the young protesters gathered at a busy street corner.

They chanted "Education without limitation!"

and waved signs and American flags.

The afternoon demonstration lasted about three hours.

It was directed against a plan to make sure that history classes promote patriotism and respect for authority.

Later, about 75 students from Alameda International High School walked out after meeting with Jefferson County School Superintendent Dan McMinimee.

They had met to discuss the proposed standards.

The standards the students object to were proposed by Jefferson County school board member Julie Williams.

She is a conservative, meaning that she supports traditional attitudes and values.

Many conservatives believe some school textbooks are too critical of America.

They believe that reading such material will change students' thinking.

Students, they fear, will read negative stories about America, then become rebellious.

They fear that students will no longer feel proud of their country.

Williams' plan comes in response to a change in how history is taught in schools across the country.

The Advanced Placement (AP) history test, which is given nationally, has changed.

In response, classes that prepare students to take the test must also change.

Supporters of the new approach to AP history say it will lead to a more balanced view.

Both sides of the story should be heard, they say.

What's more, honesty about our country's problems and mistakes is a good thing.

Conservatives like Williams fear the new approach would be too focused on the nation's problems.

Under Williams' plan, a committee would review all AP history readings.

It would make sure that classroom materials promote patriotism and "respect for authority."

So far, the district has not tried to stop student demonstrators.

"We're going to allow students to make their concerns heard," district spokeswoman Lynn Setzer said.

School officials have been sent to watch over the demonstrations to make sure students stay safe.

At Wednesday's large afternoon protest, students gathered peacefully as police and school officials looked on.

The majority of the students came from two high schools, Chatfield and Dakota Ridge.

"There are kids here" just to skip class, student organizer Scott Romano said.

"But the majority of us are out here for the right reasons."

The protests began on Friday, before students joined in.

Teachers staged a so-called "sick out" by taking sick days at the same time, causing two schools to shut down.

Students began walking out of classes in waves on Monday.

Hundreds of students from at least six area schools have taken part so far.

The dozens of students who left Alameda International High School asked McMinimee about the school board plan.

McMinimee said he was worried that students have not been fully informed.

Students, he said, "don't necessarily have the whole picture."

