Leslie Fram arrived in Nashville four years ago to work for CMT, a country music TV channel.

She quickly saw that women were facing serious problems in the country music business.

Before Nashville, Fram had worked in rock radio.

She dove right into the city's country music scene.

Fram was blown away when she saw country artist Brandy Clark performing at the tiny Bluebird Cafe.

Clark had been nominated for a Grammy Award.

She had written hit songs for country stars like Miranda Lambert and Kacey Musgraves.

Yet Clark's songs were not being played on country radio stations.

"That was an eye-opener for me," Fram said.

"There were artists that were too country for country radio."

Clark is not the only female country artist struggling to get heard on the radio.

Fram saw a pattern.

There were not enough women being played on country music stations.

There were too many simplistic "party songs" performed by men.

Fram and others are now trying to take back the microphone.

They want more quality — and equality — in country music.

Through the years, there have been more men than women in country music.

Earlier this year, the issue made the news after comments by a man named Keith Hill.

He gives advice to radio stations by telling them how they can become more popular and make more money.

Hill told country radio stations to play fewer female artists to gain more listeners.

He used the idea of a salad to explain the artists that country music radio stations should play.

He called male artists such as Luke Bryan and Blake Shelton the leafy greens of the salad.

He said female artists were the tomatoes.

Hill's comments worried people.

He made it sound like women were being kept off country radio on purpose, as part of a strategy.

Hill defended his argument by saying that radio must give people what they want to hear.

"You're not going to get equality until the behavior of the audience changes," Hill said by phone Monday.

The numbers show that fewer women are succeeding today in country radio.

Of the Top-100 country singles in 1998, about one-third of them were sung by women.

By 2014, the number had fallen to about 20 singles sung by women.

Just recently, only three songs with female voices were in the Top 25 of Billboard's Hot Country Songs chart: Little Big Town's "Girl Crush," Cam's "Burning House" and Maddie &amp; Tae's "Fly."

This year, only two songs led by female singers have hit Number 1: "Girl Crush" and Carrie Underwood's "Something In the Water."

In 2010, Miranda Lambert had a Number 1 hit with the song "The House That Built Me."

Fram wondered if that song would get any radio play today.

Luke Bryan is a country music star.

He is the current "entertainer of the year" at the two largest country music award shows, the CMA and ACM Awards.

Bryan said the country music community needs to take a deeper look at why more women are not being played on the radio.

"The music industry can get real, real busy and fast-paced and you look up, and you realize, 'Man, there isn't a female artist in the Top 10 or even in the Top 20 right now," he said.

To solve the problem, people in the country music business need to sit down and think of how to promote women artists, he said.

Those conversations are starting to happen.

Leslie Fram co-created a group called Change The Conversation.

The group mentors, educates and supports women in the country music business.

Change the Conversation is not telling radio stations to play every female artist out there, Fram said.

Instead, it is about the idea that "the best song wins."

Maddie &amp; Tae, a young country duo, wrote a song about women in country music.

"Girl In A Country Song," went gold, selling more than 500,000 copies.

It got to Number 3 on the country charts.

The song says that women should be more than just a pretty face in a country music video.

Madison Marlow and Taylor Dye are now on tour with Dierks Bentley.

The young women said they have had to prove to country music fans that they belong on stage with the men.

"We are new to the scene and we are females, but I feel like we can live up to the expectations," 19-year-old Dye said.

"We can hang with the guys."

