When Leslie Fram came to Nashville four years ago to lead strategy for CMT, a cable television channel devoted to country music, she immediately began to see the problems that women were facing in country music.

Fram, a former rock radio programmer, immersed herself in Nashville's songwriter community.

She was blown away when she heard Brandy Clark performing at the tiny Bluebird Cafe.

Clark has been nominated for a Grammy Award and has penned hit songs for Miranda Lambert and Kacey Musgraves, but she was not being played on country radio stations.

"That was an eye opener for me," Fram said.

"There were artists that were too country for country radio."

Fram and others are frustrated by the state of country music, seeing a decline in the number of female artists and tiring of simplistic party songs.

Now, these women are trying to take back the microphone by pushing for quality — and equality — in country music.

Historically, country music radio has been male-dominated, but the issue of women artists not getting air-time picked up steam this spring when radio consultant Keith Hill said country stations that want better ratings should play fewer female artists.

Hill used the idea of a salad to explain the artists that country music radio stations choose to play.

He called male artists like Luke Bryan and Blake Shelton the leafy greens of the salad while female artists were the tomatoes.

This comparison increased fears that female singer-songwriters were being systemically excluded from commercial radio.

Hill defends his argument by saying he is simply giving listeners what they want to hear.

"You're not going to get equality until the behavior of the audience changes," Hill said by phone recently.

In 1998, 38 percent of singles in the annual Top-100 country songs chart were female-voiced.

In 2014, only 18 percent of singles in the top 100 were female-voiced.

The data, from industry publication Country Aircheck, includes bands and solo artists.

Only three songs with female voices made this week's Top 25 of Billboard's Hot country songs chart: Little Big Town's "Girl Crush," Cam's "Burning House" and Maddie &amp; Tae's "Fly."

"Girl Crush" and Carrie Underwood's "Something In the Water" are the only women-led songs to hit No.

1 this year.

"My worry is, is there a place for something like 'The House That Built Me'?"

Fram said of Lambert's Grammy-winning hit song of 2009.

"Would that see the light of day now?"

Luke Bryan is a country singer-songwriter who is the current "entertainer of the year" winner at the two largest country music award shows, the CMA and ACM Awards.

Bryan said the country music community needs to take a deeper look at why there aren't more women on the radio.

"The music industry can get real, real busy and fast-paced and you look up, and you realize, 'Man, there isn't a female artist per se in the Top 10 or even in the Top 20 right now, and there was only one or two that broke in the mix,'" he said.

"I think it's about the ACMs and CMAs even forming some, maybe committees, to talk about it and see what's going on in the radio community — it's a whole industry situation to sit down and determine what can be done better to promote women in the format."

Those conversations are starting to happen.

Fram of CMT has joined with Rounder Records Vice President Tracy Gershon and music columnist Beverly Keel to create a collective of women in music called Change The Conversation, which works to mentor and educate women in the country music industry.

"Change The Conversation is not that you need to play every female artist that is out there," Fram said.

"For us, it's about the best song wins."

Last month Lambert held a charity show that featured her singing with the genre's best songwriters — male and female — to raise funds for a new scholarship for women musicians and artists.

For female artists who are waiting for their opportunity, the only thing they can do is focus on the music.

Maddie &amp; Tae, a young, rising country duo, took on the issue directly with their song, "Girl In A Country Song."

That tune skewers the way women are portrayed in country songs and music videos by male artists.

"Girl In A Country Song," became a gold single, selling at least 500,000 copies, and it peaked at No.

3 on the country charts.

Maddie &amp; Tae, now on tour with Dierks Bentley, said they have had to prove to country music fans that they belong on stage with the men.

"We are new to the scene and we are females, but I feel like we can live up to the expectations," 19-year-old Tae Dye said.

"We can hang with the guys."

Ashley Monroe's new album debuted at No.

2 for country albums, behind Alan Jackson.

Yet she has not been able to get a top radio hit unless she is singing with male artist Blake Shelton, as she has done twice with "Lonely Tonight" and "Boys 'Round Here."

"I make sure everything I sing I believe in ...

If it gets on radio, that's amazing.

That's millions of people that are hearing it," she said.

"And if it doesn't, then I am just going to work extra hard to find other ways to get heard."

Country music veteran Vince Gill co-produced Monroe's album and has seen trends come and go in country music for decades.

The real problem is an overall lack of diversity in the music industry as record sales decline, Gill said.

Fewer artists now have a chance to get on the radio at all, Gill explained.

