The New York City middle schoolers sang and plucked out basic chords on ukuleles and guitars.

Then their music teacher walked in, Liz Rose — a Grammy Award-winning country songwriter.

Rose has written songs for some of the biggest stars in country music, including Taylor Swift.

Yet on this recent fall day, she helped 19 students write an original tune.

The students called it "Everybody's Perfect."

"Y'all are awesome," Rose said as she approached the stage.

Rose lives in Nashville, Tennessee, the center of the country music business.

"Y'all made me cry."

Country music and New York City do not have much in common.

The city has only one country radio station that began just two years ago.

Nonetheless, musicians from Music City, as Nashville is known, are working with a New York nonprofit group that is providing music education in city schools to help make it a more important part of what kids learn.

The students attend Pelham Gardens Middle School.

They are among 500 students in 15 schools around the city to take part in the songwriting program.

They receive 10 lessons on how to write lyrics, or words to a song.

One class in each school has a videoconference session over the Internet with a musician in Nashville.

The Nashville-New York connection is made through the Country Music Association Foundation.

It began in 2006 to help pay for music education programs in Nashville and has spread to cities across the country.

The Country Music Association Foundation brought two groups together to create the songwriting program.

The first is Education through Music, which provides music education to students in 50 schools in poorer neighborhoods in New York.

The second is called Words &amp; Music.

It is based at the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville and helps teach language skills through songwriting.

Rose, the Grammy Award-winning songwriter, first met her students over Skype, an app that lets people talk and see each other over the Internet.

In 2010, she won the music award with Swift for best country song for "White Horse."

Rose helped the students write the lyrics for their song.

They performed it this past week at All for the Hall, a concert in New York to raise money for education programs at the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville.

Students shared the stage with musicians Brad Paisley, Paul Simon and Carrie Underwood.

For many of the New York kids, country music was totally new.

Corey Stuckey, 12, said he has been inspired to write songs in the past by hip-hop and R&amp;B artists such as R. Kelly and Ludacris.

Now he is opening up to country, too.

"I like country music because of the tone of it," the seventh-grader said.

"It's kind of like reggae, but it's different because it's more calming."

Rose said she helped the students write their song in the same way she works with professional musicians.

She had the students shout out whatever was on their minds.

They came up with things like, older kids are tall, ice cream and hallways.

She quickly jotted down everything they said and then started to place the words together like puzzle pieces.

"It's not different for whoever you're writing with.

It's about getting them to talk," she said.

"And then I would ask them questions and put a line together."

Ultimately they wrote: "Everybody's Perfect" inspired by the difficulties of life at a new school.

Moesha Masters, 11, helped come up with the title.

"I moved a lot and it was hard making friends," she said, "and I realized I'm not perfect.

But after I looked at that I realized everyone's perfect in other ways."

"Ice cream, money and MetroCards and full backpacks and school is hard!"

the students sang.

Metrocards are fare cards to pay for New York bus and train rides.

With lots of oohs and aahs and an upbeat, catchy melody, the students' song sounded more like Taylor Swift than old-time country.

Peter Pauliks runs the programs for Education through Music.

He urged the students at the rehearsal to pronounce every word clearly.

He wanted the audience to understand the song's message.

Kyle Young is the head of the Country Music Hall of Fame.

He said he was moved when he saw the students onstage, wearing T-shirts for Words &amp; Music and Education Through Music over their blue school uniforms.

"This is why we go to work every day," Young said.

"It's about giving kids an opportunity to express themselves and create."

