The New York City students sang and played ukuleles and guitars.

Then their music teacher walked in.

Her name is Liz Rose, a country music songwriter.

Rose has written songs for some of the biggest names in country music.

In 2010, she won a Grammy Award with Taylor Swift for the best country song.

The music award was for a song called "White Horse."

On this fall day, she helped 19 middle school students write their own song.

They called it "Everybody's Perfect."

"Y'all are awesome," said Rose, who lives in Nashville, Tennessee.

"Y'all made me cry."

There is not much country music in New York City.

It has only one country radio station that began just two years ago.

Still, musicians from Nashville are working with a group teaching music to school children.

Nashville is the center of the country music business.

The students go to Pelham Gardens Middle School.

There are about 500 students in 15 schools in the songwriting program.

They receive 10 lessons on how to write the words to a song.

One class in each school gets to talk over the Internet with a musician in Nashville.

The Nashville-New York connection is made through the Country Music Association Foundation.

The group began in 2006 to help pay for music education programs in Nashville.

Rose first met her students over Skype.

The app lets people talk and see each other and talk over the Internet.

Rose helped the students write the words for their song.

They performed it this past week at All for the Hall.

The concert took place in New York City.

It raised money for educational programs at the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum in Nashville.

Students shared the stage with musicians Brad Paisley, Paul Simon and Carrie Underwood.

"Ice cream, money and MetroCards and full backpacks and school is hard!"

the students sang.

Metrocards are fare cards for New York trains and buses.

The students' song had lots of oohs and aahs in it.

It had an upbeat, catchy melody.

For many of the New York kids, country music was totally new.

Corey Stuckey is 12 years old.

He said he decided to write his own songs after listening to hip-hop and R&amp;B songs.

Now he is opening up to country, too.

"I like country music because of the tone of it," the seventh-grader said.

He called country music "calming."

Rose said she worked with the kids on their song just like she works with professional musicians.

She had the students shout out whatever was on their minds.

They came up with things like, older kids are tall, ice cream and hallways.

She quickly wrote down everything they said.

Then she started to place the words together like puzzle pieces.

"It's not different for whoever you're writing with.

It's about getting them to talk," she said, "and then I would ask them questions and put a line together."

In the end, they wrote "Everybody's Perfect."

Moesha Masters, who is 11 years old, helped come up with the title.

"I moved a lot and it was hard making friends," she said.

"And I realized I'm not perfect.

But after I looked at that I realized everyone's perfect in other ways."

Kyle Young is in charge of the Country Music Hall of Fame.

He said he felt emotional when he saw the students on the stage.

"This is why we go to work every day," Young said.

"It's about giving kids an opportunity to express themselves and create."

