When it comes to elections, voting is a powerful way to make your voice heard.

But what if the government gave you another tool to influence the ballot — $100 to dole out to candidates as you saw fit?

That's what is happening in Seattle, Washington, after voters this month adopted the nation's first voucher system for campaign contributions.

The idea is to get those who don't normally donate to campaigns more involved in politics.

Making it easier for everyday citizens to give money to candidates running for office is a way to counteract the influence of big corporate donors and wealthy individuals.

"We're very eager to see how it works," said Michael Malbin, executive director of the Campaign Finance Institute in Washington, D.C. "One of the major problems people have with the political system is that it's financially controlled by too few people.

Nothing's going to stop wealthy individuals from making independent expenditures, but those will be less powerful if more people are engaged."

Over time, the U.S. Supreme Court has loosened restrictions on political donations, making it easier for corporations and unions that represent workers to pledge significant money toward candidates.

Some people criticize the Supreme Court decisions and praise local efforts, like those in Seattle.

They claim that plans like the one in Seattle encourage individual donations to candidates for public office and blunt the effect of corporations donating to campaigns.

In fact, voters in Maine this month passed a measure to strengthen their 1996 campaign finance law by making additional public money available to candidates running for governor and the Legislature.

A campaign like this isn't cheap.

Seattle's voters decided to tax themselves $3 million a year - or up to $6 million in a two-year election cycle.

In exchange, registered voters will receive four vouchers, or coupons, worth $25 each for a total of $100 per voter so they can donate money to candidates for mayor, city council or city attorney, beginning with elections in 2017.

To be eligible to redeem the vouchers from Seattle voters, candidates must collect a certain number of small-dollar donations and follow certain rules.

They must agree to strict spending limits, private contribution limits and participation in at least three debates.

The measure in Seattle passed with 63 percent of the vote.

The idea of campaign-contribution vouchers dates back to at least 1967.

U.S.

Senators Lee Metcalf of Montana and Russell Long of Louisiana each proposed versions for financing federal elections.

Congress instead opted to let voters check a box on their tax returns to donate $1 toward the public financing of campaigns.

Since then, many cities and states have adopted some form of voluntary public financing.

For example, voters in Minnesota earn $50 back on their taxes if they contribute to candidates or political parties that agree to limit their spending.

Seattle's law takes another approach.

Election reformers hope to replicate this policy around the country.

David Donnelly, president of Washington, D.C.-based Every Voice, which supported the proposals in Seattle and Maine, said he expects the Seattle measure to spread.

He said as many as eight states will consider putting similar plans onto ballots in 2016 so voters can decide on them.

Efforts are underway to put voucher systems on the ballot in South Dakota and Washington.

"There are people all over the country that are seeing these examples as beacons of hope to take big money out of politics and engage regular people in elections," Donnelly said.

"It's an incredible, democratizing policy."

Not everyone supports Seattle's new policy.

Robert Mahon is a former chairman of Seattle's Ethics and Elections Commission. Mahon believes it will make one problem worse - the problem of "dark money" — money from groups that receive unlimited donations from corporations, individuals and unions, and spend it to influence elections.

The problem is that these groups are not required by law to say who donates to them.

"I fear it sets back the cause of campaign finance reform," he said.

Mahon and others also suggest that the release of the vouchers early in elections will be advantageous to incumbents and well-known candidates with political machines ready to start collecting them.

Detractors of the policy say the $6 million that Seattle's property tax will raise to pay for the donations won't be nearly enough to cover vouchers for all 419,000 registered voters.

Even supporters expect that only about 14 percent of the vouchers could be redeemed before candidates hit their spending caps.

The law also has some exceptions that cause people to wonder about how effective it will be.

The Seattle policy adds spending caps, but some candidates can petition to be released from their campaign spending limits, which enables them to raise and spend more private money.

That could be an unfair advantage.

Alan Durning, a founder of Seattle's Sightline Institute, a nonprofit group, and an author of the ballot measure, doesn't believe those arguments have merit.

Incumbents already have advantages and giving lesser-known candidates public funding can only help make them more viable, he said.

That would effectively help level the playing field.

Further, just 1.5 percent of Seattle voters made political contributions to local candidates in 2013.

If the voucher system increases that participation tenfold or more, it will be a great problem to have, he said, one that can be fixed by adjusting the value of the vouchers or the number issued.

In other words, at the end of the day, not a lot of people make financial donations so this initiative might help encourage more people to get involved in the political process.

"If we have the good fortune of voters being more eager to use vouchers than we expect, we can adjust the system," Durning said.

