Mona Shafer Edwards stepped through the doors of a downtown Los Angeles courtroom and took a seat in the jury box.

She removed a plastic bag bulging with pens and markers from her Gucci purse and propped a sketch pad on her lap.

"You made me look really old," Judge Ronald S. Coen said.

"But you got the cleft chin right."

"I'm sorry," Edwards said, laughing.

"I'll do better."

Her pen darted over the page as Marion "Suge" Knight, a former wealthy rap music executive accused of murder, shuffled into the room.

Edwards used bold strokes to draw his scowl and handcuffed hands, the slouch of a detective on the witness stand and the dent in the judge's chin.

The courtrooms of Los Angeles are where the dramas of L.A.'s rich and famous play out, and for three decades Edwards has been there for some of the wildest cases.

Pens and markers in hand, Edwards has captured the emptiness in the eyes of convicted murderer Richard Ramirez, the unsmiling face of former football player O.J.

Simpson, who was found not guilty in the murder of his former wife and another man, and the ever-changing features of pop star Michael Jackson.

She is among the few remaining sketch artists working today.

It is a skill that has managed to survive the introduction of photography and video, finding a home in courtrooms where those images are banned, or with judges who do not want the distraction that the news media can bring.

As the Knight hearing ended, Edwards dashed outside to put the finishing touches on the sketches.

She taped the sketches onto a wall and the photographers whose news stations had paid for the images lined up, taking turns shooting close-ups.

Edwards became interested in courtroom drawing when she saw the sketches that flashed across the 10 o'clock news.

"They were awful, just awful," she said.

"I told my husband, 'That's what I want to do.

I can do that.'"

Edwards had been working for years as a fashion illustrator, drawing for designers and department stores.

She was also teaching at colleges.

She saw that her skills in fashion drawing could translate to the courtroom.

She went to one station and showed the art director her illustrations.

"He told me 'You should stick with fashion,'" Edwards said.

Next was KNBC-TV, which gave her a shot in 1979, sending her to a famous trial.

In those days, each local news station had its own artist, and the networks flew in their own for big cases.

At the trial, she met Bill Robles, who is now the only other remaining sketch artist in Los Angeles and a friendly rival.

The two have worked alongside each other for decades as everyone else left the business, either by choice or a lack of work.

Edwards was reluctant to say what she charges for her sketches, but she said no matter the case, the process is always the same.

She first finds a feature on a person that sticks out — anything from a hair style to lips or a nose.

Then she studies the person's body language, posture and how their clothes fit.

Next she draws the image in her mind, plans it out and starts the sketch.

She never uses pencil and does not erase.

The key is to capture the person's spirit, to draw more than a mere portrait.

Edwards said it is up to her to do what a camera cannot, which is to capture the humanity in the room with a human's touch.

She said she never uses pencil and never erases.

An artist sketched the Salem witch trials of 1692 and documented the 1865 military trial of conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln.

The impeachment trials of the president who followed Lincoln, Andrew Johnson, also were captured in drawings.

The 1935 trial of Richard Bruno Hauptmann in the murder of aviator Charles Lindbergh's son became a media spectacle.

There were hidden newsreel cameras, secret radio broadcasts and flashbulb bursts.

The media coverage in the case prompted the American Bar Association, a group that represents lawyers, to ask the courts to prohibit cameras and radio, which they did for decades.

Some courts eventually loosened the reins, though others still ban cameras.

The O.J.

Simpson murder case, the so-called Trial of the Century, was among the first to be broadcast live on television, and Edwards said they thought it would be the end for courtroom artists.

The prolonged media spectacle, however, was sharply criticized after Simpson was found not guilty.

The frenzy is believed to have led to judges becoming more reluctant to allow cameras in the courtroom.

Ronald H. Rose, a retired Los Angeles County Superior Court judge, said the presence of cameras influences the behavior of those involved and can undermine the court's pursuit of justice.

While on the bench, he would ban the cameras more often than not.

"A courtroom is a place where people strive to really, truly see that justice is done," Rose said.

"I'm always afraid that it isn't going to be accomplished if we allow cameras."

Edwards can easily blend in and bring into her drawings the feeling in the entire room.

"She's the public eye in the courtroom," Rose said.

"She's able to capture the emotion that is felt by everyone in the courtroom in a way that a camera never could."

