Mona Shafer Edwards is a courtroom sketch artist.

She draws pictures of court trials that are used on television or in newspapers when cameras are not allowed in the courtroom.

Not long ago, Edwards was at a big trial in Los Angeles.

She sat near the jury, the group of people that listens to everything that goes on during a trial.

They decide whether a person is guilty or innocent.

Edwards removed a plastic bag bulging with pens and markers from her fancy purse.

She never uses a pencil and does not erase.

She set her drawing pad on her lap.

The judge joked that Edwards had made him look old in one sketch.

"I'm sorry," Edwards said, laughing.

"I'll do better."

In the courtroom, she drew quickly as Marion "Suge" Knight, who used to be a rap music businessman, came into the courtroom.

Edwards drew his scowl and handcuffed hands.

Rich and famous people have their legal cases heard in Los Angeles courtrooms.

Edwards has been there for more than 30 years, sketching former football player O.J.

Simpson, Michael Jackson and many others.

There are not many sketch artists around today.

Some have found work in courtrooms where cameras are not allowed, or with judges who do not want the distraction that the television news can bring.

As the Knight hearing ended, Edwards dashed outside to put the finishing touches on her sketches.

She taped the pictures onto a wall.

Photographers took close-up images of the sketches, which would be used on television news programs.

Edwards saw courtroom sketches on television news many years ago and knew she could do better.

"They were awful, just awful," she said.

"I told my husband, 'That's what I want to do.

I can do that.'"

Edwards had been working for years drawing pictures for fancy clothing companies and stores.

She realized that her skills in fashion could work in the courtroom.

She went to one station and showed someone her drawings.

"He told me 'You should stick with fashion,'" Edwards said.

Next was KNBC.

The television station gave her a chance, sending her to a famous trial in 1979.

Edwards said the way she works in court is always the same.

She first finds something about a person that stands out.

It could be something like a hair style, lips or their nose.

Then she studies the person's body language.

She looks at posture and how their clothes fit.

Next she draws the image in her mind, plans it out and starts the sketch.

The key is to capture the person's spirit, she said.

Courtroom sketches have a long history.

An artist sketched the Salem witch trials of 1692.

Drawings also were made at the 1865 military trial of people involved in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln.

Then Richard Bruno Hauptmann went on trial in 1935.

He was charged with killing famous pilot Charles Lindbergh's son.

News coverage of the trial was crazy.

There were hidden news cameras, secret radio broadcasts and flashbulb bursts.

The way reporters covered that case led the American Bar Association to ask judges to not allow cameras and audio recording at trials, which they did for many years.

The association represents lawyers in the United States.

Some courts eventually loosened the rules, though others still do not allow cameras.

O.J.

Simpson's trial, where he was accused of killing his former wife and another man, was among the first to be shown live on television with TV cameras in the courtroom.

Edwards said people thought it would be the end for courtroom artists.

The jury said Simpson was not guilty.

Then people complained about the way news groups reported on the trial.

Some people believe reporters went too far and the behavior of many others made judges less likely to allow cameras inside.

Ronald H. Rose is a retired Los Angeles judge.

He said the presence of cameras changes the behavior of those involved in a trial.

They might get very nervous or act out for the cameras.

It can make it harder for courts to find the correct ruling on a case.

Edwards can easily blend in and bring the feeling of the entire room into her sketches.

"She's the public eye in the courtroom," Rose said.

