Courtroom sketch artist Mona Shafer Edwards stepped into a Los Angeles courtroom and took a seat in the jury box.

She removed a plastic bag bulging with pens and markers from her designer purse and set a sketch pad on her lap.

"You made me look really old," Judge Ronald S. Coen said of a recent sketch Edwards had drawn.

He added that Edwards did, however, get his chin right.

"I'm sorry," Edwards said, laughing.

"I'll do better."

Her pen darted over the page as Marion "Suge" Knight, a former wealthy rap music executive, shuffled into the courtroom.

Knight is on trial for murder.

Edwards used bold strokes to draw his scowl and handcuffed hands, the slouch of a detective on the witness stand and the dent in the judge's chin.

The courtrooms of Los Angeles are where the dramas of L.A.'s rich and famous play out.

For more than three decades Edwards has been there for some of the wildest cases.

Pens and markers in hand, Edwards has captured the unsmiling face of former football player O.J.

Simpson, who was found not guilty in the murder of his former wife and another man, the features of pop star Michael Jackson, and many others.

She is among the few remaining sketch artists working today.

It is a skill that has managed to survive the introduction of photography and video.

Artists have found a home in courtrooms where those images are banned, or with judges who do not want the distraction that the news media can bring.

As the Knight hearing ended, Edwards dashed outside to put the finishing touches on the sketches.

She taped the sketches onto a wall and the photographers whose news organizations had paid for the images lined up.

They took turns shooting close-ups.

Edwards became interested in courtroom sketching many years ago when she saw the sketches that flashed across television news.

"They were awful, just awful," she said.

"I told my husband, 'That's what I want to do.

I can do that.'"

Edwards had been working for years in the fashion industry, drawing for designers and department stores.

She knew that her skills could work in the courtroom as well.

She went to one station and showed the art director her illustrations.

"He told me 'You should stick with fashion,'" Edwards said.

Next was KNBC-TV, which gave her a shot, sending her to a famous trial in 1979.

In those days, each local news station had its own artist, and the networks flew in their own for big cases.

At the trial, she met Bill Robles, who is now the only other remaining sketch artist in Los Angeles and a friendly rival.

The two have worked alongside each other for decades as everyone else left the business, either by choice or because there was not enough work.

Edwards said her creative process is always the same.

She first finds a personal feature that sticks out — anything from a hair style to lips or a nose.

Then she studies the person's body language, posture and how their clothes fit.

Then she draws the image in her mind, plans it out and starts the sketch.

She never uses a pencil and does not erase.

The key is to capture the person's spirit, she said.

It is up to her to do what a camera cannot, which is to capture the humanity in the room with a human's touch, she said.

An artist sketched the Salem witch trials of 1692 and documented the 1865 military trial of people involved in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln.

The impeachment trials of the president who followed Lincoln, Andrew Johnson, also were captured in drawings.

The 1935 trial of Richard Bruno Hauptmann for the murder of pilot Charles Lindbergh's son became a media spectacle.

There were hidden news cameras, secret radio broadcasts and flashbulb bursts.

The media coverage in the case prompted the American Bar Association, a group that represents lawyers, to lobby the courts to keep out cameras and audio recorders for radio, which they did for many years.

Some courts eventually loosened the rules, though others still ban cameras.

The O.J.

Simpson murder case was among the first to be broadcast live on television.

Edwards said people thought it would be the end for courtroom artists.

The constant coverage was sharply criticized after Simpson was found not guilty.

The media craziness is believed to have led to judges becoming more reluctant to allow cameras in the courtroom.

Ronald H. Rose, a retired Los Angeles County Superior Court judge, said the presence of cameras changes the behavior of those involved and can undermine the court's pursuit of justice.

Some people play to the cameras, while others become more nervous.

While on the bench, he would ban the cameras more often than not.

"A courtroom is a place where people strive to really, truly see that justice is done," Rose said.

"I'm always afraid that it isn't going to be accomplished if we allow cameras."

Edwards can easily blend in and bring into her drawings the feeling in the entire room.

"She's the public eye in the courtroom," Rose said.

"She's able to capture the emotion that is felt by everyone in the courtroom in a way that a camera never could."

