Fisherman's Wharf is the home base for fishing boats in San Francisco, California.

It is usually much busier this time of year.

Workers should be getting ready to haul in millions of pounds of Dungeness crab.

People love to eat them at Thanksgiving and other holiday meals.

This year the crab pots are empty.

Fishermen were supposed to start catching the crabs on Nov. 15.

However, California has delayed the start of its crab season.

Officials found dangerous levels of a poison in crabs.

Officials in Oregon and Washington state are also testing crab.

They will decide soon whether to open crab season on Dec. 1 as they planned.

Meanwhile, fishermen are getting nervous.

A large increase of algae in the Pacific Ocean is causing the problem.

Algae are tiny water plants.

The algae makes a kind of poison, called domoic acid.

Wildlife and fish eat the algae and the poison in it.

It should be the best time of year for crab fishermen, who make most of their money now.

Closing the entire West Coast to crabbing would hurt the fishing business.

Fishermen caught nearly $170 million worth of Dungeness crab in 2014.

"Everybody is counting on crab to make it, so this is pretty disappointing," said Larry Collins.

He is the president of the San Francisco Crab Boat Owners Association.

Collins said that fishermen will go get the crabs when they are free of poison.

"I'm very hopeful that it's sooner than later."

Experts say warm ocean water led to the poisonous algae.

This time, at least, climate change did not cause the algae.

Climate change is the heating up of the Earth.

Scientists blame the burning of fossil fuels for global warming.

Fossil fuels are natural fuels like oil, gas and coal.

Burning them creates greenhouse gases, which cause global warming.

Even though the algae is not caused by climate change, it shows what could happen as the ocean warms up.

Scientists expect the ocean to keep warming for many years.

Off the Northeast coast, sea creatures are moving to colder, deeper water.

It has changed what fishermen catch and where they catch it.

A study found that climate change will cause some fish species to disappear from California and Oregon.

"I don't have a crystal ball, but I think we're being given a warning here," said Vera Trainer.

She is with the Northwest Fisheries Science Center in Seattle, Washington.

"We're being shown what the future is going to look like.

This is more of what we can expect."

Fishermen have stopped hauling in razor clams in Oregon and Washington for now.

People are not being allowed to dig for clams because of dangerous levels of the poison.

The problem has cost the states about $22 million because tourists are not spending as much money, said Dan Ayres.

He is with the Washington Department of Fish &amp; Wildlife.

Crab can still be found in many restaurants and stores.

Health officials say crabs sold in stores are safe to eat.

Some crabs on the market now were caught months ago and frozen.

Crab fishing is currently open in some parts of Alaska, Oregon and Washington.

In California, crab fishermen are getting ready for a difficult season.

"Needless to say, this is devastating," said Steve Fitz, who owns Mr. Morgan Fisheries near San Francisco.

Many people in the fishing community make most of their money from crab, he said.

Still, he has hope that the poison levels will go down and the crab season will open soon.

Kris Ducker grew up in California.

Each year her family looks forward to eating crab, served ice cold.

Even though she now lives in Texas, she still tries to find fresh Dungeness crab.

"We're looking forward to having Dungeness crab for Christmas Eve.

We could move on to something else.

It wouldn't kill us, but we would be sad," she said.

