On Tuesday, the Vatican served tea and cucumber sandwiches.

The purpose of the gathering was not to discuss religious matters, however.

Instead, it was to announce the launching of the Vatican's first-ever cricket club.

No, [Pope Francis](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope) isn't taking up the sport long associated with the English nobility.

The soccer-mad "slum pope" still prefers the lower-brow sport of his beloved San Lorenzo club.

But he and the Vatican, which is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church, have long championed sports as good for mind, body and soul.

The cricket club is the Vatican's latest attempt to use sports to connect with the modern world.

Australia's ambassador to the Vatican, John McCarthy, first came up with the idea.

He said he hopes the St. Peter's Cricket Club will field a team to play the Church of England sometime next fall.

McCarthy said the aim of the club is to encourage communication between the world's different religions.

Cricket is immensely popular in largely non-Catholic India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

One day, McCarthy hopes, students from Rome's religious universities may play cricket with students from Muslim or Hindu religious schools.

Another purpose of the cricket club, McCarthy added, is to educate Italy, the Vatican and even Pope Francis that there is a sport other than soccer.

McCarthy then got busy passing around cucumber sandwiches.

Served with tea, these have long been the standard snack at cricket matches.

To put together its team, the club will select from 300 or so religious students and priests.

These men already play on informal teams here in Rome.

The new all-star Vatican team will be fielded as early as the spring.

Rome's Capannelle Cricket Club is letting the Vatican use its playing field.

Donors will cover the cost of equipment, McCarthy said.

They will also handle organizational and other related expenses.

London, England, prides itself as the home of cricket.

Reached there, Adam Chadwick of Lord's Cricket Ground welcomed the new Vatican club.

What's more, he seemed open to a Vatican versus Church of England match.

This, he said, could take place on one of Lord's playing fields in the wealthy St. John's Wood neighborhood.

Chadwick admitted that the popular image of cricket is of wealthy aristocratic gentlemen playing on large country estates.

This image, he said, dates from the Victorian era of the late 19th century.

But cricket's actual origins are very different: The game was originally played by ordinary people, not noblemen.

"The first mentions that we found in this country" describe "an ordinary man" playing on Sunday, when he would have been at church.

"Which is a bit ironic, actually," he said with a laugh.

Cricket's enormous popularity in places like India is actually much more in line with the game's beginnings, he said.

The game became popular in India when that country was part of the British Empire.

Indeed, the Vatican made clear that its cricket club wasn't thinking of English high society.

Rather, it had in mind the sport's popularity with the masses.

Thus, the new cricket club fits in neatly with Pope Francis's aim for the church: He wants it to reach out to the poorest, in many different parts of the world.

The Vatican already has its "Clericus Cup" soccer tournament.

This pitches the Vatican's Swiss Guards against religious students from the North American College and other teams.

And just on Sunday, the culture ministry organized a "Race of Faith."

A 100-meter (328-foot) track was laid down along the main boulevard leading to St. Peter's Square.

The idea was to emphasize the religious and educational value of sports.

