On Tuesday, the Vatican served tea and cucumber sandwiches.

The purpose of the gathering was not to discuss religion, however.

Instead, it was to announce the launching of the Vatican's first-ever cricket team.

No, [Pope Francis](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope) won't be playing the game himself.

He still prefers soccer and remains a fan of his beloved San Lorenzo club.

But he and the Vatican, which is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church, have long championed sports.

They see them as good for mind, body and soul.

The new team will be known as the St. Peter's Cricket Club.

An Australian, John McCarthy, first came up with the idea.

He said he hopes the St. Peter's Cricket Club will play the Church of England sometime next fall.

McCarthy said the aim of the team is to encourage communication between the world's different religions.

Cricket is immensely popular in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.

Perhaps one day, McCarthy hopes, the new team will play Muslims or Hindus from those countries.

And, McCarthy added, there is another reason for the cricket team.

He wants to educate Italy, the Vatican and even Pope Francis about something: There is a sport other than soccer!

McCarthy then got busy passing around cucumber sandwiches.

Served with tea, these have long been the favorite snack at cricket matches.

The new team will be made up of cricket-playing religious students and priests.

It will be fielded as early as the spring.

Rome's Capannelle Cricket Club is letting the Vatican use its playing field.

London, England, prides itself as the home of cricket.

Reached there, Adam Chadwick of Lord's Cricket Ground welcomed the new Vatican team.

What's more, he seemed open to a Vatican versus Church of England match.

This, he said, could take place on one of Lord's playing fields.

Chadwick admitted that people think of cricket as a game played only by wealthy gentlemen.

This idea, he said, dates from the late 19th century.

But cricket began very differently: The game was originally played by ordinary people, not noblemen.

"The first mentions that we found in this country" describe "an ordinary man" playing on Sunday, when he would have been at church.

"Which is a bit ironic, actually," he said with a laugh.

Cricket is enormously popular in places like India.

And this, Chadwick said, is actually much more in line with the game's beginnings.

The game became popular in India when that country was part of the British Empire.

Indeed, the Vatican made it clear it wasn't thinking of English high society.

Instead, it had in mind cricket's worldwide popularity.

So the new cricket team fits in neatly with Pope Francis' aim for the church: He wants it to reach out to the poorest, all over the world.

The Vatican already has its "Clericus Cup" soccer tournament.

In this, the Vatican's Swiss Guards play various teams made up of religious students.

And just on Sunday, the Vatican organized a "Race of Faith."

A 100-meter (328-foot) track was laid down along the main avenue leading to St. Peter's Square.

The idea was to point out the religious and educational value of sports.

