In an act condemned by the West, Russia seized Crimea and its naval port on Tuesday.

This came two days after Crimean citizens voted to separate from Ukraine and join Russia.

If Russia does not give the Crimea back to Ukraine, it will change the map of Europe.

Meanwhile on Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed agreements with Crimea's pro-Russian leaders.

The agreements give Crimea over to Russia.

The signing ceremony was held in the grand St. George's Hall in the Kremlin, a historic fortress in Moscow.

Shortly before, Putin gave a heated hour-long speech.

It was greeted by applause from the joyful crowd.

Putin said the decision to take over Crimea was based on the Crimean people's "free expression of the will."

In a popular vote on Sunday, more than 96 percent of Crimeans supported rejoining Russia.

Russia controlled Crimea until 1954 when the leader of the Soviet Union transferred it to Ukraine, and many Russians still live in Crimea.

Ukraine gained independence in 1991 after the Soviet Union fell.

In February, Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych fled Ukraine.

He escaped following months of violent protests against his government that left many people dead.

Yanukovych was pro-Russian, while the new government that took over is pro-West.

Late last month, Russian soldiers, wearing unmarked uniforms, marched in and took control of Crimea.

In his speech, Putin blamed Ukraine's new leaders for the invasion.

He called them names — "nationalists, Russophobes and anti-Semites."

A Ukrainian nationalist is a patriot, while a Russophobe is a person who is anti-Russian, and an anti-Semite is someone who hates Jews.

Putin claimed that Russia went into Crimea at the request of its citizens.

Putin would not admit that Russian soldiers actually invaded Crimea weeks before the vote.

Putin referred to his soldiers as Crimean "self-defense forces."

"Esteemed residents of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol, all of Russia admires your (endurance), dignity and courage," he said in the televised speech.

Sevastopol is the port in Crimea where the Russia navy's Black Sea Fleet is based.

The port is vitally important to Russia.

The United States and the countries of the European Union have joined to condemn Russia for breaking international law.

They have stopped the bank accounts of some Russian officials to pressure Russia into leaving Crimea.

They are threatening further punishments.

Putin said that the West is threatening Russia.

And Russia will react.

But he promised that Russia will not fight against Western countries.

He said that Russia will do its best to build good relations with its neighbors and other countries.

Putin also insisted that Russia would not invade more of Ukraine.

Like Crimea, Ukraine's southeast has a large Russian-speaking population.

He told the Ukrainian people that Russia has "always" respected the unity of Ukraine.

"Don't trust those who scare you with Russia," he said.

That said, Putin suggested that southeastern Ukraine was historically part of Russian.

The Soviet Union broke up in 1991.

This left some Russians in newly independent lands, including Ukraine.

Putin once called the breakup of the Soviet Union the biggest disaster of the 20th century.

In his speech Tuesday, Putin called Ukraine's new government unlawful.

He said they were not worth talking to.

Putin blamed the U.S. and Western Europe for the takeover.

He said they encouraged the protests in Ukraine that forced out the president.

He said the U.S. and Western European countries had "crossed the line in the case of Ukraine."

Putin said, "They acted roughly, irresponsibly and unprofessionally.

They knew quite well millions of Russians live in Ukraine and Crimea."

Putin said the U.S. and Western Europe should have known that Russia would grab Crimea if they supported the new government in Ukraine.

Before the Ukrainian president fled, the Ukrainian government was very pro-Russian.

"Today it is necessary to stop the (panic) ... and recognize the obvious thing that Russia is an independent and active participant in the international life.

And like other countries it has its national interests which should be taken into account and respected," Putin said.

Putin promised that all of Crimea's ethnic groups would be respected.

Three main groups share Crimea — Russians, Ukrainians and Tatars, who originally ruled the area.

He also said the region would have three state languages, Russian, Ukrainian and Tatar.

"Crimea is ... under the strong and stable (rule) which today in fact can be only Russian," he said.

