In Cuba there are road signs pointing to a turnoff for Camilo Cienfuegos City.

But it doesn't exist.

At least not by that name.

"AIR-shee" is what everyone still calls it.

Hershey.

Most of the town founded by U.S. chocolate company owner Milton Hershey in 1916 is in ruins.

The giant sugar mill was once among the world's most advanced.

Now, rusted machinery spills from the wreckage like it was blasted by a bomb.

The old hotel run by the company and several of the bigger homes, where the American bosses lived, have caved in.

Gone, too, is the Hershey Social Club, the golf course and other signs that there was once American chocolate business in Cuba.

All companies from the United States had to leave Cuba in 1959 when a man named Fidel Castro led the Communist Revolution there.

Castro started a communist government.

In the communist system, there are no businesses owned by individuals.

Instead, all businesses are owned by the government.

Today, U.S. businesses are hoping for a chance to work in Cuba again.

Small towns like Cuba's Hershey are hopeful, even if no one really expects the Americans to get the mill running again.

The history of the town is complicated.

Milton Hershey arrived in Cuba in the early 1900s.

Cuba was still recovering from two bloody independence wars against Spain.

Those wars ended with a military intervention by the United States in 1898, and afterward the United States had a lot of power in Cuba.

Land was cheap, and Cuba needed help.

Many Americans thought business was the solution to Cuba's problems.

Milton Hershey chose to build an all-American town in the sugar cane fields on Cuba's northern coast.

He did not come to Cuba to make money in the cheapest way possible.

Along with the mill, Hershey built schools, health centers and housing for his workers.

There were so many Hershey chocolate bars and Hershey's Kisses that they would go bad and the shopkeepers would just throw them away, remembered Amparo DeJongh.

At 92 years old, she was the first person born in the town and one of the few who stayed to see it fall apart.

The Americans also brought a system of segregation by race to Hershey that Castro's revolution tried to erase.

Black people were not allowed to cross into one side of town and they were not allowed to live in certain houses.

The U.S. managers of the mill looked down on the Cuban workers, she said.

Hershey died in 1945 and gave most of his fortune to charity.

He had already instructed his company to sell off his Cuba properties.

That was a wise business decision.

The Hershey mill and tens of thousands of acres of sugar cane fields came into the hands of Cuban sugar tycoon Julio Lobo, one of the island's richest men.

Lobo wanted to cut costs, said Agustin Perez, whose father and grandfather worked for Hershey.

So, he reduced the number of jobs at the mill and closed the main cafeteria in town.

Before that, the cafeteria was a place that offered food at prices all Cubans could pay.

When the new Castro government took over, it made the Hershey mill the property of the Cuban government.

The town cafeteria was reopened and a sign was hung outside that read "Thanks to the Revolution."

The town and its mill were renamed for Camilo Cienfuegos, a hero of the Cuban revolution.

But the new name never stuck.

The mill closed for good in 2003.

The government retrained some of the workers for other jobs, but many people left Hershey to live in other places.

The town's heart, its entire purpose for existing, was gone.

Elis de Cary Rojas moved back to the town with her young daughter a few years ago, preferring its peace and quiet and space to a cramped city apartment.

The feeling of ruin around her is sad, Rojas said.

"There's nothing here, no playgrounds, no parks, no ice-cream shop," she said.

"But it doesn't have to be this way.

It's still a beautiful place."

She's heard a new rumor recently that the Hershey company wanted to return.

Or maybe it was Julio Lobo's family.

It did not matter.

Rojas is 23.

She said she just wants someone — anyone — to bring the town back to life.

