The United States and Cuba will begin talks to establish diplomatic relations and open embassies in each other's countries, an Obama administration official confirmed Wednesday.

It could be the first step to break a 50-year stalemate between the nations.

The news comes after the release of American contractor Alan Gross, who was convicted of illegally bringing communications equipment to Cuba.

He was imprisoned on the island nation, less than 100 miles off the coast of Florida, for five years.

The United States ended diplomatic relations with Cuba in 1961 — two years after communist leader Fidel Castro seized power.

The U.S. government was concerned about the possibility of communism spreading from Cuba to America.

Cuba has sent Gross, 65, home to the United States, according to U.S. officials.

Gross, who had been held by the island nation for five years and is in poor health, was freed as part of a deal that has been under negotiation for a year, the officials said.

The deal calls for the United States to release three Cubans convicted of spying on anti-Castro groups in Florida, they said.

Florida is home to many Cuban refugees who are ardently anti-Castro.

Gross was convicted in 2011 of illegally bringing satellite phones and computer equipment to the Jewish community in Cuba while doing work for the U.S. Agency for International Development.

He had been sentenced to 15 years in jail.

His family in Maryland has described him as weak and barely able to walk.

However, he had refused medical care, food and visits from officials of U.S. diplomatic mission in Cuba to protest that he was detained.

U.S. officials said the Obama administration now plans to open talks on a full range of issues that divide the governments.

One of these issues is the economic embargo that has been in place since President John F. Kennedy's administration.

The embargo means that by law, travel to Cuba is very limited and American companies are forbidden to do business with Cuba and export most products there.

"Opening the door with Cuba for trade, travel, and the exchange of ideas will create a force for positive change in Cuba," said Democratic Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois.

Durbin pointed out that the 50-year policy of ignoring Cuba achieved nothing.

Only Congress can lift the embargo.

But the Obama administration may alter the diplomatic and economic relationships with other countries through use of its executive powers.

However, anti-Castro activists, including Florida's congressional delegation, are likely to resist such steps.

There had been growing expectations that President Barack Obama would make a major move on restoring relations with Cuba after U.S. mid-term elections in November and before next spring's pan-American summit.

The meeting is between the heads of countries in the Western Hemisphere to discuss issues they have in common.

Cuba has been invited to the summit, at the insistence of the rest of Latin America.

Obama will inevitably be forced there to deal with Raul Castro, Fidel Castro's brother, who became president after Fidel became too ill to govern.

Experts say the political costs to Obama of normalizing relations with Cuba have decreased over the years.

The Cuban-American immigrant community has become younger and less outspoken.

Also, evidence is adding up that the embargo has not achieving its intended goals of loosening the Communist grip on the country.

"No senior administration official believes the embargo will foster democratic change," Gregory B. Craig, a former White House counsel, said at a conference on Cuba at Columbia University in New York.

"U.S. politicians can support change in Cuba policy without great political risk."

The three Cuban intelligence agents released from U.S. prisons were part of the original Cuban Five.

The five Cuban intelligence officers were arrested by the FBI in Miami in 1998.

They were convicted three years later by a federal jury on charges of acting as illegal foreign agents and conspiring to obtain military secrets from U.S. Southern Command headquarters in Miami.

Two of the five were released after serving out their sentences and returned home.

The Cuban Five have long been a big issue in Cuba, where they are hailed as heroes and "freedom fighters" unfairly imprisoned by the United States.

Havana has not yet released a public statement, but Raul Castro is to speak on U.S.-Cuban relations, a Cuban official said.

