Cuban blogger Yoani Sanchez says her new digital newspaper is just weeks away from its debut.

A dozen staffers of the online paper are getting last-minute training and looking for original ways to distribute the articles with text messages, emails and digital memory devices.

She calls her digital paper a "new media."

The publication will include the usual news as well as investigative reports, sports, interviews and profiles, Sanchez told the Hispanicize conference Tuesday in Miami.

She declined to reveal the name of the publication, but said she hopes it will launch in late April or early May.

Releasing the publication's name is a risk in a country where the communist government run by Raul Castro controls all newspapers, radio and television outlets.

"I am not a career journalist, but I have become a journalist on the run.

That is my passion.

I believe in the force for change that is information.

I dream of working in a newsroom," she told a luncheon where she was awarded the "Latinovator" prize.

Distribution will rely on cellphones and emails, she said.

Cubans have more mobile phones than computers — a meager 74 per 1,000 according to the latest official figures.

Sanchez plans to load the publication onto easily available memory devices such USB flash drives, DVDs and CDs.

She hopes the publication will be inserted into so-called Combos, which are DVDs and other large memory formats recorded with massive amounts of information such as movies and telenovelas, which is Spanish for TV shows.

Cubans regularly pass them around hand-to-hand.

The staff is also working on several backup ways of distributing the reports and getting around government censors, Sanchez added.

Other publications often send their reports to supporters abroad who then send them back to the island electronically.

Government officials will likely try to crack down on her digital newspaper, Sanchez said.

The Cuban government may perhaps block its distribution, slander its staffers or feed them false information.

Arresting the writers would be "clumsy," added the author of the blog Generacion Y.

Yet, several independent journalists have been charged under Law 88, known as the Gag Law.

They've been accused of "publishing false news against world peace."

Sanchez drew laughs when she noted that because the Cuban government refuses to issue work permits for independent journalists, she obtained a license for the closest type of work, typist.

Journalists who work for the state controlled media can gain permits.

Conference organizer Manny Ruiz introduced her as "a model for using her voice as a journalist and human being through the social media."

The conference was launched in 2009 as a way to connect major companies with Latino consumers.

Cuba's parliament approved a law over the weekend, which promises to make the country more open to business with other countries.

However, the blogger said she remains doubtful of the Cuban government.

It has seized the properties of even politically friendly investors in the past.

"This is a government that has shown it acts because of convenience and does not respect private capital," she said.

Sanchez added, however, that people abroad should support the growing area of private micro businesses known as "self employment."

"Economic autonomy is political autonomy," she declared.

Asked about Venezuela, Sanchez said President Nicolas Maduro appears to be following some of the Cuban government's traditional ways of dealing with its critics.

They're refusing to recognize them, throwing them in prison and blaming others abroad.

She added that some Cubans 50 years and older fear the collapse of the Maduro government.

Older Cubans worry that if Venezuelan aid were cut off, it might unleash a crisis.

Cuba once received large amounts of aid from the Soviet Union, a group of republics under the control of Russia.

When it collapsed in the early 1990s, crisis in Cuba followed.

Cuba's economy shrank by 35 percent when the Soviet aid stopped.

Other Cubans believe that a change in Venezuela could force the Castro government to open the country's doors further.

It might open the country to private economic activity and perhaps even political freedoms, she said.

Sanchez added that Cuban government controls are extremely tight, and the social fabric of the country is damaged after more than 50 years of Castro rule.

Unlike in Venezuela, she says that Castro's rule makes the possibility of similar anti-government protests breaking out there slim.

