The U.S. State Department is slowly opening economic doors in Cuba.

Recently, U.S. officials announced that independent entrepreneurs in Cuba would be allowed to export select goods to the United States.

The State Department published a list that explicitly outlined which items would not be allowed to be traded.

That left many people scratching their heads, wondering what Cubans could actually sell to U.S. consumers.

One Miami attorney saw an opportunity in the complicated regulations, which are called the U.S. Harmonized Tariff Schedule.

Lenny Feldman came up with what he calls his "yes" list.

Feldman's list includes the specific products that self-employed workers from Cuba are now permitted to sell to the United States.

While the U.S. trade embargo against Cuba remains in place, Feldman's list captures which items are exceptions that can now be sold under the U.S. Harmonized Tariff Schedule.

The U.S. first placed a trade embargo against Cuba in 1960, after a revolution brought Fidel Castro's Communist government to power.

The embargo made it illegal for Americans to trade most goods with Cuba.

The embargo has remained in place for decades This year, President Barack Obama announced that the U.S. would normalize relations with Cuba.

The two countries have begun to make peace after years as enemies.

Making exceptions to the embargo is part of that process.

The new list of goods that can be traded turns out to be pretty long.

There are more products that can be sent to the United States than many people originally thought.

That's good news for the 483,396 Cubans registered as cuentapropistas, the Cuban word for entrepreneur.

The State Department says the new rules will encourage private entrepreneurs in Cuba to develop products to export.

While the U.S. Harmonized Tariff Schedule prohibits all live animals and animal products from being exported from Cuba, raw hides, skins, leather, furs, saddles and harnesses, handbags and travel goods are allowed.

Paper products, plastics and rubber articles, ceramics, glass, pieces of stone, plaster and cement; footwear, hats, umbrellas, toys and games, artificial flowers and feathers are allowed as well.

Also allowed are soap, cosmetics, candles, waxes, polishes, perfume, and photographic or cinematographic goods made by independent entrepreneurs.

Jewelry-makers got the green light too.

Cuentapropistas are also permitted to ship certain home goods, watches and musical instruments to the United States.

More sophisticated manufactured products are also permissible, although it is not clear whether any independent entrepreneurs or private companies are making these items in Cuba.

Still, there are certain items that the State Department has banned.

These include sugar, prepared food and beverages, aircraft, and arms and ammunition.

Ted Piccone, an economic researcher at the Brookings Institution, said many of the items on the "no" list are those produced by government-owned companies.

The point of the new policies, he said, is to give Cuba's private companies a chance for increased business.

Currently, the Cuban government controls almost the entire economy, which can make supporting private businesses a challenge.

That may be why some items are on the excluded list while others are not.

Feldman said it can get "tricky" when some closely related products are on the list and others are not.

Wool and cotton, for example, are not allowed to be exported, while many other types of textiles are OK. On the "yes" list of fabrics are knitted and woven apparel, lace, embroidery, carpets and other floor coverings, and textiles and articles made from felt, twine and rope.

The State Department said the import list is part of a larger approach to help independent Cuban entrepreneurs do more business, improve their livelihoods and effect positive change within their communities.

In addition to allowing private Cubans to sell products to the United States, the new policies also open the door for the U.S. to export certain goods to Cuba.

Goods intended to help Cuban entrepreneurs can now be shipped from the United States.

This includes computers, software and telecom equipment.

Even though the policies permit a more open economy, the new rules do not mean that trading with small private Cuban businesses and cooperatives will be easy.

Piccone said that the Cuban government is going to have to reform some of its own domestic regulations.

He said Cuban officials are not yet ready to regulate, control and tax the products that might be entering the country.

There are still uncertainties.

The U.S. State Department said it "cannot predict what the Cuban government will or will not allow," but it hopes Cuban officials adopt the idea and continue to provide opportunities to private-sector workers.

Another potential problem with the regulations is the challenge of shipping goods between the countries.

Right now, there is no direct mail service between the United States and Cuba, which means that products currently shipped back and forth are transported by ship.

Consequently, initial trade between the countries may have to be done less formally, through a means called suitcase commerce.

Suitcase commerce relies on travelers to carry permitted goods in their luggage and transport materials that way.

Another factor that might challenge the adoption of these policies is Cuba's currency system.

The country has a dual currency system, using both Cuban pesos and Cuban convertible pesos (CUC).

Pesos, which are used for most salaries and everyday purchases, are valued at 25 to one Cuban convertible peso (CUC).

The CUC, which is used by state companies and the public sector, is worth one American dollar.

Questions remain on the how new the policies will affect commerce in Cuba.

Piccone said it remains unknown how the country will handle payments and the increased potential for trade.

