In 1961, the United States cut off all contact with Cuba.

On Wednesday, a government official said the two nations will begin talks to repair their relationship.

The news comes after the release of American Alan Gross from a Cuban jail.

In 2011, Cuba found him guilty of bringing cellphones and computers into Cuba, which was against the law.

He was sentenced to 15 years in jail.

Cuba is an island nation less than 100 miles off the coast of Florida.

In 1961, the United States ended its relations with Cuba.

It was two years after communist leader Fidel Castro gained control.

Under communism, the government owns all property and there is little freedom.

The U.S. government was worried about communism spreading from Cuba to North America.

Cuba has freed Gross and sent him home to the United States.

The 65-year-old Gross is in poor health.

Secret talks over freeing him went on for more than a year.

His family in Maryland said he is weak and barely able to walk.

To protest his imprisonment, he had refused medical care, food and visits from U.S. officials.

In exchange for Gross, the United States will release three Cubans.

They were in jail for spying on anti-Castro groups in Florida.

Florida is home to many Cuban refugees who are against Castro.

The government will open talks on other issues that divide the two nations.

Under law, American companies are forbidden to do business with Cuba and sell most U.S. products there.

Travel to Cuba is also limited.

Congress passed this ban, also called an embargo, to pressure Cuba to end communism.

Opening the door with Cuba "will create a force for positive change," said Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois.

Ignoring Cuba achieved nothing, Durbin said.

Legally, only Congress can end the embargo.

However, Congress is not needed to improve the relationship with Cuba.

Obama can use his power as president to change relationships with any country.

However, anti-Castro activists are likely to oppose it.

Florida lawmakers will also likely object.

Experts had predicted that Obama would try to improve the United States' relationship with Cuba.

They thought he would do that sometime between the November elections and next spring's Summit of the Americas.

The meeting is between the heads of North and South American countries.

They will discuss issues they have in common.

Latin American countries have insisted that Cuba be invited to the meeting.

Before now, a president would have lost popularity for speaking with Cuba.

Experts say it is safer now.

Times have changed.

Many in the Cuban-American immigrant community do not feel as strongly about it.

Also, it seems that the embargo has not achieved its goal.

Communism is as strong as ever in Cuba.

No top government official believes the embargo will make Cuba more democratic, said Gregory B. Craig.

He is the former White House lawyer.

He spoke at a conference on Cuba in New York.

Originally, five Cuban intelligence agents were arrested by the FBI in 1998.

They were called the Cuban Five.

They were found guilty of spying and trying to discover military secrets.

Two of the five served time in jail.

They have already returned home.

In Cuba, the Cuban Five are called heroes and "freedom fighters" unfairly jailed by the United States.

Cuba has not yet released a public statement.

Cuban President Raul Castro will speak soon on U.S.-Cuban relations, a Cuban official said.

He is the brother of Fidel Castro, who is very sick.

