In a country that once considered breeding mini-cows, Cubans have become masters of invention.

They punch holes in the bottom of a water bottle.

And presto, it's a shower head.

If they can't find AA batteries for the TV remote control, they use a rubber band to attach a C battery and surf away.

They roast hot dogs and hamburgers on a metal chair.

Raw eggs are repurposed to plug leaks in car radiators.

To stop a car from leaking oil, they get out a bar of soap.

People may think that Cubans are really smart, said Ernesto Oroza.

Born in Cuba, Oroza has collected the inventions since the mid-1990s and now lives in Miami.

But, he said, Cubans have figured out how to make what they need out of whatever is at hand.

Cubans have been "resolviendo" — loosely translated as "making do" — since the early 1960s.

This was shortly after the U.S. government stopped U.S. companies from doing business with Cuban leader Fidel Castro's government.

This meant that Cuba couldn't import many goods, from building supplies to car parts.

And so they had to improvise.

The state-controlled media regularly celebrate Cuban cleverness.

They featured farmers who build their own windmills and parts for their tractors.

"The revolution injected Cubans with inventiveness to survive the shortages created by the Americans," Oroza said.

And now they use that inventiveness to survive the problems caused by the Cuban revolution.

The Cuban revolution of 1958 led to a lower standard of living for the Cuban people and little freedom.

Castro had some ideas that failed.

In 1987, he proposed breeding cows down to the size of dogs.

He thought families could keep them in city yards and use them for milk.

That was another thing Cubans didn't have enough of — milk for children.

But the shortages hit crisis levels in the early 1990s.

That was when the former Soviet Union stopped giving the Caribbean island money every year.

At the time, the Soviet Union was one of Cuba's few friends and gave Cuba up to about 6 billion dollars each year.

The Cuban economy shrank by 35 percent.

Items imported from other countries just about disappeared from store shelves.

Some of the inventions are dangerous.

When gasoline became scarce and expensive, Cubans figured out how to run their cars on natural gas.

They then placed the potentially explosive gas containers in the trunks.

Bare electrical wires connected to cans heat water for showers.

People used a couple of plastic jugs to replace worn out gasoline tanks in their cars.

The jugs, though, were set dangerously close to the hot motor.

Other inventions were simply ingenious.

An iron turned upside down became a frying pan.

Paper clips held up a shower curtain.

A 55-gallon metal container became a pizza oven.

To provide light when the electricity failed, a wick was pushed through a tube of toothpaste.

Part of a car became a system for hanging a TV on a wall.

They even figured out how to recharge batteries that are not supposed to be chargeable.

In the best-known inventions, metal food trays were stolen from cafeterias.

They were turned into TV antennas.

Also, small gasoline motors added to bicycles became basic motorcycles.

They were called "Rikimbilis."

Women used colored classroom chalk as face powder and shoeshine paste for their eye liner.

Ground charcoal darkened their hair.

Oroza recalled that in the early years of the revolution, there was even a group created to promote the inventions.

Even in 1991, he said, the Cuban military and the Federation of Cuban Women printed a book on "making do."

The book gave instructions on how to make items such as slingshots.

A year later, they published a second book with the ideas for devices, work-arounds and homemade medicines that had been sent in by readers.

They proudly titled the book "With Our Own Efforts."

——— Shower head: a plastic bottle with holes Eye liner: shoeshine paste TV antenna: metal cafeteria trays Cooking griddle: iron turned upside down Makeup: colored classroom chalk

