The United States and Cuba used to have a bad relationship.

As they improve it, colleges in both countries are forming partnerships.

Doing so was not allowed for more than 50 years.

Americans have not been allowed to travel to Cuba for a long time.

A few months ago the United States ended some travel restrictions.

Now several U.S. and Cuban colleges have made plans.

They have created exchange programs for students and teachers.

More American colleges are planning study trips to Cuba.

People from both places will begin to work together, said Mauro Guillen.

He works at the University of Pennsylvania.

Auburn University in Alabama agreed to team up with a university in Havana, Cuba's capital.

They will have a new five-year exchange program.

The University of the District of Columbia and the University of California also made deals with Cuban schools.

Under older travel rules, some colleges had permission to send students to Cuba.

However, getting this permission was difficult.

People who applied often were rejected.

This year, President Obama eased those rules.

Tourism is still forbidden.

Yet the new rules make it easier to travel for educational purposes.

"I think it's going to be significantly easier to plan trips," Bruce Magid said.

He is the leader of the Brandeis International Business School in Massachusetts.

He has led several visits to Cuba.

People in many different areas are interested in Cuba.

However, business schools may be the most interested.

They want to study Cuba's economy and how they spend their money.

Business is growing there.

U.S. schools want to explore it as a possible place to do business if the United States lifts its trade restrictions.

The United States and Cuba are not allowed to trade with each other.

Guillen said that a lot of his students want to go to Cuba.

They see themselves doing business there in the future.

Guillen has led student trips to Cuba.

For many U.S. colleges, Cuba is also a place to look for new students.

Money restrictions in Cuba would mean most students need help paying for school.

Colleges said that they would have to give money to the Cuban students that were accepted.

Americans and Cubans are not allowed to buy and sell with each other.

This could prevent professors from selling books they write.

The government in Cuba does not always allow students or professors to speak their minds.

In the United States, this is not the case.

"U.S. academics are used to speaking their minds on any topic that they can think of, and usually nothing happens," Jorge Duany said.

He is an expert on Cuba at Florida International University.

"Cuba's a different society."

In Cuba, teachers can get in trouble for speaking their minds.

Cuba is a bit behind in some ways.

This may be a difficulty, Guillen said.

Few people have access to the Internet.

Guillen is still confident that new relationships among colleges will play a part in bringing the countries closer.

