Yoani Sanchez is known as the author of the popular blog Generacion Y, about life in Cuba.

Now, Sanchez says she is expanding to a full newspaper which is just weeks away from launching.

A dozen staffers of the online paper are getting last-minute training.

But because the Cuban government may not approve of the paper, staffers are looking for original ways to report the news using text messages, emails and digital memory devices.

She prefers to call her digital paper a "new media," Sanchez told the Hispanicize conference Tuesday in Miami.

The publication will report on daily news.

In addition, it will include investigative reports, sports, and interviews.

Sanchez declined to reveal the name of the publication, but said she hopes it will launch in late April or early May.

Releasing the publication's name could be risky in Cuba.

The communist government run by Raul Castro controls all newspapers, radio and television stations.

"I am not a career journalist, but I have become a journalist on the run.

That is my passion.

I believe in the force for change that is information.

I dream of working in a newsroom," she told a luncheon where she was awarded the "Latinovator" prize.

The publication will be distributed mainly through cellphones and emails, she said.

Cubans have more mobile phones than computers — just 74 per every 1,000 people according to official figures.

Sanchez also plans to load the publication onto easily available memory devices such as USB flash drives, DVDs and CDs.

She hopes the publication will be inserted into so-called Combos.

These are DVDs and other large memory formats recorded with massive amounts of information such as movies and television dramas.

Cubans regularly pass them around hand-to-hand.

The staff is also working on several backup ways of distributing the reports and getting around the government, Sanchez added.

Other publications often send their reports to supporters abroad.

Then the supporters send them back to the island electronically.

Government officials will likely try to crack down on her digital newspaper, Sanchez said.

The Cuban government may perhaps block its delivery.

She also thinks the government may spread lies about the newspaper's staffers or feed them false information.

Arresting the writers would be "clumsy," added Sanchez.

Yet, several independent journalists have been charged under Law 88, known as the Gag Law.

They've been accused of "publishing false news against world peace."

Sanchez noted that the Cuban government refuses to issue work permits for independent journalists.

Journalists who work for the state controlled media can gain permits, however.

She drew laughs when she said obtained a license for the closest type of work, typist.

Conference organizer Manny Ruiz introduced her as "a model for using her voice as a journalist and human being through the social media."

The conference is a way to connect major companies with Latinos.

It was launched in 2009.

Cuba's parliament approved a new law over the weekend, which promises to make the country more open to business with other countries.

However, Sanchez said she remains doubtful of the Cuban government.

It has seized the properties of even politically friendly businessmen in the past.

"This is a government that has shown it acts because of convenience and does not respect" businesses, she said.

Sanchez added, however, that people abroad should support the growing area of tiny private businesses.

Known as "self employment," these businesses can be as small as a single fruit seller.

Having the freedom to run your own business is equal to political freedom, she declared.

Venezuela is closely tied to Cuba.

The Venezuelan government gives Cuba up to $10 billion a year in aid.

Sanchez said Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro appears to be following some of the Cuban government's ways of dealing with its critics.

Venezuela refuses to recognize them, throws them in prison and blames others abroad.

She added that some Cubans 50 years and older fear the collapse of the Maduro government in Venezuela.

Older Cubans worry that if Venezuelan aid were cut off, it might trigger a crisis.

Cuba once received large amounts of aid from the Soviet Union, a group of countries under the control of Russia.

When it collapsed in the early 1990s, crisis in Cuba followed.

The money Cuba earned shrank by 35 percent when the Soviet aid stopped.

Other Cubans believe that a change in Venezuela could force the Castro government to open the country's doors further.

It might open the country to businesses.

Perhaps even political freedoms would be allowed, she said.

Sanchez says that Cuban government controls are extremely tight.

Cuban society has been greatly damaged after more than 50 years of Castro rule, she added.

Unlike in Venezuela, where protest have broken out recently, she says that Castro's rule makes similar anti-government protests there unlikely.

