!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/cuba_image.png) WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama will remove Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terrorism.

The decision clears the way for establishing diplomatic relations between the two countries and acknowledges that Cuba's role in promoting revolution has long since slipped into history.

The long-awaited action was announced by the White House in a message to Congress this week.

It follows a pledge made by Obama and Cuban President Raúl Castro last December to move toward normal relations.

Congress has 45 days to consider Cuba's removal from the list before it takes effect.

It cannot interfere with Obama's decision without creating legislation and taking a vote, a measure that the Obama administration considers to be unlikely.

In a news conference, Obama cited public opinion polls showing that a majority of Americans approve of his opening to Cuba.

Diplomatic relations with Cuba were cut off more than a half-century ago following the Cuban revolution that brought Fidel Castro to power.

Cuba was first designated a state sponsor of terrorism in 1982.

At the time, it was outspoken and active in supporting communist revolutionary movements, particularly in Latin America.

"Our hemisphere, and the world, look very different today than they did 33 years ago," Secretary of State John Kerry said in a statement.

Problems in Latin America including corruption, violence and drug trafficking remain.

However, every country in Latin America — except for Cuba — has a democratically elected government, and the violent revolutions that once shook the region have long since died out.

If Cuba is taken off the terror list, only three countries remain: Iran, Sudan and Syria.

Josefina Vidal is the director of U.S. relations at Cuba's Foreign Ministry.

"The government of Cuba recognizes the just decision made by the president of the United States to remove Cuba from a list on which it never deserved to belong," she said.

"Cuba rejects and condemns all acts of terrorism, in all its forms and manifestations, as well as any act whose objective is to encourage, support, finance or give shelter to terrorists," she said.

In his notification to Congress, Obama certified that "the government of Cuba has not provided any support for international terrorism during the preceding six-month period."

Cuba "has provided assurances that it will not support acts of international terrorism in the future," he said.

The State Department, which is in charge of foreign relations, recommended the move.

Although the United States has "significant concerns and disagreements with a wide range of Cuba's policies and actions," they do not meet the criteria for designation as a State Sponsor of Terrorism," Kerry said.

Kerry "looks forward to going to Cuba to open embassies," said a senior official who gave a briefing to reporters. "

I think he's hoping to do that as soon as we can get things ironed out."

U.S. officials said that full normalization of relations with Cuba could take years.

Only Congress can remove economic sanctions against Cuba, including a trade ban, but the president has the power to re-establish diplomatic relations.

The two countries would open embassies in the same buildings that once served as their diplomatic headquarters in Havana and Washington, D.C.

Since Obama and Castro announced they would move toward normalization, high-level Cuban and U.S. officials have held three rounds of talks on establishing formal relations.

Cuba had demanded that the United States lift the terrorism designation.

For its part, the United States said that its diplomats must be able to freely move around the island and that Cuban citizens could not be kept from entering the U.S. Embassy.

The administration is "pretty optimistic that things will move ahead on the diplomatic front," the official said.

Progress is "as much up to the Cubans as anybody."

A country on the state-sponsor-of-terrorism list cannot buy arms from the United States or receive economic assistance.

Cuba is also under a wide variety of other financial restrictions, all of which will remain in effect under other laws.

Democratic Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois participated in efforts to reach an accord with Cuba.

He said that he is not a fan of the Castro government. "

I continue to believe that opening up the island to American ideas, vibrancy and trade is the most effective way to see a more open and tolerant Cuba," he said.

Opponents in Congress were led by Cuban-American Senators Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey, and Marco Rubio, a Republican from Florida.

Rubio recently announced his candidacy for president.

Several Americans have fled to Cuba to escape criminal charges.The two senators have argued that Cuba's refusal to send Americans back to the United States is equal to support for international terrorism.

But the administration has said that is not part of the law.

Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona has said Cuba should not be removed from the State Department terrorism list while it is still providing refuge to the American fugitives.

One of them is Joanne Chesimard, now known as Assata Shakur.

She killed a New Jersey State Police officer in 1973 and escaped from prison after being convicted of the murder.

"I think it would be nice if the Cubans sent back the terrorists that they're harboring who have killed American law enforcement officers," McCain said.

"It might be a nice gesture, but it's not going to happen."

