In a country that once thought breeding mini-cows was a good idea, Cubans have become masters of improvisations and inventions.

They punch holes in the bottom of a water bottle and presto, it's a shower head.

If they can't find AA batteries for the TV remote control, they use a rubber band to attach a C battery, solder in some wires and surf away.

They roast hot dogs and hamburgers on a metal chair and repurpose raw eggs to plug leaks in car radiators.

To stop a car's oil pan from dripping, they get out a bar of soap.

"The tendency is to think that Cubans are real smart.

But the reality is that there have been so many shortages, a super-precarious economic situation," said Cuban-born Miami designer Ernesto Oroza, who has collected the inventions since the mid-1990s.

Cubans have been "resolviendo" — loosely translated as "making do" — since shortages of all types began hitting the island in the early 1960s.

This was shortly after the U.S. government slapped the first trade sanctions on Cuban leader Fidel Castro's government.

The trade sanctions barred U.S. companies from doing business with Cuba, which meant that Cuba couldn't import many items, from building supplies to car parts.

The state-controlled media regularly praise the virtues of Cuban ingenuity.

They have done pieces on sugar mill workers who built replacements for U.S.-made parts and farmers who build their own windmills and parts for their tractors.

"The revolution injected Cubans with inventiveness to survive the shortages created by the Americans," Oroza said.

"And now the Cubans use it to survive the deficiencies of the revolution."

The Cuban revolution of 1958 resulted in a much lower standard of living for the Cuban people, as well as shortages and little freedom.

In one of his notoriously failed attempts at improvisation, Castro proposed in 1987 breeding cows down to the size of dogs.

His idea was that families could keep them in city yards and solve the milk shortage.

But the shortages hit crisis levels in the early 1990s, after the former Soviet Union halted its annual allowance to the island of up to $6 billion.

At the time, the Soviet Union was one of Cuba's few allies.

The Cuban economy shrank by 35 percent and imported items just about disappeared from store shelves.

Some of the inventions are clearly more than risky.

With gasoline becoming scarce and expensive, some Cubans worked out ways of converting their car and truck motors to natural gas.

They put the potentially explosive containers in their trunks.

Bare electrical wires connected to cans or short pieces of pipe were used as water heaters for showers.

And a rusted-out gasoline tank was replaced by a couple of plastic jugs set dangerously close to the hot vehicle motor.

Other inventions were simply ingenious.

An iron turned upside down became a frying pan, paper clips held up a shower curtain, and a 55-gallon drum became a pizza oven.

To give light when the electricity failed, a wick was pushed through a tube of toothpaste and set in a jar of kerosene.

Part of a car's suspension became a bracket for mounting a TV on a wall, and Cubans even figured out how to recharge batteries that are not supposed to be chargeable.

In the best-known inventions, metal food trays stolen from state-run cafeterias were turned into TV antennas.

And small gasoline motors added to bicycles became bare-bones motorcycles known as "Rikimbilis."

Women trying to dress up used colored classroom chalk for makeup, shoeshine paste for their eyeliner and ground charcoal to darken their hair.

Oroza recalled that in the early years of the Castro revolution, there was even a group designed to promote the improvisations and inventions.

It was called the National Association of Innovators and Rationalizers.

Even in 1991, he added, the Cuban military and the Federation of Cuban Women printed a book on "making do."

The articles gave instructions on how to make items such as slingshots.

A year later, they published a second book with the ideas for gadgets, work-arounds and herbal medicines that had been sent in by readers.

They proudly titled the book "With Our Own Efforts."

——— Shower head: a plastic bottle with holes Eye liner: shoeshine paste TV antenna: metal cafeteria trays Cooking griddle: iron turned upside down Makeup: colored classroom chalk

