CVS Caremark announced Wednesday it will stop selling cigarettes at all of its stores by Oct. 1.

This will make CVS the first national drugstore chain to end tobacco sales.

The decision comes after heavy pressure from public health experts and doctors.

For years, they have urged stores to stop selling and advertising cigarettes, especially to children and teenagers.

It also marks a major turn for one of the country's biggest health care companies.

The decision is expected to cost CVS about $2 billion in annual sales.

This equals about 1.6 percent of the company's earnings for 2012.

CVS is the second largest drugstore chain in the U.S. with more than 7,600 stores.

Walgreen Co. is the only drugstore chain with more stores.

CVS has been increasing its number of urgent care clinics where people with common illnesses and minor injuries can be treated.

Larry Merlo is president and chief executive officer of CVS.

He said the trend in health care is to get people healthier, reduce disease and cut costs.

He said CVS is trying to play a greater role in providing health care.

"Put simply, the sale of tobacco products is inconsistent with our purpose," he said.

CVS, which is based in Woonsocket, R.I., also pledged to start a national stop-smoking campaign this spring.

Nationwide, drugstores sold less than 5 percent of the total number of cigarettes bought in 2009.

This comes from a study by the Center for Global Tobacco Control.

But sales at drugstores have been increasing even as overall cigarette sales have declined.

Public health experts praised the CVS decision.

They believe it could start new efforts to stop tobacco use.

"This is a bold step," said Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey.

She is the president and chief executive officer of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

"CVS is clearly establishing a leadership position in making the country healthier and in building a culture of health."

About 50 years ago, the U.S.

Surgeon General issued its groundbreaking warning about the dangers of smoking, which can cause cancer and heart disease.

Since then, smoking rates for adults dropped from 42 percent in 1965 to just 19 percent in 2011, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Experts are concerned that more people haven't given up smoking since then.

In 1996, Target was the last major store to stop selling tobacco products.

Tobacco products include cigarettes, cigars and chewing tobacco.

There has been heavy pressure on drugstores to stop selling tobacco.

San Francisco and Boston both forbid drugstores from selling tobacco.

Experts hope that reducing the number of stores that sell tobacco will lead people to stop smoking.

"We need another boost," said Dr. Richard Wender.

He is chief cancer control officer at the American Cancer Society.

Wender knows that smokers can always find a place to buy cigarettes.

But making it more difficult to find cigarettes helps smokers resist the urge to buy, he said.

"It is a hard habit to break," said Robin Koval, president and chief executive officer of Legacy, which is against tobacco use.

"But if you are standing there in a store ... and the ad and the display is there in front of you, you may not be able to resist the urge."

CVS executives said they hope to make tobacco use socially unacceptable.

Dr. Troyen Brennan is CVS's chief medical officer.

Selling cigarettes in drugstores sends the message that they can't be so unhealthy if they can be found where medicines are sold.

Brennan wrote this in a new article in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

The article is co-authored by Dr. Steven Schroeder.

He is the director of the Smoking Cessation Leadership Center at University of California--San Francisco.

In June, Starbucks began stopping people from smoking within 25 feet of its shops.

The Seattle-based coffee giant said it feels responsible "to provide customers with a safe and healthy environment."

Starbucks already bans smoking inside its stores.

It's not known if other drugstores will follow CVS's lead.

Target stopped selling cigarettes almost 20 years ago.

At the time, the company said it didn't make much money from cigarettes.

This was in part because the high costs of theft and age restrictions on sales.

It is illegal for people under 18 to buy tobacco in the U.S.

Some states have higher age limits.

CVS said that it won't lose money when it stops tobacco sales.

The company said it has identified ways to make up the money.

But it did not say what they are.

CVS made $123 billion in 2012.

