When Sarah Ball was 15 and a sophomore at Hernando High School in Brooksville, Fla., she was [bullied](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=bullying) online.

A friend posted something on Facebook.

It said: "I hate Sarah Ball, and I don't care who knows."

A Facebook group called "Hernando Haters" asked people to rate her looks.

Somebody called her a "waste of space" in an email.

She also received a very mean text on her 16th birthday.

Sarah didn't tell her mom about any of it until her mother saw the messages, but then she told her everything.

More young people are going to their parents or siblings after being harassed online, and it's helping.

A poll released Thursday found incidents of "digital abuse" are still happening a lot.

But they are going down a bit.

Teenagers and young adults are more aware about the harm done from cyberbullying, the poll showed.

There was also a slight increase among those willing to tell a parent or sibling.

"It was actually quite embarrassing, to be honest," remembers Ball.

Now she is an 18-year-old college freshman.

But "really, truly, if it wasn't for my parents, I don't think I'd be where I'm at today."

The survey's findings come a week after two Florida girls, ages 12 and 14, were arrested.

They allegedly bullied a 12-year-old girl online.

The girl later killed herself.

The poll found that almost half of young people ages 14 through 24 in the U.S. said they have had at least one brush with some kind of meanness online.

That is down from about 56 percent in 2011.

How did those who faced an incident react?

More than one-third went to a parent, compared with 27 percent just two years ago.

And 18 percent asked a brother or sister for help.

Only 12 percent did two years ago.

"I feel like we're making progress," said Sameer Hinduja.

He is co-director of the Cyberbullying Research Center and professor at Florida Atlantic University.

"People should be encouraged."

When asked what helped, 72 percent of those who faced online abuse said that they changed their email address, screen name or cell number.

Meanwhile, 66 percent who talked to a parent said it helped too.

Less than one-third of people who tried to get revenge found that helpful.

Just as many said it had no effect.

In fact, 20 percent said getting revenge actually made the problem worse.

Girls were more likely than boys to be the targets of online meanness.

They also were more likely to ask for help.

The poll also indicated that young people are becoming more aware what cyberbullying can do.

Some 72 percent said online abuse was a problem that society should address.

That is up from 65 percent in 2011.

People who think it should be accepted as a part of life declined from 33 percent to 24 percent.

Hinduja credits school programs that are making it "cool to care" about others.

Adults are more aware of the problem, too, he said.

They can help teens with suggestions like closing an account or going to school administrators for help in removing hurtful postings.

That was the case for Ball.

Her parents encouraged her to fight back by speaking up.

"They said this is my ticket to helping other people," she said.

Ball sent copies of the abusive emails, texts and Facebook pages to school authorities, reporters and politicians.

She also organized an anti-bullying rally.

She still maintains a Facebook site called "Hernando Unbreakable."

She also works with local kids identified by the schools as victims of cyberbullying.

But many kids fear making it worse, Ball said.

That was one reason Jennifer Tinsley, 20, said she didn't tell her parents about a problem in the eighth grade.

Another student used Facebook to threaten to stab and beat her.

"I didn't want them to worry about me," Tinsley, now a college student in Fort Wayne, Ind., said of her family.

"I just didn't want the extra attention."

According to the Cyberbullying Research Center, every state but Montana has anti-bullying laws.

Many of the laws address cyberbullying specifically.

Most state laws are focused on allowing school districts to punish offenders.

In Florida, for example, a law was passed allowing schools to punish students harassing others off campus.

In Florida's recent cyberbullying case, the police took the unusual step of charging the two teen girls with a bigger crime, called aggravated stalking.

But the girls still were not expected to spend time in jail if they were convicted.

They do not have criminal records.

