Screaming shells, seasick soldiers and bloodied waters marked Normandy's bloody battle in 1944 during World War II.

On Friday, sunny Normandy celebrated peace, with silent salutes, tears and international friendship.

It has been 70 years since the D-Day invasion.

The invasion's mighty attack helped change the course of World War II and modern history.

In World War II, the United States, Britain, Russia and France were a part of a group of countries called the Allies.

The Allies fought against the Axis.

The Axis included Germany, Japan, Italy and several other countries.

During World War II, Normandy's beach had looked very different.

A vicious battle raged there.

The bodies of paratroops hung from the trees and medics dragged wounded soldiers from the bloody waves.

Operation Overlord included parachute landings and attacks from the sea on five Normandy beaches.

They were code-named Gold, Juno, Omaha, Sword and Utah.

The D-Day invasion was a turning point in World War II, cracking Hitler's western front.

At least 4,400 Allied soldiers were killed the first day.

Many thousands more died in the ensuing three-month Battle of Normandy.

When victory was won, the Allies then marched to Paris to free the French capital from the Nazis.

Not many of the 150,000 Allied soldiers who took part in D-Day are still alive today.

Some of the soldiers who are still alive came to honor the dead.

They stood, somber-faced and proud, alongside President Barack Obama, French President Francois Hollande and other world leaders.

Together they paid tribute.

The hands and faces of the veterans were wrinkled.

Some of the men rose to their feet with difficulty.

As they did, thousands of onlookers applauded.

"Thank you for having been here in the summer of '44.

Thank you for still being here on June 6, 2014," Hollande told veterans on Sword Beach, one of five beaches taken by the Allies 70 years ago.

France's gratitude, he said, "will never be extinguished."

Earlier, he paid special tribute to U.S. soldiers buried at the Normandy American Cemetery.

"Vive l'Amerique!

Vive la France!

And long live the memory of those who fell here for our liberty."

Taking the stand on Omaha Beach, Obama called the site "democracy's beachhead."

"Our commitment to liberty, to equality, to freedom," to the "dignity of every human being," he said, "is written in blood on these beaches."

It will continue forever.

In all, 19 world leaders, more than 1,000 veterans and many others gathered to honor the troops who fell in the battles.

Their sacrifice helped bring Europe peace and unity.

At 6:30 a.m., the moment on June 6, 1944, when Allied troops first waded ashore, a U.S. military band played taps.

D-Day veterans from the 29th Infantry Division stood at attention.

Hundreds of onlookers applauded, then formed a human chain on the beach.

A glorious sun rose as they arrived and shone throughout the day.

Britain's Prince Charles conducted a ceremony at the Cathedral of Bayeux, just south of the beaches.

It left British veteran Richard England deeply shaken.

"It brought it all back, I'm afraid — all the boys I lost, my brother-in-law who was killed almost at the end, and the lovely chaps that fought with me who were older than me and are no longer with us," said England.

"They weren't here, unfortunately."

Several thousand veterans, family members and others gathered at the Normandy American Cemetery and Memorial.

With its 9,387 white marble tombstones on a bluff overlooking Omaha Beach, the cemetery is a special place.

It is where Americans come to honor U.S. soldiers killed in Normandy.

For the ceremony, small U.S. and French flags were placed in the ground at each grave.

Jeffrey McIllwain, a professor at San Diego State University, brought 12 students to Normandy with him.

McIllwain hopes to keep the memory of D-Day alive.

"I make them promise to bring their grandchildren," he said, "to serve as a bridge to the next generation."

