Americans are drinking much less milk than they once did.

The people who prepare and sell milk have decided it is time to fight back.

They are hoping to make milk a popular drink choice once again.

They are trying to put milk into new types of containers.

Unlike regular containers, the new cartons of milk will not need to be refrigerated until they are opened.

In 2013, U.S. milk sales were lower than they had been in many years.

The last time people were buying so little milk was in 1982.

Experts say three things are behind the steady drop in milk sales.

One thing is that people are changing their drinking habits.

There are also a lot more drink choices now and there are not many new drinks with milk in them.

Americans still buy about as many gallons of drinks a year as they used to, but they are not buying milk.

Tom Gallagher runs a group called Dairy Management.

His group works hard to get people to buy more milk.

Sales of milk are so low that there may be no going back, he said.

If the new effort to get people to buy more milk fails, milk could become less and less popular, Gallagher said.

In the future, the average person might not even consider buying milk to drink.

Dairy Management and seven other partners are working together to make sure this does not happen.

One of the partners is called Dairy Farmers of America.

The group represents thousands of farmers nationwide.

Monica Massey is a vice president at Dairy Farmers of America.

She said new kinds of milk drinks need to be developed.

Flavored milk and milk-based sports drinks are two examples, she said.

Massey said milk companies have to understand what people look for in a drink.

For example, they may want something sweet in a small container that is easy to carry.

"We can't just put a gallon of milk on a shelf and hope someone buys it," she said.

Milk companies are hoping to get children to notice milk more.

They have even tried putting milk in small containers shaped like the head of a cow.

They are also offering another new kind of packaging.

It allows milk to be kept unrefrigerated, just like juice containers.

Businesses save money if milk can be stored without having to be kept cold.

There have already been several efforts to get people to drink more milk.

For example, over the years, there were lots of milk ads using famous people with the words "Got Milk?"

However, nothing has stopped milk from becoming a less popular drink.

Even small uses for milk matter.

Today, people are eating less cold cereal, which means that people do not need as much milk to pour over their breakfast.

Other companies are trying to help.

Quaker Oats now asks people to add milk instead of water to their oats when making oatmeal.

While this seems small, it could lead to a lot more milk being sold.

