This week, farmers viewed a shocking video.

It showed farm workers slapping and poking sick and injured dairy cows.

The workers used heavy machinery to force the cows to their feet.

The video was taken secretly of Wiese Brothers Farm in Wisconsin.

Farmers who saw the video say the treatment may not be that unusual.

They did not defend the way the workers treated the cows.

But they did say that some of the actions in the video may have been necessary.

Quick action must be taken to get the cow on its feet.

"Otherwise, the muscles in the back of her legs turn to mush and she will never get up again," Paul Rozadowski said.

He is a dairy farmer.

You can sneak up behind the sick cow and scream, said Rozadowski.

That may scare the animal into getting up.

But it doesn't always work.

Mercy for Animals is an animal rights group.

It hired an investigator to take the video in the fall.

The video shows workers at Wiese Brothers Farm dragging downed cows.

The workers pulled the cows by their legs and necks using chains attached to tractors.

They whipped the cows, too.

The video also showed cows suffering from open wounds.

Animal care experts call the treatment shockingly cruel.

Wiese Brothers Farm did not speak to the media.

The farm's owners released a statement instead.

It said  two employees were fired for suspected animal abuse.

The farm is cooperating with an investigation into animal cruelty claims.

Brown County District Attorney David L. Lasee would not comment.

A district attorney makes legal cases against criminals and takes them to court.

A spokeswoman for Lasee said the sheriff's department is still investigating the case.

The sheriff's department had not contacted him yet.

Tim Carpenter is a Wisconsin state senator.

He released a statement calling on Lasee to investigate and punish the workers who were shown harming the cattle.

Animal abuse like what is seen in the video is horrible, Carpenter wrote in a letter to Lasee.

"A clear message needs to be sent that it will not be tolerated in Wisconsin."

Leaders from the Wisconsin dairy industry have spoken out against the practices shown in the video.

They say the treatment is shocking and cruel.

They also say the treatment is not usual.

Farmers say some scenes in the video could be mistaken for animal cruelty.

They suggest Mercy for Animals could be trying to further its own cause.

The animal-rights group supports a vegan diet.

Vegans do not eat any animal products.

They do not eat meat or dairy or eggs.

John Rosenow is a Buffalo County dairy farmer with 500 cows.

He says it's not unusual for a large farm to have a disabled animal once or twice a month.

Workers on his farm use heavy equipment to move a downed cow.

The animal is placed on a soft bed of sawdust.

There it has a chance to recover.

Rosenow says kicking a downed cow won't get the animal on its feet.

Using a stick won't help either.

He pokes the cow with an old ink pen to get it moving.

A cow weighs 1,500 pounds.

What can a farmer do if such a heavy animal won't get up?

You have to convince the cow, says Rosenow.

The animal treatment shown in the short video clip was unnecessary, says Temple Grandin.

She is an animal welfare expert from Colorado State University.

Her work has led to better treatment of livestock.

A well-run dairy farm would never allow such things, Grandin said.

She agrees that it is difficult to get a downed cow back on its feet.

But you don't lift the animal into the air and carry it around, she says.

A machine should be used to bring the cow to a standing position.

Grandin says that what she saw on the video was "terrible," but she also pointed out that not all dairy farms are behaving badly.

"I have been on some very good dairy farms," she said.

Wiese Brothers Farm supplied milk to Foremost Farms and Nestle USA.

Foremost Farms makes cheese and other dairy products.

Nestle makes DiGiorno frozen pizzas.

Both businesses cut ties with the farm after the video was released.

Nestle released a statement.

The company is "outraged and deeply saddened by the mistreatment of animals shown in this video."

Mercy for Animals plans to meet with Nestle representatives.

The group wants to convince the company to adopt anti-cruelty guidelines for its milk suppliers.

"We haven't heard anything from them yet, but we are hopeful," said Matt Rice.

He is the chief of investigations for the animal-rights group.

