A much-watched undercover video showed sick and injured dairy cows being slapped, poked and forced to their feet with heavy machinery.

Such treatment may not be that unusual, according to farmers and others who this week viewed the video of the Wiese Brothers Farm in Brown County, Wis.

Farmers did not defend the practices seen in the video, such as suspending a disabled cow in the air with a mechanical lift.

They did claim, however, that parts of the video could be explained as necessary actions.

There are ways to get a downed cow back on its feet, said Paul Rozadowski, a dairy farmer from Stanley, Wis. You can sneak up behind the sick cow, scream at it, and that may scare the animal into getting up.

But it doesn't always work, and quick action must be taken if the cow is to recover.

"When you have a downed cow with milk fever, you have to try and get her back on her feet as soon as possible.

Otherwise, the muscles in the back of her legs turn to mush and she will never get up again," Rozadowski said.

The video was shot this fall by an investigator for the animal-rights group Mercy for Animals.

It depicts workers at Wiese Brothers Farm dragging downed cows by their legs and necks using chains attached to tractors.

The workers can be seen whipping the cows in the face and body while shouting profanities at them.

The image of a disabled cow suspended in the air with a mechanical lift seems shockingly cruel, say animal care experts.

So do the images in the video of sick or injured cows suffering from open wounds.

Wiese Brothers Farm did not return two Milwaukee Journal Sentinel calls asking for comment.

In a statement, the farm's owners said they had fired two employees for suspected animal abuse.

The statement also says the farm is cooperating with a Brown County Sheriff's Department investigation into animal cruelty allegations.

Brown County District Attorney David L. Lasee declined comment on Wednesday.

His spokeswoman said the sheriff's department was still investigating the case and had not contacted Lasee.

Senator Tim Carpenter, a Democrat from Milwaukee, issued a statement calling on Lasee to "investigate and prosecute" the workers who were shown harming the cattle.

"Animal abuse of the nature captured in that video is reprehensible," Carpenter wrote in a letter to Lasee.

"A clear message needs to be sent that it will not be tolerated in Wisconsin."

Wisconsin dairy industry leaders have said the practices shown in the video are shocking, cruel and not typical of the industry.

Farmers say some scenes in the video clip could mistakenly be viewed as animal cruelty.

They suggest Mercy for Animals, which promotes a vegan diet, could be using the video for propaganda purposes.

A vegan diet does not include animal products.

John Rosenow, a Buffalo County dairy farmer with 500 cows, says it's not unusual for a large farm to have a disabled animal once or twice a month.

Workers on his farm use heavy equipment to carefully move a downed cow.

The animal is placed on a soft bed of sawdust and given a chance to recover.

Kicking a downed cow, or using a stick, doesn't help get the animal back on its feet, according to Rosenow.

Instead, he pokes the cow with an old ink pen to spur it into moving.

"Cows are different animals.

They weigh 1,500 pounds, and when you try to move a cow or get them up — and the cow doesn't want to get up — you have to convince them," Rosenow said.

The animal handling shown in the short video clip can't be explained as necessary rough handling of downed cows, according to Temple Grandin.

She is an animal welfare expert from Colorado State University who's widely credited for changes resulting in more humane treatment of livestock in slaughterhouses.

A well-run dairy farm would never tolerate such things, Grandin said.

"It's difficult to get a downed cow back on its feet.

But you don't lift that animal with a hoist and carry it around that way.

The correct practice with a hip lift (machine) is to lift the cow to a standing position," she said.

Although Grandin says that what she saw on the video was "terrible," she also stresses that not all dairy farms are behaving badly.

"I have been on some very good dairy farms," she said.

Until the video was released, Wiese Brothers Farm was a milk supplier for Foremost Farms in Baraboo, Wis., and Nestle USA, which makes DiGiorno frozen pizzas.

After the release, Nestle and Foremost quickly cut ties with the farm.

"Nestle is outraged and deeply saddened by the mistreatment of animals shown in this video," the company said in a statement.

Mercy for Animals said it was seeking talks with Nestle to try to convince the company to adopt anti-cruelty guidelines for its milk suppliers.

"We haven't heard anything from them yet, but we are hopeful," said Matt Rice, chief of investigations for the Los Angeles-based group.

