It's been a long day for Andrew Klefstad working on the family farm and fixing up his house in Wisconsin.

And it's been a long four years working at the Bakken oil fields of North Dakota.

At dawn, he milked the cows in his father's barn in Wisconsin and then he went back to work, restoring the farmhouse that will soon become his family's home.

Now it's 11 p.m., and his wife, Tiffany, is kissing him goodbye after a 90-mile drive to the train station.

He grabs a seat.

More than 54,000 passengers last year rode this 12-hour, overnight train to the Bakken oil fields near Williston — more than doubling the passenger volume since North Dakota's latest oil boom began.

Klefstad is a bear of a guy at 6 foot 5 and 290 pounds, with thick arms covered in angel tattoos.

A tiny bracelet made by his 7-year-old son, Kelvin, clings to his wrist.

Kevin sent it to him in Williston with a letter pleading for him to "Come home, Dad."

"I was like four days away from coming home," Klefstad recalled later.

"I just started bawling."

Klefstad's train was hurtling toward a landscape like nothing America has seen for decades.

In North Dakota, once-sleepy prairie towns now teem with high-paying jobs.

He's part of a huge army of young men, now pouring into these sparse plains where the science of hydraulic fracturing has jump-started the global energy game.

Fracturing, or fracking, is a process where lots of water and chemicals are used to break through a layer of rocks to get to gas or oil below it.

Fracking is unleashing billions of barrels of oil 2 miles deep in North Dakota's shale.

Like gold prospectors bound for California in 1849, today's modern migration is epic.

But it's also different, because Klefstad and his ilk aren't packing up their families to escape tough times and search out new opportunity.

They're part of a swinging-door, here-today, home-next-month migration.

But, Andrew Klefstad is grappling with the hard truth that this modern-day gold rush comes with golden handcuffs.

Like so many out here, the recession left him scrambling to find work five years ago.

His father couldn't afford to pay him back on the dairy farm and business had dried up for the industrial cleanup company he worked for in Minnesota.

So he lit out to North Dakota.

Halliburton, the global energy industry giant, put him right to work.

Now, at only 28 with no college degree, he's earning more than $100,000 a year at a new company cleaning up spills and washing tons of sludge off countless trucks.

Klefstad spends three weeks working sunup to sundown, then gets back on the train for a week with his family back in Wisconsin.

Klefstad insists he's out here only until the loans are paid off and he can be debt free.

And he has done well for himself.

He has more than a dozen kids working for him, most of whom are right out of high school.

On this Sunday morning, he's steering his "cyclone supersucker" truck through the vast oil fields.

To call the Bakken an "oil patch" is deceiving, since it covers roughly 20,000 square miles — about the size of West Virginia.

Fracking has vaulted North Dakota into second place behind Texas in U.S. oil production.

With the arrival of workers, it is the fastest growing state in the country.

Klefstad pulls up to a giant truck wash where dozens of trucks deposit 20 tons a week of sludge into an underground pit.

He steps into a yellow hazardous-materials jumpsuit as a young worker connects a giant hose to the tank of the supersucker truck.

Tethered to a cable that could hoist him out if things go wrong, Klefstad lowers himself into the pit.

Klefstad sucks the oily muck into his supersucker truck and, eventually, a dumpster out back that will be disposed of in a landfill.

The work takes hours, but Klefstad finally emerges — his jumpsuit splattered with ooze.

But, he's grinning.

"Maybe it's the level of danger, but I do love it," he says.

The split-level house he stays in for work is in rough shape.

Eight oil-field workers stay here rent-free, but the company pays $8,000 a month for it.

Klefstad has tried to get to know his neighbors, but they shoot back looks full of disdain.

"They don't like us very much because we come and go at all hours of the night," he said.

Kayla Williams lives a few houses down with her husband, Eli.

Eli, 30, grew up on the street and bought a house there, for $140,000 six years ago.

It's now valued at more than $250,000, and he makes nearly that much a year working for an oil firm.

So he and his wife are far from anti-oil.

"But all these guys come out here and make good money, only to take it home, without paying taxes here or helping our schools," she says.

Williston Mayor Ward Koeser says "it's critical to have families here" if Williston is going to evolve with its oil industry.

"When you have thousands of workers staying in man camps, you can't build a community," the mayor says.

Companies have started building fully furnished townhouses to woo families to join their oil workers.

But Klefstad shakes his head at the notion of bringing his family here.

"It just doesn't seem like there's any type of connection with anybody."

For the first few days of his three-week work stints, Klefstad is constantly talking with Tiffany.

Then he'll get busy on a project.

"I disappear into work mode for two weeks and then I'll stop myself and say, 'Hey, I'm going home in three days.'"

