A new Andy Warhol exhibit features self-portraits taken with the Instagram of the 1970s -- the Polaroid camera.

Yes, it seems, Warhol liked selfies long before they were trendy.

There's Warhol posing with a skull, Warhol looking moody in black and white, and Warhol squeezed in between former Beatles member John Lennon and his wife, Yoko Ono.

Bonus points: celebrity selfie!

Big in the 1970s, the Polaroid had self-developing film that let people see photos instantly.

The exhibit may be full of 1970s clothing and disco glitter.

But Warhol's take on fame feels modern.

It fits right in with 21st century America's love of reality TV and celebrities.

"Warhol: Art.

Fame.

Mortality."

includes more than 100 artworks and films on loan from the Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh.

Warhol, who said that "everyone would be world-famous for 15 minutes," was born and raised in Pittsburgh.

He died in 1987.

His paintings now sell for more than $100 million each.

The exhibit opens to the public Saturday and runs through April 27.

The exhibit's a first for The Dali, an entire museum devoted to the surrealist master's work.

Surrealism was an artistic style that featured strange, dream-like artworks.

Salvador Dali was a Spanish artist who died in 1989.

He was known for his paintings of things like melting clocks.

In 2011, the museum moved into a new building along the city's waterfront.

The Warhol exhibit is its first special exhibit in its new home, said museum director Hank Hine.

"This is totally appropriate to the (memory) of Dali," said Hine.

The exhibit features some of Warhol's famous silkscreens pictures, including a red self-portrait taken a year before he died.

Silkscreening is a special printing method.

It uses a woven screen to print a picture.

T-shirts and posters are often printed by silkscreening.

There are several pictures of Jackie Kennedy Onassis, the wife of President John Kennedy, and versions of his Campbell's Soup can paintings.

Warhol was known for painting Campbell's Soup cans.

There are also TV monitors set up to show the artist's "screen tests."

These are short films of a single person against a plain background.

Dali and Warhol had much in common, Hine said.

The exhibit contains photos of the men goofing around in a hotel room.

Dali was a generation older — born in 1904 — than Warhol, who was born in 1928.

But both fascinated the public with their attention-getting and sometimes controversial works of art.

Warhol often visited Dali when Dali stayed in a New York hotel.

According to one story, Dali tied Warhol to a spinning board and splattered paint over him.

Warhol also made one of his famous "screen tests" of Dali.

Warhol told Dali not to move during the three-minute filming.

Dali ignored Warhol's instruction to sit still and walked away.

The exhibit not only shows Warhol's screen tests.

It also give people a chance to do their own.

The show has a copy of his screen test set where visitors can sit in front of a camera.

They then send their "tests" to Twitter and Facebook.

So, everyone can have their 15 minutes of fame on social media.

Warhol would have approved.

