A new exhibit of artist Andy Warhol's work showcases self-portraits -- taken with the Instagram of the 1970s -- the Polaroid camera.

Yes, it seems, Warhol was an early adopter of selfies.

There's Warhol posing with a skull, Warhol looking moody in black and white, and Warhol wedged in between former Beatles member John Lennon and his wife, Yoko Ono (bonus points: celebrity selfie!).

Big in the 1970s, the Polaroid contained self-developing film that let people see photos instantly.

And despite the 1970s clothing and disco-era glitter of the art, the exhibit feels fresh.

Warhol's vision of pop culture and fame fits right in with America's 21st century love of the Kardashians and TMZ.com which is packed with celebrity gossip.

"Warhol: Art.

Fame.

Mortality."

includes more than 100 artworks and films on loan from the Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh.

Warhol, who said that "everyone would be world-famous for 15 minutes," was born and raised in Pittsburgh.

He died in 1987 in New York City, and his paintings now sell for more than $100 million each.

The exhibit opens to the public Saturday.

It runs through April 27.

The exhibit is a first for The Dali, an entire museum devoted to the surrealist master's work.

Salvador Dali was a Spanish artist who died in 1989.

He was known for his bizarre paintings of things like melting clocks.

This is the museum's first major exhibit since it moved into its new home in 2011, said museum director Hank Hine.

The stunning new building is located along the city's waterfront.

"This is totally appropriate to the (memory) of Dali," said Hine.

The exhibit showcases some of Warhol's famous silkscreens, including a red self-portrait taken a year before he died.

Silkscreening uses a woven mesh to stencil a picture on fabric, poster board or another material.

There are also several pictures of Jackie Kennedy Onassis, wife of assassinated President John Kennedy, and a few quirky versions of his Campbell's soup cans.

Warhol was known for painting Campbell's soup cans.

There are also TV monitors set up to show the artist's "screen tests."

These are short films of a single person against a plain background.

Dali and Warhol had much in common, Hine said, and the exhibit contains photos of the men goofing around in a hotel room.

Dali was a generation older — born in 1904 — than Warhol, who was born in 1928.

But both fascinated the public with their attention-getting and sometimes controversial works of art.

Warhol often visited Dali when Dali stayed in a suite at the St. Regis Hotel in New York.

According to one story, Dali tied Warhol to a spinning board and splattered paint over him.

Warhol also made one of his famous "screen tests" of Dali.

Like the others he filmed, Warhol told Dali not to move during the three-minute filming.

Dali ignored Warhol's instruction to sit still and walked away.

The exhibit not only shows Warhol's screen tests, but offers viewers a chance to make their own.

The show has a copy of his screen test set where visitors can sit in front of a camera.

They then send their "tests" to Twitter and Facebook -- allowing everyone their 15 minutes of fame on social media.

Warhol would have approved.

