For decades, scientists have been searching for something they believe is a major part of the entire universe.

The problem is, they don't know what it looks like or where to find it.

They do have a name for it, though: dark matter.

Dark matter was first proposed in the 1930s as a way to explain certain inconsistencies between how scientists expected the universe to act and how they saw it actually behaving.

The latest attempt to detect dark matter is happening nearly a mile underground in an abandoned gold mine.

On Wednesday, scientists there announced their search has so far come up empty.

But physicists on the project were upbeat, saying they had developed a new, more sensitive method of searching for the mysterious material that has mass but cannot be seen.

The experiment has only been running for a few months, so they plan to keep looking.

"This is just the opening salvo," said Richard Gaitskell of Brown University, a scientist working on the Large Underground Xenon experiment, or LUX, which is the most advanced Earth-based search for dark matter.

A detector attached to the International Space Station also has so far failed to find any of the stuff.

The experiment is taking place at the Sanford Underground Research Facility, which was built in the former Homestake gold mine in South Dakota's Black Hills.

The advantage of running the experiment underground is that some 4,800 feet of earth help screen out background radiation.

Such radiation can muddy results, so the more that is eliminated, the better.

There are many theories about just what dark matter is, but the LUX team hopes it will be revealed in the form of so-called weakly interacting massive particles, or WIMPS.

To help spot the WIMPS, the researchers installed a large tank of xenon gas, cooled to minus 150 degrees Fahrenheit.

Armed with the most sensitive equipment in the world, they have been searching for evidence of a WIMP bouncing off one of the xenon's atomic nuclei.

But nothing has been found yet.

The team will continue looking for another year and plans to build a more sensitive experiment on the site, using a bigger tank of xenon.

Scientists involved in the experiment said it had eliminated some theoretical ideas about what dark matter might be, but there are many more theoretical models to search for.

"The short story is that we didn't see dark matter interacting, but we had the most sensitive search for dark matter ever performed in the world," said Daniel McKinsey, a physicist at Yale University.

The LUX experiment was 20 times more sensitive than any previous experiments, scientists said.

The proposed next experiment would be 1,000 times more sensitive still.

The lab, in a bright, clean space at the end of an old mining tunnel filled with pipes and electric cables, is reached by a 10-minute ride in an elevator that once carried miners.

Gaitskell and McKinsey said the experiment has far less radiation interference from cosmic rays than any other dark-matter lab.

Cosmic rays are radiation that comes from space.

One big problem scientists face is that they are not sure if dark matter is a bunch of light particles that weakly interact, or if it is more like a black hole.

Black holes are places in the universe where gravity is so strong that light cannot escape.

"It's ghost-like matter," McKinsey said of dark matter.

Researchers "are really searching in the dark in a way," said Harvard University physicist Avi Loeb, who is not part of the LUX team.

"We have no clue.

We don't know what this matter is."

Even more so than the recently discovered Higgs boson, dark matter is central to the universe.

The Higgs boson is a tiny particle that gets other particles to join to create mass.

It's also called the God particle.

Francois Englert of Belgium and Peter Higgs of Britain won the Nobel Prize in physics this year for their theory on this particle.

About one-quarter of the universe is comprised of dark matter — which is five times as much as the ordinary matter that makes up everything we see.

Dark matter is often defined by what it isn't: something that can be seen and something that is energy.

Scientists are pretty sure dark matter exists, but they are not certain what it is made of or how it interacts with ordinary matter.

It is considered vital to all the scientific theories explaining how the universe is expanding and how galaxies move and interact.

"We know there's stuff out there that is something else, and that makes these searches hugely important because we know we are missing most of the universe," said physicist Neal Weiner.

He was not part of the search.

The lack of success could mean the instruments are inadequate, Gaitskell and McKinsey said.

Or, considering the lack of knowledge about what dark matter really is, "perhaps we're going in the wrong direction," Loeb said.

