Scientists have been searching for something they believe is a major part of the entire universe for many, many years.

The problem is, they don't know what it looks like or where to find it.

Whatever and wherever it is, though, they call it dark matter.

Scientists have been thinking about dark matter since the 1930s.

They saw it as a way to explain differences between how they expected the universe to act and how they saw it actually behaving.

Since then, many theories about the universe have been based around the idea that dark matter is real.

Scientists now believe that it makes up as much as a quarter of the universe.

They are very eager to find even the tiniest speck of it.

The latest attempt to find dark matter is happening nearly a mile underground in an abandoned gold mine.

On Wednesday, scientists there announced their search has so far come up empty.

But scientists on the project were satisfied anyhow.

They said they had developed a new and better way of searching for the mysterious material.

The experiment has only been running for a few months, so they plan to keep looking.

The Large Underground Xenon experiment, or LUX, is currently the most advanced Earth-based search for dark matter.

A detector attached to the International Space Station has so far failed to find any of the stuff, either.

The experiment is taking place in an abandoned gold mine in South Dakota's Black Hills.

The advantage of being underground is that 4,800 feet of earth help screen out background radiation.

Radiation can interfere with experiments.

There are many ideas about what dark matter is.

The LUX team hopes to find it in the form of weakly interacting massive particles.

These are nicknamed WIMPS.

To help find the WIMPS, the researchers installed a large tank of cooled xenon gas.

They have been hoping to spot a WIMP bouncing off one of the xenon's atomic particles.

But nothing has been found yet.

The team will continue looking for another year.

It plans to build better equipment, and to use a bigger tank of xenon.

Scientists said the experiment was helpful.

They can cross off some ideas about what dark matter might be.

And there are many more ideas about what to search for.

The LUX experiment was 20 times more sensitive than all earlier experiments, scientists said.

That is, it was 20 times better able to pick up possible evidence of dark matter.

The proposed next experiment would be 1,000 times more sensitive still.

The lab is in a bright, clean space at the end of an old mining tunnel.

It is reached by a 10-minute ride in an elevator that once carried miners.

Working so deep underground helps prevent waves of energy from interfering in the experiment.

One problem scientists face is that they are not sure what dark matter is: Is it a bunch of light particles?

Or is it more like a black hole?

Black holes are places in the universe where gravity is so strong that light cannot escape.

"It's ghost-like matter," scientist Daniel McKinsey said of dark matter.

Researchers "are really searching in the dark in a way," said physicist Avi Loeb.

"We have no clue.

We don't know what this matter is."

But dark matter is central to the universe.

Scientists believe about one-quarter of the universe is made up of dark matter.

This is five times as much as the ordinary matter that makes up everything we see.

Dark matter is often defined by what it isn't: It isn't something that can be seen.

And it isn't a form of energy.

Scientists are pretty sure dark matter exists.

But they are not certain what it is made of.

And they don't know how it interacts with ordinary matter.

"We know there's stuff out there that is something else," said scientists Neal Weiner.

"And that makes these searches hugely important because we know we are missing most of the universe."

The lack of success could mean the instruments aren't good enough, McKinsey said.

Of course, the problem could just be that no one knows what dark matter really is.

"Perhaps we're going in the wrong direction," Loeb said.

