New customers at the Mozzeria restaurant see that something is different.

Nearly every worker is deaf.

Owners Russ and Melody Stein are not able to hear.

They have run their San Francisco restaurant since 2011.

The business is thriving because customers love the food.

Also, the Steins have succeeded in dealing with problems deaf business owners face.

These are problems that hearing people do not experience.

"We have the same skills as a hearing individual," Russ Stein said.

Running Mozzeria comes naturally to Melody Stein.

Her family owns restaurants.

"It's something I've always wanted to do," she said.

Deaf people have the same ambition and ability to own their own businesses as those who hear, said Tom Baldridge.

He is the director of the business program at Gallaudet University.

It is the largest school serving deaf and hard of hearing students.

Gallaudet students have been very interested in learning how to start their own businesses.

Business schools all over the country are seeing the same thing.

The hearing world is still not used to the idea of deaf business owners.

The Steins have been treated unfairly.

It was not easy for the Steins to ask for help at local government offices.

For example, they had a hard time getting permission to open the restaurant.

"We have had our rough moments," Russ Stein said.

"I was made fun of.

I was looked down upon."

Business owners who can hear are often surprised when they first meet the couple.

Some of them feel uncomfortable.

Some have thought that because the Steins are deaf, they didn't know what they were doing, Russ Stein said.

Some have not wanted to go out of their way to help them or have said hurtful things "People ask, 'how do you drive?'"

Stein said.

Their hearing customers seem happy to write their questions about items on the menu.

Writing on paper is one way the Steins can communicate.

Another way deaf people communicate is through email.

Some customers seem awkward when they first come in.

They soon relax and enjoy their meals.

"They learn to overcome their fear," Melody Stein said.

Many deaf owners have dealt with the hurtful judgments of others.

Hearing people have told them many things that are not fair.

They have said the best jobs for deaf people are teaching and counseling other deaf people Mara Ladines owns a store called By Mara.

She makes and sells clothes in New York City.

She wanted to learn how to design clothing.

Some people in college tried to tell her to take a job where she would not have to communicate as much with others.

They thought a deaf person cannot get a job in fashion, she said.

Ladines took classes in fashion design.

In 2008, she began making T-shirts and other clothes.

On them was the American Sign Language sign for "I love you."

She opened her store last spring.

Many of the people who walk in can hear.

Most hearing people cannot understand that deaf people can own businesses, Ladines said.

"I feel I was born as a natural business owner."

