The cracking sounds were ferocious as an ankle-deep, frozen lake broke apart under sunny skies.

The normally dry lake bed here in Death Valley National Park is known as "the Racetrack Playa."

A playa is simply an area of flat dried-up land.

This time, though, the playa was anything but dry.

As cousins Richard Norris and James Norris watched, a light wind began moving huge sheets of ice across the surface of the water.

Soon, that ice was sent ramming into large rocks.

Propelled by the ice, the rocks began to slide across the lake's slick, muddy bottom.

"My God, Jim, it's happening," Richard yelled, prompting James Norris to run and grab a camera.

Their photos last Dec. 21 solved a mystery of the Racetrack Playa that has long puzzled both visitors and scientists: What is it that moves rocks across flat dirt in the heart of the hottest, driest place on Earth?

The rocks that dot the Racetrack Playa are not small either — some weigh in at 600 pounds or more.

The proof that those rocks are indeed moving is what they leave behind them: trails in the dirt.

The trails wiggle like snakes or form complete loops or even rectangles.

They are cut sharply into the ground — but no other tracks are visible.

Various explanations for the rocks' movement have been proposed over the years.

Among them are hurricane-force winds that blow just when the lake's surface is briefly covered with rain water, or small rafts of ice that carry the rocks across the mud, or even UFOs from outer space.

However, until that dramatic and lucky day last December, no one had been able to prove anything definitively.

"I'm amazed," James Norris said, looking over the playa.

"In a place where rainfall averages 2 inches a year, rocks are being shoved around" by forces "typically seen in arctic" climates.

He added, "And the movement is incredibly slow.

These rocks clock in at about 15 feet per minute."

Geologists have been studying the moving rocks since 1948, when the first scientific study suggested they were driven by small whirlwinds known as dust devils.

One reason the mystery endured is that the movements are episodic.

Often, there is no motion for many years until a particular series of natural events occurs.

The first necessary ingredient is rain in a parched climate.

Next, temperatures must fall low enough to freeze the water before it evaporates.

Then the sun has to come out and thaw the ice.

Finally, wind has to blow strongly enough to break the ice into floes — free-moving sheets — and move it across the shallow water underneath.

Even a light wind is enough to get the ice moving.

Richard Norris, 55, and James Norris, 59 — both scientists — launched their investigation of the moving stones mystery in 2011.

They named their project the "Slithering Stones Research Initiative."

Over the next two years, they installed a weather station in the area.

In addition, they placed 15 stones equipped with global positioning devices — a bit like a car's GPS — on the playa's pancake-flat surface.

The "GPS stones" were specially engineered to record movement and speed.

They were stationed at the southern end of the playa, where rocks begin their strange journeys after tumbling down a cliff.

On Dec. 20, the two cousins returned to inspect the instruments.

"We found the playa covered with ice," Richard Norris recalled.

"We also noticed fresh rock trails near shards of thin ice stacked up along the shoreline."

The following afternoon, "we were sitting on a mountainside and admiring the view when a light wind kicked up and the ice started cracking," Richard Norris said.

"Suddenly, the whole process unfolded before our eyes."

A review of recent weather helped explain what the cousins saw: A rare winter storm had dropped about 1 1/2 inches of rain and 7 inches of snow on the region in late November.

The playa was transformed into a shallow lake where the GPS stones recorded movements on sunny days, with light winds following nights of subfreezing temperatures.

James Norris' photographs made the process clear.

Panes of ice hundreds of feet across and as thin as 1/4-inch thick blew into rocks.

The rocks slid along the slushy, slippery mud along paths determined by the direction and force of the winds.

The Norris cousins' fascination with Death Valley National Park began in the 1960s when their fathers — both well-known scientists — first took them there.

"Wouldn't our fathers have loved to have known this?"

James Norris said of their discovery.

He added that he almost felt a bit of regret, "because the mystery was no more."

The cousins first shared the news of their discovery with fellow scientist Ralph Lorenz.

"While it takes away the mystery, it also underscores what an amazingly rare and wonderful" process "is at work there," Lorenz said.

