Today's kids can't keep up with their parents.

Why?

Because kids aren't getting enough exercise.

Doctors looked at how fast kids could run.

They tracked millions of kids from around the world.

Researchers found that kids today don't run as fast or as far as their parents did when they were young.

The doctors announced the results of their study at the American Heart Association's yearly gathering.

They said it takes kids today 90 seconds longer to run a mile than it took children 30 years ago.

"It makes sense.

We have kids that are less active than before," said Dr. Stephen Daniels.

He is a doctor who treats children at the University of Colorado.

Grant Tomkinson led the running study.

Running is a good way to measure a person's heart health.

Tomkinson studies the science of exercise at the University of South Australia.

He looked at the running times of 25 million children from 28 countries.

They ranged in age from 9 to 17.

The children were timed between 1964 and 2010.

Tomkinson compared how far each child could run in 5 to 15 minutes.

He also looked at how quickly they ran a certain distance ranging from a half-mile to 2 miles.

He found that today's kids are less fit than their parents were.

This study is the first to show that children's fitness has worsened worldwide over the last 30 years.

Tomkinson said that for both boys and girls of all ages, fitness levels have dropped.

Fitness experts say that children 6 and older should get at least one hour of exercise per day.

The exercise should be tough enough to get the heart racing and the body sweating.

Right now, only one-third of American kids are getting that much exercise.

Tomkinson and Daniels said that weight might be the problem.

This is especially true in the United States.

One-tenth of children in the United States are dangerously [overweight](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity).

Being very overweight makes it harder to run or do any heart-pumping exercise.

Television and video games don't help, they said.

Some kids may live in unsafe neighborhoods where they can't go out to play, they added.

"Kids aren't getting enough opportunities to build up that activity over the course of the day," Daniels said.

He pointed out that many schools no longer offer gym class.

The only exercise kids may get comes at recess, he added.

Sam Kass is a chef at the White House.

He also helps first lady Michelle Obama with her Let's Move program.

The first lady started the program in February 2010 to help kids eat more healthy food and exercise.

Kass said schools have to get involved.

Today's children are the least active in U.S. history, he said.

American kids are not alone.

Young Chinese students have become slower and heavier over the years.

In China, they compared boys running 1,000 meters.

Today's runners took 14 to 15 seconds longer to run than runners in 2000.

Female students slowed by about 12 seconds in running an even shorter distance.

Experts blame China's tough college exams.

They say Chinese students have to spend too much time cramming.

They also blame the spread of indoor entertainment, such as web surfing and video games.

In Japan, children's physical fitness had been falling since the 1980s.

To turn that around the government reached out to cities, towns and schools.

It urged them to do more for youth fitness.

Motoaki Nito, from Japan's Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology said it helped Japanese children slowly build more strength.

Today's Japanese children are not as strong as they were in the 1980s, but they are not getting weaker, Nito said.

Information from the World Health Organization shows that four-fifths of young people around the world may not be getting enough exercise.

