It took Asein Ta three days to walk through the mountains out of Myanmar, also known as Burma.

He and his uncle, hobbling on one leg, headed for a refugee camp in Thailand.

Ta was not even a teenager when he had to leave his home country in Southeast Asia.

"He said there was good out there, something different," said Ta, now 21.

Ta's mother sent him away so he could escape the unfair punishment his family and other ethnic Karens faced in their native land.

She died shortly after he left.

Five years later, Ta was on a plane to Virginia.

He was helped by the Unaccompanied Refugee Minors (URM) program.

For 35 years the program has been run by the U.S. government with help from states and charity groups.

It has helped about 13,000 children escape war and natural disasters, like earthquakes, in Southeast Asia, Africa and Latin America.

The program lets the children stay in the United States and matches them with foster parents.

Ta was clearly a refugee.

The question now is if children crossing into the United States from Central America are as well.

Some people see URM as a way to help unaccompanied Central American children who have come across the U.S. border with Mexico.

Their numbers have greatly increased.

In 2011, fewer than 4,000 children crossed the border alone.

In 2014, about 44,000 did so.

The United Nations has argued that the Central American children are refugees who should be able to move to other countries for safety.

Some have been victims of kidnapping or other crimes.

The U.S. government does not consider the children refugees.

That label would help the children use the URM program to settle in the United States.

The URM's size is another problem.

URM assisted 3,828 children at its peak in 1985, but today it only serves about 1,800.

It is unclear whether the program could help many of the Central American kids if they were considered to be refugees.

Some argue that labeling the children refugees would be the best way to get them the help they need.

Kimberly Haynes is one of those people.

She works for Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, which helps the government run URM.

She said there is little difference between the Central American kids and past URM refugees.

Haynes says that both the Central American children and past refugees from other parts of the world face the same kinds of difficulties.

"The situations are pretty horrific."

More children have started using the program in recent years.

In 2011, there were 1,409 children in the program, but by 2013, there were 1,850.

According to a 2012 report, one-third of the children in the program were from Latin America.

Many were from Honduras, Guatemala and Mexico.

The way to determine if someone is a refugee and can use URM, is to investigate the situations in their home countries.

The government plans to do that more in the near future.

President Barack Obama said this year it might be possible to treat some children as refugees.

Some of the Central American children might apply in certain cases.

He warned that people won't be considered to be refugees just because they live "in a bad neighborhood or poverty."

It is difficult for many of the Central American children to qualify for the URM program.

Finding those who might be without family entirely is even more challenging.

Some people like Jessica Vaughan think it should be hard to be labeled a refugee.

She works for a group that is in favor of tough rules for who can move to America.

"People feel sorry for them, and there's no question that times are tough in these countries," she said.

However, widespread crime in a country "has never before been an excuse for designating people as refugees."

