New England Patriots star quarterback Tom Brady and the players' union are headed to court with the National Football League (NFL).

On Tuesday, Commissioner Roger Goodell rejected Brady's appeal and upheld his original four-game suspension.

In May, the league said it found Brady was "likely generally aware" that team workers had conspired to let the air out of Patriots' footballs for last season's American Football Conference (AFC) championship game.

Letting the air out of the balls made them easier to throw and catch.

It became known as the "Deflategate" scandal.

The Patriots defeated the Indianapolis Colts 45-7 in that game and went on to win the Super Bowl against the Seattle Seahawks.

The NFL suspended Brady for the first four games of the season without pay.

Brady appealed the suspensions and asked that he be allowed to play.

The league and the players' union, the NFL Players Association (NFLPA), recently discussed reducing the suspension.

However, the two sides failed to reach an agreement.

Several people connected to the discussions said the union now plans to ask a judge to let Brady start the season.

Brady gave the NFLPA his approval later Tuesday for a lawsuit, according to a person familiar with the situation.

Goodell revealed a new piece of information Tuesday.

He said the league had learned that Brady had his cellphone destroyed shortly before meeting with the NFL's investigators in March.

In his ruling, Goodell wrote that the evidence showed that Brady participated in the scheme to let air out of the footballs.

Also, Brady blocked the investigation by arranging to have his cellphone destroyed.

Goodell said Brady had known that the cellphone contained "information that had been requested by the investigators."

Goodell stated he has enormous respect for Brady's accomplishments on the field and his role in the community.

Nevertheless, he concluded that Brady's conduct harmed "the integrity of, and public confidence in, the game of professional football."

Brady's agent, Don Yee, criticized Goodell's ruling and the NFL appeal process in a strongly worded written statement.

Yee said Goodell's decision "is deeply disappointing."

Yee said the appeal process was unfair.

Yee said that Brady gave Goodell a tremendous amount of electronic information that would have shown he was not responsible in Deflategate.

The evidence was ignored, Yee said.

Yee pointed out that no quarterback was ever suspended for four games in connection with deflated footballs.

Yee said the decision changes the balance of the coming season because a young quarterback will be filling in for Brady.

"The decision is wrong and has no basis, and it diminishes the integrity of the game," Yee said.

People familiar with the case expect the union's lawsuit to be filed either in Massachusetts or in Minnesota.

The NFLPA could seek a court order that would let Brady play while the case goes through the court system.

The NFL made the first legal move Tuesday.

It filed a case in New York to attempt to have the suspension upheld.

Those connected to the case on the players side said they believe Brady and the union have a strong case.

They said Brady has an excellent chance of winning.

The NFLPA can argue that knowing about a scheme to deflate footballs is not enough proof to be suspended.

It can argue that the sport's guidelines for handling footballs apply to teams, not to players.

It can say Brady was given a punishment that no player has been given before.

The NFLPA can also attack the league's argument that cold weather did not cause the footballs to deflate, as Brady claimed.

The league and union explored the possibility of reaching an agreement that would have kept the two sides out of court, according to people familiar with the case.

But it did not appear that much progress was made.

The union would not agree that Brady should be suspended at all.

Meanwhile, the league insisted that a lengthy suspension was necessary.

Many in the league supported the full four-game suspension.

"I think he has to stay with the same thing," a high-ranking official with one NFL team said last week.

The Patriots reported to their training camp Wednesday.

Quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo would be in line to open the regular season if Brady cannot play.

Garoppolo was a second-round draft choice by the Patriots last year and had success in limited playing time as a rookie.

He completed 19 of 27 passes for 182 yards with one touchdown.

He had no interceptions.

The Patriots host the Pittsburgh Steelers in the NFL's season-opening game Sept. 10.

