The New England Patriots are one of the best football teams in the country.

This Sunday, they will play in the Super Bowl, the biggest and most important football game of the year.

Did they cheat to get there?

On January 18, the Patriots beat the Indianapolis Colts 45 to 7.

During halftime, officials realized that something was strange about the footballs the Patriots were using to play: they were underinflated.

Each team uses its own footballs on offense.

According to experts, underinflated footballs are easier to throw and catch.

So if the Patriots' footballs were low on air, it may have helped them win.

How the footballs got to be underinflated is not clear.

Reporters and sports fans have nicknamed the incident "deflategate," and have been wondering if someone on the Patriots intentionally took air out of the footballs.

Investigators are trying to figure out what exactly happened.

Patriots coach Bill Belichick said his team did not do anything wrong.

He spoke to reporters on Saturday afternoon, eight days before the Super Bowl.

"We feel like we followed the rules of the game to the letter," he said.

"We try to do everything right."

When the story about the underinflated footballs came out, Belichick said that the air pressure of footballs was not something he knew much about.

On Saturday, however, he had more to report.

Belichick said that a drop in temperature could have caused the change in air pressure in the footballs.

If you take a football from a warm place to a cool place, it loses air pressure.

The balls were inflated in a warm room by NFL officials and then used in the game, which was on a cold day.

He also explained that the Patriots had looked into how they prepare balls before each game.

Teams are allowed to rub new footballs after they're inflated to make them softer and easier to grip.

Belichick suggested that the friction caused by rubbing the balls could have raised their temperature, which would raise the air pressure.

After they were taken out of the warm room there would be an even bigger drop in temperature, and a bigger drop in air pressure.

"I'm not a scientist.

I'm not an expert," Belichick said.

"I'm just telling you what I know."

Not everyone believes this explanation, however.

The debate began almost immediately after the game.

That night, news reports came out that some of the Patriots' game balls were underinflated.

The NFL began investigating and confirmed that some of the balls were underinflated.

During halftime, the Colts had claimed that the balls used by the Patriots offense were underinflated.

NFL officials tested them and the balls were in fact found to be underinflated.

Another set of balls was used during the second half of the game.

People began asking if Belichick or someone else with the Patriots had deflated the balls on purpose.

Others were suspicious of Patriots quarterback Tom Brady.

Like Belichick, Brady said he did not know how the footballs got to be underinflated.

This is not the first time that the Patriots have been accused of cheating.

During a game in 2007, Belichick was caught videotaping the coaches of the other team so that he would know what they were planning.

Belichick admitted that he broke the rules in 2007, but denied that the Patriots had a habit of cheating.

"It was wrong.

We were disciplined for it.

That's it," Belichick said of the videotaping.

"We never did it again.

We're never going to do it again."

In his conversation with reporters on Saturday, Belichick   complained that "deflategate" had become a distraction.

Trying to explain what happened was taking up a lot of his time, which he would prefer to spend preparing to play the Seattle Seahawks in the Super Bowl.

"Deflategate" has led some people to call the Patriots a team of cheaters, but Belichick defended his players.

He thinks that they did not do anything wrong.

In his view, the Patriots are the best team and deserve to go to the Super Bowl.

"I know that because I've been with them every day.

And I'm proud of this team," he said.

