The Democratic candidates for president hashed out their differences on gun control, the Iraq war and more in CNN's primary debate Tuesday night.

Yet the minimum wage, one of the most important divisions between the contenders, came up only in passing.

The foremost candidates — Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., former Maryland Gov.

Martin O'Malley and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton — all believe the national minimum wage of $7.25 an hour should be raised.

The issue is by how much.

Sanders and O'Malley have thrown their support behind a national movement to set the floor at $15 an hour.

This movement has galvanized workers both in and out of unions in cities across the country and has already claimed victory in the Pacific cities of Los Angeles, California; San Francisco, California; and Seattle, Washington.

While Clinton agrees the national minimum wage should be higher than it is now, she hasn't said to what specific level she thinks it should be raised.

Earlier this year, she called into a conference of labor organizers who had gathered in Detroit to advocate for the $15 hourly minimum, but she didn't specifically endorse their goal, and she hasn't since then, either.

She's spoken approvingly of legislation in Congress that would increase the minimum wage to $12 an hour nationwide, but whether she would support a minimum wage above that figure is an open question — a question no one asked her during the debate.

Clinton might have good reasons for her reticence.

While a large body of economic evidence suggests that raising the minimum wage really does benefit workers, those studies have focused on relatively small changes.

Raising the national minimum wage to $15 would more than double the amount that employers must pay their workers in many areas.

If the minimum wage is too high, businesses might not make money by hiring additional workers.

Since there's no law requiring businesses to hire anyone, those firms wouldn't bring on new personnel, or they would lay off some of their employees.

Low-wage workers would find it more difficult to get a job.

One leading minimum-wage researcher and a former economic adviser to President Barack Obama recently warned that raising the national minimum to $15 an hour could be "counterproductive."

A $15 hourly minimum could set back the very people it is supposed to help.

Clinton has also suggested that in rural and suburban areas, where the cost of living and average wages are lower, the minimum wage should be lower, too.

That stance implies that local authorities, not Congress, should determine the minimum.

The truth is, though, that no one really knows what it would mean for low-wage workers if the federal government required their bosses to pay them $15 an hour.

Other economists have argued it's at least worth a try.

The minimum wage is a true kitchen-table issue, something any American can understand even if they don't follow politics closely.

It's also an issue with a large, mobilized and energetic national organization built around it.

Support from that movement could be valuable in the primary.

Oddly, though, O'Malley and Sanders didn't focus on the minimum wage.

They might have asked Clinton to be clearer about what she thinks the appropriate level for the minimum wage is, or at least asked her to explain her thinking on the question.

Instead, O'Malley criticized Clinton for her vote in support of the war in Iraq, which was 12 years ago, and for her opposition to the Glass-Steagall Act, an obscure banking law that dates to the Great Depression.

Someone casually tuning in to Tuesday's debate at home might have thought that Clinton agrees that the national minimum should be $15 an hour.

