The Democratic candidates for president argued over gun control, the Iraq war and more in their first televised debate Tuesday night.

Yet they barely discussed one of their most important areas of disagreement: the minimum wage.

The minimum wage is the lowest hourly salary employers are legally allowed to pay their workers.

Right now the national minimum wage is $7.25 an hour.

The top three candidates — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton — all believe the national minimum wage should be raised.

The issue is by how much.

Sanders and O'Malley both support raising the minimum wage to $15 an hour.

The $15-an-hour goal is being pushed by a large and active national movement.

Los Angeles and San Francisco, California, and Seattle, Washington, have already voted to increase their citywide minimum wage to that level.

Clinton agrees the national minimum wage should be higher than it is now.

However, she has not said how much she thinks it should be raised.

She has spoken approvingly of an effort in Congress to increase the minimum wage to $12 an hour nationwide.

Whether she would support a minimum wage above that figure is uncertain, however.

During Tuesday's debate no one pushed her for an answer.

Clinton might have good reasons for not wanting to commit herself to the $15-an-hour goal.

Many studies have shown that raising the minimum wage benefits workers.

However, those studies have focused on relatively small wage increases.

Raising the national minimum wage to $15 would more than double the amount that employers must pay their workers.

If the minimum wage is set too high, businesses could find it too expensive to hire new workers.

Because there is no law requiring businesses to hire anyone, they might choose not to do so.

They could even decide to let some of their employees go.

Low-wage workers would then find it more difficult to get a job.

One leading minimum-wage researcher recently warned that raising the national minimum to $15 an hour could create problems.

A $15 hourly minimum could set back the very people it is supposed to help.

It could end up making it harder for them to find work.

Clinton has also suggested that having a single new national minimum wage may not make sense.

In rural and suburban areas, the cost of living and average wages are lower than they are in cities.

Clinton's position is that the minimum wage should be lower in those areas, too.

The truth is, though, that no one really knows what it would mean for low-wage workers if their bosses were required to pay them $15 an hour.

Some experts have argued it is at least worth a try.

Many Americans are struggling to make enough money to support their families.

For them, the minimum wage issue is an obviously important one worth discussing.

It is also an issue backed by a strong national movement.

Support from that movement could be valuable in the Democratic primary, the winner of which will face a Republican in next fall's general election.

Oddly, though, O'Malley and Sanders did not focus on the minimum wage during Tuesday's debate.

They might have asked Clinton to be clearer about what she thinks the new minimum wage should be.

They could at least have asked her to explain her thinking on the question.

Instead, O'Malley criticized Clinton for her vote in support of the war in Iraq, which was 12 years ago.

He also attacked her for her opposition to the little-known Glass-Steagall Act.

Someone tuning in to Tuesday's debate might have thought that Clinton agrees that the national minimum should be $15 an hour.

