The Democratic candidates for president argued over gun control, the Iraq war and more in CNN's primary debate Tuesday night.

Yet the minimum wage, one of their most important areas of disagreement, came up only in passing.

The foremost candidates — Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton — all believe the national minimum wage of $7.25 an hour should be raised.

The issue is by how much.

Sanders and O'Malley have thrown their support behind a national movement to set the floor at $15 an hour.

The movement has energized workers in cities across the country and has already claimed victories in the California cities of Los Angeles and San Francisco and in Seattle, Washington.

While Clinton agrees the national minimum wage should be higher than it is now, she has not said to what specific level she thinks it should be raised.

Earlier this year, she called into a conference of labor organizers who had gathered in Detroit to advocate for the $15 hourly minimum.

However, she did not specifically endorse their goal, and she has not since then, either.

She has spoken approvingly of legislation in Congress that would increase the minimum wage to $12 an hour nationwide.

Whether she would support a minimum wage above that figure is an open question, however — a question no one asked her during the debate.

Clinton might have good reasons for not wanting to commit herself to the $15-an-hour goal.

While a large body of economic evidence suggests that raising the minimum wage really does benefit workers, those studies have focused on relatively small wage increases.

In many areas of the country, raising the national minimum wage to $15 would more than double the amount that employers must pay their workers.

If the minimum wage is set too high, the expense of hiring additional workers could keep businesses from making any money.

Since there is no law requiring businesses to hire anyone, they might choose not to do so, or they could lay off some of their employees.

Low-wage workers would then find it more difficult to get a job.

One leading minimum-wage researcher and a former economic adviser to President Barack Obama recently warned that raising the national minimum to $15 an hour could be "counterproductive."

A $15 hourly minimum could set back the very people it is supposed to help, by making it harder for them to find work.

Clinton has also suggested that in rural and suburban areas, where the cost of living and average wages are lower, the minimum wage should be lower, too.

Her position implies that local authorities, not Congress, should determine the minimum.

The truth is, though, that no one really knows what it would mean for low-wage workers if the federal government required their bosses to pay them $15 an hour.

Other economists have argued it is at least worth a try.

The minimum-wage issue is directly related to the everyday economic challenges many Americans face and is therefore of obvious importance.

It is something voters can easily understand even if they do not follow politics closely.

It is also an issue with a large, mobilized and energetic national organization built around it.

Support from that movement could be valuable in the primary.

Oddly, though, O'Malley and Sanders did not focus on the minimum wage during Tuesday's debate.

They might have asked Clinton to be clearer about what she thinks the appropriate level for the minimum wage is.

They could at least have asked her to explain her thinking on the question.

Instead, O'Malley criticized Clinton for her vote in support of the war in Iraq, which was 12 years ago.

He also attacked her for her opposition to the Glass-Steagall Act, an obscure banking law that dates to the Great Depression.

Someone casually tuning in to Tuesday's debate at home might have thought that Clinton agrees that the national minimum should be $15 an hour.

