Clues to what our ancestors ate, how they got along and what diseases they fought may be found in their teeth.

These clues come from the DNA of millions of tiny bacteria and plant material embedded in the teeth of four 1,000-year-old skeletons.

"I feel like we discovered a time capsule that has been right under our noses this whole time," said Christina Warinner.

She is an anthropologist who uses DNA information to draw links between different groups of people through history.

She is the lead author of the study that looked at the ancient skeletons, which was published in the magazine Nature Genetics.

"This is a game changer," she said.

Matthew Collins of the University of York co-wrote the study.

He put it this way, "What we found is a microbial Pompeii."

Pompeii was an ancient Roman city buried by lava from a volcano eruption in 79 AD and almost completely preserved.

The DNA was found in plaque on the ancient teeth.

Plaque is the rough, bumpy stuff you might notice coating your teeth if you have skipped too many dentist appointments.

Today, dentists scrape plaque off our teeth as part of our regular teeth cleanings.

But before the days of modern dentistry, it could grow layer upon layer.

Sometimes the plaque covering a tooth was thicker than the tooth itself.

The layers of plaque trap the bacteria that also live in our mouths and turns them into small fossils.

And when we die, these micro-fossils stay whole, even as most of the rest of us breaks down.

Throughout most of the history of archaeology, researchers have seen the tooth plaque as waste.

They often removed it from skeletons in the process of cleaning them.

But recently, it has become clear that fossilized plaque holds a huge amount of information.

"People are realizing that you have this rich bacterial community living on the surface of your teeth," Collins said.

"There is so much information there.

The challenge is how to access it."

Over the last decade scientists started to look at ancient plaque samples under a microscope.

They have hoped to find microscopic bits of food stuck in its hard material.

But Warinner, who has experience extracting DNA from bones and teeth, wanted to know whether the plaque had also preserved DNA.

To find out, she scraped the fossilized plaque off the teeth of four skeletons from Dalheim, Germany.

The skeletons were from people who lived about 1,000 years ago.

After treating the plaque with various chemicals, she put them through a machine that separates out the DNA.

The result, she said, was thrilling.

"When you get DNA from bones it is so damaged and there is so little of it left," she said.

"When we analyzed the (plaque) we got 100 to 1,000 times more DNA fragments than we would have from a bone."

From those tiny pieces of DNA, Warinner and an international team of scientists determined that the bacteria that causes cavities and gum disease have not changed much in 1,000 years.

The ancient bacteria had a gene that could allow it to resist antibiotics, just as some of our bacteria has today, making them ineffective.

The researchers also found bits of plant DNA in the plaque.

This provides direct evidence of what people ate 1,000 years ago.

But these results are just scratching the surface of what scientists can learn from ancient plaque.

Anne Stone is an anthropologist at Arizona State University who was not involved in the study.

She said the findings were significant.

"What is exciting is it looks like the way (plaque) protects the DNA — almost like it is sealed in concrete — so it is more protected from the environment," she said.

Other researchers will be interested in the study.

This includes researchers who study the causes of lung diseases and ones who look at how dental diseases have changed over time.

Warinner notes that all groups of people who ever lived have had tooth plaque problems.

So this method could be used to learn more about people from a wide range of time periods.

"Everything was there in an incredible level of detail and it was frozen in time," said Collins.

"You have so much DNA that you can get complete (sets of DNA) without even trying."

