A group of fourth-graders in California came up with a plan after their 10-year-old classmate was deported to Mexico.

They wrote an online letter asking for Rodrigo Guzman's return that got 2,788 signatures.

The fourth-graders at Jefferson Elementary school also created a Facebook page and posted videos to YouTube.

They even met with California lawmakers to ask for help.

"We have to fight for Rodrigo's rights because he is not able to do it himself!"

Kyle Kuwahara said in a letter to President Barack Obama.

"Today I'm writing to you on Rosa Parks' 100th birthday to do the right thing.

To allow Rodrigo and his family to return to their home, school and friends in Berkeley."

Even though the children's "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign was popular, it became clear Rodrigo's return to the United States would take time.

The immigration system is complicated, the students were told.

Immigration law has to do with people who were not born in the United States who are trying to live in the U.S. Rodrigo Javier Guzman Diaz was born in Mexico City.

But he had had lived in Berkeley, Calif., since he was 2.

His parents, Reyna Diaz Mayida and Javier Guzman Ponce, came here because they had family in the area.

Diaz Mayida was educated as an accountant in Mexico.

In California, she cleaned houses.

Guzman Ponce worked as a cook.

This made it possible for Rodrigo to attend Jefferson until last winter.

On Jan. 10, Rodrigo was traveling with his parents to Mexico.

They made the trip to update their tourist visas.

The visas, or official papers, allowed Rodrigo and his parents to live in the United States.

But during the trip the family was stopped by officers who guard the border between the U.S. and Mexico.

Their Mexican travel papers and visas were taken away.

Family members say they were never told why.

They were told to leave the United States and stay in Mexico.

It will take five years or longer to get new visas allowing the family to return to the U.S.

Almost all the family's belongings remain in Berkeley.

Rodrigo now lives in a land that is unfamiliar.

"He's very quiet and sad sometimes," Diaz Mayida said on Skype from Mexico.

"He misses his friends and his home in Berkeley."

Many of the Jefferson students didn't think it was right that Rodrigo couldn't be with his friends at the school he'd been attending for years.

Classmates began the "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign after they learned about immigration laws and heard what had happened to Rodrigo.

Classmates Kyle and his twin brother Scott worried that they'd lose touch with Rodrigo.

They decided that an online video game called Minecraft would help them stay in touch.

Rodrigo and his classmates used to meet after school or on weekends at friends' houses to play Minecraft.

Players have to work together to build things rather than competing to destroy one another.

The Internet allowed the Jefferson students to play Minecraft with Rodrigo.

The kids were able to come up with their own rules.

Borders, immigration laws and travel papers were not a problem.

The game also made it seem as if Rodrigo was still next to them and not playing from thousands of miles away.

They created an online world called "Rodrigo's World."

"We just wanted to be able to hang out somewhere with Rodrigo where none of this other stuff mattered," Scott said.

"The more we learn about immigration, the more unfair it seems."

More than 20 of Rodrigo's friends and classmates plunged into "Rodrigo's World."

Once there, they stumbled across Rodrigo's avatar, a blocky figure that appeared to be three stacked cubes with two boxy arms and a pixilated face.

The real Rodrigo also appeared.

He played from his family's new home near Mexico City.

An image of his face appeared on the laptop that was passed around the room.

"I want to say thank you for this, because it's helping me," Rodrigo said.

"But I still hope to come back and see everyone again."

The students continue to ask for lawmakers help.

They also still log on to their computers at home or in small groups to enter "Rodrigo's World."

For now, at least, it's a place they can find their friend.

