After their 10-year-old classmate Rodrigo Guzman was deported to Mexico, a group of fourth-graders in California devised a plan.

They started an online letter campaign that got 2,788 signatures, created a Facebook page and posted videos to YouTube.

The fourth-graders at Jefferson Elementary school also petitioned the Berkeley City Council and school district, which took actions to support their cause.

They met with California lawmaker Barbara Lee to ask whether she could help.

"We have to fight for Rodrigo's rights because he is not able to do it himself!"

Kyle Kuwahara said in a letter to President Barack Obama.

"Today I'm writing to you on Rosa Parks' 100th birthday to do the right thing.

To allow Rodrigo and his family to return to their home, school and friends in Berkeley."

Even as the children's "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign grew in popularity, it became clear that getting their friend home would not be easy.

The students were told that the immigration system is complicated.

It makes decision about people who were not born in the United States, but are trying to live here.

Rodrigo Javier Guzman Diaz was born in Mexico City, but had lived in Berkeley, Calif., since he was 2.

His parents, Reyna Diaz Mayida and Javier Guzman Ponce, traveled here because they had extended family in the area.

Diaz Mayida, educated as an accountant in Mexico, cleaned houses.

Guzman Ponce worked as a cook.

This made it possible for Rodrigo to attend Jefferson, one of Berkeley's highest-rated schools, until last winter.

On Jan. 10, Rodrigo was traveling with his parents to Mexico, to update their tourist visas.

The visas, or official papers, allowed Rodrigo and his parents to live in the United States.

But during the trip, the family was stopped by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

For reasons the family members say were never explained to them, their Mexican passports and visas were taken.

They were told to continue on to Mexico, where it would take five years or longer to get new visas allowing them to return to the United States.

Almost all the family's belongings remain in Berkeley.

Rodrigo finds himself in a land that is unfamiliar.

"He's very quiet and sad sometimes," Diaz Mayida said on Skype from Cuernavaca, Mexico.

"He misses his friends and his home in Berkeley."

U.S. Customs officials declined to discuss the case.

Back in Berkeley, when the school year resumed after winter break, Rodrigo's teacher, Barbara Wenger, explained to the class that Rodrigo's family had been deported and would not be returning because of immigration laws.

For many of the Jefferson students, it didn't seem right that he couldn't be with his friends at the school he'd been attending for years.

After learning about the immigration laws and hearing what had happened to Rodrigo, classmates began the "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign.

The goal was to bring Rodrigo back to his home in Berkley.

The campaign gained widespread attention in the San Francisco Bay Area.

But Kyle and his twin brother Scott were worried that they'd lose touch with Rodrigo and that he'd lose hope, so they turned to an online video game called Minecraft.

Rodrigo and his classmates used to meet after school or on weekends at friends' houses to play Minecraft.

The game requires players to work together to build things rather than competing to destroy one another.

Players gather or mine material to make tools and construct buildings.

Minecraft allowed the kids to come up with their own rules.

Borders, immigration laws and passports were not a problem.

The game also made it seem as if Rodrigo was still next to them and not playing from thousands of miles away.

They could build "Rodrigo's World."

"We just wanted to be able to hang out somewhere with Rodrigo where none of this other stuff mattered," Scott said.

"The more we learn about immigration, the more unfair it seems."

For "Rodrigo's World," the Jefferson students and their families rented a server and installed Minecraft on it.

This allowed the kids, even Rodrigo, to enter the same Minecraft world from anywhere by using the Internet.

About two dozen of Rodrigo's friends and classmates officially launched "Rodrigo's World."

Immigration laws were not discussed there.

Instead Rodrigo and his friends played.

As the players plunged into "Rodrigo's World," they stumbled across Rodrigo's avatar, a blocky figure that appeared to be three stacked cubes with two boxy arms and a pixilated face.

The real Rodrigo, playing from his family's new home near Mexico City, also appeared.

He phoned in using Skype, his head floating on a laptop that was passed around the room.

"I want to say thank you for this, because it's helping me," Rodrigo said.

"But I still hope to come back and see everyone again."

In the weeks since, some of the students' families have worked with California lawmaker Zoe Lofgren's office, requesting that Rodrigo return to the United States.

The students have continued to explore "Rodrigo's World" in smaller groups, sometimes logging on from home by themselves and sometimes chatting with Rodrigo at the same time on Skype.

For now, at least, it's a place they can find their friend.

