In a corner of Alejandra Pinzon's room in Mexico City is a pink drawer full of her most cherished possessions.

They remind her of a life that's slipping from her grasp.

There are homecoming photos from her Kansas high school and a report card with lots of A's.

There's also a Taylor Swift concert ticket.

"I'm obsessed with Taylor Swift," said Pinzon, who's known by her friends as Ali.

She recalled how her best friend, Kristin, surprised her during the concert with a birthday message.

It flashed on a screen behind the country singer: "Happy late 17th birthday, Alibear!"

Just months after seeing Swift perform in 2010, Pinzon made a tough decision: to go back to Mexico.

Her choice would forever shape her future.

Pinzon was 17 then and living in the United States illegally.

She wanted to go to college, but knew that wasn't possible.

If she went back to Mexico, she decided, she'd be able to get her degree there.

Then, with luck, a U.S. company might arrange for her to return on a work visa.

She might be back in as little as four or five years.

Unfortunately, it didn't work out that way.

Pinzon, now 21, lives in Mexico City.

But she's emotionally tied to the American Midwest.

She is one of around 500,000 Mexicans ages 15 to 32 who returned to their homeland from 2005 to 2010.

Her family has been divided by U.S. immigration laws.

Sister Lulu lives in St. Louis.

She was born in the United States and is thus a U.S. citizen.

Their younger sister, Gaby, 19, now lives in Mexico City.

In the spring of 2010 as she was about to graduate from high school, Pinzon felt she had two choices.

She could remain in the United States and work illegally in a low-paying service job.

Or she could return to Mexico and attend college.

She decided to go to Mexico.

On Aug. 9, 2010, Pinzon stepped off a plane into a country that felt foreign to her, even though it was her native land.

She didn't know when she'd be back in the U.S. again.

"I felt like I was going somewhere where I had never been before," she said.

"I didn't really speak a lot of Spanish."

Pinzon spent much of her free time on Facebook and Skype.

Her new friends in Mexico are almost all also recent returnees from the Unites States.

She doesn't have to worry about being judged by them when she speaks English.

Until she found them, she felt as if no one in this huge city understood her homesickness.

"In my mind, I felt like I was the only one who knew English," she said.

"I felt like I was the only one who was going through this situation."

Pinzon was taken to the United States when she was 11 by her father, who was hoping to build a better life.

They moved in with Pinzon's grandmother, who lived in Overland Park, near Kansas City, Mo.

Pinzon entered the seventh grade at Oxford Middle School in Overland Park.

Then, she went to Blue Valley Northwest High School.

She joined the yearbook committee, sang with the chorus and danced with the Dazzlers drill team.

"I still get very homesick," she said.

"I miss my friends.

I miss everything."

After her father and grandmother died, Pinzon moved to Indiana in 2009.

She graduated the next spring.

Like her closest friends, she wanted to go to college.

Pinzon had a 3.5 grade-point average through high school.

She had fantasized about attending the University of Missouri or Indiana University and studying journalism or international relations.

But as many of her friends were packing to go to college, she was packing to return to Mexico.

Pinzon tried to get into college when she returned to Mexico City, but her high school records weren't recognized.

She was told she could take a test to get into college when she turned 21.

She ended up finding a low-paying job at a call center, where she answered the phone all day.

Then in June of 2012, her sister called with big news.

A new law called the DREAM Act had just been passed.

Now, illegal immigrants who graduated from high school would no longer be kicked out of the United States.

Pinzon could have benefited if she hadn't left the country.

"What have I done?"

Pinzon thought to herself, feeling sick to her stomach.

She should have just waited, Pinzon now says.

"It would have just taken me two years.

The two years I've been doing this, I could have been doing it there."

Ali still hopes to attend college in Mexico.

But she could also go back to the United States illegally, she admits.

"I'm always going to think about going back," she said.

Her sister Lulu even bought her a plane ticket.

But she's not sure whether she's ready to start over a second time.

She's keeping the ticket, though.

It's stored on her computer, near the pink drawer with the rest of her American stuff.

