To save their classmate Rodrigo Guzman, 10, who was deported to Mexico, a group of fourth-graders devised a grand plan.

They started an online petition that got 2,788 signatures, created a Facebook page and posted videos to YouTube.

The fourth graders at California's Jefferson Elementary also petitioned the Berkeley City Council and school district, which passed resolutions supporting their cause.

They met with state representative Barbara Lee to ask whether she could get involved and help.

"We have to fight for Rodrigo's rights because he is not able to do it himself!"

classmate Kyle Kuwahara said in a letter to President Barack Obama.

"Today I'm writing to you on Rosa Parks' 100th birthday to do the right thing.

To allow Rodrigo and his family to return to their home, school and friends in Berkeley."

Even as the children's "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign grew in popularity, it became clear that getting their friend home would not be easy.

The students were told that the immigration system is complicated.

It makes decisions about people who were not born in the United States and whether they can live here.

Those who cannot live here get deported.

Rodrigo Javier Guzman Diaz was born in Mexico City but had lived in Berkeley, Calif., since the age of 2.

His mother, Reyna Diaz Mayida, educated as an accountant in Mexico, cleaned houses.

Rodrigo's father, Javier Guzman Ponce, worked as a cook.

This made it possible for Rodrigo to attend Jefferson, one of Berkeley's highest-rated schools, until last winter.

On Jan. 10 Rodrigo was traveling with his parents to Mexico to renew their tourist visas.

On their way, they where stopped by U.S. Customs and Border Protection.

For reasons the family members say were never explained to them, their Mexican passports and visas were confiscated.

They were told to continue to Mexico, where it would take five years or longer to get new visas.

While almost all the family's possessions remain in Berkeley, Rodrigo finds himself essentially exiled to a land that is foreign to him.

"He's very quiet and sad sometimes," Diaz Mayida said in an interview via Skype from Cuernavaca, Mexico.

"He misses his friends and his home in Berkeley."

U.S. Customs officials declined to discuss the case, citing privacy laws.

Back in Berkeley, when the school year resumed after winter break, Rodrigo's teacher, Barbara Wenger, eventually discovered that Rodrigo's family had been deported and would not be returning.

When she told the children, a student asked, "What's immigration?"

So Wenger explained.

For many of the Jefferson students, whatever Rodrigo's parents did or did not do, it didn't seem right that he couldn't be with his friends at the school he'd been attending for years.

After learning about the immigration laws and hearing what had happened to Rodrigo, Kyle and Scott's mother, Mable Yee, and other parents helped the students channel their anger into the "Bring Rodrigo Home" campaign, which gained widespread attention in the San Francisco Bay Area.

Worried that they'd lose touch with Rodrigo and that he'd lose hope, Kyle and his twin brother Scott turned to a video game called Minecraft.

With the ability to create virtual worlds in Minecraft, the students could create a haven for themselves and Rodrigo.

It could be a place with their own rules, where it would seem as if their friend was still next to them and not playing from thousands of miles away.

It would be a place where the real world of borders, immigration laws and visas constructed by adults didn't exist.

They could build "Rodrigo's World."

"We just wanted to be able to hang out somewhere with Rodrigo where none of this other stuff mattered," Scott said.

"The more we learn about immigration, the more unfair it seems."

Rodrigo and his classmates used to meet after school or on weekends at friends' houses, discovering that Minecraft allowed them almost limitless creative possibilities.

The game's focus is on players cooperating to build things rather than competing to destroy one another.

Players gather or mine material to make tools and construct buildings.

For "Rodrigo's World," the Jefferson students and their families rented a server and installed Minecraft on it.

This would allow the kids, even Rodrigo, to enter the same Minecraft world, their own private haven, from anywhere via the Internet.

On a Saturday night, about two dozen of Rodrigo's friends and classmates arrived at Mo'Joe Cafe to officially launch "Rodrigo's World."

Politics and immigration battles took a back seat to the far more pressing task at hand.

As the players plunged into "Rodrigo's World," they stumbled across Rodrigo's avatar, a blocky figure that appeared to be three stacked cubes with two boxy arms and a pixilated face.

The real Rodrigo, playing from his family's new home near Mexico City, also appeared in the cafe via Skype, his head floating on a laptop that was passed around the room.

"I want to say thank you for this, because it's helping me," Rodrigo said.

"But I still hope to come back and see everyone again."

In the weeks since, some of the students' families have worked with state representative Zoe Lofgren's office to file a petition for humanitarian parole, a long-shot appeal on Rodrigo's behalf.

The students have continued to explore "Rodrigo's World" in smaller groups, sometimes logging on from home by themselves, sometimes chatting with Rodrigo at the same time on Skype.

For now, at least, it's a place they can find their friend.

