Some girls play soccer.

Other girls join the swim team.

Ivy Wolk, though, chose the Los Angeles Derby Dolls.

"This is it, this is for me," said the tiny 9-year-old.

Roller derby is played by two teams on roller skates.

Players race around a track.

A player scores points by passing members of the other team.

The other team tries to block her.

They even can knock her out of the way.

It's not the safest sport.

But for the girls, bumps and bruises are signs of achievement.

They mean the girls tried their best.

The Derby Dolls began 11 years ago.

They are famous in Los Angeles.

The Derby Dolls teach girls 7 and older how to skate.

They play against teams from across the country.

The Derby Dolls have had many homes.

Now the team needs to move again.

Their home base is in a building called the "Doll Factory."

It may be knocked down.

Finding a new place is a difficult, said Rebecca Ninburg.

She helped start the Derby Dolls.

A new home base must be big and not too expensive.

The Derby Dollars are trying to raise money to pay for the move.

Their goal is $100,000.

So far, they've raised more than $79,000.

"I'm just going be so sad that we're gonna lose this place.

It's my home.

It's my home away from home," said Yesenia Hernandez.

Yesenia is 15.

She said roller derby gives her confidence to stand up to bullies at her school.

The girls take care of one another, said her mother, Julie Hernandez.

"You can see it in their faces," said David Hale, a fan.

"They're not doing it for the money.

They're doing it for the love."

When Ivy skates, she is sure of herself.

Her teammates are 7 to 17.

The girls are dressed in skirts and patterned leggings.

They skate around cones and practice stopping.

They skate to happy-sounding music.

Ivy gets quiet and a bit shy when asked why she loves roller derby.

Her mother answers for her.

It makes Ivy feel normal, her mother said.

That's a big deal for Ivy.

She has a rare allergy.

Her allergy prevents her from eating 19 different foods.

Last summer, Ivy took several weeks off.

She was nervous about coming back.

But her coach greeted her with a shout and a big hug.

She turned to her mom and said, "I'm home," her mother remembered.

