Some girls play soccer or go out for cheerleading.

Ivy Wolk, on the other hand, chose roller derby.

"This is it, this is for me," the tiny, wide-eyed 9-year-old said to her mom the first time she saw the Los Angeles Derby Dolls.

Roller derby is a rowdy contact sport played by two teams on roller skates.

Each team chooses a player who scores points by passing members of the opposing team, who try to block her.

They may even knock her out of the way.

It's not the safest sport in the world.

But for the girls, their bumps and bruises are signs of achievement — of hard and active skating and of trying their best.

"There have literally been days where I have been like, 'I must be crazy.'

But she just picks herself up and gets back out there," said Ivy's  mother, Tracy Wolk.

Still, Wolk made sure she alerted her daughter's doctor about the girl's newfound love for the sport.

Since getting their start 11 years ago, the Los Angeles Derby Dolls have become a Los Angeles tradition.

They teach girls 7 and older and young women how to skate.

The Derby Doll teams compete against teams from across the country.

The Derby Dolls have had many homes.

Now the league needs to move again.

Their headquarters at the "Doll Factory" in LA's Historic Filipinotown neighborhood may be knocked down.

But finding a new place is a challenge, said league co-founder Rebecca Ninburg.

It has to be big and affordable, with a landlord willing to give space for a roller derby league.

Roller derby doesn't have the greatest reputation, but the Derby Dolls are not the violent, rowdy crowd some might think.

To raise money for the move and the new space, the Dolls have started an online campaign.

Their goal is to raise $100,000 by the end of the month.

So far, they've raised more than $79,000.

"I'm just gonna be so sad that we're gonna lose this place.

It's my home, it's my home away from home," said Yesenia Hernandez, 15.

She said roller derby is what gave her the confidence to stand up to bullies at her school.

Hernandez has been knocked out of the rink before, but her mom isn't worried.

The girls take care of one another, said her mother, Julie Hernandez.

Practices are intense.

Team members are known by their derby names — funny puns or tough-sounding nicknames — such as RegulateHer, Jackie Nimble and Cirque d'Slay.

Yesenia is called "Cherry Bomb."

On a recent day, young women shot around the track under a skate-shaped disco ball.

Players, who are called "jammers" in roller derby-speak, fight to get through the back of the pack.

The women are pushing and yelling when one falls hard and slides into the center of the rink.

She's in pain, but she's still smiling.

A teammate skates to the first aid cart to grab supplies.

The league has gotten dozens of offers for reality shows and documentaries.

But Ninburg, whose derby name is Demolicious, said they'll continue to turn them down unless they get a say over what the final show looks like.

Television tries to turn the sport into drama, she said, but that's not what they're about.

They're serious athletes, Ninburg said.

"We're not going to compromise who we are," she said.

At halftime of a recent game, fans strolled around the Doll House with food and drinks in their hands.

They looked at souvenir stalls and stopped to listen to bands.

"It's not polished.

It's not baseball, it's not the Lakers," said David Hale, referring to LA's basketball team.

He's a fan who found the Derby Dolls online.

"You can see it in their faces.

They're not doing it for the money, they're doing it for the love."

Ivy — known here as Shematoma, after the scientific word for bruise — is sure of herself when she whips around the track.

Her teammates, ages 7 to 17, wear skirts and patterned leggings, and some have shirts with their derby names printed on the back.

They practice skating basics, stopping and swerving around cones set up on the rink.

An upbeat soundtrack includes music like "The Bare Necessities" from Disney's film "The Jungle Book."

Ivy gets quiet and a bit shy when asked, really, what it is about roller derby she loves so much.

It makes her feel normal, her mother said, which is a big deal for a kid with a rare protein allergy that prevents her from eating 19 major foods.

Ivy can't have any outside food.

But Ninburg made sure there were frozen grapes, her favorite treat, at a recent team party.

The grapes were a hit with the other girls.

Last summer, Ivy took several weeks off to rest and undergo medical tests.

She was nervous about coming back, but her coach greeted her with a shout and a big hug.

Her friends acted as if nothing had changed.

She turned to her mom and said, "I'm home," Wolk recalled.

