Tracy Peasant began crying on the witness stand in federal court Monday morning as she testified about buying bottled water for herself and eight children — four of whom are her grandchildren — because water service at her home was cut off due to a delinquent bill of more than $8,500.

"It was hard," Peasant said, dabbing her eyes with a tissue.

Peasant said she makes $259 a month.

Her water was cut off in September 2013 because of the delinquent bill, which was extremely high at the home she rented because, she said, there was a water leak.

She said assistance funds were denied her because her bill was too high.

The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) never told her she could request a hearing to dispute the bill, Peasant testified.

"No, I'm not looking for free water," Peasant said.

"I'm just looking for affordability, to afford it."

Peasant was the first witness in Monday's hearing before bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes about Detroit's water shut-off policy.

The city has cut service to 19,000 homes in Detroit in recent months.

A coalition of advocacy groups requested a restraining order to stop the city from cutting off service.

The advocacy groups include the National Action Network, Michigan Welfare Rights Organization, Moratorium Now and the Peoples Water Board.

They argue that the city implemented shut-offs unfairly, without adequate notice and with little financial assistance for poor people who lack the means to pay.

However, lawyers for the city said Detroit cannot provide free water.

Sonal Mithani of the Miller Canfield law firm said a moratorium on shut-offs would only hurt delinquent customers because their bills would pile up.

"The city has a responsibility to all of its residents," Mithani said in her opening statement.

"It's not fair to them to shoulder the burden of free water to others."

Peasant said her service was unexpectedly restored in June by a woman she believed to be a DWSD worker.

The worker was there to ensure Peasant's water had not been illegally restored.

But she had a change of heart when she got to the neighborhood.

"She said, 'I can't do this with these kids and stuff.

This is wrong,'" Peasant testified.

"When she left, she said, 'You have some water now.'"

The advocacy groups called water director Sue McCormick to testify about the shut-off policy.

McCormick acknowledged that the department's old rules for cutting off service are posted on the department's website.

The old rules, written in 2003, call for a Water Department worker to "identify himself/herself to the customer" and show the past due account.

However, this year the department hired a contractor who often made no contact with delinquent customers before shutting off their water.

Rhodes focused on this discrepancy and asked McCormick if it was legal to cut off service to delinquent customers without complying with rules on the website.

"When a public body has a rule that it decides needs review and change, is it appropriate to simply ignore it and stop implementing it?"

the judge asked.

McCormick said the department stopped notifying customers face-to-face, but she was unsure exactly when the policy changed.

"I would say the practice of the department to modify its operations has been so long-standing that I do believe (they are) legal terminations," McCormick said.

McCormick said the department shut off service to about 24,000 Detroit residential accounts in 2013 and about 19,500 so far this year before a temporary moratorium that ended in August.

But she could not answer a series of questions about how many of those accounts were for homes with children or people with medical problems or disabilities.

McCormick said the customer service department and the water system's deputy director could better answer those questions.

She testified she makes $190,000 a year.

