Tracy Peasant began crying on the witness stand in federal court Monday morning.

She described buying bottled water for herself and eight children after her water service was cut off.

"It was hard," Peasant said, dabbing her eyes with a tissue.

Peasant was the first witness in Monday's hearing before bankruptcy Judge Steven Rhodes about Detroit's water shut-off policy.

In 2013, Detroit filed for bankruptcy because the city owes more than $18 billion in unpaid bills.

The bankruptcy will allow Detroit to sell off some of its property to raise money to cover its bills.

It will also allow the city to have some of its debts forgiven.

Peasant's water was cut off in September 2013 because she did not pay her bill, which came to more than $8,500.

She said the bill was so high because of a water leak.

Peasant was turned down for special funds that would help her pay the bill because she owed too much.

Peasant said she makes $259 a month.

The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department (DWSD) never told her she could request a hearing to challenge the bill, Peasant said.

"No, I'm not looking for free water," Peasant said.

"I'm just looking for affordability, to afford it."

The city has cut water service to 19,000 homes in Detroit in recent months.

A group of nonprofits requested that the judge issue what is called a restraining order.

The order would stop the city from shutting off people's water because of unpaid bills.

The nonprofit groups include the National Action Network, Michigan Welfare Rights Organization, Moratorium Now and the Peoples Water Board.

They argue that the city shut off water unfairly and didn't give homeowners enough notice.

They also say the city gives little financial help to poor people who do not have enough money to pay their bills.

However, lawyers for the city said Detroit cannot simply give away water.

Attorney Sonal Mithani said stopping the shut-offs would only hurt customers who have not paid their water bills, because their bills would pile up.

She said it would also hurt customers who do pay.

"The city has a responsibility to all of its residents," Mithani said.

It's not fair to charge paying customers more so that others can get free water, Mithani said.

Peasant said her water was unexpectedly restored in June by a woman she believed to be a DWSD worker.

The worker was there to make Peasant's water had not been illegally turned back on.

However, the worker had a change of heart when she got to the neighborhood.

"She said, 'I can't do this with these kids and stuff.

This is wrong,'" Peasant said.

"When she left, she said, 'You have some water now.'"

The nonprofit groups called Sue McCormick to testify about the shut-off policy.

McCormick is in charge of the DWSD.

McCormick admitted that the department's old rules for cutting off service are posted on the department's website.

The old rules, written in 2003, call for a Water Department worker to identify himself or herself to the customer and show how much money is owed.

However, this year the Water Department hired an outside company to cut off the service.

Company workers often made no contact with customers before shutting off their water.

The judge focused on this difference between what the rule says and what actually happened.

He asked McCormick if it was legal to cut off service to non-paying customers without following the rules on the website.

The judge asked whether or not it is OK for the government to ignore its own rules if those rules aren't working and need to be changed.

McCormick said the department stopped letting customers know about their water bill debts face-to-face, but she was unsure exactly when the policy changed.

She said that the department can change how it operates as long as it is following the law.

McCormick said the department shut off service to nearly 44,000 Detroit homes.

She could not say how many of the homes had children living in them or people with medical problems or disabilities.

McCormick said that others could better answer those questions.

She testified she makes $190,000 a year — about 63 times more than Peasant makes.

