Police have arrested more than 30 suspects in connection with a massive diamond heist that happened in February at the Brussels International Airport in Brussels, Belgium.

Six men were arrested in Switzerland, 24 were arrested near Brussels and one man was arrested in France.

The latter individual is thought to be the mastermind of the heist.

Seven men have been charged.

February's diamond heist stunned the world by seeming more like a Hollywood film trailer than something from real life.

At 7:47 p.m. on Monday, Feb. 18, a Helvetic Airways jet destined for Zurich, Switzerland, was sitting on the tarmac at the Brussels International Airport, ready for takeoff.

Passengers were taking their seats and flight attendants were helping travelers put bags in the proper compartments.

Below the aircraft, on the tarmac, the plane's pilot, co-pilot and security guard were loading the last of the cargo into the back of the jet.

Several of the final packages that were loaded contained uncut diamonds.

Just as the crew completed loading the last of the packages into plane, two black vehicles—one a Mercedes-Benz van and one an Audi car—came careening through a hole in an outside gate and onto the tarmac with blue lights flashing.

Once the cars came to a screeching halt next to the plane, eight heavily armed men wearing police uniforms and face masks got out of the cars, pointed guns at the crew and ordered them to open the cargo compartment.

The crew did as they were told.

The armed men reached into the cargo compartment and, with precision choreography, retrieved 120 packages of uncut diamonds, put them in their cars and sped away, going back through the same gate hole they came through.

The diamonds were valued at $50 million.

The entire heist took two minutes, 50 seconds to complete.

By the time backup security was called, the robbers had vanished.

Fortunately, no one was injured in the heist.

Passengers on the plane had no idea what had happened just inches below their feet.

They only found out about the heist when their flight was cancelled and they were forced to walk back into the Brussels airport.

The Mercedes-Benz van was found soon after the heist, burned and without anyone in it.

The Audi car was not found and a manhunt soon began.

It took European authorities nearly three months to find the suspects involved with the Brussels diamond heist.

When captured, police also found many uncut diamonds and more than $100,000 cash.

Diamonds have been called "a girl's best friend" for their sparkling beauty and the role they play in many marriage proposals as a sign of love and commitment.

But there's a brutal, dark side to the diamond trade, and it's not just about daring runway robberies.

During a civil war that stretched from 1991 until 2002 in the African country of Sierra Leone, illegal diamond mining was at some of its highest levels.

During that time, children and poor adults mined for diamonds making barely any money.

The bulk of the profit went to warlords, who sold the gems to merchants and used the money to buy arms that kept the war going.

The diamonds would then be transferred to high-end stores from Paris to New York City.

In 2003, the United Nations General Assembly made a pact to end the trading and selling of so-called "conflict diamonds."

It created the Kimberley Process, an agreement between countries to only buy and sell diamonds from legal sources.

The Process has a certification attached to it that guarantees the legality of diamonds.

Unfortunately, though, even these measures have come under scrutiny.

Today, while several countries are participants in the Kimberley Process (including the United States and many European countries), some still worry that diamonds bought and sold are coming from unclean sources or that the miners are not being fairly compensated.

The heist in Brussels may have shocked the world, but it is not the first such seizure on record.

In fact, there have been several attempts and successful confiscations of diamonds in the past.

One of the largest heists happened in February 2005 at the Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, Netherlands, when two men disguised in airline uniforms drove a stolen truck onto the tarmac and grabbed an estimated $118 million worth of diamonds from another truck nearby.

The men escaped and have never been found.

In February 2003, a group of men at the Antwerp World Diamond Centre in Antwerp, Belgium, posed as diamond merchants and made their way into a vault.

There, they stole 123 safety-deposit boxes filled with diamonds.

This group was caught a few days later, though, when a sandwich was found on the side of the road containing DNA of one of the thieves.

In Milan, Italy, in 2008, a woman complained to police that there were sounds of drilling near her apartment.

Police unwisely did not pay attention to her comments and just a few days later, it was found that jewel thieves had drilled a tunnel underneath a jewelry store.

One morning, they popped up from their hole, tied up the jewelry store staff, and made off with $20 million in jewelry.

They were never found.

