Suspects have been detained in connection with a daring diamond robbery that happened in February at Brussels International Airport in Brussels, Belgium.

Police arrested 31 people in Belgium, France and Switzerland.

On Monday, Feb. 18, a Helvetic Airways jet headed for Zurich, Switzerland, was sitting on the tarmac at the Brussels International Airport.

Passengers were taking their seats.

Below the aircraft, cargo was being loaded into the back of the jet.

Several of the final packages contained diamonds.

Just then, two black vehicles drove through a hole in an outside gate and onto the tarmac with blue lights flashing.

Once the cars came to a screeching halt next to the plane, eight men carrying machine guns and wearing police uniforms and ski masks got out of the cars.

They pointed their guns at the crew and ordered them to open the cargo compartment.

The crew did as they were told.

The armed men reached in and stole 120 packages of uncut diamonds and put them in their cars.

They then sped away and escaped by going back through the same gate hole they came through.

The diamonds were valued at $50 million.

The entire heist, or robbery, took about three minutes to complete.

By the time police officers were called, the robbers had vanished.

Fortunately, no one was injured in the heist.

Passengers on the plane did not know what had happened at first.

They only found out about the heist when their flight was cancelled.

They were then asked to walk back into the Brussels International Airport.

One of the cars used during the robbery was found soon after the incident.

It had been lit on fire and didn't have anyone in it.

The other car was not found.

Police started a manhunt immediately.

It took police officers nearly three months to find the suspects involved with the crime.

When captured, police also found uncut diamonds and more than $100,000 cash.

Some say diamonds are a girl's best friend, or a symbol of love and commitment.

But there's a dark side to the diamond trade, and it's not just about daring runway robberies.

During a civil war that stretched from 1991 until 2002 in the African country of Sierra Leone, illegal diamond mining was very common.

Children and poor adults were forced to illegally mine for diamonds for very low pay.

The warlords then sold them to merchants.

The diamonds would be transferred to stores in places like Paris and New York City and sold at very high prices.

In 2003, the United Nations General Assembly, a body representing the countries of the world, made a pact to end the buying and selling of illegal diamonds.

It   created the Kimberley Process, an agreement between countries to buy and sell diamonds from legal sources only.

The Process has a certification that guarantees diamonds are legal to buy and sell.

But some people are finding problems with this Process.

Today, while several countries take part in the Kimberley Process (including the United States and many European countries), some still worry that diamonds bought and sold are coming from sources that are unclear or that the miners are not being fairly paid.

The heist in Brussels may have shocked the world, but it is not the first time thieves have tried to steal diamonds.

Many of them have gotten away, too.

One of the largest heists happened in February 2005 at the Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, a city in the Netherlands, when two men disguised in airline uniforms drove a stolen truck onto the tarmac and stole $118 million worth of diamonds from another truck nearby.

The men escaped and have never been found.

Back in February 2003, a group of men at the Antwerp World Diamond Centre in Antwerp, Belgium, pretended they were diamond merchants and broke into a vault.

There, they stole 123 safety-deposit boxes filled with diamonds.

This group was caught a few days later when a sandwich was found on the side of the road containing DNA of one of the thieves.

Antwerp is where most of the world's rough diamonds are cut into sparkling jewels.

In Milan, Italy, in 2008, a woman complained to police that there were sounds of drilling near her apartment.

Police paid her no attention and just a few days later, it was found that jewel thieves had drilled a tunnel underneath a jewelry store.

One morning, they popped up from their hole, tied up the store staff, and made off with $20 million in jewelry.

They were never caught.

