Beth Capper gave birth to her son Ezekiel 11 months ago.

Since then, there have been days that Capper has gone without eating food.

That's because she has to save her money to buy diapers for her baby.

"There's no way around buying them," said Capper.

The 41-year-old single mom doesn't work because of a disability.

Many mothers can't afford to keep their children in clean diapers.

It's a big problem across the United States.

It just doesn't get much attention.

The journal Pediatrics did a study on the subject of "diaper need."

They say that diaper need is a problem that a large number of Americans face.

Parents who [make less than $10 an hour](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) really have a hard time buying enough diapers for their children.

Many of the mothers questioned for the study live in New Haven, Conn.

They do not have enough diapers for their children.

In Los Angeles, the need for diapers is constant.

When word spread that a group in the California city was handing out free diapers, desperate parents came to get them.

A long line formed.

The group received 3,000 voicemail messages in one day.

But no diapers were being handed out that day.

It was all a big mistake.

Parents in need can get money from the government to pay their health-care costs.

Another program helps parents in need pay their rent.

There is even a program that helps parents pay for food.

But there are few places for parents to go when they need help paying for diapers.

Megan Smith and Joanne Goldblum have been researching the diaper problem in the U.S.

They went to schools, stores, and other locations in New Haven to talk to mothers.

The researchers asked the women about diapers.

They discovered that many of the women didn't have enough diapers for their children.

The women had to ask for help to get diapers.

They asked groups, friends or family.

Latinas had a higher level of diaper need than African-American and white women.

Women 45 or older also had greater need.

Some women in the study said that they "stretched" diapers.

Stretching a diaper means removing what's in the diaper, and then putting the same diaper back on the baby's bottom.

But wearing the same diaper for too long can lead to health problems.

Those problems include irritated skin and infections that lead to babies going to the doctor.

Diaper need also affects how much money people have, Smith and Goldblum said.

Most child-care providers require that parents supply diapers.

When families can't, children miss days in day care.

Parents also have to miss days at work or school.

A parent who misses a day of work could bring home less money.

Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro wanted to make it easier for parents to get diapers.

She asked Congress to help.

DeLauro pointed out facts about diaper need in America.

She mentioned that more than 1 in 5 mothers have had to stay home with their child instead of sending them to day care.

Those mothers had to stay home with their children because they didn't have diapers to send to day care.

"Losing out on day care makes it even harder for parents to put in a full day's work," she wrote.

"And so they fall further behind."

DeLauro's effort failed.

Parents in need of diapers will have to keep asking organizations for help.

Capper gets free diapers from a group called the Children's Institute.

Many of the 25,000 families the group helps get their free diapers a different way.

They go to parenting classes.

Getting free diapers makes parents want to keep showing up for class, Institute worker Megan Aubrey explained.

"No one wants to have their child in a (dirty) diaper all day long," she said.

