It has been 11 months since Beth Capper's son Ezekiel was born.

Since then there have been days that Capper has  gone without food.

That's because she needs to save money in order to buy diapers for her baby.

"There's no way around buying them," said Capper.

The 41-year-old single mom doesn't work because of a disability.

Many mothers can't afford to keep their children in clean diapers.

It's a big problem across the United States.

It just doesn't get much attention.

A report published in the journal Pediatrics says it's a problem for a large number of Americans.

It especially affects those parents [making less than $10 an hour](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) at work.

Many of the mothers questioned for the study live in New Haven, Conn.

They do not have enough diapers for their children.

In Los Angeles, the need for diapers is constant.

When word spread that a Los Angeles-based organization was handing out diapers, desperate parents came to its office.

A long line formed and the organization received 3,000 voicemail messages that day.

But there was a problem.

There were no diapers to give out.

It was all a big mistake.

Parents in need can get money from the government to help pay their health-care costs.

Another program helps parents in need pay their rent.

There is even a program that helps parents pay for food.

But there are few places for parents to go when they need help paying for diapers.

Parents spend a little over $900 on average to keep a young child dry and clean, according to the Pediatrics study.

For a single mother making about $10 an hour, that is a very large amount of money to spend on diapers.

Many families can't afford to buy mass amounts of diapers at stores like Costco and Target.

And cloth diapers are often not an option because they require many trips to the laundromat.

Over time those trips can become very expensive.

Megan Smith and Joanne Goldblum have been researching the diaper problem in the U.S.

They went to schools, stores, bus stops, beauty parlors and other locations in New Haven to talk to mothers.

Smith and Goldblum asked the women about their health and medical care.

They also asked the women about being able to get to basic needs like food, housing and diapers.

They found that over 25 percent of the women in the study were in need of help to get diapers.

In order for their children to have diapers, the women had to ask for help from organizations, friends or family.

More Latinas needed the extra help than African-American and white women.

Women 45 or older also were more likely to need help.

Some women in the study said that they "stretched" diapers.

Stretching a diaper means removing the solid waste from a dirty diaper, and then using it again.

But wearing the same diaper for too long can lead to health problems.

Those problems include skin rashes and infections that require medicine.

Diaper need also affects how much money families have, Smith and Goldblum said.

Most child-care providers require that parents supply diapers.

When families can't, children miss days in day care and parents miss days at work or school.

A parent missing work can mean less money for a family.

Representative Rosa DeLauro wanted to make it easier for parents to get diapers.

She asked lawmakers to help.

DeLauro wrote a letter to government officials.

In the letter, DeLauro mentioned that more than 1 in 5 mothers have had to stay home with their child because they didn't have diapers to send to day care.

"Losing out on day care makes it even harder for parents to put in a full day's work," she wrote.

"And so they fall further behind."

DeLauro's effort failed.

Parents in need of diapers will have to keep asking organizations for help.

Capper gets free diapers through Children's Institute Inc.

Many of the 25,000 children and families that Children's Institute helps get their diapers by attending classes.

Institute worker Megan Aubrey said that the parents attend parenting classes.

Getting free diapers makes the parents want to come to class, Aubrey explained.

"No one wants to have their child in a soiled diaper all day long," she said.

"It's a basic thing, but it's really empowering."

But when the program ends parents are, most likely, back on their own.

