New research suggests that diet soft drinks may actually contribute to weight gain.

Now, an advocacy group is charging Coca-Cola and PepsiCo with engaging in false advertising.

The California-based group is known as Right to Know.

It plans to file two citizen petitions  Thursday.

The petitions call on the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to stop the companies from branding artificially sweetened products with the word "diet."

"Consumers are using products — Diet Coke and Diet Pepsi — that are advertised to make us think they assist in weight loss," says the petition to the Food and Drug Administration.

"In fact ample scientific evidence suggests that this is not true, and the opposite may well be true."

The American Beverage Association speaks on behalf of Coca-Cola and PepsiCo.

It strongly challenged the petitions' claims.

The association pointed to numerous studies showing "that diet beverages are an effective tool as part of an overall weight management plan."

The petitions call for more questioning about the marketing of products that contain any artificial sweeteners.

The most popular sugar substitute, aspartame, is used in more than 5,000 products.

Both Diet Coke and Diet Pepsi contain aspartame.

The artificial sweetener has been mainly sold under the brand name NutraSweet and is consumed worldwide.

Last year, Diet Coke ranked third and Diet Pepsi was seventh in U.S. carbonated soft-drink sales.

There have been safety controversies around the use of a number of artificial sweeteners for decades, especially NutraSweet and saccharin.

However, Right to Know is the first group to call for investigations into possible deceptive marketing.

A number of recent studies have challenged the belief that artificial sweeteners help with weight loss.

For example, a two-year study of 164 children found that overweight kids drank more diet sodas than normal-weight children.

Another nationwide study looked at more than 10,000 children ages 9 to 14.

It found that, for boys, drinking diet soda was "significantly associated with weight gains."

A 2010 review of previous studies concluded that "artificial sweeteners may contribute to weight gain."

Another 2010 review also found "an association between artificially sweetened beverage consumption and weight gain in children."

Also of particular interest is an Israeli study published last fall in the journal Nature.

It found that mice given the three most popular sweeteners developed bacterial changes in their guts that caused glucose intolerance.

In humans, this raises the risk of diabetes.

The researchers at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, found similar effects.

Their study observed this among people who ate artificially sweetened foods for a week.

However, not all scientists are convinced.

In particular, they challenge the idea that the sweeteners can cause weight gain.

One such scientist is Dr. James O. Hill, who has conducted his own study of artificial sweeteners.

"I am absolutely convinced that there's no way they are causing weight gain," Hill said.

Drinking diet sodas is "not something people should worry about," he added.

Hill's own study found that people who drank diet soda lost more weight than those who drank water.

Hill acknowledged receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars from the American Beverage Association to finance the study.

However, he said the industry group had no role in designing the study.

Right to Know acknowledges the conflicting research results in its petition.

However, it points to evidence that "industry-funded studies" are "less trustworthy than those funded independently."

Neither the Food and Drug Administration nor the Trade Commission would comment on the petitions.

The Food and Drug Administration regulates food labeling, while the Trade Commission polices advertising claims.

Trade commission spokesman Peter Kaplan said the agency is dedicated to "combating deceptive advertising."

"Deceptive health claims in particular are a priority of the agency," Kaplan said.

The petition to the FDA could bring the agency back to the days of bigger controversies: its decisions in the early 1980s to approve the use of aspartame, first as an added ingredient in food and then in diet soft drinks.

There have been several research studies and books that link aspartame to health problems.

These problems range from cancers to neurological ailments.

Yet the FDA has stood by its position that the sweetener is safe, except for people who suffer from a rare disease known as phenylketonuria, a developmental illness.

