Russian pianist Osip Nikiforov, 19, is recording Chopin's Etude Op.

10, No.

1, without capturing any of its sound.

In what may be a revolution in experiencing music, music can be recorded digitally as information, sent over the Internet, and replayed precisely on a similar piano thousands of miles away.

The Disklavier is a piano with sensors that record the "data" of his performance, the mechanical movements when keys and foot pedals are pressed.

Playing a piano generates thousands of bits of data.

And when turned into digital ones and zeros, that data can be stored, transmitted on the Internet, and then replayed by another Disklavier piano.

Nikiforov plays a Yamaha Corp. Disklavier owned by Stella Sick, a music professor at Hamline University in St. Paul, Minn. "These pianos are fantastic teaching tools," said Nikiforov.

"You can correct things based on just listening to yourself.

While you could do that with any recording, this one is even closer and more precise."

Sick says Nikiforov could use the piano in a try-out, or audition, to get into another music school, saving travel and other costs.

To promote Disklaviers, which cost $40,000 to $240,000, Yamaha has simplified Internet submission of recorded auditions.

Last year, the company created a cloud storage website.

The site allows Disklavier performances to be shared among 18 U.S. universities and 28 private audition sites.

George Litterst, a Massachusetts pianist who also works for Yamaha, said the network is expected to grow this year to 50 universities and 40 to 50 audition sites.

Nikiforov has already benefited from Internet auditions.

At age 13, he sent a recording from a similar Disklavier in Moscow to audition for an international music competition based in Minnesota.

He won third place, and the experience brought him there to study.

Sick, also born in Russia, has an advanced degree in music from the University of Minnesota.

But her teaching career has been altered by the technology.

"In addition to performing, I liked getting under the piano with the Yamaha technical guys to find out what they were doing, and they explained things to me," she said.

She also discovered that by listening to the Disklavier's precise playback and watching the accompanying video of the player's movements, she could help students correct their mistakes.

Sick calls it "reverse-engineering the performance," a technical term that might make some liberal arts fans cringe.

But she shrugs it off.

"My friends are both technicians and musicians, so I live in both worlds."

As a result, Sick does some part-time work for Yamaha.

She recently helped demonstrate the Disklavier for the music department staff at St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minn.

The school is wrestling with a decision on whether to use it as a way to audition prospective music students.

"We haven't done auditions by Disklavier yet, and we're looking into whether that would be a good option for us," said Kent McWilliams, a St. Olaf music professor.

He's already used older, pre-Internet models of the Disklavier for classroom piano teaching.

Disklaviers first became available in the U.S. in 1987, when they recorded piano data on floppy disks.

They are getting another look from university music teachers now that they are Internet-capable and don't require fast Internet speeds for uploads and downloads.

The Disklavier is a traditional piano that has been wired with extremely precise sensors to measure the movement of its mechanical parts.

For example, when a piano key is struck, it causes a hammer to strike a piano string.

A Yamaha sensor can measure and record the velocity of that hammer at 1,023 different increments, or levels, and stores the result as computer data.

When that data is used to reproduce that hammer speed on another Disklavier, the sound produced is virtually identical to that of the original piano.

And, aside from the classroom teaching benefits, universities wonder if remote auditions will bring them a more diverse group of students.

"Diversity of applicants is what schools ask us about," Litterst said.

"The more competitive schools want students auditioning from Asia and Europe.

The music department chair at Wayne State College in Nebraska recently listened to a remote audition from a high school junior who lives in the Aleutian Islands (in Alaska)."

Such diversity is part of the discussion at St. Olaf.

"If somebody in China wanted to audition for St. Olaf, we could arrange for them to do the audition electronically, which would be much more cost-effective for the student," McWilliams said.

"But we already draw students from other parts of the country and the world.''

Besides, he added: "We like to have students come to campus so we get a good sense of them, and they of us."

The University of Minnesota just purchased its first Disklavier.

Alexander Braginsky, a professor of piano at the UM School of Music, sees it as a valuable teaching tool whose potential has barely been scratched.

Initially, it will be used to receive audition recordings for the 2015 International e-Piano Junior Competition to be held at UM, and for teaching.

"When I play back a Disklavier recording, I can slow it down 50 percent or speed it up 25 percent without changing the key it's being played in," Braginsky said.

"That helps piano students hear what I hear.

The playback usually brings a whole lot of surprises."

But that's just the beginning, he said.

"I have used one of these Disklaviers to do remote piano lessons between Minneapolis and New York, and between New York and Tokyo," he said.

"The students enjoy it very much.

I think the uses for music education are yet to be fully explored."

