Last month, Britain's Princess Anne paid a special royal visit to the Library of Congress.

The princess was greeted by trumpeters and choirs.

She was there to lend the library one of just four surviving original copies of the Magna Carta.

The Magna Carta was written in 1215 and gave people in England their rights as citizens.

Many U.S. laws are based on it, including the U.S. Constitution.

Princess Anne's visit was the reason for the big event.

However, the white-haired man who sat next to her was the one who made it happen.

In fact, he is the man who makes everything big happen at the Library of Congress.

His name is James H. Billington.

Billington has been the librarian of Congress for more than 25 years.

He is responsible for overseeing the library's vast collection.

Only a dozen others have held the same job since the library began in 1800.

In the age of the Internet, the title "librarian of Congress" might sound old-fashioned.

Yet the 85-year-old scholar is up to date.

Billington has used the newest technology to put the library's collection online.

The World Digital Library (WDL) is just one of the projects Billington has supported.

Begun in 2009, the WDL links libraries around the world.

The Library of Congress holds more than 23 million books.

It also is home to millions of other items, from newspapers to CDs to movies.

The collection represents the "creativity of the people of the United States," Billington said.

Last month, Billington presented an award to musician Billy Joel.

This week, he announced 25 additions to the National Film Registry.

The Registry lists movies that are considered to be especially important.

Movies that make the list are preserved at the library.

The new additions include "Saving Private Ryan" and "Ferris Bueller's Day Off."

The books and other materials Billington oversees are stored in four buildings.

Three are located on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C. A fourth is in Virginia.

Billington has done a great job, said David Rubenstein.

He raises money for the library so it can stay open.

Billington has made it easier for regular people to use the library, in part by putting so much material online, Rubenstein said.

"He's as good a librarian as we've ever had."

Billington has written five books, mostly about Russia.

In 1988, he accompanied President Ronald Reagan on an important trip to Moscow.

Billington served in the U.S. Army and then taught history at Harvard University and Princeton.

In 1987, President Reagan appointed him librarian of Congress, a job he can keep for the rest of his life.

Billington said that meeting Princess Anne was "quite special."

He has not always been around the rich and famous.

Billington grew up poor in the Philadelphia area.

However, there were always books around the house.

To reward his children, his father used to bring home books.

They were usually used books that cost just 5 cents.

Billington said he is in good health and has no plans to stop working anytime soon.

He said his mission is to continue to make it easier for the public to use the library's huge collection.

Billington feels as if he has been entrusted with a mighty mission.

It is his duty, he said, to protect, preserve and share American art and history.

