Last month, the Library of Congress had a royal visitor: Britain's Princess Anne.

As she moved through the library's Thomas Jefferson Building, the princess was greeted by a band of trumpeters at each interior arch, and by a choir on each staircase.

She was there to lend the library one of just four surviving original copies of the Magna Carta, the historic 1215 document that is the basis for Western legal rights, and the U.S. Constitution.

Princess Anne was the reason for all the pomp and ceremony.

However, the distinguished white-haired man who sat next to her was the one who made it happen, who makes everything happen at the Library of Congress — James H. Billington.

For more than 25 years, Billington has been the librarian of Congress, charged with overseeing the library's vast holdings.

Only a dozen others have held the post since the library began in 1800.

In the age of the Internet, the title "librarian of Congress" might sound dated.

Yet the 85-year-old scholar has been one of the country's strongest advocates for moving the resources of the library online and expanding its educational outreach through new technology.

Among many other projects, Billington championed the World Digital Library, which began linking libraries around the world in 2009.

"It's the greatest revolution since the invention of movable type and the printing press," he said of the Internet.

Billington is a keeper of American culture, not just the keeper of books.

He is charged with preserving the past while also expanding the library's reach by keeping in tune with the moment — in music, film, and various other forms of artistic expression.

Indeed, the Library of Congress holds more than 23 million books, along with many millions of other kinds of publications, from newspapers to sheet music.

There are also more than 100 million items in the special collections.

"It's the closest thing we have to the national patrimony of intellectual and cultural creativity of the people of the United States," Billington said.

Last month, he presented the Library of Congress' Gershwin Prize for Popular Song to musician Billy Joel at a lively, pop star-filled concert.

This week he announced 25 additions to the National Film Registry.

The Registry is a list of movies that are considered essential to American film history and thus worth preserving at the library.

New entries on the list include classic movies such as "Saving Private Ryan," "Rosemary's Baby" and "Ferris Bueller's Day Off."

"We're really in the education business," Billington said.

"Lifelong learning is our brand new theme."

The books and other materials Billington oversees are stored in four buildings.

Three are located on Capitol Hill, across the street from the United States Capitol Building, while a fourth is in rural Virginia.

In addition to presenting awards celebrating American creativity, Billington has been a force behind library-sponsored events like the National Book Festival.

He oversees the cultural center where the Magna Carta — on loan from England for the "Great Charter's" 800-year anniversary — is on display.

The exhibition, through Jan. 19, also will display pieces from the library's own collection, including George Washington's draft of the U.S. Constitution, complete with handwritten notes.

"Jim has done a spectacular job in reinventing the job of librarian of Congress," said the library's head fundraiser, David Rubenstein.

"He's opened the library up — it was somewhat more cloistered before — by making it accessible and digitizing the collection," said Rubenstein, who raises money to support the library.

"He's as good a librarian as we've ever had."

Billington is a slightly built man who, once he starts speaking, barely stops to take a breath.

A lifelong scholar, his background is as an expert on Russia and the former Soviet Union.

He speaks the language and has written five books, mostly about Russia.

He wrote and narrated a PBS documentary on Russia and has traveled with members of Congress to the country, and he accompanied President Ronald Reagan to the 1988 nuclear summit in Moscow.

Billington has degrees from Princeton University and Oxford.

He served in the U.S. Army and then taught history at Harvard University from 1957 to 1962 before returning to Princeton to teach.

He also served as director of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars from 1973 to 1987 before being given the lifetime appointment at the library by Reagan in 1987.

While he enjoyed the Magna Carta event with Princess Anne — "this was quite special" — he points to his humble beginnings in the Philadelphia area.

During the Great Depression, his father would bring home used books that cost 5 cents to reward his children.

"Our house always had books, used books," he said.

Billington said he is in good health and has no plans to retire anytime soon.

His mission, he said, is to continue to make the vast trove assigned to his care more accessible to the public.

The Magna Carta event with Princess Anne symbolized in many ways what his job as librarian of Congress is all about.

The British delegation held an "entrusting ceremony" giving him the key to the case that held the historic document.

To Billington, the idea of being entrusted sums up his job.

It is his duty, he said, to protect, preserve and promote his own country's culture and history.

