Encyclopaedia Britannica used to be the king of encyclopedias.

The company wants to once again be the most important encyclopedia.

Its plan is to offer the entire online encyclopedia for free.

Britannica's president thinks this will click with a new generation.

An encyclopedia is filled with information about all areas of human knowledge.

It includes articles about topics like animals, science, nature and famous people.

Salesmen used to go door to door to sell Encyclopaedia Britannica sets to families around the world.

Two years ago, the company stopped publishing the books in print.

Company officials hoped people would instead read its encyclopedia on the Internet.

However, Britannica online has not been as popular as Wikipedia.

That online encyclopedia offers all of its articles for free.

Jorge Cauz is the president of Encyclopaedia Britannica.

He started letting people read about half of Britannica's articles at no charge.

He hoped this would increase the number of readers.

Two years ago, only one out of every five articles were free.

People needed to pay to see the rest.

About 50,000 people pay $70 each year to see all the articles online.

Another 450,000 get it for free through their Internet company.

Companies pay Britannica to advertise on its website.

This year, Britannica websites will earn about about $13 million from advertising.

The company owns Britannica.com and Merriam-Webster.com, a dictionary website.

It also owns more than 20 other websites.

Cauz said Britannica could make hundreds of millions of dollars from online ads.

Britannica.com expects 12 million people to visit the site in September.

Many of them are students.

However, Britannica.com goes beyond homework help to get people to use it.

Its pages offer photo galleries, quizzes and "listicles," which combine lists with articles.

Britannica was started in Scotland nearly 250 years ago.

It moved to Chicago in 1935.

Sold door to door for generations, the company sold more than 100,000 encyclopedia sets in 1990.

That year, it earned $650 million.

It was Britannica's best year ever.

Book sales fell after the Internet began.

People were getting their information online.

With the start of Wikipedia in 2001, the writing was on the wall for Encyclopaedia Britannica.

Cauz took charge of the company in 2003.

It stopped publishing the encyclopedia sets in 2012.

The company is making more money.

However, Britannica.com is barely making any money at all, Cauz said.

He wants it to become more popular than Wikipedia.

Britannica is the underdog in that contest.

Wikipedia is a free encyclopedia website written by volunteers.

It has nearly 4.6 million articles in English.

Britannica has only 106,000.

Britannica's articles are more reliable than Wikipedia, Cauz said.

Like Wikipedia, volunteers help write Britannica's articles.

The difference is that each Britannica article is approved by professionals.

These experts make sure that all the facts are correct.

With Wikipedia, anyone can sign up to write and change articles.

Wikipedia articles sometimes contain mistakes.

People know that knowledge and truth matter, Cauz said.

Britannica added about 2,900 new articles this year.

Its website also includes about 5,000 videos.

Britannica covers most of the same general subjects as Wikipedia.

Finding its articles, though, can be more difficult.

Cauz said more people would read Britannica articles if they were easier to find.

A Google search for Abraham Lincoln, for example, came up with nearly 3.5 million results.

The Wikipedia article was at the top of page 1.

The Britannica article was near the middle of page 2.

A click on the Britannica link revealed a full, free article.

The Britannica page also featured many ads.

They included everything from Home Depot to a Chicago law office.

Wikipedia has no paid advertising.

Cauz hopes Britannica will become an online center for people who want "to learn and know."

The company could also earn a lot of money.

