Chicago-based Encyclopaedia Britannica is looking to regain its place as the king of household reference books.

The 246-year-old company plans to shift its virtual encyclopedia toward becoming a free online resource, paid for by advertising.

The company believes it is well positioned to click with a new generation looking for information online.

"I think that most people in the consumer space would prefer to use Britannica to many other alternatives," said Jorge Cauz, 52, Encyclopaedia Britannica's president.

"Whenever Britannica appears on search engines, we have a pretty amazing click-through rate."

With its armies of door-to-door salesmen selling the expensive multivolume sets to families across the globe, Britannica was once the undisputed king of home reference libraries.

More than two years ago, the company stopped publishing its print edition in favor of a digital-only version.

However, it has struggled to get a foothold on the Internet, where competitor Wikipedia offers something on just about everything for free.

Cauz has already opened about half of Britannica's online database to the public at no charge.

He is hoping to boost the number of people visiting the site and increase the amount of money it gets from advertisers,  Two years ago, 80 percent of the articles were accessible only to paying subscribers.

Some 50,000 households pay $70 annually and an additional 450,000 get full access to the Encyclopedia Britannica site for free through partners such as telecommunications companies and Internet providers.

Its number of subscribers has remained about the same, although not everyone is paying for it, Cauz said.

Meanwhile, online traffic has more than doubled.

Money from advertising has reduced dependence on subscription fees.

Subscriptions now account for 75 percent of Britannica.com's revenue.

It was 95 percent two years ago.

Like many traditional publishers, Britannica is finding that what worked on paper doesn't necessarily succeed online.

The push-pull between income from advertising and subscriptions, though, is nothing new, according to media analyst Ken Doctor.

"For consumer publishing businesses in general, they've always balanced" money from selling copies and revenue from advertising, Doctor said.

Advertising will earn about $13 million this year for the Britannica websites, up 70 percent since 2010.

The company owns Britannica.com, Merriam-Webster.com and more than 20 other reference websites, Cauz said.

Cauz said that Britannica could potentially earn hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars from online advertising.

"It doesn't mean that we are going to be able to do that overnight," he said.

"It means that we are going to be experimenting to be able to capture a place in the consumer space again."

Britannica.com is on track for 12 million visitors in September, up from 4.7 million during the same month in 2012, executives said.

Back-to-school visits are expected to increase in October.

However, the company goes beyond homework help to drive up traffic through photo galleries, quizzes and "listicles," which combine lists with articles.

Doctor said that viewers have to look at many pages to get enough advertisers to make money.

The hard sell, digital or otherwise, is a central part of Britannica's history.

Founded in Scotland, Britannica has been headquartered in Chicago since 1935.

Peddled door to door for generations, it sold more than 100,000 printed sets as recently as 1990.

That year the company earned $650 million, its best year ever.

Book sales fell drastically when people began getting their information online.

The company was sold in late 1995 to Swiss investor Jacob Safra, who ended its door-to-door sales.

With the launch of Wikipedia in 2001, the writing was on the wall for Encyclopaedia Britannica's pricey leather-bound sets.

Cauz, a native of Mexico City, took charge of the company in 2003.

He shifted its focus to concentrate on the $10 billion U.S. educational market and stopped publishing the printed encyclopedia in 2012.

The educational business now earns 90 percent of the company's income and nearly all of its profit.

Key products include Britannica School, ImageQuest and "Pathways: Science."

The company's income is up nearly 10 percent this year, but Britannica.com is barely breaking even, Cauz said.

Its goal is to take back business from Wikipedia.

Britannica is the underdog in that contest.

Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia website written by volunteers, has nearly 4.6 million English language articles.

Britannica has 106,000.

Where Britannica outclasses Wikipedia is through an extremely thorough editorial process, Cauz said.

Like Wikipedia, users contribute to the database.

However, with Wikipedia, there is no official oversight process, so articles may contain mistakes.

Each Britannica article is professionally approved.

Cauz said that although the Internet is great for creating and distributing information, people know that knowledge and scholarship matter.

Britannica has added some 2,900 new articles and revised 7 million words this year, Cauz said.

The site also includes about 5,000 videos.

On core subject matters, Britannica covers much of the same turf as Wikipedia.

Finding its articles, though, can be a little more challenging, something Cauz admits.

"We need more visibility," he said.

"We need to be able to attract more people.

We need to be more present on search engines."

A Google search for Abraham Lincoln, for example, came up with nearly 3.5 million results, with a Wikipedia entry at the top of page 1.

The Britannica entry was near the middle of page 2.

A click on the Britannica link revealed a full, free article.

The Britannica page also featured video and other ads for everything from Home Depot to a Chicago law office.

Unlike some publishers, the company is not ready to offer paid articles by advertisers.

Almost everything else is on the table for the virtual encyclopedia to gain readers and money.

Cauz hopes Britannica "becomes an anchor on the Web for people that are wanting to learn and know.

It can be very, very profitable," he said.

