Ralph Nader is intense, driven, focused on detail, and slightly untidy.

He looks like the original geek.

The former presidential candidate has a large electronic footprint on the Internet and social media.

But it turns out that Nader, who just turned 80, is so last century.

His latest book, "Unstoppable," will soon be out, and like his previous 11 it was typed on a bulky manual typewriter.

He doesn't have a cellphone.

"Why should I have a cellphone?

I have people I don't want to get phone calls from," he says.

And his Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and email accounts are written by people working for him, under strict guidelines.

"I've never seen them," he said of his Internet accounts.

Nader is one of a small group of Americans who are "digitally resistant."

They avoid using electronic devices.

That means no Internet and no smartphones.

But there's another new group that's also turning to old technology.

Some tech users are distrustful of the amount of electronic spying revealed by Edward Snowden who used to work for the National Security Agency.

"After Snowden, how comfortable can anyone be putting their (whole) life online," asked Warren Sack.

"Or even on their own computer?"

Sack is a software designer and professor.

The Pew Research Center took a poll last month to mark the 25th birthday of the World Wide Web.

It found that 81 percent of U.S. adults use laptop and desktop computers at home, work, school or someplace else.

The January poll of 1,006 Americans also found that 90 percent of all U.S. adults have cellphones.

More than half of these are smartphones.

In the 18-29 age group, 98 percent have cellphones.

And 83 percent of them are smartphones.

The Pew Research Center's Internet project found that 87 percent of U.S. adults use the Internet at least occasionally.

And 71 percent use it every day.

"This is a significant increase from the year 2000, our first measure.

Just 29 percent of all adults said they went online on a typical day," according to Pew.

In many ways, Jamie Patterson and Matthew Chojnacki are typical millennials.

The young married couple in their 20s grew up on the Internet and live a city life in Toronto.

"I was very much ingrained in the digital culture," said Chojnacki.

But after stumbling onto a sort of yard sale one day, Chojnacki bought several typewriters and started fixing them up.

Pretty soon, he and Patterson had a business.

They buy, restore and sell typewriters.

Of course, they use a website, OldFortTypewriterCo.com.

They would lug the typewriters to a weekly "vintage night" at a local bar.

Some people would type.

Others would knit.

A disc jockey would play vinyl records.

Jeff Hendrie is an 18-year-old high school senior in Detroit.

He does just about everything the old-fashioned way.

He lugs a typewriter to school every day.

He uses a flip phone and considers the U.S. mail "the most secure system."

He has an email account, but only because he has to.

He is not on social media.

Teachers who usually send students their assignments by text will give them to him in person instead.

"I was born in the wrong era," Hendrie said.

Lynne Joyrich is a professor of modern culture and media.

But she still likes to use mid-20th-century devices.

She has a collection of phones with circular dials.

"I keep them because they are very beautiful," she said of her collection of old phones.

Several work.

She has a smartphone to keep in touch with students.

But she often forgets she has it, "for the pleasure of being able to be left alone."

The ability to control whom you are in contact with matters more and more.

New York City-based Laura Pitter, a researcher at Human Rights Watch, a nonprofit group, said: "I'm much more careful about what I do online.

I talk in person more now."

She worries about foreign governments watching people.

So do other people who look at human rights.

"People are keeping things in notebooks," she said.

"Even the most savvy people who work in this area find it's very difficult to protect yourself."

