!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20131122_NEWDINOSAUR.jpg)CHICAGO — The bones of a new type of dinosaur were discovered in Utah.

It's being called Siats meekerorum.

It was an important dinosaur that came before Tyrannosaurus rex.

For a time, it ruled North America.

And Siats had relatives too.

It was a close cousin to certain dinosaurs found on other continents.

The huge animal was 30 feet long and weighed 4 tons.

Siats's remains were discovered in Utah by scientists from the Field Museum in Chicago.

Peter Makovicky and Lindsay Zanno led the expedition.

The bones were found in an area of 100-million-year-old rocks.

The discovery of Siats meekerorum is important.

Until now, very little was known about North American dinosaurs during the time Siats lived.

This was tens of millions of years before T. rex entered the scene.

Siats wasn't as big as T. rex.

But it was huge all the same: It is the third-largest carnivore, or meat-eater, ever found on the continent.

It was named after a legendary man-eating monster.

Zanno spotted the first of the bones in 2008.

She came across it on a hillside in Utah's Cedar Mountains.

Her discovery came just as the group was getting ready to call it quits.

This Friday, Zanno and Makovicky will show the new dinosaur to the world.

"It's more than just a new dinosaur," Makovicky said.

"It's the first evidence we have of a whole new group of dinosaurs in North America."

The discovery also challenges a common idea.

Scientists had thought that dinosaurs in North America were only found in North America.

They believed they were "only remotely related to (those on) other continents," Makovicky said.

The new discovery proves this idea was wrong, he said.

It shows that dinosaurs spread themselves "pretty widely across the continents."

Because of its size, Siats was probably king in its time.

And it probably attacked T. rex's smaller ancestors for food.

Siats isn't related to T. rex.

Rather, it is part of the allosauroid family.

It is related to the Giganotosaurus.

These lived in South America.

Zanno described her discovery of the first Siats bone.

After a week of looking, they had "found nothing," she said.

"I was walking across this low badland and stumbled across this sort of black bone.

I looked down and saw immediately it was a type of bone from a predatory dinosaur."

Predators are meat-eaters that hunt other animals.

The scientists spent the rest of their time digging around the bone.

They soon realized it was a huge hipbone.

But they began to wonder.

Maybe they hadn't found a predator.

Maybe, they had found a big herbivore, or plant-eater.

The scientists returned in 2009 and 2010 to continue digging.

Soon they realized Zanno was right: They were dealing with a predator.

More bones were turned up, including parts of the backbone.

The bones were then brought back to the lab.

Many had to be carefully removed from chunks of rock.

After five years of careful study, the Siats bones were finally ready to be shown.

Most of the bones found are from one animal.

But there is also a toe bone and a couple of tailbones from a second Siats.

Makovicky said he and Zanno also found bones from two other new kinds of dinosaurs.

Sometime soon, those dinosaurs too will be shown to the world.

