Wylie Brys is not even in kindergarten, but he has made the discovery of a lifetime.

Last fall, the 4-year-old from Arlington, Texas, and his dad were searching for fish fossils, the remains of ancient fish.

The preschooler found a bone that has gotten scientists pretty excited.

The 3-inch bone turned out to be part of a Nodosaurus.

The 94-million-year-old dinosaur looked like a "fat, squatty cow with armor," said Michael Polcyn, a paleontologist from Southern Methodist University (SMU) in Texas.

Paleontologists are scientists who study fossils.

At first, the paleontologists were doubtful that the bone was from a rare dinosaur.

They did not think much could be found on a construction site less than 100 yards from a busy road.

They thought the bone was probably from a plesiosaur, an ancient marine reptile.

Plesiosaur fossils can be found all over the Dallas area, SMU paleontologist Dale Winkler said.

Scientists were not expecting to find much of the Nodosaurus, Winkler said.

"It looked like the bones had been spread around.

We started digging and one bone connected to another bone that connected to another bone that connected to another bone," he said.

The paleontologists, along with volunteers from the Dallas Paleontological Society, started digging on April 3.

They found more than 50 percent of the Nodosaurus.

It was one of only five ever found in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and the first since the 1990s.

Wylie's dinosaur is the most complete of all, said SMU paleontologist Louis Jacobs.

He wrote "Lone Star Dinosaurs," a book about the history of dinosaurs in Texas.

"Much of the skeleton is there," Jacobs said.

"We don't know how much.

We took out legs, the backbone and ribs."

Winkler, Polcyn and members of the paleontological society pulled out most of the body Monday.

They found a thighbone Wednesday morning in the thick red clay soil about a yard from the original bone.

"We didn't think anything else was in there," Winkler said.

The paleontologists wrapped the bones in plaster.

They moved the 6-foot-by-3-foot, 18-inch-thick lump to Jacobs' lab at SMU.

There, they will take the skeleton apart, clean the bones and try to put the dinosaur back together.

The scientists say they probably will never know why the Nodosaurus died.

Nodosaurs were like the armadillos of the dinosaur world.

They were short, squat and covered in armored plates with soft bellies.

The reptiles, which are not related to today's armadillos, ate plants and were about the size of a small horse, Jacobs said.

The bones were found in what was then the Western Interior Seaway, part of what is now the Gulf of Mexico.

Fossils of fish scales and bones were found all around the Nodosaurus.

Although Wylie found the first bone last fall, the paleontologists could not start digging until recently.

They needed to get permission from the people who owned the land.

The landowners have given the bones to SMU.

The Nodosaurus bones were found on the top of a hill in Mansfield.

The area had been scraped flat during construction of a nearby store and washed by the rain, Tim Brys said.

Several bones were lying on top of the ground, he said.

He reburied them and wrote down where they were.

The only one who is not impressed by the rare discovery is the boy who found it.

Wylie was asked whether he would rather find dinosaur bones or dig in the dirt.

"Dig in the dirt," Wylie said.

"Wylie hasn't said a whole lot about it," said his father, Tim Brys.

"I don't think that he gets this is a once-in-a-lifetime thing."

Wylie has his own name for his dinosaur.

He calls it Ralphie after another reptile, his favorite Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle — Raphael.

The father and son plan to keep digging for fossils, Tim Brys said.

"I can't guarantee we'll find another dinosaur, but we'll keep looking," he said.

