Scott Richardson stood atop a ridgeline near his base camp at dawn.

"This is dinosaur country," he says, gesturing toward the valley below him.

"There are bones all over this place."

Richardson searches for dinosaurs.

He is a bone hunter of ancient predators and their prey.

From March to September, he works as a paleontologist technician for the government.

Most of the time, he trudges in the desert.

He is always watching for a hint — a different color, feel or shape — that suggests a dinosaur's grave might lie somewhere beneath.

For 12 years, he has bushwhacked across southern Utah.

He scouts out traces of the distant past.

"These were colossal creatures that ruled the planet for millions of years," Richardson says.

He is standing in his lab.

He holds a 5-foot-long hadrosaur femur, which looks like a bone from an old "Flintstones" cartoon.

He digs up "bones that haven't seen the light of the sun for 80 million years."

He says it's "just pretty incredible."

The 1-million-square-acre Kaiparowits Plateau is part of the national park where he works.

It contains bones from the Cretaceous period, which lasted from 144 million to 65 million years ago.

This part of southern Utah back then was lush forest.

It was the coast of the lost continent Laramidia when a vast sea split present-day North America.

"It wasn't exactly a fun time to be around," Richardson says.

"Temperatures were over 100 degrees, with 90 percent humidity.

Aside from the predators, there were bugs, insects and worms, all of them with sharp teeth that were trying to eat you.

Even the birds had teeth."

Rugged and isolated, the plateau was not mapped by the U.S. Geological Survey until half a century ago.

And it is basically untouched by paleontologists.

Scientists in the last decade have dug up as many as 20 new dinosaur species.

They also discovered a 90-million-year-old shark with grinding teeth.

They found a horned skull the size of a small elephant.

There were also 2-foot-tall creatures with razor claws that ran in deadly packs.

Walking hundreds of miles a year, Richardson has uncovered four new species of dinosaur, including the only full head and spine of a Kosmoceratops.

He found a member of the armored ankylosaur family; a Lythronax, which is an ancestor of the Tyrannosaurus rex; and an unknown species of a duck-billed dinosaur.

"Scott is persistent; he's spent more time out there than almost anyone," says Mike Getty, a paleontologist at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science.

Getty has also surveyed the area.

"His success is a mix of his on-site training and doggedness."

Richardson remembers his first big dinosaur find.

It is as important to him as the birth of a parent's first child.

The year was 2006.

Just after a hard rain, Richardson spied bones in the dirt while hiking along a narrow ridgeline a few miles north of his current campsite.

Dropping his 40-pound pack heavy with tools, he began carefully digging.

His heart raced with excitement.

He felt he had found something truly amazing.

He approached a paleontology team nearby and asked the experts to look at his find.

They told him the bones were nothing special — and then broke into grins.

The site was huge: a full skull of an unknown cousin of the triceratops.

"We could tell it was a brand-new skull," Getty says.

"It's not often you see a specimen with that many features preserved.

It was clearly something unlike anything else ever found."

The creature, labeled "the horniest dinosaur," had a record-breaking 15 horns jutting from its skull.

It was eventually named Kosmoceratops richardsoni.

Richardson's friends began calling him "Scottosaurus."

"That's when I knew I'd arrived," he says.

"There's a photo of me with the skull, grinning ear to ear like a proud daddy."

