Last fall, 4-year-old Wylie Brys was digging in the dirt with his dad.

They were looking for fish fossils.

Wylie found something much more amazing.

He discovered a 3-inch bone that belonged to a 94-million-year-old dinosaur.

The dinosaur is called Nodosaurus and looked like a fat cow with armor, said Michael Polcyn.

He is a paleontologist from Southern Methodist University (SMU) in Texas.

Paleontologists are scientists.

They study fossils, which are the bones and remains of ancient creatures.

On April 3, paleontologists and volunteers from the Dallas Paleontological Society started digging.

Scientists were not expecting to find much of the Nodosaurus, said Dale Winkler.

He is another SMU scientist.

"It looked like the bones had been spread around.

We started digging and one bone connected to another bone that connected to another bone that connected to another bone."

More than half of the Nodosaurus was found.

It was one of only five nodosaurs ever found in the Dallas-Fort Worth area and the first one since the 1990s.

Wylie's dinosaur is the most complete of them all, said SMU paleontologist Louis Jacobs.

He wrote "Lone Star Dinosaurs."

The book tells the history of dinosaurs in Texas.

"Much of the skeleton is there," Jacobs said.

"We don't know how much.

We took out legs, the backbone and ribs."

Winkler, Polcyn and the volunteers pulled out most of the body Monday.

They found a thighbone Wednesday morning.

It was in the thick red clay soil about a yard from the original bone.

The paleontologists wrapped the bones in plaster.

They moved it to Jacobs' lab at SMU.

There, they will take the skeleton apart, clean the bones and try to put together the dinosaur.

The scientists say they probably will never know why the Nodosaurus died.

Nodosaurs were like the armadillos of the dinosaur world.

They were short, squat and covered in armored plates.

The reptiles ate plants and were about the size of a small horse, Jacobs said.

They are not related to today's armadillos.

Millions of years ago, the Dallas area was underwater.

Fossils of fish scales and bones were found all around the Nodosaurus.

Wylie found the dinosaur bone on the top of a hill in Mansfield, near Dallas.

The ground had been scraped flat during the construction of a nearby store, Tim Brys said.

Several bones were lying on top of the ground, he said.

Brys reburied them and made note of where they were.

The only one who is not impressed by the rare discovery is the boy who found it.

Wylie was asked whether he would rather find dinosaur bones or dig in the dirt.

"Dig in the dirt," Wylie said.

His father said that Wylie does not realize how amazing his discovery was.

"I don't think that he gets this is a once-in-a-lifetime thing," his father said.

Wylie calls the dinosaur Ralphie.

He named it after Raphael, his favorite Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle.

The father and son plan to keep digging for fossils, Tim Brys said.

Wylie's dad could not promise they will find anything.

"But we'll keep looking," he said.

