.

LOUIS - The roommates at Colgate University would talk about what to do after college.

They were just freshman, 18 or 19.

Still, they had ideas.

One wanted to be a lawyer.

Another, a music producer.

And then there was Ryan C. Fogle from Missouri.

He wanted to join the FBI or CIA.

"Those were his goals in life," Ben Flicker, one of those roommates who is now a lawyer in Denver, said Wednesday.

"He had this sense of service, of duty."

Fogle, 29, may have lived his dream.

And the whole world now seems to know about it.

Fogle is accused by Russia of spying for the CIA.

Russia says he was pretending to be a U.S. diplomat in Moscow.

His arrest was splashed over newspapers and television.

It appeared to be designed to embarrass the United States.

Russian television showed Fogle, wearing a crooked blond wig under a baseball cap.

He was shown with his supposed spy tools.

These included cash, pairs of dark sunglasses, a compass and map of Moscow, a knife, more wigs, and pepper spray.

He also had a letter on him describing his plans.

Then Fogle was kicked out of the country.

But the details of Fogle's arrest have raised suspicions.

Some think he was used to make a point in the struggle between the United States and Russia.

Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat from Missouri, said stories of Fogle's arrest made her "curiouser and curiouser."

"It reads like something you would see in a movie.

I know our intelligence community is very sophisticated, so that's why it doesn't compute," she told reporters.

The State Department said little about the event.

A spokesman said it did not come up in a meeting Wednesday between U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and a top Russian official.

"I wouldn't read too much into one incident one way or another," spokesman Patrick Ventrell said.

Russia says Fogle tried to get a Russian officer to spy for the United States.

The officer was a counterterrorism agent.

He knew a lot about the Caucasus region in Russia.

That is where the two Boston Marathon bombing suspects had family.

Eric O'Neill was a former FBI officer.

He said he believes Fogle works for the CIA.

And he probably was trying to recruit agents.

That seems believable.

But the things Fogle carried with him did not seem to be the tools of a CIA spy.

"I doubt he had this kit on him," he said.

Those were probably props that were planted on him to make the arrest look more dramatic, he explained.

O'Neill helped capture former FBI agent Robert Hanssen, who spied for the Russians.

O'Neill thought the pepper spray and knife were not believable.

The compass is unnecessary nowadays.

"I doubt he was really running around with a wig," he said.

The letter for the Russian officer sounded fake to O'Neill.

Written in Russian, it offered $100,000 plus $1 million a year.

"That's a pretty big budget," he said.

He also noticed the letter opens with "Dear friend" and closes with "Your friends."

That is how the Russians wrote to Hanssen, O'Neill said.

It is not how Americans talk to Russians.

"That doesn't ring true to me," he said.

Peter Earnest worked for the CIA for 36 years.

Now he runs the International Spy Museum.

He said a CIA agent might use a compass and wigs.

"We used very traditional means to run spies."

Earnest thought Russian agents probably created an opportunity that Fogle could not resist.

The Russians may want to embarrass the CIA after 10 Russian spies were exposed in 2010 in the United States.

Fogle is said to be very smart.

That makes the whole story harder to understand.

He graduated from Colgate in 2006.

He was an honor student who studied politics.

He was focused on his goal.

Flicker, his former roommate, said Fogle did not want to be near students who were doing drugs.

He thought it might hurt his chances to join the FBI or CIA.

