Disneyland is called "The Happiest Place on Earth."

It has become one of the most crowded places, too.

Tourists and locals who have year-round passes are flooding Disneyland and California Adventure.

Waits for rides often stretch over an hour.

Visitors have to park far away.

Sundays are the worst.

Theme park experts say the crowding problem leaves Walt Disney Co. with two choices.

The company can keep raising prices until attendance becomes manageable.

Or it could make the park bigger.

Over the weekend, Disneyland raised single-day ticket prices by $4 to $96.

It also temporarily halted new sales of a popular annual pass for people who live in Southern California.

Disneyland officials say they have no current plans for a new Anaheim park.

Still, that hasn't stopped people from talking about one.

Disney has thought about making a new park before.

They even had someone draw up a plan in 2000.

Many longtime park watchers say now may be the time to look at the plans.

The park would be built on a 78-acre site, just south of Disney's current parks.

Those plans were put away while the company focused on the 2001 opening of Disney California Adventure.

That park did not do as well as expected.

Then the company spent $1 billion to expand the park in 2012 and add Cars Land.

It was a big hit.

Disney acquired Marvel Entertainment Inc. in 2009.

It bought Lucasfilm in 2012.

Many fans hoped a third park would feature Marvel superheroes.

Or it could have characters from Lucasfilm's "Star Wars" movies.

"Maybe they'll do Star Wars Land or Indiana Jones Adventure or Marvel characters," said Todd Regan.

He started the Disney blog site MiceChat.com.

"It will be interesting to see what happens."

Disneyland officials say they are focused on expanding parking for now.

The company also has a $4 billion resort in Shanghai.

That theme park in China is slated to open next year.

"They've got a lot on their plate," said Dennis Speigel.

He is president of International Theme Park Services in Cincinnati.

Disneyland does not give out attendance numbers.

But estimates from the company Aecom show visitor numbers increased nearly every year from 2004 to 2012.

The large jump in attendance comes just as Americans are spending more on travel.

Businesses are growing and fewer people are out of work now.

Also, more people are eager to travel now that winter storms have finally ended.

Speigel said theme parks across the country could see double-digit increases in attendance this year.

The increases could be as much as 25 percent.

In Southern California, Universal Studios Hollywood also recently raised its one-day ticket prices from $84 to $92.

But Disneyland's decision to halt sales of its $379 Southern California Annual Passport is expected to play the biggest role in reducing crowds.

The pass lets people come to the park 215 days of the year, including Sundays.

Local pass holders often crowd the parks.

They leave little space for out-of-town travelers.

Out-of-towners typically stay in Disney hotels and spend more on souvenirs.

The program gained popularity in 2008 when it started to let people pay for the pass in smaller monthly payments.

"Pass holders use the park differently than others," said Adrienne Vincent-Phoenix.

She is an annual pass holder and chief executive of the Disney fan site MousePlanet.com.

"You go to the park like you would go to hang out at the mall with your friends."

Suspending sales of the annual passports is an attempt to reduce Sunday crowds.

Part of the idea is to encourage people who live nearby to visit during the week.

Crowds are smaller then, industry experts say.

Disney continues to sell a $289 annual pass for Southern California residents.

The pass does not include weekend visits.

Disneyland officials say they have no plans to suspend the sales of any other passes.

"It's a challenging situation," said John Gerner, managing director of Leisure Business Associates.

The company gives advice to theme parks.

"Disney doesn't want to be seen as taking advantage of customers, but they have an obligation to try to make as much profit from their park."

Other pass holders complained that the park has not added new rides.

They say that there is no reason for the higher prices.

Ken Bruce owns the cheaper no-weekend  pass.

He worries that Disneyland may consider suspending his pass to make room for high-spending out-of-town visitors.

"By and large, annual pass holders have a very strong emotional connection to the park and know the history," he said.

"To go for that blind money grab seems they are not paying attention to us."

