Curtis Doyle is excited about visiting Walt Disney World next summer.

He reminds his dad about the trip every day, sometimes more than once.

But the trip is causing his father, Brad, anxiety.

Curtis is 27 years old and has autism, a brain disorder.

And he will be affected by a new change in policy at the theme park.

Disney recently said it would stop allowing disabled guests to jump ahead in lines at its attractions.

Disney will give them return times instead.

It might seem a minor change to most families.

But it's not to Brad, whose son, like many people with intellectual disabilities, has a habit of becoming attached to certain things.

He becomes frustrated when he cannot have or do them.

Sometimes he melts down in outbursts and bites his own hands.

Across the country, parents of children with disabilities are alarmed at the news that Disney will soon end its "guest assistance card" program.

Some have launched online petitions and letter-writing campaigns.

Some parents say waiting for a long time is not practical for their children.

Some cannot mentally process why they can't ride immediately.

Others must be on rigid schedules for food, medicine or even bathroom breaks.

Some can be in the parks for only two or three hours before their child becomes exhausted or has a meltdown.

"This is going to be a huge obstacle for my son," said Brad, 49, of Glendale, Ariz.

He has taken Curtis to Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif, many times.

"I really have to rethink my whole vacation now."

Disney says it is sympathetic to their concerns.

But it also says it must make changes to the program.

Right now the guest assistance cards are being widely exploited by others.

Stories of wealthy families hiring disabled tour guides to pose as family members have drawn national attention and scorn.

But the more common abuse is subtler.

People are faking handicaps that can be hard to check, such as heart murmurs, back pain or claustrophobia.

Groups have been caught using a pass issued to an elderly relative to jump the lines for rides that the relative can't go on.

The abuse has gotten worse in recent years.

Disney's theme parks draw tens of millions of visitors a year, and the swelling crowds have fed abuse.

Last year, Disney California Adventure opened Cars Land, based on the movie Cars.

Soon after, Disney found that close to a quarter of all the visitors riding Radiator Springs Racers in Cars Land were using a guest assistance card.

That meant 5,000 visitors out of 20,000 each day, according to MiceChat.com, a website devoted to Disney theme-park news.

Most were also annual pass holders.

Disney won't provide exact figures.

But it says that it now gets hundreds of thousands of requests annually for guest assistance cards.

It admits that the number of people asking for them has grown "substantially" during the past few years.

Disney says it remains committed to making disabled visitors welcome in its parks.

"Unfortunately, our current program has been abused and exploited to such an extent that we are no longer able to effectively sustain it," Meg Crofton said in a statement.

She's president of Disney's theme-park operations in the U.S. and France.

Disney released the statement Friday in an open letter to organizations that help disabled people.

"We have long recognized that people may have different needs, and we will continue to work individually with our Guests with disabilities to provide assistance that is responsive to their unique circumstances," she wrote Disney is widely seen as among the most friendly companies in the world for disabled visitors.

Its guest assistance cards are a big reason why.

They don't completely get rid of waiting.

But they generally permit disabled guests and their parties to immediately enter the FastPass line at an attraction or use a separate entrance.

"The big thing to me was, with kids with special needs, it's just extremely difficult to go and take a vacation," said Chuck Baugh, 48, of Boca Raton.

He has two sons.

His family does not like stopping at public restrooms because his children have conditions that affect their immune systems.

Both Universal Orlando and SeaWorld Orlando generally require disabled visitors to return to rides at certain times.

Disney will begin using that same model Oct. 9.

Under Disney's new system, guests will be issued access cards.

When they show those cards to employees at ride entrances they will be given a time to return.

The length of the current standby line will determine the return time.

The new cards will also include the visitor's photo and will be good for seven days.

They were good for 14 days under the old system.

"For some families, that's going to be perfectly fine and acceptable.

But I think there are some where it's going to limit their ability to go," said Christie Ebeltoft-Bancalari.

She is an Orlando mother of a child who has a genetic condition called Down syndrome.

Parents say there must be a better solution.

Some suggest making families apply for the cards before they arrive in the parks.

Others say Disney could allow parents to collect return times for several attractions at once, though doing so might invite more abuse.

"There has to be some sort of middle ground," said Don La Vette of Joliet, Ill. She has an 11-year-old son with autism and language and coordination problems.

"Goodness gracious, you can't hurt kids with disabilities because you have able-bodied people abusing the system or cheating."

