"The Happiest Place on Earth" has become one of the most crowded places, too.

Tourists and locals with year-round passes are flooding Disneyland and California Adventure.

The crowds are causing headaches for guests and park officials.

Waits for rides often stretch more than an hour, and visitors are having to park in remote structures.

Sundays are the worst.

Amusement park experts say the crowding problem leaves Walt Disney Co. with two options: Keep increasing rates until attendance becomes manageable, or expand the park.

Over the weekend, Disneyland raised single-day ticket prices by $4 to $96.

It also temporarily halted new sales of a popular annual pass for Southern California residents.

Disneyland officials say they have no current plans for a new Anaheim park.

Still, that hasn't stopped people from discussing the possibility.

Disney has plans available for a new, third park.

They were drawn up in 2000.

Many longtime park watchers say now may be the time to dust off the plans.

The park would be built on a 78-acre site, just south of Disney's current parks.

Those plans were shelved while the company focused on the 2001 opening of Disney California Adventure.

That park did not do as well as expected.

Then the company spent $1 billion to expand the park in 2012.

It added the Cars Land attraction, which has been hugely successful.

Disney acquired Marvel Entertainment Inc. in 2009.

It bought Lucasfilm in 2012.

Many fans hoped a third park would feature Marvel superheroes or characters from the "Star Wars" movies.

"Maybe they'll do Star Wars Land or Indiana Jones Adventure or Marvel characters," said Todd Regan.

He founded the Disney blog site MiceChat.com.

"It will be interesting to see what happens."

Disneyland officials say they are focused on expanding parking for now.

Amusement park experts say Disney might be better off focusing its attention on other theme park projects.

These include a $4 billion resort in Shanghai.

The theme park in China is slated to open next year.

"They've got a lot on their plate," said Dennis Speigel, president of International Theme Park Services in Cincinnati.

Disneyland does not disclose how many vistors its parks receive.

But estimates from the company Aecom show visitor numbers have increased nearly every year from 2004 to 2012.

And they're continuing to rise.

Disney reported an 18 percent increase in profit from theme parks and resorts in the past six-month period.

The rise in attendance comes just as Americans are spending more on travel.

The economy is growing.

Also, more travel is happening now that winter storms have ended.

Speigel said theme parks across the country could see double-digit increases in attendance this year.

The increases could be as much as 25 percent.

"We are seeing the shaping up of a tremendous 2014," he said.

In Southern California, Universal Studios Hollywood also recently increased its one-day ticket prices.

They rose from $84 to $92.

But Disneyland's decision to halt sales of its $379 Southern California Annual Passport is expected to play the biggest role in reducing crowds.

The pass offered access to the park 215 days of the year, including Sundays.

Local pass holders often crowd the parks.

They leave little space for out-of-town travelers who typically stay in Disney hotels and spend more on souvenirs.

The program gained popularity in 2008, when the company began offering a monthly payment plan.

"Pass holders use the park differently than others," said Adrienne Vincent-Phoenix, an annual pass holder and chief executive of the Disney fan site MousePlanet.com.

"You go to the park like you would go to hang out at the mall with your friends."

Suspending sales of the annual passports is an attempt to reduce Sunday numbers.

Part of the idea is to encourage local residents to visit during the week, when crowds are smaller, industry experts say.

Disney continues to sell a $289 annual pass  for Southern California residents.

The pass does not include weekend visits.

Disneyland officials say they have no plans to suspend the sales of any other passes.

It's not the first time Disneyland has tried to ease crowding through price increases.

Two years ago, the park raised rates for one of its most expensive passes, allowing access 365 days a year, by 30 percent to $649, but it didn't work.

"It's a challenging situation," said John Gerner, managing director of Leisure Business Associates.

The company gives advice to theme parks.

"Disney doesn't want to be seen as taking advantage of customers, but they have an obligation to try to make as much profit from their park."

Other pass holders complained that the park has not added new attractions to justify the higher prices.

"Nothing has really changed or been added in years," said annual pass holder Ken Bruce.

Bruce owns the cheaper Southern California annual pass that blocks out weekend admission.

But he worries that Disneyland may consider suspending his pass to make room for high-spending out-of-town visitors.

"By and large, annual pass holders have a very strong emotional connection to the park and know the history," he said.

"To go for that blind money grab seems they are not paying attention to us."

