"Frozen" is the best-selling animated movie of all time.

It came out in 2013.

Yet it is still making Disney more money than ever, said Robert Iger.

He is the head of Walt Disney Company.

Last year, people bought more than $1 billion in "Frozen" products.

The faces of Elsa and Anna are on everything from dolls to iPhone cases.

The two princesses are the main characters.

Even Sven the reindeer and Olaf the snowman appear on things like T-shirts and backpacks.

In November, Disney sold 3 million "Frozen" princess dresses.

The movie has also been good for toy companies.

"Frozen" was the biggest and fastest-growing brand of toy in 2014.

Jason Moser is a business expert.

He said Disney hit the jackpot with "Frozen."

"It can go on forever," Moser said.

It shows what Disney is so good at, he said.

It makes a movie like "Frozen."

Then it is really good at coming up with toys and other products.

These make Disney even more money.

Even after a year, Disney has kept kids really interested in "Frozen."

Kids can go on "Frozen" rides at Disneyland in California.

They can also take a "Frozen" boat cruise.

A new "Frozen" movie is coming out in March, called "Frozen Fever."

Disney began thinking about the toys way before the movie was made.

In fact, big stores and toymakers talk to Disney before their movies are made.

Talking can change how a character looks.

Michael Giaimo is the art director for "Frozen."

He said the Disney artists talk to stores and toymakers while the artists draw characters.

They were told what girls like and do not like.

The artists often listen.

Disney wants characters that will be popular toys that people will buy.

In the end, Disney wants to make a good movie.

It does not just want to sell toys, Giaimo said.

For instance, he stayed away from the color pink in the movie.

Giaimo said that Anna and Elsa are strong characters.

He did not want them to look like every other princess in pink.

"Frozen" will not be popular forever, some experts said.

"By 2016, we will be darn tired of 'Frozen,'"  said Gerrick Johnson.

He is a business expert.

To keep kids wanting new toys, Disney has to keep coming up with with new characters.

All the new characters is one reason why "Star Wars" toys are still so popular.

Sometimes, people get tired of too many new products and movies, though, Johnson said.

Disney thinks it will not have that problem.

Disney wants to make toys that kids feel strongly about, Josh Silverman said.

He works at Disney.

Disney wants kids to get the same feeling as when they see the movie.

A lot of thought and planning go into the toys.

"It's one of the amazing things Walt Disney Company does better than anybody else," he said.

