Last month, airplane pilots received warnings.

They were reminded not to fly over Disney's theme parks.

The alerts were posted on the website of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).

The FAA is in charge of the skies over the United States.

The sky over Disney is "national defense airspace," the warnings said.

Planes flying over Disney parks could be forced to land.

The pilots could be arrested.

Areas in the sky like this are called no-fly zones.

They usually last only a short time.

Their purpose is safety.

Planes cannot fly near President Barack Obama when he travels, for instance.

No-fly zones are also put in place during football games and other sporting events.

Yet the Disney no-fly zones have been there for years.

The Disney no-fly zones have been law since 2003.

Government officials did not ask for the Disney no-fly zones.

Instead, the idea came from Disney.

It pushed Congress for the law.

Disney says the no-fly zones are for safety.

It is to make sure that crowds of people at Disney's parks cannot be attacked from the sky.

The no-fly zones are over  Disneyland in California and Walt Disney World in Florida.

Some people oppose the law.

They think Disney had another purpose.

They say Disney actually wanted to stop airplane advertising over the parks.

Advertising planes tow banners that tell people about events or products to buy.

Disney had been trying to stop the ad planes for years.

Michael P. Huerta is the leader of the FAA.

Huerta told Congress that he would like to end the no-fly zones over Disney.

Defenders of the no-fly zones say the Disney parks deserve special protection.

They say the parks have a special place in people's hearts.

They also attract large crowds.

If airplanes could fly over Disney, there could be terror attacks.

Others say the no-fly zones could not stop a terror attack.

They think the law mostly hurts pilots who tow the ad banners.

"Banner towers used to make money with their banner tows around Disneyland.

Now they're not allowed to," said Mark Skinner.

He owns a company that gives helicopter tours.

Skinner said the law is not fair.

Planes can fly over other large theme parks like Universal Studios, he pointed out.

The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association represents individual pilots.

It says since 2003 almost 100 airplane ad companies went out of business.

The group blames the no-fly zones at Disney and sporting events.

Richard W. Bloom is an expert on keeping the skies safe.

He said the no-fly zones are not perfect.

However, he said they are one part of protecting American airspace.

Disney says the no-fly zones are still important to protect visitors.

But in 2003 a Disney spokeswoman said the no-fly zones also had another purpose.

The spokeswoman was Leslie Goodman.

She said zones would prevent "banner ads" and pilots "buzzing" over the parks.

The no-fly zones have been challenged in court.

The challengers lost.

A judge said that fighting terror is important.

The law for no-fly zones was passed by Congress after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

The judge said everyone must obey that law to protect the country.

Steve Crampton is the lawyer who fought the Disney no-fly zones.

Since the no-fly zones began, there have been no big terror attacks, Crampton said.

Because of this, there is little reason to give Disney extra protection, he said.

