There is a special sense of magic when it comes to Disney characters at theme parks.

They can seem real in a unique way that is filled with fantasy.

Part of the reason is that Disney employees who dress as characters in the theme parks are forbidden from revealing online or to reporters who they portray.

A group representing Walt Disney World performers is now challenging this policy.

Some people feel this could have an impact on the spirit of the theme parks and the Disney brand.

Disney discourages its entertainers from advertising which princesses or animated animals they portray in the company's theme parks.

Looking to change these policies is the Teamsters union, a group that represents Disney employees who work as characters.

Donna-Lynne Dalton, a union member, said the company has now put in writing that employees are not to reveal online or in any kind of media — including social media such as Facebook, newspapers, magazines or TV — what characters they play.

Disney calls it "proprietary information," meaning that it owns the rights to that information.

Over the past couple of weeks, she said, workers have had to acknowledge online that they understand the rules.

The Teamsters union believes the policies are unfair and go too far.

Dalton calls them intrusive to the personal lives of employees.

"They don't work for the CIA," she said, suggesting they do not work for a spy agency, so there is no need for the high level of secrecy around their character identities.

The union is starting to take legal action.

Dalton said the group filed a complaint with Disney's labor relations department last week.

On Friday, she said, the union will file an unfair labor practice charge with the National Labor Relations Board, an agency of the federal government.

The issue was never negotiated as part of the contract agreement last year between Disney and its employees, she said.

Disney, however, maintains that employees need to uphold the park's policies.

"Our expectation for cast members to uphold character integrity has never changed," Disney spokesman Bryan Malenius said.

More than 1,200 workers at Disney greet guests dressed as characters, which range from animals to people.

They include "fur characters" such as Winnie the Pooh, in outfits that cover the performers completely, and "face characters" such as Snow White or Cinderella.

The characters have different roles in the parks, from appearing in meet-and-greets to parades.

Disney wants to make sure nothing shatters the illusion that the characters stepped right out of the movies.

They want guests to feel that the characters are real.

Staff performers must follow rules about what they wear, how they act and how they get dressed.

They must take great care in how they are dressed.

Workers are forbidden from allowing guests to see them wearing only half of a costume, for example.

The characters also cannot reveal to children at the park that they are really actors.

"From Disney's point of view, fantasy's real," said Lee Cockerell, former executive vice president of Disney World operations.

"You don't want to start disappointing kids and having this out there."

Not revealing identities is "kind of one of these professional things that people do," said Cockerell, who retired in 2006.

"I really don't know if it was in writing or not, or just talked about by your trainer."

Dalton said workers know they need to preserve the Disney magic.

However, she feels the current policies take things too far.

She does not think it is reasonable to forbid staff from posting anything online about their character identities at work.

"Clearly, it is saying they cannot do something on their off time," she said, hinting at the unclear rules around what is work-time versus personal time, and what Disney can control.

There is also a question about what family members can post.

Dalton wondered if workers could be disciplined if their family members post pictures or information about the characters.

It was also questioned whether Disney entertainers would get in trouble if they used the information on their resumes to get other entertaining jobs.

