For years, the executives working on the $5.5 billion Shanghai Disney resort have said they want to build something both "authentically Disney and distinctly Chinese."

Last week, the company's chairman showed off a huge scale model and said the company has found the perfect balance.

But how exactly is Disney bringing in Chinese elements?

When the park opens next year, how is it going to be specifically geared to local visitors, without alienating foreign guests?

Ten years ago, the Walt Disney Co. opened Hong Kong Disneyland.

The park incorporated a number of Chinese elements into its design and hoped to cater to local visitors with Chinese food and other services.

But it encountered a number of well-publicized problems, including long lines on Chinese holidays.

Disney also faced a brouhaha over whether to serve shark's fin soup, a special Chinese dish which environmentalists oppose because endangered sharks are killed to make it.

Disney eventually opted not to serve the soup in the park's restaurants.

Disney executives say they've learned from those experiences.

Bob Weis, an executive vice president, said Disney employees traveled all over China, visited Chinese schools and homes, and tested ideas.

They discussed their concepts with executives from the government-owned investment company Shanghai Shendi, which owns part of the resort.

"There's always challenges for having a vision for what you think the audience will love and then you have to balance that with testing that," he said.

"A big part of our process is involved with our Shendi partners, who made multiple visits to California … to literally argue the design back and forth."

Only when the gates are open next year will planners know if they chose properly.

Among the decisions: Unlike in Hong Kong Disneyland, there's no Main Street U.S.A. (which probably wouldn't sit well with Chinese authorities sensitive about excessive American cultural influence).

Visitors will enter the park via a new road called Mickey Avenue.

The trip will introduce classic Disney characters to Chinese guests unfamiliar with their back stories.

Disney has had success importing its films into China in recent years, but a portion of the general public is still unclear on just what characters are in the Disney universe.

"We don't want people wandering around asking where the 'Transformers' ride is," said one employee by way of example.

There are no roller-coasters or other major rides based on Chinese stories or culture planned, but the park's architecture tries to show Chinese tastes in various ways.

A Garden of Twelve Friends, based on the dozen animals of the Chinese zodiac, connects the signs with characters from Disney and Pixar, another Disney studio.

Imagineers had to dig deep for some; for the year of the sheep, for example, they found the Jolly Holiday Lambs from "Mary Poppins."

A version of the Soarin' Over California ride from Disney's California Adventure park will be called Soaring Over the Horizon.

Instead of California scenes, it will feature scenes of the Shanghai skyline and the Great Wall.

Disneytown, the shopping district outside the park gates, will have architectural features common in Shanghai's old houses.

The hotels in the park will have typical Chinese amenities such as slippers and teakettles.

They will also offer activities such as Chinese board games and opportunities to practice calligraphy.

Near the Enchanted Storybook Castle, a restaurant called Wandering Moon Teahouse will serve Chinese cuisine.

Inside the castle, some of its decorative details are subtly Chinese.

The Voyage to the Crystal Grotto ride inside the castle will show visitors the tales of Disney princesses including the Chinese character Mulan and her dragon, Mushu.

Some of the mash-ups are unexpected, such as a live Tarzan-themed show that will incorporate Chinese acrobats.

Others may be simply convenient.

Riders of the Tron Lightcycle Power Run will be told that Sam Flynn, the main character in the film, chose Shanghai as a location for a portal between Earth and his computer world.

"We really endeavored to find an incorporation that feels natural," said Matt Almos, executive creative director, Walt Disney Imagineering creative entertainment.

He explained the Chinese design elements and performance traditions that were incorporated to tell the Disney stories are the right way to tell those Disney stories.

"They're not just a Chinese way, they're a good way, they're an exciting way," he said.

Almost half of of Hong Kong Disneyland's 7.5 million visitors last year were from China.

Weis said he wasn't worried that the opening of Shanghai Disney might suck visitors away from Hong Kong Disneyland.

When he was asked if the Imagineers had tried to make the two Chinese parks different from one another, he compared it to the United States.

In the U.S., Disneyland in Anaheim and Disney World in Florida are about as far apart as Hong Kong and Shanghai in China.

A certain amount of the fan base insists on visiting both Disneyland and Disney World, but for the most part the two parks draw from the regions where they're located, Weis said.

The company sees the advantage in having a park in Shanghai to draw visitors from that region.

At the same time, it continues to develop Hong Kong and invest in new attractions, such as an Iron Man ride currently in the works.

Weis added that in some cases, the opening of one park has boosted attendance at other resorts simply due to a spillover publicity effect.

Disney thinks the two Chinese parks will help each other, he said.

