Curtis Doyle is excited for the trip his family is planning to Walt Disney World next summer.

He reminds his dad about it each day.

Sometimes he mentions it more than once a day.

But the trip is making his father, Brad, anxious.

His son Curtis is 27 years old and has autism, which affects his brain.

Disney said recently it would stop allowing disabled guests to jump ahead in lines at its U.S. theme parks.

Instead, Disney will tell them what time to come back when it is their turn.

It might seem like a small change to most families.

But it's not to Brad.

His son, like many people with mental disabilities, has a habit of becoming attached to certain things.

He becomes frustrated when he cannot have or do them.

Sometimes he melts down in outbursts and bites his own hands.

Disney will soon end its "guest assistance card" program.

Parents of children with disabilities are alarmed at the news.

Some have written letters in protest.

Some parents say making their children wait isn't practical.

Some kids with mental disabilities cannot understand why they can't ride immediately.

Others must take regular food, medicine or even bathroom breaks.

Some can be in the parks for only two or three hours before becoming exhausted or melting down.

"This is going to be a huge obstacle for my son," said Brad, 49, of Glendale, Ariz.

He has taken Curtis many times to Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif. "I really have to rethink my whole vacation now."

Disney says it understands their concerns.

But it also says it must make changes to the program because other people are taking advantage of it.

Rich families hire disabled tour guides to pretend to be family members.

Stories about such actions have drawn national attention.

But the more common problem is people faking health problems.

It can be hard to check if people complaining of back pain, for instance, are lying.

Groups sometimes use a pass issued to an older relative to jump the line for a thrill ride.

The problem has gotten worse in recent years.

Tens of millions of people visit Disney's theme parks each year.

And the swelling crowds have fed abuse.

Last year, Disney California Adventure opened Cars Land.

It is based on the movie Cars.

Soon after, Disney found that close to a quarter of all the visitors riding Radiator Springs Racers in Cars Land used a guest assistance card.

Disney says hundreds of thousands of people ask for assistance cards annually.

It says the number of people asking for them has grown "substantially" in the past few years.

Disney says it remains committed to making disabled visitors welcome.

"Unfortunately, our current program has been abused and exploited to such an extent" that Disney can not keep it going, Meg Crofton said in a statement.

She runs Disney's theme parks in the U.S. and France.

Disney released the statement Friday in a letter to groups that help disabled people.

Disney is seen as among the most friendly companies in the world for disabled visitors.

Its guest assistance cards are a big reason why.

They don't completely get rid of waiting.

But they let a disabled guest and his or her party immediately enter the FastPass line.

They may also be able to use an alternative entrance.

Both Universal Orlando and SeaWorld Orlando do things differently.

They generally make disabled visitors return to rides at certain times.

Disney will begin using that same model Oct. 9.

Under Disney's new system, guests will still be issued special cards.

But when they show those cards to employees at ride entrances, they will then be given a time to return.

The length of the current standby line will determine the return time.

The new cards will also include the guest's photo and will be good for seven days.

Under the old system they were good for 14.

Parents say there must be a better fix.

Some suggest making families ask for the cards before they arrive in the parks.

"There has to be some sort of middle ground," said Don La Vette of Joliet, Ill.

He has an 11-year-old son with autism.

"You can't hurt kids with disabilities because you have able-bodied people abusing the system or cheating."

