Disneyland is getting crowded.

Lots of tourists are going to the park and to Disney's California Adventure.

So are people who live nearby and buy a pass for the year.

Lines for rides often take more than an hour's wait.

Visitors have to park far away.

Sundays are the worst.

Walt Disney Co. owns the parks.

Experts say the company has two choices.

It can keep raising prices until attendance comes back under control.

Or it could make the park bigger.

Over the weekend, Disneyland raised single-day ticket prices by $4.

Now they cost  $96.

It also temporarily stopped new sales of a popular annual pass.

The pass was for people who live in Southern California.

Disneyland officials say they have no current plans for a new park near Disneyland.

Still, that hasn't stopped people from talking about one.

Disney once made plans for a new park.

They were drawn up in 2000.

Many longtime park watchers say now may be the time to look at the plans.

The park would be built on a 78-acre site.

The space is just south of Disney's current parks.

Those plans were put away while the company focused on the 2001 opening of Disney California Adventure.

That park did not do as well as expected.

Then the company spent $1 billion to expand the park in 2012.

It added Cars Land, which was a big hit.

Disney bought Marvel Entertainment Inc. in 2009.

Marvel is the company that makes comic books and movies like "The Avengers."

Disney also bought Lucasfilm in 2012.

Many fans hoped a third park would feature Marvel superheroes.

Or it could have characters from Lucasfilm's "Star Wars" movies.

Disneyland officials say they are focused on adding parking for now.

The company also has a $4 billion resort in Shanghai.

That theme park in China is set to open next year.

"They've got a lot on their plate," said Dennis Speigel.

He is president of International Theme Park Services in Cincinnati.

Disneyland does say how many people visit its parks.

But a company called Aecom has an estimate.

It says visitor numbers increased nearly every year from 2004 to 2012.

The higher attendance comes just as Americans are spending more on travel.

U.S. businesses are growing and fewer people are out of work.

Also, more travel is happening now that winter storms have ended.

Speigel said a lot more people could go to theme parks this year.

"We are seeing the shaping up of a tremendous 2014," he said.

Universal Studios Hollywood is also in Southern California.

It recently raised its one-day ticket prices from $84 to $92.

But the thing that could do the most to cut crowds is Disneyland's decision to halt sales of its $379 Southern California Annual Passport.

The pass lets people come to the park 215 days of the year.

Sundays are included.

Local pass holders often crowd the parks.

They leave little space for out-of-town travelers.

Out-of-towners typically stay in Disney hotels.

They also spend more on souvenirs.

"Pass holders use the park differently than others," said Adrienne Vincent-Phoenix.

She has an annual pass.

Vincent-Phoenix also runs Disney fan site MousePlanet.com.

"You go to the park like you would go to hang out at the mall with your friends."

Halting sales of the annual passports is an attempt to reduce Sunday crowds.

Part of the idea is to get people who live nearby to visit during the week.

Crowds are smaller then, industry experts say.

Disney continues to sell a $289 annual pass for Southern California residents.

The pass does not include weekend visits.

Disneyland officials say they have no plans to halt the sales of any other passes.

"It's a challenging situation," said John Gerner.

He works for Leisure Business Associates.

The company gives advice to theme parks.

"Disney doesn't want to be seen as taking advantage of customers."

But Disney is also supposed to make as much money as it can from the park, he pointed out.

