One day last month, an odd pair of safety alerts appeared on the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) website.

They reminded pilots not to fly over Disney's theme parks in Florida and California.

The skies over the theme parks are "national defense airspace," the alerts said.

Planes flying over Mickey and Minnie, the alerts warned, could be forced to land.

The pilots could be questioned and possibly charged with a crime.

These no-fly zones are known as temporary flight restrictions.

A temporary flight restriction surrounds the president when he travels.

Planes were not allowed to fly above Ferguson, Missouri, during protests over the summer.

Wildfires, air shows and large sporting events regularly get temporary flight restrictions.

Yet there is nothing temporary about the restriction over the Disney parks.

The Disney no-fly zones have been in place since 2003.

They are in effect for Disneyland in California and Walt Disney World in Florida.

They were quietly added to a massive congressional spending law weeks before the Iraq war.

Defense and anti-terrorism officials did not appear to ask for the Disney protections.

Instead, they were proposed by Disney, according to an Orlando Sentinel investigation in 2003.

The restrictions ended a war between Disney and aerial advertisers who flew over the theme parks, trailing large signs, for years.

Disney won.

The FAA's leader, Michael P. Huerta, said told Congress that if not for the 2003 law, he would end the no-fly zones over Disney parks.

An FAA spokeswoman said last week that the agency also would like to take a closer look at no-fly zones over sporting events.

They were also made permanent by the 2003 law.

Defenders of the zones have said the Disney parks deserve special protection.

They are important to American culture and attract large crowds.

Critics say that the zones would be useless against a true terror attack.

They say no-fly zones instead mostly harm pilots who tow advertising banners.

"Banner towers used to make money with their banner tows around Disneyland.

Now they're not allowed to," said Mark Skinner, owner of a helicopter tour company in Los Angeles.

By law, people can fly around Knott's Berry Farm and Six Flags in California, since those parks have no flight restrictions.

According to the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association, nearly 100 aerial advertising firms went out of business because of the no-fly zones.

Craig Spence works for the association, which represents individual pilots and businesses that use planes.

He said there is no good reason for the flight bans.

If people attacked Disneyland from the air, the no-fly zones could not stop them, said Skinner.

"If something bad were to happen, how quickly could they get something up there?

Not quick enough," he said.

Richard W. Bloom is director of terrorism, intelligence and security studies at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott, Arizona.

He said the no-fly zones were "certainly not foolproof."

However, he called them one of many layers of security designed to protect American airspace.

A Disney spokeswoman, Cathi Killian, said the no-fly zones protected the public.

She said the permanent no-fly zones "continue to make sense for enhancing public safety."

At the time, however, Disney seemed to say the flight bans had other purposes than preventing terror attacks.

Shortly after they became law in 2003, Disney spokeswoman Leslie Goodman said the restrictions were important for "the safety and enjoyment of our guests."

She said "enjoyment" meant keeping out "banner ads from trial lawyers" and pilots "buzzing the parks."

The no-fly zones have been challenged in court, without success.

In 2003, the Family Policy Network sued the government to allow a pilot to fly its banner over Walt Disney World.

The group argued that the no-fly zone was unfair.

Disney didn't own the airspace, and pilots could fly over other theme parks and possible terror targets, such as downtown Chicago.

In response, government lawyers defended the Disney no-fly zones.

They said it was important to prevent air attacks on crowds of tourists at the Disney parks.

Because of Disney's place in American culture, they argued, it deserved the protective space.

A federal judge threw out the Family Policy Network's arguments and let the no-fly zones stand.

The judge wrote that combating terror required unquestioning obedience to Congress' law.

More than 10 years later, the attorney who fought the Disney no-fly zone, Steve Crampton, chuckled when he was reminded of the government's arguments.

"Give me a break," said Crampton, the chief lawyer for the American Center for Constitutional Rights.

Since the no fly zones began, there have been no major terror attacks, Crampton pointed out.

"I would say, today, that the case for protecting Disney is even weaker than it was when we argued those cases," he said.

