The Walt Disney Company is opening a new park in China.

It will look like a Disney park, but it will blend in some Chinese culture as well.

The new park opens next year in Shanghai.

Disney opened another Chinese park in Hong Kong 10 years ago.

Hong Kong is in southern China on the sea.

The land is a part of China but has different laws than other parts of China.

Hong Kong has more freedom and a less-strict government than Shanghai.

Disneyland Hong Kong had trouble when it opened.

There were long lines during Chinese holidays.

Some animal lovers did not want the park's restaurants to serve a certain Chinese soup.

The soup is a Chinese tradition, but sharks are killed to make it.

Disney decided not to serve the soup.

They did not want to offend animal-lovers or American customers.

Disney managers say they have learned from that experience.

They looked for ideas to make the park look more Chinese.

They visited schools and homes and tested their ideas.

They discussed their designs with a Chinese company that is the other owner of the park.

Some things will be different than other Disney parks.

For example, there will be no Main Street U.S.A.

In Hong Kong, the street, which is inspired by small-town main streets in America, was allowed.

For the park in Shanghai, Chinese leaders fear it would offer too much American culture for China.

Instead, visitors in Shanghai will enter on a new road.

It is called Mickey Avenue.

The trip will show classic Disney characters.

Disney movies are popular in China.

Still, some people  don't know all the characters.

There are no rides based on Chinese stories.

Disney is trying to make the park more Chinese in other ways.

For example, a ride from Disney's California Adventure park was changed.

The ride is called Soarin' Over California.

It makes visitors feel like they are flying over California's cities and natural beauty.

The ride in Shanghai will be called Soaring Over the Horizon in Shanghai.

It will show Chinese cities and the Great Wall of China.

The park will also have a live Tarzan show that includes Chinese acrobats.

A ride based on the movie Tron will have images of Shanghai.

Some of the park's buildings will look more like Chinese buildings.

Some of the stores in Disneytown will look like old Shanghai houses.

A Garden of Twelve Friends is based on the 12 animals in Chinese astrology.

It matches the signs with Disney characters.

The Enchanted Storybook Castle will have Chinese decorations.

The ride inside will show the Chinese character Mulan and her dragon, Mushu.

A restaurant near the castle will serve Chinese food.

The hotels in the park will have things that Chinese guests might appreciate.

They will have tea kettles and slippers.

They will also offer Chinese board games.

Disney tried hard to find the right way to add Chinese touches.

It had to be done the right way, said one of the managers.

The park in Shanghai opens next year.

Disney is not worried it will steal visitors from the park in Hong Kong.

Almost half of all the visitors in Hong Kong last year were Chinese.

Bob Weis, a leader at Disney, compared the two parks to the Disney parks in the United States.

Some people want to go to both Disneyland in California and Disney World in Florida.

But each park also gets visitors from its area, he said.

Disney thinks having a park in Shanghai will be a good thing.

At the same time, it keeps working on the Hong Kong park.

In Hong Kong, Disney is even working on an Iron Man ride.

Sometimes, the news that one park opens brings out the crowds in another.

The two Chinese parks will help each other, Weis said.

