The managers building the Shanghai Disney resort say they want to build something that looks like Disney but is also truly Chinese.

Their leader, Disney chief executive Bob Iger, says they have found the perfect balance.

But how exactly is Disney bringing in Chinese elements?

When the park opens next year, how is it going to be specifically geared to local visitors, without making foreign guests feel out of place?

Ten years ago, the Walt Disney Co. opened Hong Kong Disneyland.

Hong Kong is on China's southern coast.

The land used to belong to Britain.

Since 1997, Hong Kong has had a lot of freedom to govern itself but is still considered part of China.

The park in Hong Kong incorporated Chinese elements into its design and tried to appeal to local visitors with Chinese food and other services.

But Disney ran into a number of problems, including long lines on Chinese holidays and a dispute about shark's fin soup.

Defenders of animals didn't want the park restaurants to serve the soup because sharks are killed to make it.

Disney decided not to serve it.

Disney's management says it has learned from those experiences.

Bob Weis, one of the company's managers, said Disney employees traveled all over China.

They visited schools and homes, tested ideas and discussed them with Shanghai Shendi, a company owned by the Chinese government that will own part of the resort.

"There's always challenges for having a vision for what you think the audience will love and then you have to balance that with testing that," he said.

"A big part of our process is involved with our Shendi partners, who made multiple visits to California … to literally argue the design back and forth."

Only when the gates are thrown open next year will planners know if they chose properly.

One of the decisions was that while in Hong Kong Disneyland, there is a Main Street U.S.A. like the American parks, the Shanghai park would not have the American-style avenue.

Park designers feared that Chinese authorities could be sensitive about too much American influence on China's culture.

Visitors will instead enter the park on a road called Mickey Avenue.

The street will introduce classic Disney characters to Chinese guests who are not familiar with their stories.

Disney movies have done well in China, but some people are still not clear which characters belong to Disney movies.

"We don't want people wandering around asking where the 'Transformers' ride is," said one employee.

The park will not have any roller-coasters or other major rides based on Chinese stories or culture.

However, the park's architecture will try to show Chinese tastes in various ways.

A Garden of Twelve Friends, based on the dozen animals of the Chinese zodiac, connects the signs with characters from Disney and Pixar, another Disney studio.

Disney designers had to dig deep for some.

For the year of the sheep, for example, they found the Jolly Holiday Lambs from "Mary Poppins."

The Soarin' Over California ride from Disney's California Adventure park was changed to Soaring Over the Horizon in Shanghai.

Instead of California scenes, it will show Shanghai and the Great Wall of China.

Disneytown, the shopping district outside the park gates, will have building features common in Shanghai's old houses.

The hotels in the park will have traditionally valued features such as slippers and teakettles.

They will also offer activities such as Chinese board games and calligraphy.

Near the Enchanted Storybook Castle, a restaurant called Wandering Moon Teahouse will serve Chinese food.

The decorations inside the castle have Chinese details.

The Voyage to the Crystal Grotto ride inside the castle will include the Chinese character Mulan and her dragon, Mushu.

Some of the mash-ups are unexpected, such as a live Tarzan-themed show that will include Chinese acrobats.

Others may be simply convenient.

The Tron Lightcycle Power Run will explain that Sam Flynn, the main character in the film, chose Shanghai as the place for a portal to his computer world.

Matt Almos, a Disney manager, noted that Disney tried hard to find the right way to add Chinese touches.

He explained the Chinese design elements and performances that were added to tell the Disney stories are the right way to tell those stories.

"They're not just a Chinese way, they're a good way, they're an exciting way," he said.

Almost half of the visitors to Hong Kong Disneyland last year came from China.

Weis said he wasn't worried that the opening of Shanghai Disney might take visitors away from the Hong Kong Disney park.

When he was asked if Disney wanted to make the two parks look different from one another, Weis compared China to the United States.

Disneyland in Anaheim and Disney World in Florida are almost as far apart as Hong Kong and Shanghai.

Some fans want to see both, but each gets visitors from its region, he said.

Disney sees a benefit to having a park in Shanghai drawing visitors from that region.

At the same time, it is continuing to develop Hong Kong.

It is investing in new attractions, such as an Iron Man ride coming soon.

Weis added that sometimes, the opening of one park has brought more visitors at other resorts just because of the extra publicity.

Disney thinks the two Chinese parks will help each other, he said.

