In a windowless room in Virginia, several dozen military analysts studied video.

It was coming in from U.S. spy planes flying over Iraq and Syria.

The analysts were tracking Islamic State fighters in a war zone about 6,000 miles away.

Islamic State is an extremist group.

It has also been called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

It wants to set up its own country governed by Islamic law.

Islamic State fighters have captured about one-third of Syria and much of northern and western Iraq.

One team of analysts searched the incoming video.

They tried to find a firefight underway near the city of Mosul in northern Iraq.

Islamic State fighters were battling Iraq's military.

The analysts studied the images for four hours.

They identified 20 locations where the extremist fighters were dug in with machine guns and other weapons.

They gave pilots the location.

Soon after, 15 jets from five countries bombed the targets.

The airstrike was just one of 462 in December.

Today, the U.S. military uses more and more analysts in places like the site in Virginia.

Spy systems have improved over the last 10 years.

It is now easier to gather information from the sky.

As a result, the United States does not have to send as many soldiers into war zones.

Instead, Air Force analysts sit in Virginia and watch the war zones.

After the work day is done, they head home to their families and kids' soccer games.

"It's strange because we live in different worlds," said an Air Force sergeant named Jennifer.

"There's a home life and there's this war."

After the airstrikes, the analysts count how many people died and how much damage was done.

Some of the analysts say they have trouble sleeping at night.

Like other troops, they can go to see doctors and other professionals trained to help them with their worries.

"This job isn't for everyone," said Colonel Timothy Haugh, commander of the Air Force unit.

"We make life-and-death decisions every day."

But watching video of an endless desert can be boring at times.

Analysts work for 12 hours straight.

To stay awake, many drink lots of sugary sodas and energy drinks.

They drink so many that the unit has the highest rate of tooth cavities in the Air Force.

The office in Virginia is one of 27 Air Force sites that do this kind of work.

Together, they are the control centers for U.S. spy planes and the unmanned drone planes flown around the world.

The analysts do not fly the aircraft or launch the missiles.

But they pass on the information to commanders and pilots who do.

Since last summer, their goal has been to destroy the Islamic State group.

The United States and its partner nations fly more than 110 missions a day to support the operation to wipe out the Islamic State fighters.

Most of the missions only gather intelligence.

About three-quarters of the aircraft return without dropping bombs.

In past wars, U.S. troops on the ground helped to provide information.

Today, U.S. commanders rely mainly on information from the analysts here.

U.S. officers said the analysts working in Virginia are no match for troops getting information from the front lines.

"We don't have anywhere near the level of intelligence we used to," Lieutenant Colonel Marc Spinuzzi, an intelligence officer, wrote in an email from Baghdad.

The analysts are under "a lot of pressure … to clearly distinguish friend from foe" and pick out who is a fighter and who is a regular person.

Groups such as Human Rights Watch say the analysts get it wrong sometimes.

They claim that the U.S. military has killed many regular people, not just fighters.

The U.S. military denies causing such deaths.

Analysts can watch a location for days trying to figure out whether it belongs to the Islamic State group.

"Unless ISIS is actually flying a flag that says 'ISIS' across the top of it, then it's sometimes … difficult to tell … whether they're combatants or not," said General Herbert Carlisle, the head of Air Combat Command, which oversees nearly all U.S. warplanes.

