Some cities and states are making new rules for bicycle riders.

They do not allow smartphones or music while riding.  More people are riding bicycles in cities.

More people are also using smartphones on their bikes.

Lawmakers think that puts everyone in danger.

Steven Howitt is a lawmaker.

He works in the state of Massachusetts.

Howitt made a bill that says riders cannot wear headphones while on their bikes.

A bill is an idea that lawmakers want to become a law.

Howitt says car drivers cannot wear headphones.

He thinks it should be the same for bicycle riders.

The problem of bicycle riders using smartphones on the road is new.

Most states do not yet have laws about it.

Only seven states do.  A group says that the state of Pennsylvania even thinks bicycles are like cars.

People driving cars cannot use headphones.

Bike riders cannot either.

Jeffrey Dinowitz is a lawmaker from the state of New York.

He says he wants to get a bill passed there.

It would stop riders from using smartphones or texting.  Dinowitz says, "I've seen people bicycling and talking on their cellphones at the same time.

I've seen people texting.

That's crazy.

"  Several big cities like Chicago also have rules about bicycles.

Chicago is in the state of Illinois.

Bicycle riders there cannot hold smartphones.

They also pay more money if they are in a crash.

There are groups who stand up for bicycle riders.

They say there is no need for new laws.

Bicycle riders can make good choices.

The groups also say there is no proof that using headphones and smartphones is bad.

Ken McLeod belongs to a group of bicycle riders.

His group does not think there should be laws against headphones.

The group does think that a law against texting is a good idea.

McLeod thinks there might be other problems with new bicycle laws.

Many riders put smartphones on their handlebars.

They use them to train for sports.

He thinks those people should not get into trouble.

McLeod also thinks police might give more tickets to bicycle riders.

They are easier to see than drivers.

