Every year, thousands of people are injured as they walk in the city.

Many of these pedestrian injuries are caused by people who are distracted by their cellphones, studies show.

Walkers using their cellphones stroll into traffic.

They crash into trees.

They fall off bridges and curbs.

They even walk into wet cement.

Many cities want to make their neighborhoods more walkable.

Neighborhoods good for walking can attract young people who may not have a car.

At the same time, cities are trying to make the streets safer for pedestrians.

They are giving tickets to distracted walkers and are making cars slow down.

The number of pedestrian injuries caused by cellphone use is rising.

It is up 35 percent since 2010, according to information from hospital emergency rooms.

Cities and states share the same goal of reducing injuries and deaths for walkers.

Yet they have very different plans to fix the problem.

In Utah and New Jersey, people can get tickets for texting while walking.

New York City now has lower speed limits, partly to make traffic less dangerous for distracted walkers.

"We have to design streets for the way people actually behave, and behavior is changing," said Noah Budnick of Transportation Alternatives.

"If you're looking at a phone when you're walking around, that shouldn't mean death.

So we have to design forgiving streets."

In New York City, the new speed limits are 20 miles per hour (mph) in Central Park and 25 mph in the rest of the city unless it says otherwise.

The city has also blocked off more streets for pedestrian plazas, where cars are not allowed.

U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx has given $1.6 million to Louisville, Kentucky; New York City and Philadelphia for walker-safety programs.

"We've got to encourage people to have an awareness that this problem is a real problem," Foxx said last year.

In 2012, 78,000 pedestrians were injured, the highest number since 2001.

Walking deaths have been rising since 2009.

In 2012, 4,700 walkers were killed.

Some states are focusing on stopping distracted walkers.

Walkers who text in Utah can face a $50 fine.

Police in New Jersey gave tickets to people using phones while walking into traffic.

Philadelphia had a different plan.

They made a joke of it.

On April Fools' Day in 2012, the city painted "e-lanes" on sidewalks.

These lanes were reserved for people staring at their phones.

Some people interviewed by the city thought the lanes were serious, and a good idea.

"It'll keep most of those bozos out of my way," one cellphone user said.

San Francisco has promised to spend $50 million for its Walk First program.

The city will examine "high injury" areas to determine why they are so dangerous for walkers.

Drivers using cellphones also add to the danger, researchers say.

A distracted driver and a distracted walker can be a dangerous combination.

In a survey, half of walkers admitted to talking on the phone while crossing the street.

One out of 4 said they text or email while crossing the street, even though they know it is dangerous.

Dr. Dietrich Jehle of the University of Buffalo started studying walking injuries while he was an emergency room doctor.

He estimates that 1 in 10 pedestrian injuries is now related to distracted walking.

Jehle has also found that distracted walking causes more injuries than distracted driving.

Texting is the most dangerous thing for a walker to do, Jehle found.

Texting is more dangerous than listening to music or talking on the phone, he says.

"While talking on the phone is a distraction, texting is much more dangerous because you can't see the path in front of you," Jehle said.

