In a huge windowless room in Virginia, several dozen intelligence analysts worked under the glow of more than 100 computer screens.

They were quietly studying video streaming from U.S. spy planes and unmanned drones hunting for Islamic State fighters in Iraq and Syria.

Islamic State is an extremist group attempting to set up its own country governed by Islamic law.

It has also been called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

The group's fighters have captured about one-third of Syria and much of northern and western Iraq.

One team searched the incoming video to find a firefight underway between Islamic State fighters and Iraq's military near the city of Mosul in northern Iraq.

The analysts pored over the images for four hours before identifying 20 positions where the fighters were dug in with machine guns and other weapons.

The analysts called in the coordinates and 15 jets from five countries pounded the targets with more than two dozen bombs.

The airstrike was just one of 462 in December and underscores the Pentagon's increased reliance on analysts far from the battlefield.

Improved spy systems over the last decade have boosted aerial intelligence gathering and allowed President Barack Obama to avoid sending ground combat troops into conflicts.

Instead, Air Force analysts here sit on the virtual front lines.

The fighters they are tracking are in a war zone about 6,000 miles away.

After the work day is done, the analysts head home to their families and kids' soccer games.

"It's strange because we live in different worlds," said an Air Force sergeant named Jennifer, who was not allowed to give her last name for security reasons.

"There's a home life and there's this war."

The analysts here say they have watched from afar after Islamic State fighters committed massacres.

And they have counted the casualties and damage of each airstrike in Iraq and Syria against the Islamic State group.

Since the United States began a campaign to wipe out the Islamic State fighters in August, there have more than 1,500 strikes carried out by the U.S. and its allies.

Some of the analysts say they have trouble sleeping at night.

Like other troops, they can go visit ministers, psychologists and doctors provided by the military to talk about their worries.

"This job isn't for everyone," said Colonel Timothy Haugh, commander of the Air Force unit.

"We make life-and-death decisions every day."

But watching the video of an endless desert and 12-hour shifts can be boring at times.

It is so dull that many analysts chug sodas and energy drinks to stay awake.

They drink so many sugary drinks that their unit has the highest rate of dental cavities in the Air Force, doctors here say.

Their unit is one of 27 Air Force sites that act as control centers for the growing fleet of U.S. spy planes and pilotless drones flown around the world.

The analysts do not fly the aircraft, or launch the missiles.

But they provide the intelligence to commanders and pilots who do.

Since last summer, much of their attention has been focused on the campaign to destroy the Islamic State fighters.

The United States and its allies fly an average of more than 110 missions a day to support the operation, most of them only to gather intelligence.

About three-quarters of the aircraft return without dropping bombs.

In past wars, U.S. troops on the ground helped provide targeting information and intelligence.

In the battle against the Islamic State group, commanders rely mainly on analysts here to process captured communications chatter, signals intelligence and other material.

U.S. officers said the video-watching analysts working half a world away are no match for spotters and other troops feeding intelligence from the front lines.

"We don't have anywhere near the level of intelligence we used to," Lieutenant Colonel Marc Spinuzzi, an intelligence officer, wrote in an email from Baghdad.

The analysts are under "a lot of pressure … to clearly distinguish friend from foe, and to pick out the enemy from the civilian population" on the battlefield.

Activist groups such as Human Rights Watch and the Syrian Network for Human Rights have said the U.S. airstrikes have led to dozens of civilian deaths.

The U.S. military has repeatedly denied causing such casualties.

Analysts can watch a location for days trying to figure out whether it belongs to the Islamic State group.

"Unless ISIS is actually flying a flag that says 'ISIS' across the top of it, then it's sometimes … difficult to tell … whether they're combatants or not," said General Herbert Carlisle, the head of Air Combat Command, which oversees nearly all U.S. warplanes.

Potential targets are anything that benefits the Islamic State group: oil drilling rigs that generate money for it to support its actions, or communications equipment used by its commanders to position fighters.

"It's like a police stakeout," said another analyst, a captain who declined to give his name.

"You have to connect all the dots.

That takes patience."

