Using a smartphone on a bicycle can be dangerous, and some cities and states are putting the brakes on the practice. Cities are trying to become friendlier for bicycles, and at the same time, more people are using electronic devices to communicate and navigate.

Officials are worried that bicyclists who chat, text or listen to music on smartphones are creating a danger for themselves, pedestrians and motorists.

"If they want to share the road, they have to share the responsibility as well," says Massachusetts Republican State Representative Steven Howitt.

He introduced a bill that would make it illegal for bicyclists to wear headphones.

Howitt's bill is pending in the state's Joint Transportation Committee.

He says drivers cannot wear headphones in the state, and it should be the same for bicyclists.

"In this age of electronics and constantly being entertained, I see bicyclists with headphones on, particularly in the city (Boston).

A biker could be cutting across an intersection, and an ambulance is coming through and he's not hearing it if he's playing music very loud."

Bicycle advocates say cyclists do not need laws or fines — common sense should be enough.

They also say there is no evidence that headphones and smartphone use have caused death or serious injury.

Peter Wilborn is founder of Bike Law, a network of personal injury lawyers that focuses on cycling.

He says,"There's a huge difference between distracted driving that kills someone and distracted biking that doesn't.

I don't think we need laws specifically for this."

Ken McLeod is with a group of advocates called the League of American Bicyclists.

He says his group supports allowing bikers to choose whether to wear headphones.

McLeod says he is unaware of any research on the impact of using headphones on cyclist safety, so the group is not likely to support laws that ban headphones.

McLeod's group has a different opinion about texting, though.

He says his group promotes keeping both hands on the handlebars, and if cyclists are getting distracted, a law against texting would be fine.

McLeod warned there could be problems with how cities or states create and enforce the biking laws.

For example, many cyclists mount cellphones on their handlebars and use them to train, with applications that track everything from speed to revolutions per minute.

McLeod also worries that cyclists using smartphones or headphones are more likely than drivers to attract police attention because they are more visible. He says, "If they're going to be doing more enforcement of distracted biking than distracted driving, that's not the answer."

Most states do not include cyclists in cellphone or texting laws, but California, Delaware, Florida, Maryland, New York, Rhode Island and Virginia do.

In addition, the American Automobile Association says Pennsylvania defines bicycles as vehicles, and people driving vehicles are prohibited from using headsets in that state.

Delaware does not allow cyclists to wear earplugs or headsets that cover both ears.

Maryland does not either, except when cyclists are on bike paths.

Rhode Island fines offenders and takes it a step further by not even allowing bikers or drivers to wear earphones, headsets or other listening devices that provide sound through just one ear.

Jeffrey Dinowitz, a Democratic assemblyman from New York state, says he has tried for years to get a bill passed that would prohibit cyclists from using hand-held cellphones or texting.

New York already bans drivers from using them, and Dinowitz says, "I've seen people bicycling and talking on their cellphones at the same time.

I've seen people texting.

That's crazy.

This bill would hold bicyclists to the same standard as motorists."

Most state legislatures have not addressed distracted biking, and in the small number of states that have, the bills were not very successful.

The California State Legislature passed a bill in 2011 that would have included bicyclists in the state's hands-free, no-texting law.

It was vetoed by Democratic Governor Jerry Brown because the bill also included things that were not related to bikers.

Douglas Shinkle is a transportation policy expert for the National Conference of State Legislatures.

He says distracted biking bills have also failed in Oregon, New York and Virginia. Shinkle says he has heard from legislators concerned about distracted biking, but the problem is still new.

Traffic safety researchers are not sure how much it occurs and to what degree it increases risk. Shinkle says, "I wouldn't be surprised if there are more bills introduced in the next couple of years, given that a number of cities have instituted such laws."

Several cities, such as Chicago, Illinois, now have distracted cycling ordinances.

An ordinance is a law passed at a local level.

Chicago forbids cyclists to use hand-held cellphones, and violators pay a higher fine if the offense occurs during an accident.

Last year, Flagstaff, Arizona, banned texting while biking or driving, and in January, Austin, Texas, did the same.

New York City is now considering a bill that would allow police to ticket cyclists who talk or text on a hand-held phone.

First-time violators could avoid a fine by taking a biking safety course, unless they injured someone or damaged property.

Those ticketed more than once in 18 months would face more penalties.

Democratic City Councilman Mark Treyger sponsored the New York City bill, and says he focused on the problem after he saw a cyclist swerve into oncoming traffic and almost cause an accident.

The cyclist was texting.

Treyger says, "If we're serious, everyone — motorists, bikers and pedestrians — has to do their part."

