U.S. Air Force analysts can now track enemy fighters from their computers.

One day recently, some analysts sat in a room in Virginia.

They were about 6,000 miles from the war zone.

More than 100 computer screens were around them.

They studied video sent from spy planes flying over Iraq and Syria.

Their job was to track Islamic State fighters.

Islamic State is an extremist group.

It has also been called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

It wants to start its own country under Islamic law.

Its fighters have taken over one-third of Syria.

Much of northern and western Iraq is also under its control.

The Air Force analysts spotted a battle underway.

It was somewhere near the city of Mosul in Iraq.

The Islamic State group was fighting Iraq's military.

The analysts studied the video for four hours.

They found 20 places where Islamic State fighters were dug in with machine guns and other weapons.

They told pilots where the battle was.

Soon after, 15 jets sent by five countries bombed the targets.

The airstrike was only one of 462 in December.

Spy systems have improved over the last 10 years.

It is easier today to gather information from the sky.

Now, the United States does not have to send as many soldiers into war zones.

Instead, Air Force analysts watch the war zones.

After the work day is done, they head home to their families.

They do family things like go to their kids' sports games.

"It's strange because we live in different worlds," said an Air Force sergeant named Jennifer.

"There's a home life and there's this war."

After the airstrikes, the analysts see how much damage was done.

Some of the analysts say they have trouble sleeping at night.

Like other troops, they can go see doctors to talk about their worries.

"This job isn't for everyone," said Colonel Timothy Haugh, commander of the Air Force unit.

"We make life-and-death decisions every day."

But watching video of a desert can be boring too.

The analysts work 12 hours at a time.

Many drink sugary sodas to stay awake.

It has given them tooth problems.

They have the most tooth cavities in the Air Force.

The analysts do not fly the planes or launch the missiles.

They give information to pilots who do.

Since last summer, their target has been the Islamic State fighters.

The United States works with other countries to battle Islamic State fighters.

Together, they fly more than 110 missions a day.

Most of them just gather information.

Only about one out of every four planes drops bombs.

In past wars, U.S. troops on the ground found information.

Today, analysts do much of the work.

U.S. military officers said information from troops on the ground was better.

"We don't have anywhere near" the information "we used to," Lieutenant Colonel Marc Spinuzzi said.

The analysts are under a lot of pressure, he said.

They have to figure out who is an enemy fighter and who is not.

Human rights groups say the U.S. airstrikes have killed many innocent people.

The United States has denied that.

Analysts can spend days watching a place.

It is hard to figure out if it belongs to Islamic State fighters.

"Unless ISIS is actually flying a flag that says 'ISIS' across the top of it, then it's sometimes … difficult to tell … whether they're combatants or not," General Herbert Carlisle said.

