When the 114th Congress opened Tuesday, more women and minorities than ever took their seats in the House of Representatives and the Senate.

Although the numbers of lawmakers in Washington remain overwhelmingly white, both chambers of Congress are more diverse.

The new Congress builds on the diversity record set by the 113th Congress, which ended last year.

On Tuesday, 107 women — 79 Democrats and 28 Republicans — were sworn in, up from 100 in the 113th Congress.

Of them, 87 women were in the House, up from 83 in the last Congress.

The number of women in the Senate stayed the same, at 20.

Two new Republicans, Joni Ernst of Iowa and Shelly Moore Capito of West Virginia, balanced the defeats of Democratic Senators Kay Hagan of North Carolina and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.

African-Americans also made significant, and historic, gains.

The new Congress has 48 African-Americans — 46 in the House and two in the Senate — up from 43 in the 113th Congress.

Incoming Republican Representative Mia Love of Utah became Congress' first female African-American Republican.

In fact, this session marks the first time that Congress has African-American male and female lawmakers representing both parties.

Among the African-American members are incoming Democratic Representative Will Hurd of Texas, Republican Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina and Democratic Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey.

Scott made history himself last November by becoming the first African-American senator elected in the South since the post-Civil War Reconstruction.

The number of Hispanic lawmakers increased by one to a total of 39 — 27 Democrats and 12 Republicans.

Thirty-six Hispanic lawmakers are in the House, while three sit in the Senate.

The senators are Republican Marco Rubio of Florida, Republican Ted Cruz of Texas and Democrat Robert Menendez of New Jersey.

The number of Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in the new Congress also increased by one.

There are now 13 Democrats and one Republican who belong to that minority group.

Religion is one area where there is little change.

In the last Congress, 90 percent of the members were Christian.

In the new Congress, 92 percent of lawmakers are Christian.

Of those, a total of 57 percent are Protestant and about 31 percent are Catholic, according to new Pew Research Center study on the religious composition of the 114th Congress.

That is about the same religious breakdown as the last Congress.

The proportion of Protestants and Catholics in Congress is larger than in the United States population.

About 49 percent of American adults are Protestant and 22 percent are Catholic, according to Pew.

Congress is also out of step with the public when it comes to those who don't identify — or affiliate — with a particular faith.

Twenty percent of Americans say they are religiously unaffiliated.

Only one member of the 114th Congress said she is religiously unaffiliated, Democratic Representative Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, Pew said.

