More women and minority lawmakers than ever before took their seats in the new 114th Congress on Tuesday.

Most lawmakers are white.

But both chambers of Congress — the Senate and the House of Representatives — have become more diverse.

The new Congress builds on the gains achieved by the 113th Congress, which ended last year.

The Senate and the House both make up Congress, the legislative branch of the government.

On Tuesday, 107 women — 79 Democrats and 28 Republicans — were sworn in.

Of them, 87 women are members of the House, up from 83 women in the last Congress.

The number of women in the Senate stays the same as last year, at 20.

There are two new Republicans, Joni Ernst of Iowa and Shelly Moore Capito of West Virginia.

They balance out two female Democrats who lost their Senate seats in the November elections.

The Democrats were Kay Hagan of North Carolina and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana.

African-Americans have also made large, and historic, gains.

The new Congress has 48 African-Americans — 46 in the House and two in the Senate.

The number of African-Americans is up from 43 in the 113th Congress.

Incoming Republican Representative Mia Love of Utah became Congress' first female African-American Republican.

Her arrival marks the first time that Congress has male and female African-American lawmakers representing both parties.

Republican Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina made history last November.

He became the first African-American senator elected in the South since Reconstruction.

The years after the American Civil War are called the Reconstruction Era.

During Reconstruction, African-American people were able to vote and be elected to office for the first time, but soon lost those gains when they couldn't get enough votes.

The number of Hispanic lawmakers increased by one to a total of 39.

There are 27 Democratic and 12 Republican Hispanic lawmakers.

Thirty-six Hispanic lawmakers vote in the House, while three vote in the Senate.

The Senators are Republican Marco Rubio of Florida, Republican Ted Cruz of Texas and Democrat Robert Menendez of New Jersey.

The number of Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in Congress also increased by one.

There are now 13 Democrats and one Republican from this group in Congress.

An area where the new Congress remains mostly the same is religion.

In the last Congress, 90 percent of lawmakers were Christian.

In the new Congress, 92 percent of lawmakers belong to the Christian faith.

Of those, a total of 57 percent are Protestant and about 31 percent are Catholic, according to a new Pew Research Center study.

The last Congress had about the same number of Protestants and Catholics.

There is a higher proportion of Protestants and Catholics in Congress than in the United States population.

About 49 percent of American adults are Protestant and 22 percent are Catholic, according to Pew.

Congress is also out of step with the public in another way.

Twenty percent of Americans say they do not belong to a religion.

Only one member of the 114th Congress said she is not a member of any religion, Democratic Representative Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, the study said.

