After more than 50 years in high heels, Barbie finally has some relief for her aching feet.

Mattel, the toy company that manufactures the doll, has released a line of "Fashionista" Barbies.

This means that for the first time ever, Barbie can wear flat-soled shoes.

Ever since Mattel first introduced Barbie in 1959, the doll has been forced to hobble around in high heels.

Even when you took off her stilettos or platform shoes, her plastic feet remained stuck in a rigid tiptoe position.

The 23 new "Fashionista" Barbie dolls have flexible ankles that can bend to accommodate either heels or flats.

The Barbies also come in a more diverse variety.

There are dolls with eight skin tones, 14 face shapes, 22 hairdos, 23 hair colors and 18 eye colors.

"The Barbie Fashionistas line was designed to represent the world girls see around them," explained Ani Istanboulian, a spokeswoman for Mattel.

"This line represents the continued evolution of the Barbie brand," Istanboulian wrote in an email.

She described the Barbies as having "authentic street style" and said many of them "rock flats."

The news generated much online buzz this week.

Many grown-ups who had long pitied Barbie's sore feet reacted to the change in footwear.

"Finally, Barbie has been set free of her misery," MTV Style gushed.

"There's no word on if or when an official Mattel plus-size Barbie is in the works, but in plastic world, this is all huge news," declared a Cosmopolitan article on the Internet.

The magazine piece was shared more than 10,000 times on Facebook.

"One small step for Barbie, one huge leap for womankind," it said.

Mattel's Barbie website already displays Fashionista dolls wearing flats.

One "Film Director" doll is outfitted in jeans, scarf, pink top and black flats.

And with her new ankle, the advertisement reads, "this professional can go from running-around-the-set flats to movie-premiere heels!"

The "Pink Petals" Barbie wears a feathery pink skirt and white tank top.

She also has "an amazing pair of silver flats and the perfect matching silver bag," the website states.

The "Teresa" doll sports a jean skirt, flower-print top and a pair of flat-soled gladiator sandals.

She's "ready for anything dressed in a trendy outfit that's perfect for daytime or nighttime fun," the ad proclaims.

Unfortunately, the switch to flats doesn't seem to have solved at least one longtime problem for these Barbies.

Mattel warns that the leggy, big-chested dolls still "cannot stand alone."

