Scuba gear has little to do with the grace and beauty of dance.

With their heavy air tanks, wetsuits, fins and masks, divers look more like astronauts than ballerinas.

Yet 14 dancers have climbed into scuba gear for an underwater ballet.

Their audience could watch the performance from seats about 16 feet deep in the sea.

The ballet takes place southeast of Athens, Greece, beneath an ancient temple of Poseidon — the ancient Greek god of the sea.

The scuba-diving dancers could be a world first.

The dance, called "Drops of Breath," opened Friday.

Unfortunately, the first audience had to stay on land and watch a previously recorded performance shown on a giant screen.

The water was cloudy, so they would not have been able to see much.

When the water is clear, there are seats for 40 people below on the seabed.

Another 40 people can swim on the water's surface and watch the performance with snorkel gear.

The dancers are mostly French and Greek, and include three who are disabled and three children.

On a round, underwater stage, they float into and out of formations.

Hand movements turn their breath into a fine mist of bubbles.

Music comes from two underwater speakers and was written after much research into how sound travels through water.

The project is the brainchild of French choreographer Sophie Bulbulyan and Greek choreographer Apostolia Papadamaki.

Choreographers invent dances.

Bulbulyan's dance group is located in one of Paris' poorest neighborhoods and includes disabled dancers.

The two choreographers, who are both divers, met three years ago during a dive.

"We liked each other and then we started talking artistically, exchanging ideas," Papadamaki explained.

One day after a fun dive, they suddenly came up with the idea for a underwater ballet.

"Let's see if it's possible, an underwater dance performance," she said.

It was possible, but not easy.

"This project is like going to the moon on a bike," said Bulbulyan.

"There was an enormous amount of difficulties."

For a start, all the dancers had to learn to dive.

Even harder, they had to learn to control their breathing so that they could hover upside down and sideways, or rise and fall without moving a muscle.

Seventy percent of the performers were dancers who became divers — all in the last year.

Then the two women had to organize all the details, from diving gear and transportation to finding the money to pay for the project.

They also had to deal with changeable weather and political problems in Greece.

"I'm bringing a French dance group from the poorest neighborhood of France, which has handicapped people in its group, to Greece, a country in chaos," Bulbulyan said.

The music needed special thought and planning.

Trifonas Koutsourelis is the composer who wrote the music.

He needed to learn how sound travels underwater, so his music could be heard clearly and the dancers could move to it, since water slows down movement.

It took him two and a half months to write the music, said Koutsourelis, who added that he has not slept for the last three weeks.

For the dancers, especially the disabled, the experience was "beyond words," said Papadamaki.

"They feel equal.

For the first time they can move without a wheelchair, without the restriction of somebody having to carry them," she said.

Irini Kourouvani, who uses a wheelchair, has been a dancer for 15 years.

She was worried about the water because she needed a flotation board to swim.

She was hooked from her first dive.

"I forgot to be afraid and to get scared, because I was so entranced by what I was seeing," Kourouvani said.

"I felt like I was floating in space, like I was on earth and the wind was coming and lifting me up."

Now, she said, the deep is something "I won't part with, because now I carry it within me."

