Scuba gear ordinarily does not bring to mind the grace and beauty of dance.

With their heavy tanks of compressed air, hoses, gauges, wetsuits, fins and masks, divers look more like astronauts than ballerinas.

Yet in what is being billed as a world first, 14 dancers climbed into scuba gear for an underwater performance, complete with specially composed music.

Their audience planned to be submerged to a depth of about 16 feet in Cape Sounion near Athens, beneath the ancient temple of Poseidon — the god of the sea in Greek mythology.

The underwater dance called "Drops of Breath" had scheduled performances for three days.

Unfortunately, the first audience on Friday had to stay on land and watch a previously recorded performance on a giant screen because of poor visibility in the water.

When the water was clear, though, 40 seats were available for the audience on the seabed.

Another 40 could view the dance performance from above by using snorkel gear.

The dancers are mostly French and Greek, and include three who are disabled and three children.

They float into and out of formations that combine the underwater world with the stage.

Hand movements turn their breath into a fine mist of bubbles.

Music floods the round seabed stage from two submerged speakers and was composed after much research into how sound travels in water.

The performance is the brainchild of Greek choreographer Apostolia Papadamaki and French choreographer Sophie Bulbulyan.

Her dance group is located in one of Paris' poorest neighborhoods and includes disabled dancers.

The two choreographers, who both are divers, met three years ago during a dive.

"We liked each other and then we started talking artistically, exchanging ideas," Papadamaki explained.

They had "the very impulsive idea one day after a fun dive: Let's make an underwater performance.

Let's see if it's possible, an underwater dance performance."

It was possible, but not easy.

"This project is like going to the moon on a bike," said Bulbulyan.

"There was an enormous amount of difficulties."

For a start, the dancers — including those who use wheelchairs — had to learn to dive, and control their buoyancy through their breathing so that they could hover upside down and sideways, or rise and fall without moving a muscle.

Seventy percent of the performers were dancers who became divers — all in the last year.

Then the project needed to coordinate all the details from diving gear, transportation and financing to uncertain weather and political problems in Greece.

"I'm bringing a French dance group from the poorest neighborhood of France, which has handicapped people in its group, to Greece, a country in chaos," Bulbulyan said.

"And we're doing something without limits."

The music needed special thought and planning.

Composer Trifonas Koutsourelis researched and tested how sound travels underwater so his music could both be heard clearly and be danced in water, where movement slows down.

It took him two and a half months, said Koutsourelis, who added that he hasn't slept for the last three weeks at least.

For the dancers, especially the disabled, the experience was "beyond words," said Papadamaki.

"They feel equal.

For the first time they can move without a wheelchair, without the restriction of somebody having to carry them," she said.

Irini Kourouvani, who uses a wheelchair, has been a dancer for 15 years but was wary of the water because she needed a flotation board to swim.

She was hooked from her first dive.

"I forgot to be afraid and to get scared, because I was so entranced by what I was seeing," Kourouvani said.

"I felt like I was floating in space, like I was on earth and the wind was coming and lifting me up."

Now, she said, the deep is something "I won't part with, because now I carry it within me."

