Dr. Fred Richardson Jr. walked up wooden steps, past unlit Christmas lights dangling in the window and through the doorway of Louise Cannon's house.

He passed Cannon's grandchildren, a photo of the Obamas on the mantel and a statuette of the Virgin Mary.

Then he pulled back curtains to a dining room, where Cannon, unable to speak because of a stroke, lay in a bed.

The 79-year-old woman saw Richardson, raised her arm and beamed.

A son of Chicago's Englewood neighborhood, Richardson has been a doctor since 1990.

Throughout that time, he has been grabbing his scuffed, black leather doctor's bag and making house calls in the city's most dangerous neighborhoods.

Richardson also has rescued minority students struggling with medical school.

Three days a week, Richardson, 54, helps them with their classwork at no charge.

"He's our brightest light," said John Bradley with the Chicago Area Health and Medical Careers Program.

The program identifies promising minority students for medical careers, advocates for them in medical schools and supports them academically.

By Bradley's count, Richardson has saved 50 of those students from dropping out.

"He's got more medical student saves than anybody doing this kind of work," Bradley said.

"He's tremendous."

Richardson did not know any black doctors as role models when he entered Rush Medical College in Chicago in 1982.

His mother was a bookkeeper and his father was a construction worker who struggled with alcoholism.

The family lived in a low-income area of high unemployment and crime.

They moved frequently, and Richardson remembers spending a night in a homeless shelter.

There are many reasons Richardson became a doctor, including his Christian faith, but it all started with his mother, Gladys Richardson.

"Her goal in life was to educate her children because she thought that was the only way out of Englewood," Richardson said, "and so she was a strict disciplinarian — stressed academics, stressed excellence."

Gladys supported the family, somehow keeping her four kids in Catholic schools.

Homework was taken seriously, and straight A's were expected.

Anything less and Gladys Richardson would spank her children, her way of making sure they avoided the destructive path many young people took in Englewood.

While his neighborhood friends "were into all sorts of bad things," they protected him and his younger brother, Lendell, who also became a physician.

Playing baseball gained them wide acceptance in the neighborhood, Richardson recalled, and the brothers' focus on becoming doctors was respected.

"They were like, 'OK, don't mess with them because they may have to take care of us,'" Richardson said.

Richardson once had dreams of playing shortstop for the Cubs, but at 5 feet 4 inches tall, he knew then that academics was his path.

In high school, he was one of about four African-American students.

He graduated in the top three and earned an academic scholarship to Loyola University in Chicago.

In medical school, he was the only African-American male in his class.

At medical school, the amount of material Richardson had to learn overwhelmed him, forcing him to study 12 hours a day.

To get through it, Richardson said, he leaned on the example his mother set.

In 24 years of house calls, Richardson says, he's never been hassled in the bad neighborhoods.

"Part of it is having grown up in an area like this," he said.

"I'm not intimidated by this at all.

None of this bothers me."

Soon after finishing with Cannon, he arrived at the home of 95-year-old Alberta Bowles, who lives alone.

He asked about her shortness of breath, whether she has had more belly problems, and gently massaged her hands, asking if they hurt.

"One of the things I enjoy the most about having a doctor like Dr. Fred is that he's a good listener," Bowles said.

"He is," she added, "the son I didn't have."

Richardson works six days a week and is on call 24 hours a day, seven days a week.

He says he sleeps four hours a night and does not drink alcohol or coffee.

He has diabetes, so he avoids carbohydrates and sips diet cola all day.

"I think what makes you tick is the impact you have on lives," Richardson said.

House calls allow him to connect with people in ways he cannot do in an office or hospital.

In 1930, house calls made up 40 percent of doctors' visits.

They nearly disappeared by 1980, research shows.

Now, government records show that at least 4.5 million house calls per year are made to elderly patients, up from 1.1 million in 1984.

Part of that rise stems from evidence that treating people at home helps to keep them out of the hospital.

When Richardson returns to his office in the evening after making house calls, medical school students are often seated there, waiting for help.

Two decades ago, Clyde Whiting was one of those students.

He said that without Richardson's help, he may not have been able to finish medical school.

"I could have fallen through the cracks for sure," he said.

Today, he is an emergency room physician, and Richardson is Whiting's personal doctor.

During the house call to Louise Cannon, her little great-great-granddaughter played while watching Richardson check Cannon's blood pressure and hearing.

When he finished, Richardson pulled his stethoscope from his neck and let the 2-year-old listen to her heartbeat.

Then she held her doll to Richardson, who pressed the stethoscope to the doll's chest.

"There you go," Richardson said.

"You could be a doctor someday."

