Jerry Witt's two buddies saved his life in Vietnam.

But they weren't your regular soldiers.

Skip and Satan walked on four legs.

The dog tags that soldiers usually wear around their necks were tattooed in their ears.

And their weapons were their noses and keen eyesight.

Skip was a German shepherd/collie mix.

Satan was a black Labrador retriever.

When Skip was killed, it felt like a punch in the stomach, Witt said.

"Skip saved my life many, many times," said Witt.

Witt served as an Army dog handler during the Vietnam War.

He now belongs to War Dogs.

The group honors military dogs.

Armies have used dogs for many years.

But more and more people are learning of America's furry warriors.

Army dogs patrol bases.

They sniff for bombs.

They capture bad guys and find missing people.

They also comfort soldiers who have been wounded.

War Dogs honors the country's four-legged fighting forces.

The group is based in Wisconsin.

Its members march in parades.

They give talks about war dogs.

They'll do just about anything to spread the word about this little-known part of American history.

Their own dogs belong to breeds used by the U.S. military.

One of the dogs served in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

The group raised $5,400 for a stone statue.

It will be placed at a park on June 22.

Carol Singer and a friend started War Dogs in 1999.

Singer has a 9-year-old Doberman pinscher named Bella.

"It started with one parade and snowballed from there," Singer said.

Old soldiers get emotional when they see the dogs.

At parades, the veterans stand and salute, said Tracy Hays.

Hays' dog is an American Staffordshire terrier.

Its name is Kestrel.

Before 1992, the Army would leave the dogs behind.

Dogs were considered "equipment," like tents or trucks.

Witt knew dog handlers who signed up to stay in Vietnam.

They wanted to spend more time with their dogs.

"It became a very sore subject to me and my fellow handlers.

It was tragic.

These dogs, they were like people.

For them to do that was (terrible)," said Witt.

In 1969, Witt left Vietnam.

His dog Satan was given to another handler.

Witt and other dog handlers from Vietnam got Congress to change the rules.

In 1992, they succeeded.

Now all military dogs are brought home.

They are treated like true veterans.

