Jerry Witt survived a full year in Vietnam because of his buddies Skip and Satan.

Satan and Skip were soldiers, but of the four-legged variety.

The dog tags that soldiers wear around their necks, were tattooed in their ears.

And their weapons were their noses and keen eyesight.

Skip was a German shepherd/collie mix.

Satan was a black Labrador retriever.

And when Skip was killed, that loss felt like a punch to the gut to Witt, an Army dog handler.

Skip was severely wounded in an explosion, and although the dog was flown out of the jungle and survived surgery, he died a week later from an infection.

"He turned his head and basically told me — 'Don't come any closer, I'm in trouble,'" Witt recalled.

"Skip saved my life many, many times," said Witt.

He belongs to War Dogs, a group dedicated to honoring the memory of military dogs.

It's no secret armies have used dogs for decades.

But more and more people are learning of America's faithful warriors.

Recent news reports have spotlighted heroic dogs such as Cairo, the Belgian Malinois assigned to SEAL Team Six in the raid on terror leader Osama bin Laden.

Military pooches patrol bases and sniff for bombs.

They capture bad guys and track missing people.

They comfort wounded service members.

Wisconsin-based War Dogs will do just about anything to spread the word about a little-known part of American military history.

The group marches in parades, appears at shows and gives presentations on the history of America's four-legged fighting forces.

War Dogs members own pups representing breeds used by the U.S. military.

One of the dogs has served in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

To honor military pups, War Dogs raised $5,400 for a 6-foot-tall gray granite statue.

It will be unveiled June 22 in Wisconsin.

The group has no dues and no meetings.

War Dogs members simply show up to march in parades or speak about military dogs with their pooches in tow.

The only requirement is they must wear the War Dogs T-shirt with the logo "Hell on Paws — America's Unsung Heroes of All Wars."

Their dogs wear camouflage bandannas.

Also, members' dogs must belong to the 16 or so breeds used by the U.S. military.

They are German shepherd, collie, Labrador retriever, Belgian Malinois, Airedale, boxer, beagle, Newfoundland and husky/malamute.

The other breeds are giant schnauzer, standard poodle, pit bull and Jack Russell terrier.

Carol Singer and a friend started War Dogs in 1999 after she researched the history of Doberman pinschers during World War II.

Singer has a 9-year-old Doberman named Bella.

"It started with one parade and snowballed from there," Singer said.

Whenever War Dogs marches in parades, the response of veterans is often overwhelming and emotional.

"At parades we see men wearing World War II caps stand and salute," said Tracy Hays.

Hays owns an American Staffordshire terrier named Kestrel.

Always bringing up the rear is Carolyn Summers.

She carries her Yorkshire terrier D.D.

in a military helmet.

Many people are surprised a pint-size Yorkie was a war dog, but D.D.

represents a Yorkshire terrier named Smoky.

During World War II, Smoky carried telegraph wire through a narrow pipe at an airfield.

It flew on rescue missions and visited wounded soldiers.

Summers contacted Smoky's owner, William Wynne, to let him know she was honoring Smoky's service.

The 91-year-old Wynne wrote back thanking her for remembering Smoky.

Hays' dog Kestrel represents a terrier named Sergeant Stubby.

The terrier helped capture a German spy during World War I.

He also saved his unit by alerting them of a gas attack during World War I.

During Vietnam, dog handlers picked out a dog once they arrived in the Southeast Asian country.

They carried three days worth of dog food along with their own gear on missions.

Often they were targeted by the enemy because the dogs were so effective at tracking.

Classified as "equipment," half of the American military dogs were euthanized at the end of the Vietnam War.

Others were given to the South Vietnamese army or abandoned.

Witt knew dog handlers who signed up for additional tours of duty.

They wanted to spend more time with their dogs because they couldn't bring them home.

"It became a very sore subject to me and my fellow handlers.

It was tragic.

These dogs, they were like people, for them to do that was (terrible)," said Witt.

His dog Satan was given to another handler in Vietnam when he left in 1969.

Witt and other military dog handlers from Vietnam lobbied Congress to change the rules.

In 1992, President Bill Clinton signed legislation that brings all war dogs back to the United States.

Now all military dogs are treated like true veterans.

