Jerry Witt survived a full year as a soldier in Vietnam, due to his buddies Skip and Satan.

Satan and Skip weren't your regular soldiers.

They were the four-legged kind.

Their dog tags were tattooed in their ears.

Their weapons were their noses and keen eyesight.

Skip was a German shepherd/collie mix.

Satan was a black Labrador retriever.

Skip was killed in action.

For Witt, an army dog handler, the loss of his four-legged buddy felt like a punch to the gut.

"Skip saved my life many, many times," said Witt.

He belongs to War Dogs, a group dedicated to honoring the memory of military dogs.

It's no secret that armies have used dogs for many years.

Now, more and more people are learning of America's furry warriors.

Recent news reports have put the spotlight on heroic dogs.

One of them was Cairo, a Belgian Malinois.

Cairo was assigned to the team that killed terrorist leader Osama bin Laden.

Army dogs patrol bases and sniff for explosives.

They capture bad guys and track missing people.

They also comfort soldiers who have been wounded.

War Dogs will do just about anything to spread the word about this little-known part of American military history.

Its members march in parades.

They attend shows.

They give talks about American's four-legged fighting forces.

To honor military dogs, War Dogs raised $5,400 for a 6-foot-tall stone statue.

It will be unveiled June 22 in a park in Wisconsin.

The group has no dues and no meetings.

It has only a few rules.

Members have to wear their War Dogs T-shirt when they march in parades or give talks.

The T-shirt reads "Hell on Paws — America's Unsung Heroes of All Wars."

Their dogs wear camouflage bandannas.

Members' dogs must be one of the 16 or so breeds used by the U.S. military.

The breeds include German shepherd, collie, Labrador retriever, Belgian Malinois, Airedale, boxer and beagle.

Newfoundlands and husky/malamutes are also used.

Other breeds are giant schnauzer, standard poodle, pit bull and Jack Russell terrier.

One of the members' dogs actually served in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

Carol Singer and a friend started War Dogs in 1999.

She became interested in the history of Doberman pinschers during World War II.

Singer has a 9-year-old Doberman named Bella.

"It started with one parade and snowballed from there," Singer said.

The response to the group is often overwhelming and emotional.

Veterans are particularly supportive.

"At parades, we see men wearing World War II caps stand and salute," said Tracy Hays.

Hays owns an American Staffordshire terrier named Kestrel.

Carolyn Summers is always at the back of the parades.

She carries her Yorkshire terrier D.D.

in a military helmet.

Many people are surprised a pint-size Yorkie was a war dog.

But D.D.

represents a Yorkshire terrier named Smoky.

Smokey fought in World War II.

He carried telegraph wire through a narrow pipe at an airfield.

He flew on rescue missions and visited wounded soldiers.

Hays' dog Kestrel represents Sergeant Stubby.

The terrier helped capture a German spy during World War I.

During Vietnam, dog handlers were targeted by the enemy.

Their dogs were too good at tracking.

After Vietnam, the dogs were not brought home with their handlers.

The Army considered the dogs to be "equipment," like tents or trucks.

Many dogs were left behind.

Half of the American military dogs were killed at the end of the Vietnam War.

The others were given to the South Vietnamese army or abandoned.

Witt knew dog handlers who signed up to stay in Vietnam to spend more time with their dogs.

"It became a very sore subject to me and my fellow handlers.

It was tragic.

These dogs, they were like people.

For them to do that was (terrible)," said Witt.

Witt left Vietnam in 1969.

After he left, his dog Satan was given to another handler.

Witt and other military dog handlers from Vietnam asked Congress to change the rules.

In 1992, they succeeded.

President Bill Clinton signed a law to bring all military dogs back to the United States.

Now, they are treated like true veterans.

