The Pittsburgh Zoo uses dogs to herd its African elephants.

Some people say the dogs scare the elephants.

People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is a group that fights for the rights of animals.

It complained about the zoo to the U.S. government.

Now the government is checking out the zoo.

Brittany Peet works for PETA.

She has seen video taken at the zoo.

She says the video shows that the dogs bite and chase the elephants.

The elephants get scared and their ears go out.

They make a noise like a trumpet.

Workers at the zoo are teaching dogs to act this way, Peet said.

Some of the elephants weigh 15,000 pounds each.

When they get upset they can be a danger to humans.

Peet says the Pittsburgh Zoo knows this.

She says it is cruel to both the dogs and elephants.

Peet says both are in danger.

Tracy Gray works for the Pittsburgh Zoo.

She says the zoo gives the elephants "the best care possible."

The zoo brought in two Australian cattle dogs three years ago.

The dogs and elephants work well together, Gray said.

The dogs herd the elephants.

It lets zoo workers stay away from the elephants.

Gray says it helps keep zoo workers safe.

Peet said using dogs is far from safe.

She said a dog could not stop an elephant from hurting zookeepers.

An elephant could crush a dog, she said.

Peet also said the Pittsburgh Zoo's workers get too close to the elephants.

Half of the zoos in America use fences or bars to keep zookeepers separate from elephants.

From behind fences the keepers reward the elephants.

The give them praise and food.

It keeps the elephants happy.

Peet said the Pittsburgh Zoo should follow the other zoos.

Peet said the dogs add to the danger of dealing with elephants.

There have been two animal attacks at the Pittsburgh Zoo since 2002.

One was by an elephant that still lives at the zoo.

The Pittsburgh Zoo has upset people with how it deals with its elephants before.

A zoo worker was killed in 2002.

A mother elephant pushed her head on his chest after he fell to the ground.

Gray said the zoo treats its elephants well.

If an elephant does not want to work with the keeper, the keeper leaves the area.

Gray said the elephants are never punished for not working with a keeper.

Peet feels the zoo needs to choose better ways to keep zoo workers safe.

She also thinks the zoo should not allow elephants to be bullied.

Peet says the zoo should make sure that elephants do not live in fear.

