For Daniel Promislow, it is hard to watch his 11-year-old dog, Silver, get old.

"Month by month, he gets slower and slower," said Promislow, a scientist at the University of Washington (UW).

His other dog, Frisbee, is still playful like a puppy.

At 10, though, she also is old for a dog.

Promislow thinks it might be possible to help pets live a little longer.

Promislow and other scientists plan to study a chemical that makes mice live longer.

He and other scientists hope it will do the same for dogs.

The chemical is called rapamycin.

It has also become the most hopeful anti-aging medicine.

Nearly 50 laboratory studies have shown that it can delay the start of some diseases.

It can also make older animals stronger and live longer.

No one knows how the medicine would work in people.

Studying its effects on people would be expensive.

It could also take many years to get results.

Dogs are another story.

It may be possible to find out in a few years whether rapamycin works on pets.

"I think it's worth a go," said Steven Austad.

He is an expert on aging at the University of Alabama.

It is important "not just from what it can teach us about humans, but for the sake of the animals themselves."

It may not work on dogs, Austad said.

"But if it did, boy, it's going to be huge."

Rapamycin seems to slow the spread of cancer.

It also makes the heart work better in old mice.

In most dog breeds, cancer is the main cause of death.

Some dog breeds, including Newfoundlands and Dobermans, are at high risk for heart failure.

Large dogs live a shorter time than small breeds.

"We're trying to understand why some dogs age better than others," Promislow said.

The scientists plan to start an experiment.

They will begin with 30 large, middle-aged dogs.

The scientists will see if the medicine improves the way their hearts work or stops the spread of cancer.

The medicine may not make the dogs live longer.

However, it may help them stay healthier and more active, Promislow pointed out.

Next, the scientists hope to convince hundreds of dog owners to put their pets in a larger experiment.

It would study what happens when dogs get older.

The experiment would also test how rapamycin works in dogs over time.

Finding money for the study could be difficult.

The government usually only pays for studies that help humans.

Dog-food companies might be willing to give money.

Most of all, the scientists are hoping dog lovers who want to improve the health of their animals, will help.

The scientists have set up a website about the project.

On the website, people can give money.

They can also sign up their dogs for the study.

The website is dogagingproject.com.

The UW project makes sense, said Dr. Jeffrey Halter.

He is with the University of Michigan.

He also warned that developing new medicines for both animals and humans is long and difficult.

No one should expect a miracle, Halter said.

