Daniel Promislow says it's hard to watch his 11-year-old Weimaraner, named Silver, get old.

"Month by month, he gets slower and slower," said Promislow, a geneticist at the University of Washington (UW).

His other dog, Frisbee, is still playful like a pup.

At 10, though, she also is considered to be elderly for a dog.

It's a sad part of pet ownership that our beloved companions never live long enough.

But Promislow and other researchers think it might be possible to make pets live a little bit longer.

Using the latest anti-aging research, the scientists plan to study a chemical that lengthens the lives of mice and other creatures.

They hope it will do the same for dogs.

"We're not talking about doubling the healthy life spans of pets," Matthew Kaeberlein said.

He is a biologist at the university.

"But at a minimum, I would predict that you would get a 10 to 15 percent increase in average life span" and maybe even longer.

At a meeting in Seattle recently, experts from across the country brainstormed about the chemical rapamycin.

They spoke about the best way to test its effects in pet dogs.

Rapamycin is used along with several other drugs in organ-transplant patients.

When people get transplants of new hearts, kidneys and other organs their body often fights the new organ.

Rapamycin prevents the body from rejecting the new organs.

The drug is considered the most promising chemical for anti-aging effects.

Nearly 50 laboratory studies have shown that it can delay the some diseases and restore strength to elderly animals.

It also extended their average life spans 9 to 40 percent.

No one knows if the drug might do the same things in people.

Large-scale human trials are expensive and would take decades to complete.

But with dogs, it could be possible to find out in a few years whether rapamycin works.

"I think it's worth a go, not just from what it can teach us about humans, but for the sake of the animals themselves," said Steven Austad, the head of the University of Alabama Biology Department.

He is also an expert on aging.

"It may not work in dogs, but if it did, boy, it's going to be huge."

Rapamycin works partly by stopping cells from growing, Kaeberlein explained.

It slows the spread of cancer cells.

It also improved the way the heart works in elderly mice.

Some dog breeds, including Newfoundlands and Dobermans, are particularly high risk for heart failure.

Across most breeds, though, cancer is the leading cause of death.

Large dogs generally have shorter life spans than the small breeds.

"We're trying to understand why some dogs age better than others," Promislow said.

The researchers plan to start as soon as possible with a study of 30 large, middle-aged dogs.

The researchers want to see if the drug improves the way their hearts work or if it delays heart problems or cancer.

The drug may not increase the length of the dogs' lives.

However, simply postponing disease could give dogs a healthier, active life, Promislow pointed out.

The researchers eventually hope to persuade hundreds of dog owners to enroll their pets in a much larger experiment to study the aging process of dogs and the long-term effects of rapamycin.

Finding money to pay for the study may be difficult.

The government usually only funds studies that focus on human disease.

Dog-food companies and non-profit groups might be willing to contribute.

Most of all, the scientists are hoping dog lovers who want to improve the health of their animals would help out.

The researchers have set up a website where people can give money.

People can also sign up their dogs to possibly be included in the study.

The website is dogagingproject.com.

The UW project makes sense, said Dr. Jeffrey Halter, director of the University of Michigan Geriatrics Center.

He cautioned that developing new drugs for both animals and humans is a long and difficult process.

"I think most of us who work in this field are not looking for an instant miracle," Halter said.

