The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking into the Pittsburgh Zoo's use of dogs to herd its African elephants after receiving a complaint from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).

"We have video footage (taken at) the Pittsburgh Zoo that very clearly shows the elephants exhibiting threat displays, in which their ears go out and they trumpet as the dogs go out, chase them and apparently nip at their feet," said Brittany Peet.

She is PETA's deputy director of captive animal law enforcement in Washington, D.C. "(Zoo employees are) training dogs to bite, chase and otherwise antagonize 15,000-pound elephants — animals that the Pittsburgh Zoo knows all too well are dangerous and unpredictable," Peet said.

It's cruel and dangerous to both the dogs and the elephants, she said.

Tanya Espinosa, a spokeswoman for the USDA's animal plant health inspection service, said a review is underway.

"We are looking into this to see what is going on at the zoo and whether or not they are in compliance with animal welfare act regulations," Espinosa said.

Zoo spokeswoman Tracy Gray issued a statement supporting its use of dogs.

The use of herding dogs is part of "providing the best care possible for our African elephants," she said.

"To advance and improve the care that we provide for our elephants, we introduced two Australian cattle dogs into our elephant program three years ago," Gray said.

The dogs and elephants work well together, she added.

"The primary reason the herding dogs are working with our team is for the safety of our staff.

These relationships can be thought of in terms of traditional shepherding practices.

In this case, our primary elephant keeper, Willie Thieson, represents the shepherd; the elephants represent the flock; and the Australian cattle dogs assist the shepherd," Gray said.

Peet said the use of dogs is anything but safe.

"The next time a 15,000-pound elephant turns on her captors, a small dog isn't going to stop her," she said.

She also faulted the zoo's handlers for their unprotected contact with the elephants.

More than half of the officially approved zoos in this country use protected contact to manage elephants, "in which handlers are separated from the animals with barriers and use positive reinforcement techniques," Peet said.

Positive reinforcement methods use praise and food to reward the elephants.

She said that the Pittsburgh Zoo added to the risks of using unprotected, or free, contact by introducing dogs to an already dangerous situation between elephants and staff.

There have been two fatal animal attacks at the Pittsburgh Zoo since 2002, including one by an elephant that is still on exhibit.

"The Pittsburgh Zoo should be working to protect animals, employees and visitors by barring all direct contact with elephants and not experimenting with dogs' lives," she said.

PETA originally filed its complaint with the state Fish and Game Commission, but that agency said it had no authority regarding zoo animals.

"We really have nothing to do with it," spokesman Travis Lau said.

The zoo is exempt from needing a permit under the Game and Wildlife Code.

Its permit comes from the USDA and it's that agency's job to investigate, he said.

In February, the USDA fined the Pittsburgh Zoo $4,550 following an investigation into the November 2012 death of 2-year-old Maddox Derkosh, who was mauled by the zoo's African painted dogs after he fell into their exhibit.

The USDA ruled that the exhibit did not have sufficient distance and barriers between the animals and zoo visitors.

While PETA is pursuing the matter through the USDA, it continues to push for action from the Game Commission.

"It's very clear under state law that dogs are not permitted to chase or pursue wildlife such as elephants," Peet said.

"Just because a facility has a USDA license doesn't mean that state laws don't apply."

The Pittsburgh Zoo has come under criticism for its handling of elephants before.

In 1989, a keeper suffered a broken leg, cuts and bruises when an elephant kicked him as he was about to give it medicine.

Handler Mike Gatti, 46, was killed in 2002 when a mother elephant pushed her head on his chest after he fell to the ground.

Still, Gray said the zoo stands by its handling of elephants.

"The Pittsburgh Zoo &amp; PPG Aquarium's elephant care program involves both restricted and unrestricted contact," she said.

"Both methods use vocal commands, praise and food rewards.

If an elephant does not want to work with the keeper, the keeper leaves the area.

We never punish our elephants for not cooperating."

Peet said the zoo is clinging to an "old-school" approach when other methods are safer and work better.

"It's positive reinforcement and protective barriers — not dogs — that keep employees safe," she said.

"The Pittsburgh Zoo should follow the example of the San Diego Zoo, the North Carolina Zoo and the Oakland Zoo by allowing elephants to live free of fear and harassment."

