The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is looking into the Pittsburgh Zoo's use of dogs to herd its African elephants after receiving a complaint from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).

PETA has video that was taken at the Pittsburgh Zoo that very clearly has the elephants showing "threat displays, in which their ears go out and they trumpet as the dogs go out, chase them and apparently nip at their feet," said Brittany Peet, who works for the animal-rights group in Washington, D.C.

Zoo employees are training dogs to bite, chase and otherwise annoy 15,000-pound elephants, Peet said.

Pittsburgh Zoo knows all too well that these animals are dangerous and moody, she said.

It is not just cruel to both the dogs and the elephants, it's dangerous, she said.

Tanya Espinosa, a spokeswoman for the USDA's animal plant health inspection service, said a review is underway.

Espinosa said the USDA is looking into what was going on at the zoo and whether it obeyed the animal welfare act, the federal law governing the treatment of animals.

Zoo spokeswoman Tracy Gray said the use of dogs was part of "providing the best care possible for our African elephants."

The zoo introduced two Australian cattle dogs into its elephant program three years ago, Gray said.

The dogs and elephants work well together, she added.

"The primary reason the herding dogs are working with our team is for the safety of our staff," she said.

Peet said the use of dogs is anything but safe.

"The next time a 15,000-pound elephant turns on her captors, a small dog isn't going to stop her," she said.

She also faulted the zoo's handlers for their unprotected contact with the elephants.

Peet said that more than half of the zoos in this country use protected contact to manage elephants.

Protected contact is a practice where barriers like fences or bars are used between the handlers and the animals.

The handlers also use positive reinforcement methods, where food and praise are used to reward the animals.

She felt that the Pittsburgh Zoo was being careless by introducing dogs.

Dogs add to the risks of unprotected contact between elephants and staff, Peet said.

There have been two animal attacks at the Pittsburgh Zoo since 2002.

One was by an elephant that is still on exhibit.

In February, the USDA fined the Pittsburgh Zoo &amp; PPG Aquarium $4,550 after investigating the death of 2-year-old Maddox Derkosh.

The child was attacked by the zoo's African painted dogs after he fell into their exhibit in 2012.

The USDA ruled that the exhibit did not have sufficient distance and barriers between the animals and zoo visitors.

PETA is pursuing the matter through the USDA.

It also continues to push for action from the Pennsylvania Fish and Game Commission, a state agency.

People have found fault in the past with how the Pittsburgh Zoo handles its elephants.

In 1989, a keeper suffered a broken leg, cuts and bruises when an elephant kicked him as he was about to give it medicine.

Handler Mike Gatti, 46, was killed in 2002 when a mother elephant pushed her head on his chest after he fell to the ground.

Yet Gray said the zoo stands by its handling of elephants.

The Pittsburgh Zoo's elephant care program involves both unprotected and protected contact, she said.

"Both methods use vocal commands, praise and food rewards.

If an elephant does not want to work with the keeper, the keeper leaves the area.

We never punish our elephants for not cooperating."

Peet said the zoo is clinging to an old-fashioned approach when other methods are safer and work better.

"It's positive reinforcement and protective barriers — not dogs — that keep employees safe," she said.

She feels the Pittsburgh Zoo should follow the example of the San Diego Zoo, the North Carolina Zoo and the Oakland Zoo, which she says allow their elephants to live free of fear and bullying.

