You never know where the spare change in your pocket will go when you give it to a homeless person.

It might go to buy a meal or support an addiction.

The city of Pasadena, California, is now trying to solve that problem.

The city is testing a different way to give money to panhandlers who ask for dollars and cents on the streets.

Fourteen parking meters have been remade across the city to collect change for nonprofit groups that help the homeless.

You might see them when you pay for parking in Pasadena.

The meters are painted bright orange and decorated with smiley faces.

They are supposed to raise awareness for the city's homeless programs.

Pasadena is the first city in Los Angeles County to try these meters.

Los Angeles also has been talking about trying them out in downtown.

Pasadena officials do not expect to raise a lot of money for the homeless: The two meters currently in place raised just $270 over three weeks.

Bill Haung works for the city.

He thinks people will like having a choice and added that they will know where their money is going.

But not everyone likes the meters.

Paul Boden works with a group that helps with homelessness.

He thinks the program is foolish and says the meters will help cities push out the homeless.

In San Diego and Denver, for example, the meters were used to prevent panhandling.

The city installed them in areas where people gathered to ask for money so they might leave.

Pasadena officials said their main goal is to raise awareness, but they also admitted the result could mean fewer people panhandling for money.

The view on the streets of Pasadena is mixed.

Dorothy Edwards, 56, used to panhandle by the Target in eastern Pasadena.

She would use the money to buy food for her dog, rain gear and tents.

Buying her own supplies helped her feel productive.

She also said the money made it easier for her to stay homeless.

"Homeless people wouldn't be out there doing that if they did not really need it," said Edwards, who found a place to live in 2011 after a city worker approached her.

She thinks the meters might work in the long run.

Other homeless people are unsure of the idea.

Holly Johnson is a woman asking for money on Lake Avenue.

She says that nonprofits do not always spend money on what homeless people need.

Granola bars are pointless for people without healthy teeth and canned food is no good without a can opener.

She needs money for her own reasons, like her health and safety.

Underneath an eye patch, her eye is red and puffy from infection.

She also said the outdoors are especially dangerous for women and panhandling money could pay for a hotel room where she could sleep safely.

"It's a nice idea," Johnson said.

"But we won't get that money."

Pasadena leaders argue the meters could encourage the public to give more.

They say people might feel better knowing that their money will not be used for drugs or alcohol.

Since 2007, Denver, Colorado, has installed 55 parking meters to collect money for the homeless.

Officials claim the meters have cut down on people asking for money.

They also say the meters have raised more than $30,000 annually for food and housing for the homeless.

Other cities have raised less.

In Orlando, Florida, 15 parking meters collected $2,027 in three years.

That is just $27 more than what the city spent to install them.

In downtown San Diego, California, about 20 meters generate about $3,600 a year in change.

The Pasadena meters did not cost the city money.

They were designed by a class of college students.

They were paid for by money that companies gave to the city, Huang said.

City officials say the money collected by the meters could help find people homes.

Programs the money would go to have helped cut Pasadena's homeless population in half over the last three years.

It went from 1,300 in 2011 to about 650, officials said.

