Sometimes homeless people will ask for change on the street.

It is hard to know what the money will be used for.

Many of us like to help people on the streets.

Still, some people think that they might not really be homeless.

Others think homeless people will spend the money on junk food or cigarettes.

Pasadena is trying to solve this problem.

The California city wants to make sure the money helps people.

It is testing a new way to give money to panhandlers who ask for dollars and coins on the streets.

Fourteen parking meters in the city have been changed.

They used to be there so people could pay for a parking spot.

Now they will collect change to go to charities that help the homeless.

The meters have been painted bright orange.

They are decorated with smiley faces.

They are meant to make people aware of the city's homeless programs.

Pasadena is the first city in Los Angeles County to try these meters.

Officials do not expect to raise a lot of money for the homeless.

The two meters currently in place raised just $270 in three weeks.

It was not enough money to feed many people.

Bill Haung works for the city.

He thinks people will like the meters.

People will be able to choose which charity will get their money.

They will know where their money is going, he said.

But not everyone likes the meters.

Paul Boden works with a group that helps the homeless.

He thinks the program is foolish.

He says the meters will help cities push out the homeless.

In San Diego and Denver, for example, the meters were used to prevent begging for money.

The city installed them in areas where people gathered to ask for money so they might leave.

Pasadena officials said their main goal is to make people pay attention to the homeless.

They also said the meters could mean fewer people asking for change.

People on the streets of Pasadena do not all agree.

Dorothy Edwards is 56 years old.

She used to beg for money by the Target store in eastern Pasadena.

She used the money to buy food for her dog, rain gear and tents.

Buying her own supplies helped her to feel productive.

She did say that the money made it easier for her to stay homeless.

She thinks charities can do more for people without homes.

One group helped her find a home in 2011.

Homeless people would not ask for money if they didn't need it, Edwards said.

"But when you look at the big picture, the meters are going to be a long-term solution."

Other homeless people are unsure.

Holly Johnson begs for money on a busy street.

She thinks that charities do not always spend money on what homeless people need.

For example, many groups give out granola bars.

Johnson says that homeless people with unhealthy teeth have trouble eating them.

Canned food also does not help.

Most homeless people do not have a can opener, she said.

"It's a nice idea," Johnson said.

"But we won't get that money."

Pasadena leaders say the meters could get the public to give more money.

They say people might give more if they know where their money is going.

Since 2007, Denver, Colorado, has installed 55 parking meters to collect money for the homeless.

Officials claim the meters have cut down on people asking for money.

They also say the meters are raising more than $30,000 every year for food and housing for the homeless.

Other cities collected less money from their meters.

In Orlando, Florida, 15 parking meters gathered just $2,027 in three years.

They only made $27 more than what the city spent to put them on the streets.

The Pasadena meters did not cost the city money.

They were designed by college students.

They were paid for by money that companies gave to the city, Huang said.

City leaders say the money collected by the meters might help in finding people homes.

The charities have already proven to be very helpful.

The number of homeless people in Pasadena has decreased by one-half in the last three years.

