The Doomsday Clock was invented by scientists.

It is not real.

It says how close the world is to a disaster.

Midnight would mean the end of human life.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/doomsday.png) The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists is a group of important scientists.

Each year, they decide to move the clock or leave it alone.

This year, they decided to leave it alone.

It is still not good news.

The Doomsday Clock says it is three minutes before midnight.

It means the world is in danger, scientists said Tuesday.

Lawrence Krauss is one of the Bulletin leaders.

He said people must change the way they think.

If not, the world is in serious danger.

The group began in 1945\.

It was started by some scientists.

They had helped make the first atomic weapons.

Two years later the scientists created the clock.

Two years ago, the clock was at five minutes-to-midnight.

Last year, they changed it to three minutes-to-midnight.

The scientists gave three reasons.

The first reason was climate change, which means the Earth is heating up.

The second reason was more powerful nuclear weapons.

The third was the large number of nuclear weapons owned by some countries.

Krauss said there was some good news, too.

Last year, the United States made a deal with Iran.

It could prevent the Middle Eastern country from getting nuclear weapons.

Also, 200 countries promised to work to stop climate change.

There was plenty of bad news as well, Krauss said.

There are growing problems between Russia and America.

Also, North Korea recently tested a nuclear bomb.

The world needs to work harder to stop climate change too, he said.

Michael Oppenheimer is a professor at Princeton University in New Jersey.

He did not agree with the scientists.

He said it would take more to end the world.

Yet, midnight could mean dangerous climate change.

If climate change gets worse, then the Doomsday Clock makes sense, he said.  Michael Shermer runs Skeptic magazine.

It looks at social and scientific disagreements.

He said the world is better today. The Doomsday Clock's time does not show that, he says.

There are fewer nuclear weapons than there were in the 1980s.

Also, there has not been a big war in Europe for 70 years.

The closest the clock has come to midnight was in 1953\.

Then, it was at two minutes-to-midnight.

That year, both Russia and the United States tested hydrogen bombs.

They are far more powerful than atomic bombs.

