For so long, Nancy Landa kept secrets.

Her family moved from Mexico to the United States when Landa was 9 years old.

They did not have permission.

So Landa could not become an American citizen.

Growing up in Los Angeles, she never told friends her secret.

Because she was not a U.S. citizen, she knew that she could be kicked out of the country at any moment.

If this happened, she would be sent back to Mexico.

Landa was a hard worker and a successful student.

She graduated from college.

She then went to work for California's government.

All the while, she kept her fears about getting sent back to Mexico to herself.

Her secret caught up to her in 2009.

Government officers forced her to leave the U.S.

They dropped her off in a city in Mexico called Tijuana, by herself.

Landa knew no one there.

Her new life was hard.

America was what she knew.

Landa was not alone, however.

She was one of many people who grew up in the U.S. but were forced to return to Mexico.

Now, they are joining together.

They call themselves "Los Otros Dreamers."

It means "the Other Dreamers" in Spanish.

They are trying to help other people who have been forced to return to Mexico.

For example, they met with Mexican officials to get new ID cards for people coming back from the U.S.

Many people come back and have no IDs showing who they are.

The group is also trying to make it easier for students to continue their education in Mexico.

Los Otros Dreamers formed a couple of years ago with the help of Jill Anderson.

She is an American professor doing work in Mexico City.

Anderson became interested in people like Landa when she noticed something strange about a call center near her house.

Workers at call centers help people over the phone.

If your Internet doesn't work, for example, you can call a phone number.

Someone from a call center will answer and help you with the problem.

The person who answers could be anywhere in the world.

Many American companies set up call centers in other countries to save money.

The call center in Mexico City was unusual, though.

The workers there dressed in American clothes and spoke English with Southern California accents.

They seemed American.

Anderson began studying call centers.

She found that many of the workers in Mexican call centers grew up in the U.S. Their perfect English made it easy for them to help Americans over the phone.

Anderson became more curious.

She studied what life was like for people returning to Mexico.

Many had little or no memory of Mexico.

Some were teased for their American accents or broken Spanish.

Others had trouble fitting in.

Landa experienced problems like these in her first months in Tijuana.

She also had difficulty finding work.

Her American college degree was of little help in Mexico.

Eventually she found a job at a call center.

She was not allowed to return to the U.S., but now she was spending all her time talking to Americans over the phone.

Last year, Landa saw a message Anderson had posted online.

The message asked people who had been forced to return to Mexico to share their stories.

Landa responded and became connected with Los Otros Dreamers.

