People around the world are still arguing over an Internet photo of a dress.

Scientists say it is because we each see colors a bit differently.

It started when a woman posted a photo of the dress to a website.

She asked for help to find out if the dress was white and gold, or blue and black.

The real dress is blue and black.

Debates broke out all over the world.

Some people said the dress was blue and black.

Others said it was definitely white and gold.

Each person was sure their answer was right.

Websites declared that the Internet was freaking out.

Kiel Conjack thought his wife was joking with him.

She said she saw blue and black.

They got into an argument until his wife went to the Internet and found a photo that proved the true color of the dress.

That made him wonder if he was losing his mind.

Jeff Brown and his fiancee had a different argument.

She believed the dress was white and gold, and he said that it was blue and black.

It "felt good" to be right for a change, he said.

Everyone can relax.

Science has come to the rescue.

Scientists explained that different people saw different colors because of how our brains work with our eyes to help us see.

That works differently for each person.

Matthew A. Smith is a professor at the University of Pittsburgh.

He said people think our eyes take a photo of what they see.

That is not the case.

The brain studies the images from our eyes to make a picture, Smith said.

It studies what is around them to find out what is going on and fill in the image.

Different people do this differently.

When the brain does not have enough to complete the picture, it makes guesses.

In the dress picture, the dress took up most of the photo.

There was no room in the picture for more hints to help the brain.

That meant more guesses.

Those guesses can go either way, Smith said.

The brain finds what is important in a picture.

Then, it cuts out the unimportant parts, said John J. Guehl III, a doctor.

It may see the unimportant parts differently.

Our hearing works the same way.

A mother will tune out noise, but she will hear her own baby, Guehl said.

The brains of some people might notice blue light less.

That makes the person see the dress as gold and white.

If the brain ignores the white or yellow light, he or she will see a blue and black dress.

People in Pittsburgh could be seeing the dress differently, Guehl said.

He said everyone there sees the dress as black and gold, the colors of the local sports teams, and joked: "Everyone else is all wrong.

It's clearly black and gold."

