The now-famous dress had people debating all over the Internet: Is it blue and black, or gold and white?

It turned out in reality to be blue and black, bewildering all the people who picked the other color choice.

Scientists have explained that some people saw it as gold and white because of the way the brain deals with and interprets what the eye sees.

But the controversy continues.

A person with a Tumblr account started everything last Wednesday by posting a photo of the dress online and asking for help to figure out the color.

Debates broke out in workplaces across the globe, and websites declared that the Internet was freaking out and losing its mind over the question.

It was like choosing between sweet and bitter, or hot or cold — and each person thought their answer was obvious.

Kiel Conjack thought his wife was pranking him when she said she saw blue and black and they got into an argument over the dress color.

His wife turned to the Internet and found a photo that proved the dress's true color and made him question if he had lost his mind.

Jeff Brown had the opposite experience with his fiancee, who believed the dress to be white and gold, while he argued that it was blue and black.

It "felt good" to be eventually proven right, he said.

Everyone can relax; science has come to the rescue.

Scientists explained different people saw different colors because of the different ways our brains analyze the information it gets from our eyes.

Matthew A. Smith, a professor of ophthalmology and neuroscience at the University of Pittsburgh, said people think their eyes simply take a photo and post it in the brain, but that is not the case in reality.

"Our brain takes information from the world through our eyes then uses context to try to figure out what's going on," Smith said, noting that he sees the dress as blue and brownish-black.

"We don't take a perfect photo.

We have limited information and use context to figure out what's going on."

Each person analyzes things differently, he said.

When the brain does not have enough information, it interprets the image and makes guesses.

The dress took up most of the photo, so there were few details to help the brain.

That meant more guesses, and guesses can go either way, Smith said.

John J. Guehl III, chief of ophthalmology at West Penn Hospital, described it as a kind of optical illusion.

The brain figures out the important parts of a picture, and factors out and ignores the rest of it.

"It decides what's the part that counts and makes changes on how it is perceiving the other parts," he said.

"We are bombarded by so many sensations that if you perceived all of them, you'd go nuts," he said.

Our hearing works the same way.

A mother can ignore a roomful of noise, but will hear her baby make a sound, Guehl said.

With so few details in the photo, the brain has to make guesses about the light when the picture was taken.

Some people might pay less attention to the blue background light, which makes the person see the dress as gold and white, Guehl said.

If the brain ignores the white or yellow light, he or she will see a blue and black dress.

People in Pittsburgh could be seeing the dress differently because of their own experiences, Guehl said.

Everyone in Pittsburgh sees the dress as black and gold, the colors of the Steelers and other local sports teams, he joked.

"Everyone else is all wrong.

It's clearly black and gold."

