Scientists have explained why a photo of a dress posted online looked like different colors to different people.

But that has not stopped people from arguing if the dress is blue and black, or white and gold.

It all started with a photo posted online by a woman asking for help finding out the color of the dress.

The dress, by a small British fashion company, is really blue and black.

Debates broke out everywhere all over the world, and websites declared that the Internet was freaking out and losing its mind over the question.

It was like choosing between sweet and sour, or hot or cold.

Each person thought their answer was obvious.

Kiel Conjack thought his wife was pranking him when she said she saw blue and black.

They got into an argument until his wife turned to the Internet and found a photo that proved the true color of the dress.

That made him wonder if he was losing his mind.

Jeff Brown had the opposite experience with his fiancee, who believed the dress to be white and gold, while he argued that it was blue and black.

It "felt good" to be eventually proven right, he said.

Everyone can relax.

Science has come to the rescue.

Scientists explained different people saw different colors because of the way the brain deals with what the eye sees.

Matthew A. Smith, a professor at the University of Pittsburgh, said we think our eyes simply take a photo and post it in the brain, but that is not the case.

"Our brain takes information from the world through our eyes then uses context to try to figure out what's going on," Smith said, noting that he sees the dress as blue and brownish-black.

"We don't take a perfect photo.

We have limited information and use context to figure out what's going on."

When the brain does not have enough information, it makes guesses.

The dress took up most of the photo, so there were few details to help the brain.

That meant more guesses, and guesses can go either way, Smith said.

John J. Guehl III, a doctor at West Penn Hospital, described it as a kind of optical illusion.

He explained that the brain figures out the important parts of a picture and cuts out the unimportant ones, which changes how we see the parts the brain tunes out.

Our hearing works the same way.

A mother can ignore a roomful of noise, but will hear her own baby, Guehl said.

With so few details in the photo, the brain has to make guesses about the light when the picture was taken.

Some people might pay less attention to the blue background light, which makes the person see the dress as gold and white, Guehl said.

If the brain ignores the white or yellow light, he or she will see blue and black.

People in Pittsburgh could be seeing the dress totally differently because of their experiences, Guehl said.

Everyone there sees the dress as black and gold, the colors of the local sports teams, like the Steelers, he joked.

"Everyone else is all wrong.

It's clearly black and gold."

