Zach Fiene used to spend hours walking through farm fields to check for problems.

Now he just flies a drone.

The drone sends back pictures that show which plants might have a disease or insects eating them.

It also shows which areas are too dry.

In minutes, Fiene can gather as much information as someone walking several hours through the field.

A drone is like a remote-controlled airplane with a camera.

It flies overhead and can take pictures or video.

Drones are also called unmanned aerial vehicles, or UAVs.

They are flown by computers on board or a person on the ground.

"You can basically point the camera to where you want it to go," Fiene said.

He owns DMZ Aerial with his cousin.

The company uses drones to help farmers.

The Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International is a group for drone makers and users.

It says the technology is getting better.

Farmers are accepting drones more.

One day, farms will be using them more than other businesses.

Drones can gather information about crops.

They help farmers put weed killers and plant fertilizers where they are needed.

They can tell farmers where to water.

This saves farmers money.

It is also better for the environment.

It can take hours to walk through a field.

Even then, farmers can still miss something, Fiene said.

"You might walk past a problem area, not see it.

And three weeks later the corn is dead because disease has spread," he said.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is a government department in charge of the skies.

It is writing new rules for drones.

These would let drones be used for business.

Some aviation professionals worry about the risk of crashes.

Andrew Moore is with the National Agricultural Aviation Association.

He said pilots have a hard time seeing small drones.

Moore's group wants lights and tracking systems to be put on drones.

These would help airplane pilots spot them.

There are other problems, too.

Drones can take pictures of people without them knowing.

There are also questions about who owns the pictures taken by a drone flying over someone's property.

Fiene and his cousin started DMZ Aerial three years ago.

Now they have drones in 15 states, including California and Texas.

Fiene used to check farm fields on foot or with vehicles.

He said he always thought there had to be a better way of doing it.

At first, the Fienes strapped cameras on remote-controlled airplanes.

Some of their first drones could only fly for about seven minutes at a time.

Their limit was about 300 feet away.

Now the cousins have drones that can fly 50 miles per hour.

They can be controlled remotely from more than a mile away.

However, drones have to remain in sight of the person at the controls.

The drones return to their starting point if batteries run low.

They also come back if contact with the person flying it is lost.

Landmark Cooperative Services is a big farming business in Wisconsin.

It uses both drones and people.

When a problem is spotted from the air, the crop scout goes to take a closer look.

Chase Sellnow works for Landmark.

What would usually take a couple of hours can now be done in minutes, Sellnow said.

Drones also make the work less boring.

"It's a blast.

I think everybody wants to fly," Sellnow said.

