Recently, the Los Angeles Kings won a big hockey victory.

Some fans were celebrating.

Suddenly, a drone buzzed overheard.

A drone is a kind of remote-controlled plane.

The fans knocked it down with a T-shirt.

Then they used a skateboard to smash it into bits.

What's left of the drone is at the Los Angeles Police Department.

The police will give it back to the owner.

[Drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) are not against the law.

But many people don't like them.

"It was kind of an eye-opener for us that this is something we really need to pay attention to," said Commander Andrew Smith.

He is with the LAPD.

"It's certainly something that's growing enormously."

Drones usually come with a camera.

They are piloted by computers on board.

They can also be flown by a person on the ground.

Drones are like an eye in the sky.

People use drones to take pictures of sports events.

Drones can take pictures of nature.

They also can take pictures of people without them knowing.

A lot of people don't like that.

Recently, people also began using drones to make videos.

YouTube is filled with videos of beautiful scenery taken with drones.

At the Grand Canyon, a drone crashed.

No one was hurt.

But it really surprised visitors watching the sunset.

On Friday, the National Parks Service outlawed low-flying drones.

Parks officials are worried about safety.

They are also worried about the effect on wildlife.

In five years, about 7,500 people may be flying drones.

The price of drones is going down.

They cost from a few hundred to a few thousand dollars.

More people are buying them.

Others feel strongly against them.

In April, a drone buzzed over a sheep herd in Utah.

The drone separated the adults from the lambs.

Jeffrey Olson is with the National Parks Service.

He said drones bother people and animals.

Some drone uses are against the law.

They can't get in the way of airplanes.

Also, people can't use them to spy on their neighbors.

But drones mainly take pictures of nature.

And they record historic moments, like the celebration of the Kings' hockey victory.

Still, many people don't like the idea of appearing in some stranger's video on the Internet.

