This holiday season, the hottest present is a high-tech gadget.

It's not a video game, tablet or smartphone.

It's a drone.

A drone is a small flying aircraft, often with a camera attached.

The newspaper USA Today called the DJI Phantom 2 Vision drone a top holiday gift for 2014.

The Phantom 2 Vision has four propellors and a high-quality camera.

It sells for $1,200.

There's even a drone cheaper than $100.

Radioshack is selling its Surveyor Drone for just $60 this holiday season.

The Surveyor is red, it's easy to fly and it shoots video.

Rob Powley of Mahwah, New Jersey, has a lot of drones.

He has so many that he's lost count.

Some he bought already made.

Others he built himself.

"I bought them because they're cool," Powley said.

"It's amazing what you can do with a drone.

And they're getting better all the time."

For years, drones were used by the military for secret missions.

They gathered information and dropped bombs.

Now, the average person can afford a drone and more and more are appearing in the skies.

But more drones buzzing around also has brought more problems.

Airplane pilots in the sky and tourists in national parks have seen them hovering close by.

The two major worries with drones are safety and privacy.

To deal with the worries, many new laws are being made.

"It's confusing," said Wells C. Bennett, who studies drones at the Brookings Institution.

"A lot of the laws will change over the next couple of years."

Five years ago, drones were hard to get and too expensive for most people, said Mike Blades.

He watches the drone business.

Since then, sales of drones have skyrocketed.

Blades thinks that next year people will buy 2.4 million drones.

It would be double as many sold in 2014.

Remote-controlled airplanes and helicopters have been around for a long time.

Drones are different, though.

They are easier to fly and can be flown in small spaces.

In fact, Powley flies his own drones around his house and office.

"You can fly with first-person video, so it looks like you're inside it.

That's really cool," he said.

Military drones were designed for stealth: to be as quiet as possible.

The drones sold in stores are not stealthy, though.

Most of them buzz like a hive full of angry bees.

Drones run on batteries.

If the battery runs out, the drone may fall out of the sky like a stone.

Still, drone technology is improving rapidly.

Soon, drones will use lighter equipment and better batteries.

They will fly higher, farther and faster than any today.

More drones in the sky has also brought up more concerns about privacy and safety.

The Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) is in charge of the nation's skies.

This year, the FAA, which also runs airports in the U.S., has heard about more and more problems with drones.

Since July, the agency has received 30 complaints a month from pilots.

On Sept. 8, for example, the pilots of three different passenger jets reported "a very close call" with a drone at about 1,900 feet as they flew into La Guardia Airport in New York City.

Even a small drone could bring down a jet.

Others worry that drones could be used to invade people's privacy — to spy on them.

In Lower Township, New Jersey, Russell Percenti used a shotgun to bring down a drone that a neighbor was flying over his house.

He was arrested.

Small drones with high-quality cameras make it easy to spy on your neighbors, even if they have a high fence, said Jeramie Scott of the Electronic Privacy Information Center.

Drone supporters say people shouldn't be so concerned about drones and privacy.

A good pair of binoculars is a better spying tool than a drone, said Michael Drobac.

He works for a group that represents drone makers.

Drones can only fly for a short time, he said, and they make a very loud buzzing noise, so people can hear them if they are near.

