Mike Geske wants a drone.

The small machine might look like a toy airplane, but Geske does not want to play with it.

He thinks the drone could help him run his farm.

Geske has traveled from Missouri to Maryland to see a drone show.

He wants to learn more about how farmers can put them to work.

Buying a drone would help Geske keep an eye on his farm's watering system.

Right now, he is paying three men to look after it.

If he switched to a drone, he would save lots of money.

He would not even have to pay someone to fly it.

Nearby, Maryland farmer Chip Bowling tries flying a drone.

He wants to use it to see which of his fields need spraying for bugs.

Bobby Hutchison is interested in using drones on his farm, but he does not want to buy one.

Hutchinson pays a man to walk through his fields.

The man tells him how his crops are doing.

He hopes that worker will buy a drone.

It would make him faster and help him collect better information.

Drones are very high-tech, but they are not expensive.

Plus, drones can save farmers lots of money.

Sometimes they can take the place of people who work on farms.

Drones can gather information about crops and send updates.

They can tell farm machines where to find problem spots.

That way, farmers don't waste water or spray chemicals on areas that don't need them.

For years, farmers could not use drones to help them.

They were waiting for the government to make rules for how to use them.

Now drones are finally starting to show up on farms.

This year, the government has given more than 50 farm projects permission to try drones.

Companies that make farm drones say business is booming.

Bret Chilcott runs a drone company in Kansas called AgEagle.

The company launched just last year and became popular very quickly.

Now AgEagle has a list of several hundred people waiting for its drones.

Chilcott says drone technology is changing quickly.

Last year, users had to transfer information from their drones to their computers.

Now it pops up on their cell phones or tablets just a few minutes after each flight.

Drones can collect anything from animal temperatures to 3-D pictures of plants.

That kind of information used to take days to collect.

Some of it could not be collected at all.

It had to be gathered on foot.

Now it can all be gathered in minutes or hours.

Right now, most farmers are not allowed to fly drones.

The government is working to change that.

Lawmakers have a new plan for drones.

The new rules would allow farmers to fly drones that weigh less than 55 pounds.

Farmers would have to pass a pilot's test.

They would also need to keep drones where they can see them.

Drones could only be used in daylight.

Some people are worried about the new plan.

Pilots that fly around farms are concerned.

They say the rules do not go far enough to keep everyone safe.

They want the government to tell drone makers to add lights.

Drones with lights would be easier for pilots to see.

Then pilots could make sure they do not hit the drones.

