On Tuesday, Mayor Eric Garcetti issued a challenge to Los Angeles residents and businesses.

He called on them to cut water use by 20 percent over the next 2 1/2 years.

Garcetti warned of new water restrictions if conservation targets aren't met.

Garcetti said the city's already significant drop in water use isn't enough.

California's drought is simply too severe.

"The ongoing drought has created a water crisis second to none — we need bold action," the mayor said.

The ways in which Garcetti hopes to achieve the 20 percent drop are outlined in a new city plan.

The plan lays out ways residents should cut water use, though these steps are voluntary.

Cuts in water use at city properties, including parks, will be required, however.

The plan calls for a gradual decrease in water use, with targets to be met by various dates.

If the goals aren't met, Garcetti said he would impose harsher rules for residents.

For example, outdoor watering could be scaled back from three days per week to two.

Residents could be prohibited from washing their cars at home.

Households with pools might be required to install pool covers to reduce evaporation.

Garcetti's plan is notable because Los Angeles has already greatly reduced water use.

It has declined by at least 17 percent over the last seven years.

"Twenty percent past where they are now is suitably ambitious," said state water board Chairwoman Felicia Marcus.

She called Garcetti's plan the boldest and most far-reaching of any major city.

Water conservation activists also praised the plan.

Some, however, questioned whether the 20 percent goal was realistic.

"This is moving the city much closer to living within our means," said environmentalist Mark Gold.

"At the same time, this is going to be really, really hard."

To get people to meet the new goals, he said, the city will really have to push its plan.

Among the goals in Garcetti's plan is a dramatic drop in the use of water imported from outside the region.

Imported water is significantly more expensive than local groundwater.

The result is higher city water bills.

More than 80 percent of the city's water is imported.

Garcetti said he wants to see that amount halved by 2024.

The mayor's move comes as statewide conservation efforts appear to be producing results.

Last month, Southern California managed to cut water use in cities by 7.8 percent, compared to the same month in 2013.

Earlier this year, the region faced criticism after a state report showed its use of water rising.

Despite the improvement, Los Angeles, and the state as a whole, remain below Governor Jerry Brown's goal of reducing water use by 20 percent.

Conservation is improving as the year continues.

However, it's unclear whether the governor's goal will be met by the end of the year.

Experts praised Garcetti for setting periodic deadlines, which Brown did not do.

Garcetti calls for water use to be measured on July 1, 2015, on Jan. 1, 2016 and on Jan. 1, 2017.

The goal is a 10 percent drop by 2015, a 15 percent drop by 2016 and a 20 percent drop by 2017.

To help reach those goals, Garcetti's plan lays out several new rules.

For example, city buildings can no longer water lawns, plants and trees more than two days a week.

The Parks Department must cut its water use by 10 percent.

The new plan also increases tax refunds to residents who reduce the size of their lawns.

Refunds will now be as high as $3.75 per square foot, up from $3.

In addition, it creates a "Mayoral Water Cabinet," a group of people who will oversee the city's progress toward the water conservation goals.

Los Angeles is now in Phase 2 of its water conservation effort.

Residents are now limited to watering their lawns and trees no more than three times a week.

The Department of Water and Power has increased the number of inspectors looking for water wasters, going from just one inspector to four.

However, the department has pledged to take a gentle approach.

It says it will educate and warn violators rather than make them pay a fine.

Garcetti acknowledged that there has been progress over the years when it comes to careful water use.

"We use as much water in this city today as we did 40 years ago even though there's 1 million more people living here," Garcetti said.

"That said, we've got to do more, and that's what today is about."

