On Tuesday, Mayor Eric Garcetti challenged the people of Los Angeles.

He asked them to use much less water.

The goal he set was a one-fifth cut in water use over the next 2 1/2 years.

California is in the middle of a drought.

There has been little rainfall lately.

Towns and cities are worried about having too little water.

Los Angeles has already cut its water use.

Garcetti said it isn't enough.

California's drought is simply too severe.

"We need bold action," the mayor said.

A new city plan shows the mayor's goals.

It lists various ways people can cut water use.

The cuts are voluntary for most people.

Parks and government buildings will not have a choice.

They must cut their water use.

The plan does not ask for the cuts to be made all at once.

Instead, the idea is for water use to drop in stages.

The plan sets targets to be met at different times.

If the targets are not met, Garcetti said, tougher rules will be used.

For example, outdoor watering could be cut back from three days a week to two.

People might not be allowed to wash their cars at home.

Pools might have to be covered when not in use.

The covers would help limit water from evaporating.

When water gets warm it can evaporate and turn from a liquid into a gas.

Then it rises into the sky.

Many people praised the mayor's plan.

Others questioned whether his goal was possible.

Water-use expert Mark Gold said the mayor's plan is a step in the right direction.

Still, he said, "this is going to be really, really hard."

Gold said getting people to meet the new goals will take a big push.

The city will really have to get the word out.

Experts praised Garcetti for setting several deadlines.

Water use will be measured three times: in 2015, in 2016 and in 2017.

Each time, the mayor hopes to see less water being used.

The final goal is set for 2017.

By then, Los Angeles is supposed to be using one-fifth less water than it does today.

Garcetti's plan contains several new rules.

For example, government buildings must cut watering to two days a week.

Parks must cut their water use by one-tenth.

Homes are now limited to watering three times a week.

The city has added more inspectors to look for water wasters.

Before there was just one inspector.

Now there are four.

Inspectors will take a gentle approach, though.

They will educate and warn water wasters, rather than making them pay money for breaking the law.

Garcetti says there has been progress over the years.

Los Angeles is now much more careful about water use than it once was.

The city uses the same amount of water as it did 40 years ago.

Back then, the city had 1 million fewer people.

Still, Garcetti thinks that's not enough.

"We've got to do more," he said.

