Tourists and animal lovers hoping to see a bear in Sequoia National Park this fall might be disappointed.

They probably stand a better chance of spotting one in this tiny town at the park's entrance.

Three Rivers is a town in central California that is absolutely crawling with hungry bears.

They venture down from the mountains because of the drought.

The lack of rain has dried up their food supply, so they head in to town to find things to eat.

They need to fatten up for winter so they can hibernate.

Everyone seems to have photos of the creatures on their phones or stories of coming into contact with them.

Chas Haws' eyes bugged out as he recalled his surprise meeting with a bear one day.

It happened before dawn as he walked to Antoinette's Coffee and Goodies shop along the main road.

He carefully stepped back as the bear reared up and then walked away.

"He didn't care about me at all," Haws said.

"I didn't smell like a muffin — yet."

There is no doubt bears are invading this town, which has a population of about 2,200.

It is home to a mixed group of park workers, cattle ranchers, hippies, yuppies and artists.

It is also a retreat for Hollywood actors and actresses.

Most seem to be delighted by the visiting black bears, many of which are brown and cinnamon in color.

They can be seen lumbering through grasslands, trotting across roads or wading through rivers.

The four-year drought has ruined the berry crop in the Sierra Nevada mountain range and led oak trees on parched hillsides to produce fewer acorns.

Now the bears have been forced into the valleys where towns are located.

Water is plentiful in towns and acorns carpet the ground.

Gregory Lockhart had seen one bear in 27 years until this season.

Now they can often be spotted on the golf course out his back door and have been seen by the pool of a guest house.

"The park is upon us now," he said.

One person suggested in a Facebook discussion that visitors seeking bears not even bother going into the park.

Other people made suggestions about where to find them.

Quiet nights are interrupted by air horns, banging on pots or a gunshot to scare off bears known to search for food 20 hours a day as they prepare for long winter naps.

Yet some people wonder if those shots are innocent.

Jeff Beck heard dogs barking in the middle of the night followed by gunfire.

"People are shooting the bears, there's no doubt," he said.

A local newspaper reported that bears have been illegally killed.

Others say there is no evidence of that.

The story, however, has created conflict between nature lovers and those who think it is untrue.

"I'm upset and sad, and I just question, 'Why?'"

Kathleen McCleary said, adding that some people feel a sense of outrage.

"I don't see any reason to be shooting them."

Darrell Fleeman was so disgusted with the story that he stopped putting ads in the newspaper for his car repair shop.

"Where's the proof?"

he said.

"If that were the case, there'd be dead bears everywhere."

State wildlife officers have not had as many complaints in this area of central California as last season, when bears made it to other cities in the valley.

In some towns, bears have been killed legally after they broke into cabins and cars.

In Three Rivers, bears have knocked over plenty of garbage cans and raided fruit trees and grape vines.

They caused damage to an apple orchard at a ranch owned by actor William Shatner.

The ranch caretaker said he got a permit to kill the offenders but never used it.

Bear hunting season runs until December 27 or when a statewide limit of 1,700 bears is killed.

The state has not come close to that figure since dogs were outlawed in the hunt in 2013.

Gunfire may not be the biggest challenge for the bears at this point.

If they do not pack on enough pounds, they will not return to the mountains to den for the winter, said David Graber.

He was a scientist for the National Park Service and is a longtime Three Rivers resident.

"If they don't hibernate, they're going to die," Graber said.

"That's a rare, uncommon event."

