On Tuesday, Mayor Eric Garcetti challenged Los Angeles residents and businesses to cut water use by 20 percent over the next 2 1/2 years.

He warned of new water restrictions if conservation targets aren't met.

Garcetti said the city's already significant reductions in water use weren't enough given the seriousness of California's drought.

"The ongoing drought has created a water crisis second to none — we need bold action," the mayor said.

The ways in which Garcetti hopes to achieve the 20 percent reduction are outlined in a new city plan.

The plan combines voluntary guidelines for residents and required cuts in water use at city facilities, including parks.

The plan calls for a gradual reduction, with targets to be met by various dates.

If the goals aren't met, Garcetti said he would impose harsher rules for residents.

Such rules could include scaling back outdoor watering from three days per week to two, requiring covers for all pools to reduce evaporation and prohibiting residents from washing their cars at home.

Garcetti's plan is notable because Los Angeles has already reduced its water consumption by at least 17 percent over the last seven years.

"Twenty percent past where they are now is suitably ambitious," said state water board Chairwoman Felicia Marcus.

She called Garcetti's plan "the most aggressive of any major city."

Supporters of water conservation praised the plan, though some questioned whether the 20 percent goal was realistic.

"This is moving the city much closer to living within our means," said environmentalist Mark Gold.

"But at the same time, this is going to be really, really hard.

There's going to have to be a very aggressive campaign citywide."

Among the goals in Garcetti's plan is a dramatic reduction in reliance on water imported from outside the region.

Imported water is significantly more expensive than local groundwater and drives up city water bills.

More than 80 percent of the city's water is imported.

Garcetti said he wants to see that amount halved by 2024.

The mayor's move comes as statewide conservation efforts appear to be producing results.

Last month, Southern California managed to cut water use in cities by 7.8 percent, compared to the same month in 2013.

Earlier this year, the region faced criticism after a state report showed its use of water rising.

Despite the improvement, the state as a whole, as well as Los Angeles, remain below Governor Jerry Brown's goal of reducing water use by 20 percent.

Conservation is improving as the year continues, but officials said it's unclear whether the goal will be met by the end of the year.

Experts praised Garcetti for setting specific deadlines for water reductions, something that Brown did not do.

Garcetti calls for water consumption to be measured on July 1, 2015, on Jan. 1, 2016 and on Jan. 1, 2017.

The goal is a 10 percent reduction by 2015, a 15 percent reduction by 2016 and a 20 percent reduction by 2017.

To help reach those goals, the new plan spells out specific instructions.

For example, city buildings can no longer water more than two days a week, and the Parks Department must cut its water consumption by 10 percent.

The new plan also increases tax refunds to residents who reduce the size of their lawns — as high as $3.75 per square foot, up from $3.

In addition it creates a "Mayoral Water Cabinet" that will oversee the city's progress toward the water conservation goals.

Los Angeles is now in Phase 2 of its required water conservation effort, which limits watering to no more than three times a week.

The Department of Water and Power has increased the number of inspectors looking for water wasters from one to four.

However, the department has pledged to take a gentle approach, choosing to educate and warn violators rather than issue a fine.

"We use as much water in this city today as we did 40 years ago even though there's 1 million more people living here," Garcetti said.

"That said, we've got to do more, and that's what today is about."

