Southern California's Lake Mission Viejo is certainly beautiful.

But when it comes to water use, some say it is also particularly wasteful.

The 1.2 billion-gallon man-made lake was created just for recreation.

The lake was made during the 1970s by digging an enormous hole out of the earth.

It cost $5.6 million to build and has about 3.5 miles of shoreline.

It needs to be periodically refilled with water as levels drop.

The lake is not open to the public.

It is owned and operated by the Lake Mission Viejo Association.

To use it, one must join the association and pay dues of more than $200 a year.

The association now includes more than 24,000 households.

California is currently suffering through a severe drought, with many regions of the state desperate for water.

A 1.2 billion-gallon lake that is only used for recreation strikes many as wasteful — and wrong.

State officials are beginning to ask whether the lake's sparkling waters might be put to better use.

Maybe by filling bathtubs and drinking glasses in the most dry regions.

After three dry years with no relief in sight, Governor Jerry Brown has asked Californians to reduce their water use 20 percent.

Some dry communities are almost waterless and have been forced to bring in water from other places.

Other communities have issued restrictions that limit car washing and water used for lawns.

If the drought worsens, private lakes could face restrictions as well.

"When there's not enough water to meet all the needs, some needs have to be put ahead of others," scientist Max Gomberg said.

Lake Mission Viejo has a 124-acre surface.

It loses about 88 million gallons of water to evaporation each year.

When levels drop, it is refilled with fresh, drinkable water, making it one of the region's largest water users.

The lake association is currently talking with state officials about ways to use less water while keeping the lake filled.

Association leaders are considering cutbacks in other areas to offset the lake's water use.

If the drought worsens, the association might not be able to make that choice.

If things get bad enough, it may no longer be permitted to refill the lake.

The idea of tampering with the lake's water can be a touchy subject for some longtime members of the community.

They are angered by the suggestion of reducing or changing the lake levels.

"We love coming down here where there aren't too many people," said Carlos Lopez, an association member whose 4-year-old daughter, Dayleen, splashed in the water.

"She's a fish.

I'd have to take her down to the beach, and that's a pain."

Throughout the Greater Los Angeles Area, Mission Viejo is the largest man-made lake that is just for recreation.

Drought or no, the lake seems just plain wrong to some.

According to water-use expert Conner Everts, creating a "giant swimming pool for the few" with precious publicly owned water "makes no sense at all."

In a state with a lot of inequality when it comes to water, Mission Viejo stands out for its wastefulness, Everts said.

"You want lakes?

Move to Minnesota."

