On Tuesday, Mayor Eric Garcetti issued a challenge to Los Angeles.

He asked the city to cut water use by one-fifth over the next 2 1/2 years.

California is in the middle of a drought.

With a lack of rainfall, towns and cities are worried about having too little water.

Garcetti said the city's already big drop in water use isn't enough.

California's drought is simply too severe.

"We need bold action," the mayor said.

A new city plan shows how Garcetti hopes to achieve the one-fifth drop.

It lists various ways people should cut water use.

Such cuts are voluntary for most people.

However, government buildings and parks must cut their water use.

The plan calls for water use to be cut back in stages.

It sets targets to be met by various dates.

If the targets aren't met, Garcetti said he would introduce tougher rules.

For example, outdoor watering could be cut back from three days a week to two.

People might no longer be allowed to wash their cars at home.

Pools might be have to be covered when not in use, to limit evaporation.

When water gets warm it can evaporate and turn from a liquid into a gas.

Then it rises into the sky.

Many offered praise of the mayor's plan.

Some, however, questioned whether his goal was possible.

Water-use expert Mark Gold said the mayor's plan is a step in the right direction.

"At the same time," he added, "this is going to be really, really hard."

To get people to meet the new goals, the city will really have to try hard to get the word out, he said.

One of Garcetti's goals is a big drop in the use of water imported from outside the region.

Imported water is much more expensive than water from the area.

The result is higher city water bills.

More than four-fifths of the city's water is imported.

Garcetti said he wants to see that amount cut in half by 2024.

Experts praised Garcetti for setting deadlines.

Garcetti calls for water use to be measured three times: on July 1, 2015, on Jan. 1, 2016, and on Jan. 1, 2017.

The goal is a one-tenth drop by 2015, and then more cuts by 2016.

By 2017, the city should reach its final goal of a one-fifth drop.

Garcetti's plan contains various new rules.

For example, government buildings can no longer water lawns, plants and trees more than two days a week.

The Parks Department must cut its water use by one-tenth.

Citywide, people are now limited to watering no more than three times a week.

The Department of Water and Power has increased the number of inspectors looking for water wasters.

Instead of just one inspector, there are now four.

The department has pledged to take a gentle approach, however.

It says it will educate and warn water wasters, rather than making them pay a fine.

Garcetti admits that there has been progress over the years.

Los Angeles is now much more careful about water use than it once was.

"We use as much water in this city today as we did 40 years ago even though there's 1 million more people living here," Garcetti said.

"That said, we've got to do more."

