Food writer Christopher St. Cavish is walking toward the front door of the Welcome Revered Guests restaurant in Shanghai, China.

Then he stops.

"They don't like me here," he says, frowning.

It's not that he has said anything bad about the restaurant.

In fact, he gave it his highest rating.

But people here are annoyed by the way St. Cavish has judged one of China's most popular snacks: the soup dumpling.

In the Mandarin language, the dumplings are called as xiao long bao (pronounced SHOW-long-BAO).

They are a very special kind of dumpling.

Inside of them are hot soup and a meatball.

They have just a very thin layer of dough.

When you bite into the dumpling, first you taste the hot soup.

Then you eat the meatball at its center.

On his last visit to the restaurant, St. Cavish ordered nine baskets of the handmade dumplings.

There are six in each basket.

He spent an hour studying them.

He used all kinds of tools, including scales and scissors, to help him.

After taking all his measurements, he ate only two dumplings.

He took the other 52 home.

St. Cavish has visited many restaurants to study the dumplings.

He has inspected their size, the amount of soup and the weight of hundreds of meatballs.

All of the information has been put into maybe the nerdiest restaurant guide ever.

It's called the Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index.

The Welcome Revered Guests restaurant came in first place.

Food lovers from all over the world have become obsessed with the Chinese dumplings.

They are eaten for breakfast, lunch and dinner.

Some people eat them to satisfy the midnight munchies.

The Shanghai government calls them a "treasure."

St. Cavish is 34 years old and comes from Florida.

He worked as a cook for 10 years before coming to China.

He may be more qualified than most people to judge dumplings.

He has tasted them at 52 different restaurants.

Yet some of the people who work at Welcome Revered Guests are not impressed.

"They were angry," St. Cavish remembers.

He says the woman who had to make his 54-dumpling order was especially angry, especially since he ate just two of them.

The Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index has also made St. Cavish famous in China.

He has even been in the news.

The index costs $8 to buy.

It comes in a fold-up chart.

It is funny and serious at the same time.

Before coming to China, St. Cavish had never even eaten a Chinese soup dumpling.

Even today, he says they are not his favorite food.

St. Cavish says he wanted to find a new way to talk about food.

He didn't just want to tell people what he liked and didn't like.

He wanted to weigh and measure food, and figure out which food was best.

Unlike other Shanghai foods, soup dumplings were good for St. Cavish's experiment.

That's because the things that go into making them great can be easily measured.

They are things like thin skin, plenty of soup and lots of meatball filling.

St. Cavish admits that on one hand, the index is "ridiculous."

"It's a funny experiment; I don't want people to take it too seriously," he says.

