Chef-turned-food writer Christopher St. Cavish is striding toward the front door of the Welcome Revered Guests restaurant when he stops dead in his tracks.

"They don't like me here," he says, frowning.

It's not that he has panned the eatery.

In fact, he gave it his highest rating.

Rather, what has annoyed the staff here is the way St. Cavish judges the quintessential Shanghai snack: soup dumplings known as xiao long bao (pronounced SHOW-long-BAO).

The dumplings have just a thin layer of dough, and are filled with soup and a meatball.

On his last visit to Welcome Revered Guests, he ordered nine baskets of the handmade dumplings, then spent the next hour analyzing them like a lab technician.

His arsenal of equipment included an electronic scale, digital calipers (to measure thickness) and shearing scissors.

After all his calculations, he ate only two dumplings, while 52 went into a takeout box.

Scientific tools in hand, St. Cavish has probed the thinness of the dough, the volume of the soup and the weight of hundreds upon hundreds of pork meatballs at dozens of restaurants.

He has even conducted a study of how the structure of xiao long bao changes when it leaves the steamer and starts to cool, in a bid to determine the ideal window in which to devour the hot little pouches before the skin thickens too much.

The numbers have been crunched into what just may be the nerdiest restaurant guide ever, the Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index.

Welcome Revered Guests restaurant, or Zun Ke Lai in Mandarin, landed on top.

Foodies all over the world have become obsessed with xiao long bao, which are eaten for breakfast, lunch, dinner or even to satisfy the midnight munchies.

The Shanghai government has listed them as one of 84 "protected traditional treasures" of the city.

St. Cavish is a 34-year-old native of South Florida who worked as a chef for a decade before coming to China.

He is perhaps more qualified than most to vouch for the superiority of the dumplings here at Zun Ke Lai.

Since late 2013, he has worked his way across this sprawling city of 24 million, paying surprise visits to 52 sellers of these delicacies on a quest for the ideal xiao long bao.

Some of the staff at Zun Ke Lai, though, have been more irritated than gratified by St. Cavish's attention.

"They were (angry)," St. Cavish recalls, glancing through the front window to see whether the woman who had to hand-make his infuriating 54-dumpling order is behind the counter today.

"When I later told her Zun Ke Lai came out on top of my index, she was totally unimpressed.

She looked at me as if I had just told her I had a toenail problem."

Despite the annoyance of the staff at Zun Ke Lai, the Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index has made St. Cavish something of a celebrity in China.

News outlets across the country have reported on the index, which St. Cavish has published in the form of a scientific-looking foldable chart (cost: $8).

It features satirical, pretentious-sounding text alongside technical diagrams illustrating the proportion of filling to skin, the thickness of the pastry and how much it weighs.

The Guangzhou Daily has praised the "foreigner's meticulousness and standards, which can increase efficiency and accuracy.

We should all learn from it."

The newspaper also lauded his willpower to persevere, despite disapproving reactions from both restaurant workers and customers.

Before coming to China, St. Cavish said, he didn't have any particular background in science and had never even eaten xiao long bao.

Even today, he says they're not his favorite dish, and he doesn't cook them at home.

"I'm not obsessed with them," he says, pushing his thick black-framed glasses up the bridge of his nose.

"But they happen to be a vehicle for lots of other ideas I have about food and food writing."

St. Cavish says part of his motivation was to find a new way to talk about food.

"All my previous writing about food was very subjective," he says.

"It was liberating to go to a restaurant and not think: Do I like this or not like it, why or why not?"

Unlike other popular dishes in Shanghai, xiao long bao proved to be the best subject for a numbers-based experiment.

St. Cavish says that's because three of the four standards for a well-constructed soup dumpling — thin skin, plentiful soup and abundant filling — can be easily measured and expressed in a mathematical formula.

"There's not a lot of foods like that.

A croissant has just three ingredients — butter, flour and salt — but assessing flakiness is really hard," he says by way of example.

The index does not address the fourth ingredient in xiao long bao: The meat, which St. Cavish says would have been too difficult to assess because of people's varying tastes.

St. Cavish freely admits that on one hand, the index is a "ridiculous project."

"It's a funny experiment; I don't want people to take it too seriously," he says, sitting in a booth at Zun Ke Lai, his measuring equipment and three baskets of dumplings in front of him.

"I'm not implying that people should only cook by scales or measurements … of course the human factor is very important."

Yet at the same time, he says the index gives restaurant-goers — and himself — a way to think more deeply and talk more precisely about what makes a food satisfying or even delicious.

"As a food writer, your responsibility is to explain why you like or don't like something.

I'm not sure if xiao long bao has benefited from this analysis, but I've benefited," he said.

