Food writer Christopher St. Cavish is walking toward the front door of the Welcome Revered Guests restaurant in Shanghai, China.

Then he stops.

"They don't like me here," he says, frowning.

It's not that he has said anything bad about the restaurant.

In fact, he gave it his highest rating.

People here are annoyed by the way St. Cavish has judged one of China's most popular snacks: soup dumplings.

In the Mandarin language, the dumplings are called xiao long bao (pronounced SHOW-long-BAO).

They are a special kind of dumpling.

Hot soup and a meatball are inside the dumplings.

They have just a very thin layer of dough.

When you bite into the dumpling, first you taste its hot soup filling.

Then you eat the meatball at its center.

On his last visit to the restaurant, St. Cavish ordered nine baskets of the handmade dumplings.

Then he spent the next hour studying them.

He used all kinds of equipment, including an electronic scale and scissors.

After taking all his measurements, he ate only two dumplings.

Fifty-two others went into a takeout box.

With his tools in hand, St. Cavish has visited dozens of restaurants to study the dumplings.

He has looked at the thinness of the dough, the total amount of soup and the weight of hundreds of meatballs.

All of the information has been put into maybe the nerdiest restaurant guide ever.

It is called the Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index.

The Welcome Revered Guests restaurant landed in first place.

Food lovers from all over the world have become obsessed with the Chinese dumplings.

They are eaten for breakfast, lunch, dinner or even to satisfy the midnight munchies.

The Shanghai government calls them a "treasure."

St. Cavish is 34 years old and comes from Florida.

He worked as a cook for 10 years before moving to China.

He may be more qualified than most people to judge dumplings, because he has tasted them at 52 different restaurants.

Yet some of the people who work at Welcome Revered Guests are not impressed.

"They were angry," St. Cavish remembers, especially the woman who had to make his 54-dumpling order.

The Shanghai Soup Dumpling Index has also made St. Cavish somewhat famous in China.

He has even been in the news.

The index costs $8 to buy and comes as a foldable chart.

It is funny and serious all at the same time.

Before coming to China, St. Cavish did not know a lot about science and had never even eaten a Chinese soup dumpling.

Even today, he says they are not his favorite food, and he does not cook them at home.

St. Cavish says he wanted to find a new way to talk about food.

He didn't just want to tell people what he liked and didn't like.

He wanted to weigh and measure food, and compare the measurements to find out which food was best.

Unlike other, popular Shanghai dishes, soup dumplings were a good subject for St. Cavish's experiment.

That's because the things that go into making them great can be easily measured.

They are things like thin skin, plenty of soup and lots of filling.

St. Cavish admits that on one hand, the index is "ridiculous."

"It's a funny experiment; I don't want people to take it too seriously," he says, sitting in a booth at Welcome Revered Guests.

"I'm not implying that people should only cook by scales or measurements."

Yet at the same time, he says the index gives people a way to think more deeply about food.

It helps them talk about what makes a food satisfying or even delicious.

"As a food writer, your responsibility is to explain why you like or don't like something," he said.

