On Wednesday, Thomas Eric Duncan died of the disease Ebola.

He was not the first Ebola victim.

However, he was the first to become sick with the disease in the United States.

He was 42.

Ebola is a very deadly illness.

Patients have a high temperature.

They also experience terrible headaches, muscle pain, diarrhea and vomiting.

Ebola is spread when people touch the blood, vomit or spit of a sick person.

The latest outbreak is centered in West Africa.

Seven out of every 10 people who have gotten it there have died.

So far, there have been more than 3,400 deaths.

The latest outbreak is the worst Ebola outbreak ever.

Duncan had left Liberia on Sept. 19.

Liberia is a country in West Africa where Ebola has sickened many people.

He arrived in Dallas to visit his family on Sept. 20.

Doctors say no one who was on the plane with him is in danger.

Duncan wasn't sick enough then to spread the disease.

Duncan had first gone to the hospital on Sept. 25.

At the time, he had a fever, stomach pains and a headache.

Duncan told the hospital that he had been in Liberia.

However, the hospital gave him antibiotics and sent him home.

Antibiotics don't work on viruses.

Ebola is a virus.

Then Duncan got worse.

He returned to the hospital on Sept. 28.

The hospital tried to treat him with a drug called brincidofovir.

It has not been fully tested to treat Ebola.

The government officials in charge of approving medicines made an exception because Ebola is a rare disease.

Duncan had been in the hospital just over a week before he died.

The hospital said that Duncan had "fought courageously in this battle."

Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins expressed his sadness.

"My thoughts are with the family and friends of Thomas Eric Duncan," he said.

Jenkins said he was thinking most about two people: Louise, the woman Duncan was about to marry, and their son Karsiah.

Also on his mind, he said, were the doctors and nurses who treated Duncan.

They helped Duncan daily "while he fought this terrible disease."

He said, "We offer prayers of comfort and peace."

Past Ebola outbreaks had happened in Africa.

This latest outbreak was first spotted in Guinea in March.

It has since spread to four other African countries: Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal.

In addition, a nurse in Spain has gotten the disease.

She had been treating two Ebola patients who got sick in Africa.

She is the first known person to have caught the disease without going to Africa.

