Thomas Eric Duncan, the first patient diagnosed with the Ebola virus in the United States, died Wednesday at a hospital in Dallas, officials announced in a statement.. Duncan, 42, had been in the hospital for more than a week and was in critical condition on a respirator just before he died.

He was receiving kidney dialysis and a drug called brincidofovir, an experimental medicine that has not yet been proven effective.

"It is with profound sadness and heartfelt disappointment that we must inform you of the death of Thomas Eric Duncan this morning at 7:51 a.m.," Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas said in a statement.

Duncan had first gone to the hospital on Sept. 25 with a fever, abdominal pain and a headache.

He told the hospital that he had been in Africa but was sent home with antibiotics, which treat bacterial infections.

Antivirals are used against viruses.

After Duncan's condition worsened, he returned by ambulance on Sept. 28 and was isolated in a room where he would have contact with no other patients.

Duncan, the hospital said, "fought courageously in this battle.

Our professionals, the doctors and nurses in the unit, as well as the entire Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas community, are also grieving his passing."

Dallas Judge Clay Jenkins, the top elected official in the county, also expressed his grief.

"My thoughts are with the family and friends of Thomas Eric Duncan at this time, especially his fiancee Louise, their son Karsiah and all those who loved him.

We are also thinking of the dedicated hospital staff who assisted Mr. Duncan daily while he fought this terrible disease," he said.

"We offer prayers of comfort and peace to everyone impacted by his passing," he said.

Duncan had left Liberia in West Africa on Sept. 19 and arrived in Dallas to visit his fiancee on Sept. 20.

Health officials have said that no one on the plane with him is in danger because Duncan had no symptoms until after arriving in the U.S. Ebola is a deadly virus that has killed about 70 percent of those who contracted it during the latest outbreak in West Africa.

It is transmitted by contact with its victims' bodily fluids – such as vomit, blood or saliva.

More than 3,400 people have died of Ebola in West Africa during the current outbreak – the worst on record.

Experts say Ebola patients are contagious only once they are displaying symptoms.

Typical symptoms include a fever above 101.5 degrees, severe headaches, muscle pain, diarrhea and vomiting.

The outbreak was first detected in Guinea in March and has since affected Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal, where at least one patient has been identified.

In addition, a nurse in Spain has tested positive for the disease after she treated two people who caught the virus doing religious missionary work in Africa and were sent back to Spain for care.

The nurse has been isolated in a hospital ward.

She is the first person known to have caught Ebola without having gone to Africa.

