On Wednesday, Thomas Eric Duncan died of the deadly disease Ebola.

He was far from the first person to come down with the disease.

However, he was the first to become sick with Ebola in the United States.

Duncan, 42, had been at a hospital in Dallas for more than a week.

His kidneys had stopped working on their own.

He needed the help of a respirator machine to breathe.

Doctors were giving him a medicine called brincidofovir.

The drug has not yet been fully tested as a treatment for Ebola.

Duncan was treated at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas.

He had first gone to the hospital on Sept. 25 with a fever, stomach pains and a headache.

Duncan told the hospital that he had been in Liberia, an African country with many cases of Ebola.

However, his illness didn't appear serious, so he was sent home.

After his condition worsened, he returned to the hospital in an ambulance on Sept. 28.

The hospital said Duncan "fought courageously in this battle."

Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins expressed his sadness.

"My thoughts are with the family and friends of Thomas Eric Duncan," he said.

Jenkins said he was thinking especially of Louise, the woman Duncan was about to marry, and their son Karsiah.

Also on his mind, he said, were the doctors and nurses who treated Duncan.

They helped Duncan daily "while he fought this terrible disease."

"We offer prayers of comfort and peace to everyone impacted by his passing," he said.

Duncan had left Liberia on Sept. 19.

He arrived in Dallas to visit Louise on Sept. 20.

Doctors say no one who was on the plane with him is in danger.

At that time, Duncan wasn't yet sick enough to spread the disease.

Ebola is a very deadly illness.

In the current outbreak in West Africa, seven out of every 10 people who have gotten it have died.

So far, there have been more than 3,400 deaths.

The latest outbreak is the worst Ebola outbreak ever.

Patients usually have a high temperature, bad headaches, muscle pain, diarrhea and vomiting.

Ebola is spread when people touch the blood, vomit or saliva of a sick person.

The outbreak was first spotted in Guinea in March.

It has since spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal.

In addition, a nurse in Spain caught Ebola at the hospital where she works.

The nurse had treated two people who got the Ebola virus in Africa.

She is the first person known to have caught the disease without having traveled to Africa.

