Thomas Eric Duncan, the first person to develop symptoms of the Ebola virus in the United States, died Wednesday at a hospital in Dallas.

His death was announced by hospital officials.

Duncan, 42, had been in the hospital for more than a week.

He was in critical condition, the most serious medical status a patient can have.

He had been breathing with the help of a respirator machine.

His kidneys were no longer working on their own.

He was receiving a drug called brincidofovir.

The drug is an experimental medicine that has not yet been proven effective.

Normally, drugs must be approved for use based on years of testing.

An exception has been made in the case of the Ebola virus because it is a rare disease.

"It is with profound sadness and heartfelt disappointment that we must inform you of the death of Thomas Eric Duncan this morning at 7:51 a.m.," Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas said in a statement.

Duncan had first gone to the hospital on Sept. 25 with a fever, stomach pains and a headache.

He told the hospital that he had been in Africa but was given antibiotics and sent home.

Antibiotics do not work to treat viruses, only bacterial infections.

After his condition worsened, he returned by ambulance on Sept. 28 and was placed in an isolated room where he would only have contact with his medical caregivers.

Duncan, the hospital said, "fought courageously in this battle.

Our professionals, the doctors and nurses in the unit, as well as the entire Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas community, are also grieving his passing."

Judge Clay Jenkins, the top elected official in Dallas County, also expressed his grief.

"My thoughts are with the family and friends of Thomas Eric Duncan at this time, especially his fiancee Louise, their son Karsiah and all those who loved him.

We are also thinking of the dedicated hospital staff who assisted Mr. Duncan daily while he fought this terrible disease," he said.

"We offer prayers of comfort and peace to everyone impacted by his passing," he said.

Duncan had left the West African country of Liberia on Sept. 19 and arrived in Dallas to visit his fiancee on Sept. 20.

Health officials have said that no one on the plane with him is in danger because Duncan had no symptoms until after arriving in the U.S. Ebola is a deadly virus.

During the latest outbreak in West Africa, it has killed about 70 percent of those who contracted it.

The disease is transmitted by contact with its victims' bodily fluids – such as vomit, blood or saliva.

More than 3,400 people have died of Ebola in West Africa during the current outbreak – the worst on record.

Ebola patients can only pass on the disease to others once the patient shows symptoms.

Typical symptoms include fever, bad headaches, muscle pain, diarrhea and vomiting.

The disease was first identified in Guinea in March.

It has since spread to Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal.

In addition, a nurse in Spain caught the virus in the hospital where she works.

She had treated two people who were exposed to Ebola doing religious missionary work in Africa.

Those two had been sent back to Spain for medical care.

The nurse has been isolated in a hospital unit.

She is the first person known to have caught Ebola without going to Africa.

