Thomas Eric Duncan, the first Ebola patient diagnosed in the U.S., died Wednesday, more than a week after he was hospitalized in Dallas, officials announced in a statement.

Duncan, 42, had been in critical condition on a respirator and was receiving kidney dialysis and an experimental antiviral drug, brincidofovir.

"It is with profound sadness and heartfelt disappointment that we must inform you of the death of Thomas Eric Duncan this morning at 7:51 a.m.," Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas said in a statement emailed to reporters.

Duncan had first gone to the hospital Sept. 25 with a fever, abdominal pain and a headache.

He told the hospital that he had been in Africa but was sent home with antibiotics.

After his condition worsened, he returned by ambulance Sept. 28 and was placed in isolation.

"Mr. Duncan succumbed to an insidious disease, Ebola.

He fought courageously in this battle.

Our professionals, the doctors and nurses in the unit, as well as the entire Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas community, are also grieving his passing.

We have offered the family our support and condolences at this difficult time," the hospital said.

Dallas Judge Clay Jenkins, the top elected official in the county, also expressed his grief.

"My thoughts are with the family and friends of Thomas Eric Duncan at this time, especially his fiancee Louise, their son Karsiah and all those who loved him.

We are also thinking of the dedicated hospital staff who assisted Mr. Duncan daily while he fought this terrible disease," he said.

"We offer prayers of comfort and peace to everyone impacted by his passing," he said.

Duncan had left Liberia on Sept. 19 and arrived in Dallas to visit his fiancee on Sept. 20.

Health officials have said that no one on the plane with him is in danger because Duncan had no temperature and no symptoms until after arriving in the U.S. Ebola, a deadly virus that has killed about 70 percent of those who contract it during the latest outbreak in West Africa, is transmitted by contact with its victims' bodily fluids – such as vomit, blood or saliva.

More than 3,400 people have died of Ebola in West Africa during the current outbreak – the worst on record.

Experts say Ebola patients are contagious only once they are displaying symptoms, including a fever above 101.5 degrees, severe headaches, muscle pain, diarrhea and vomiting.

The outbreak was first detected in Guinea in March and has since affected Liberia, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Senegal, where at least one patient has been identified.

In addition, a nurse in Spain who treated two Ebola-stricken missionaries has tested positive for the disease and is in isolation.

Hers is the first known transmission of the virus outside Africa.

