Kevin Durant is now officially basketball's best player.

He has won the sport's highest honor: the Most Valuable Player (MVP) award.

As he accepted his award, Durant made a point of sharing the honor: He thanked all those who made it possible.

In a speech that lasted more than 25 minutes, Durant fought back tears several times.

He thanked each of his Oklahoma City Thunder teammates.

He thanked his coaches, his trainers, the team's owners.

Most of all, he thanked his family.

Durant's emotional speech ended with heartfelt thanks to his mother, Wanda Pratt.

Durant praised her for the sacrifices she made and for the encouragement she provided.

"You made us believe," Durant said to Pratt, who was at the ceremony in Oklahoma.

"Kept us off the street.

Put clothes on our backs, food on the table.

When you didn't eat, you made sure we ate.

You sacrificed for us.

You're the real MVP."

Durant, who was raised near Washington, D.C., explained that Pratt was a single mother with two boys.

Times were tough.

Still, Pratt always thought something better was ahead.

"One of the best memories I had is when we moved into our first apartment," Durant said as tears streamed down Pratt's face.

"We just all sat in the living room and hugged each other."

That day was "when we all thought we made it."

He's really made it now.

The young man who said he was told he "wasn't supposed to be here" won the National Basketball Association's top honor Tuesday.

Miami's LeBron James finished second.

Blake Griffin of the Los Angeles Clippers was third.

Durant, 25, said winning the award almost didn't seem real.

At one point, he stopped and said, "I don't know why I'm crying so much."

During his speech Durant was humble and emotional.

However, he also drew some laughs.

"I could walk in and have a terrible day and I could see Hasheem (Thabeet) smiling at me, at 7-foot-3 with small pants on," he said.

"That would change my day."

Durant expressed respect for all his teammates.

The more experienced players, he said, challenged him to do better.

The rookies inspired him to do things the right way because they look up to him.

"When you've got people behind you," Durant said, "you can do" anything.

Durant won the MVP award by averaging 32 points a game.

The 6-foot-9 forward helped the Thunder achieve a record of 59 wins and 23 losses.

That gave the team the second-best record in the league.

"He's basically put himself in front of everybody else in the league," teammate Russell Westbrook said.

He has "shown that he's the best player in the world."

James agreed, saying he had "much respect" for Durant.

Durant, he said, "deserves" the award.

"He had a big-time MVP season."

This season Durant had the third-longest streak in NBA history: He played 41 games in a row in which he scored at least 25 points.

Durant scored at least 40 points 14 times.

He also averaged 7.4 rebounds and a career-high 5.5 assists.

"I put in so much work and so many people helped me," Durant said.

"I feel like we all won it.

Our equipment guy gave me a hug today and said, 'This is my first MVP,' and I thought about that.

And I said, 'Yeah, this is our first MVP.'

I couldn't have done it without the teammates, without the trainer.

Everybody.

We all just did this together."

