As he accepted his first Most Valuable Player (MVP) award, Oklahoma City Thunder's Kevin Durant made a point of sharing the honor: He thanked all those who made it possible.

In a soul-baring speech that lasted more than 25 minutes, Durant fought back tears several times.

He thanked each of his teammates, the coaches, support staff and team executives, and finally his family.

The emotional outpouring concluded with a tribute to his mother, Wanda Pratt.

Durant praised her for the sacrifices she made and the encouragement she provided while raising Durant and his brother.

"You made us believe," Durant said to Pratt, who was at the ceremony in Oklahoma.

"Kept us off the street, put clothes on our backs, food on the table.

When you didn't eat, you made sure we ate.

You sacrificed for us — you're the real MVP."

Durant, who was raised near Washington, D.C., explained that Pratt was a single mother with two boys.

Times were tough while he was growing up, but Pratt always thought something better was ahead.

Durant said that to appreciate moments like these, he often looks back, so as not to take things for granted.

"One of the best memories I had is when we moved into our first apartment," he said as tears streamed down Pratt's face.

"No bed, no furniture, and we just all sat in the living room and hugged each other, 'cause that's when we all thought we made it."

He's really made it now.

The young man who said he was told he "wasn't supposed to be here" won the NBA's top individual honor Tuesday.

Miami's LeBron James, who had won the last two MVP awards and four of the previous five, finished second.

Blake Griffin of the Los Angeles Clippers was third.

Durant, 25, called it "surreal."

At one point, as he thanked his teammates, he stopped and said, "I don't know why I'm crying so much."

During his speech Durant was humble and heartfelt, but he also drew some laughs.

"I could walk in and have a terrible day and I could see Hasheem (Thabeet) smiling at me, at 7-foot-3 with small pants on," he said.

"That would change my day."

Durant expressed respect for all his teammates.

The more experienced players, he said, challenged him to do better, while the rookies inspired him to do things the right way because they look up to him.

"When you've got people behind you," Durant said, "you can do whatever" you set out to do.

Durant won his fourth scoring crown in five years by averaging 32 points.

The 6-foot-9 forward helped the Thunder achieve 59 wins to 23 losses, the second-best record in the league.

"He's basically put himself in front of everybody else in the league," teammate and three-time All-Star Russell Westbrook said.

Durant, Russell said, has "shown that he's the best player in the world."

James agreed, saying he had "much respect" for Durant, and that Durant "deserves it — he had a big-time MVP season."

This season Durant played 41 games in a row in which he scored at least 25 points.

That scoring run made for the third-longest streak in NBA history.

Durant scored at least 40 points 14 times.

He also averaged 7.4 rebounds and a career-high 5.5 assists while shooting 50 percent from the field.

Teammate Nick Collison said he and fellow players may be guilty of taking Durant's skill and hard work for granted.

"To be able to stay on for long periods of time — have to cut hard, catch the ball in the right spot and defend on the other end — is tough to do.

To be able to do that shows that he has an edge to him.

He doesn't take a night off."

Durant himself doesn't take anything for granted, though.

"I put in so much work and so many people helped me," he said.

"I feel like we all won it.

Our equipment guy gave me a hug today and said, 'This is my first MVP,' and I thought about that.

And I said, 'Yeah, this is our first MVP.'

I couldn't have done it without the teammates, without the trainer — everybody.

We all just did this together."

