North Carolina State University's newest library is a little strange.

For now, it consists mainly of 98,000 glass flasks and slim envelopes with cloth samples in them.

What the new library contains is a huge collection of dyes — along with patches of cloth they were tested on, and documents related to the dyes.

Chemistry students have begun the painstaking work of making all this material available online.

When they're done, crime-scene investigators will have an enormously valuable new tool.

So too, will all sorts of other researchers.

Visitors to the online library will find a wealth of material.

They will be able to search through thousands of three-dimensional models.

These models will show the structure of the unique molecules associated with particular dyes.

A molecule is simply the smallest part of a particular substance that still has all of that substance's basic characteristics.

Alongside these models of molecules, investigators will find detailed information about a dye's characteristics.

The materials in the university's new Max A. Weaver Dye Library were all donated by the Eastman Chemical Company.

Eventually, however, other chemical companies will be asked to donate dyes as well.

The library is part of N.C. State's push to become a national leader in forensic science research — that is, research aimed at finding new and better scientific tools for the fight against crime.

The university has created a new Forensic Sciences Institute and has several forensics projects underway.

The idea behind the library was to create a powerful tool for forensic investigators.

The huge collection of information will make it easier to identify the sources of dyed fibers found at crime scenes.

Such fibers typically come from things like clothing, car interiors, furniture or carpeting.

The library also will be open to other kinds of researchers.

It is expected to become an important tool for scientists working in many different fields.

"The intention is basically advancing science for the common good," said David Hinks, the Institute's director.

The library will be very useful "in forensics and other areas, too, including some we can't even foresee."

Likely users include chemists, medical researchers and engineers.

Chemists may come seeking new dyes for textiles and paper that are friendly to the environment.

Medical researchers will be interested in dyes for use in treating cancer.

Engineers will be on the lookout for dyes that might help make solar panels more effective.

Also, some of the dyes could be used by the military to develop more effective camouflage clothing.

For example, fabrics might be treated with dyes that absorb infrared light.

The result would be clothing that is harder to spot through night-vision goggles.

For cancer therapy, dyes in the collection might be used to tint cancer cells.

This would allow doctors to better see whether they have removed an entire tumor.

Other doctors might dye cancer cells, then kill them by aiming lasers at them.

Eastman's carefully organized collection of dyes was legendary among textile insiders.

But after Eastman got out of the dye business, it was mostly neglected.

The samples of dye and patches of cloth that they were tested on are housed at N.C. State's College of Textiles.

There are so many dyes, Hinks said, that the university gave up on counting all of them.

Instead, it counted part of the collection and estimated the rest.

The glass flasks are lined up in rows in the drawers of a long wall of filing cabinets.

Their range of hues goes well beyond the rainbow.

Some are powders, some tiny crystals or nuggets.

Most have small, fading labels that bear hand-drawn diagrams of the dye molecules inside.

Students have begun digitizing information about each dye molecule.

That information is then put into a database.

This can be searched by chemical compounds or fragments of compounds and by other characteristics, such as how they perform when heated or exposed to light.

If a compound with a desirable characteristic is found, it will be possible to search for others with the same characteristic.

In addition, what is known about these dyes can be used to invent new dyes.

The students have only digitized about 1,000 of the dyes so far.

The rest are expected to take a couple of years, even with a small army of 20 students working on the task during the school year, and half a dozen or so in summer.

The multihued collection represents the life's work of chemist Max Weaver.

Weaver worked for Eastman for 29 years and was the company's most productive inventor.

He was known for being unusually thorough when it came to documentation.

Weaver learned how to invent while on the job.

Most of the company's other chemists had much more schooling, but he more than held his own.

By the time of his death in 2012, he held more than 260 patents.

It was Weaver who created the single largest portion of the dye library.

However, more than a dozen other chemists also contributed.

Now, once it's online, their work will become permanently preserved.

