North Carolina State University's newest library is a little strange: It is a collection of little glass bottles — 98,000 in all.

Those bottles contain many different dyes.

Together with the bottles are patches of cloth the dyes were tested on.

There are also carefully kept records of how the dyes were made.

Information about all these dyes is slowly being put online.

The work is being done by teams of students.

Soon, crime-scene investigators will have an enormously valuable new tool.

Many different kinds of scientists will as well.

Visitors to the online library will be able to search through thousands of three-dimensional models.

These models will show the molecules found in particular dyes.

A molecule is a tiny part of something.

It is the smallest part that contains everything that makes a thing what it is.

Dyes are developed through creating new compounds.

Compounds, essentially, are different elements combined to make something new.

When a new compound is created, a new kind of molecule is also created.

A model of that molecule is like a recipe: It tells a scientist how a dye is made.

If investigators don't recognize a dye, the library will help: They'll be able to check its molecules against online models.

The library will also contain something else valuable: detailed information about the various dyes.

For example, it will explain how each dye reacts to light.

The new collection is called the Max A. Weaver Dye Library.

All materials were donated by the Eastman Chemical Company.

The university hopes its new library will help so-called forensic investigators.

These are scientists who work with the police.

They study evidence found at crime scenes.

Crime-scene investigators are careful to gather any dyed fibers they find.

They know these can provide valuable evidence.

Fibers come from various places: clothing, car seats and rugs, furniture, carpeting.

Being able to recognize a particular dye is very useful.

It can help investigators figure out the origin of something that left behind fibers.

If that thing — say, a sweater — is unusual enough, it might lead to the criminal.

The new library will also attract other kinds of people.

Doctors, engineers and the military will all find it useful.

Dyes from the collection could prove important in many ways.

For example, some dyes might be useful for the army.

A special dye might make uniforms harder to spot at night with night-vision goggles.

There are so many dyes in the collection that the university stopped counting.

It simply guessed how many there are.

The glass bottles of dye are lined up in rows.

They are stored inside the drawers of a long wall of filing cabinets.

The dyes come in many colors.

Some are powders, some are tiny crystals or nuggets.

Most have small, fading labels.

On these are hand-drawn pictures of the dye molecules inside.

Students have begun putting information about each dye online.

So far, they have only gone through about 1,000 of the dyes.

The rest are expected to take a couple of years to go through.

The collection was the life's work of one man: a scientist named Max Weaver.

Weaver worked for Eastman for 29 years.

He was the company's busiest inventor.

He was also known for being an unusually careful record-keeper.

Weaver learned how to invent while on the job.

Most of the company's other scientists had much more schooling.

Still, Weaver more than kept up.

He was responsible for more than 260 inventions.

Weaver created the single-largest part of the dye library.

However, more than a dozen other scientists also helped.

Now, their work will live on forever.

