When ancient stars die, they give off colorful clouds of gas and dust.

Such clouds are known as nebulae.

Recently, scientists discovered something mysterious about some nebulae: They all line up in the same direction.

These odd nebulae are located in the center of the Milky Way.

The discovery was made by two astronomers from the University of Manchester.

Their findings help explain how stars were formed.

And they may also show what caused the nebulae's strange pattern.

A dying star's nebula is a sight to behold.

But nebulae aren't just pretty to look at.

They can tell scientists about how planets and stars were formed.

And they can tell us whether a star is one of a pair of stars.

Bryan Rees and Albert Zijlstra are the scientists who made the surprising discovery.

The two studied 130 nebulae.

All are located roughly 26,000 light-years away in the center of the Milky Way.

It is this galaxy that contains our own planet.

Most of the nebulae were elliptical.

This means they had a mostly roundish shape.

But around 44 of them were what is called bipolar: They had formed into twin gas clouds.

These ones often look something like butterfly wings.

Soon the researchers began to notice something strange: More than half of the bipolar nebulae were lined up in the same direction.

This was particularly surprising because they were many light-years apart.

Just one light year equals about 6 trillion miles.

Other bipolar nebulae closer to us aren't neatly arranged.

This means something unusual is going on in the galaxy's center.

And that something caused the nebulae there to line up.

The way the nebulae line up suggests "a powerful magnetic pull," Rees said.

"It's not necessarily there now."

Say you're holding a magnet near a bunch of scattered nails.

Now suppose that only some of the nails are magnetized.

Only the magnetized nails will turn and point if you bring the magnet near.

The unmagnetized ones won't move.

Something like that could have happened at the center of the Milky Way.

The bipolar nebulae probably had strong magnetic fields.

Just like magnetized nails, they would have been shifted by a strong magnetic force.

Such a force may have existed in the galaxy's center about 8 to 13 billion years ago.

The bipolar nebulae ended up looking something like hourglasses lying on their sides.

The elliptical nebulae lacked a strong magnetic field.

For this reason, they remained unmoved.

The study doesn't say what could have caused such a magnetic field.

But some scientists believe there is a strong one around the black hole at the center of the Milky Way.

Perhaps this is what created the unusual nebulae.

