Scientists have found something that changes how they think about life on Earth.

Now they think life started on Earth much earlier than before.

What they found was in tiny bits.

The bits were in a mineral found in rocks.

Scientists believe it was formed by a living thing.

Earth formed 4.5 billion years ago.

Scientists had long thought Earth could not support life when it was young.

They thought it was too hot.

They felt there was not enough water.

The new evidence changes all that.

Now, scientists think there might have been life on Earth 300 million years earlier than they had figured.

The finding also changes how scientists think about the universe.

Now they think there could be more life in the universe.

The reason scientists feel they know this is because life formed so quickly on Earth.

The mineral they found is called zircon.

Scientists tested the zircon.

Tests showed the zircon was on the Earth when the planet was about 400 million years old.

Scientists found something stuck in the bits of zircon.

It was a special mix of types of carbon.

Carbon is found in many things.

It is found in diamonds and in charcoal.

There are different types of carbon.

Each has a different weight.

The carbon mix in the zircon had a high amount of a light type of carbon.

Scientists usually find this mix of carbon in leftover bits of living things, said Mark Harrison.

He is a scientist.

Harrison worked on the zircon study.

Harrison thinks that the carbon came from tiny life forms.

He does not know what type of living things.

There is a simple explanation for the carbon, he said.

The explanation is that there was life on Earth 300 million years earlier than scientists had believed.

Stephen Mojzsis is also a scientist.

He was not part of the study.

Mojzsis said the evidence could change how scientists think.

If living things made the carbon, then life came to Earth faster and earlier than they thought, he said.

S. Blair Hedges is another professor.

He also was not part of the study.

Hedges studies how genes developed.

Genes tell parts of something living how to grow and what to do.

For example, genes decide what eye color someone has.

Genes decide how tall a person will be.

Harrison's findings makes sense, Hedges said.

They fit in with how genes came about, he said.

