Scientists have found hints that some kind of life existed on Earth 4.1 billion years ago.

The hints show there might have been life on Earth 300 million years earlier than scientists thought.

Earth formed 4.5 billion years ago.

The new evidence changes what scientists believe Earth was like shortly after it was formed.

It also gives them reason to feel confident that there is much more life in the universe.

The reason scientists think this is because life formed so quickly on Earth.

Scientists examined tiny grains of zircon from Jack Hills in western Australia.

Zircon is a mineral.

It forms in crystals, and looks similar to a diamond.

Tests showed the zircon was on the Earth when the planet was just 400 million years old.

Inside one of the grains they found what they call a "chemo-fossil."

The chemo-fossil is a certain mix of types of the element carbon, according to the study by the scientists.

Mark Harrison is a UCLA professor.

He is one of the scientists who wrote the study.

He described the zircon grains as "gooey" leftovers of life.

There are different types of carbon with different weights.

This leftover carbon goo had a high amount of a light type of carbon.

Scientists usually find this mix of carbon in leftover bits of living things, Harrison said.

There are rare cases where this particular carbon mix would not be from life.

However, they are very unusual.

Harrison thinks that the carbon is from a group of tiny life forms.

He does not know what type of living things they are from.

The simplest explanation is that life existed 300 million years earlier than science has long thought, Harrison said.

Still, the evidence is not complete proof, he said.

Most scientists believe that when the Earth was young, it was too dry and hot for life to form.

They also think there was not enough liquid water.

Harrison said there is no physical evidence for this view of Earth.

What the zircon shows is that "the Earth by 4.1, 4.2 billion years ago was basically behaving like it is today."

Stephen Mojzsis is a scientist at the University of Colorado.

He was not part of the study.

Mojzsis said the evidence could change how scientists think.

If life is responsible for the carbon, it came to Earth faster and earlier than we thought, he said.

S. Blair Hedges is a professor at Temple University who also was not part of the study.

Hedges studies how genes developed.

Genes are a section of DNA that tells a part of something living how to grow and what to do.

For example, genes decide what eye color someone has, or how tall a person will be.

Harrison's findings makes sense, Hedges said.

They fit with his work that tracks how genes developed, he said.

"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth," Hedges said, "then it could be common in the universe."

