After sifting through tens of thousands of distant stars, astronomers say they have discovered an Earth-size planet where water could exist in liquid form.

The planet is the first yet that people can live on — that is, it meets the conditions for life as we know it.

Experts don't know if the planet actually has water or a protective atmosphere.

They don't even know its mass.

They did say though that the huge discovery raises the distinct possibility that a collection of Earth-like planets is waiting to be found much closer to home.

"This is really a tip-of-the-iceberg discovery," said astronomer Jason Rowe, who spent a year analyzing data gathered by NASA's Kepler Space Telescope.

Rowe and his associates are still looking for more in the Kepler data — but after finding the Earth-like planet known as Kepler-186f, it seems reasonable to assume "that other ones are likely to exist.

And that's going to be the job of future missions to find (them)."

Scientists who were not involved in the study were excited by the find.

"This is a historic discovery of the first Earth-size planet found in the habitable zone around its star," astronomer Geoffrey Marcy commented.

This is the best case yet found for a planet where life could survive.

"The results are absolutely rock solid."

If such planets do turn out to be common among the distant stars Kepler studies, astronomers should be able to find plenty of them closer to home, the thinking goes.

Future NASA missions will enable scientists to determine which planets have the strongest signs of water and atmospheres that can support life.

The discovery marks a milestone in the quest to find planets that are not just Earth-size, but truly Earth-like, said NASA's Doug Hudgins.

Out of 1,800 or so confirmed planets, fewer than two dozen sit in a habitable zone where it's neither so hot that water boils off into space nor so cold that it remains in a permanent deep freeze.

And none of them are as close in size to Earth as Kepler-186f.

Its diameter is only 10 percent larger than our planet's.

Size is a critically important factor, scientists said: If a planet is about 50 percent wider than Earth, its gravity could attract a hydrogen-helium envelope.

That would shroud the surface in a gassy atmosphere that's too thick for Earth-like life.

Kepler-186f may be close to Earth in size, but it's hardly close by.

It sits some 490 light-years away in the constellation Cygnus, and circles its home star, Kepler-186, in just 130 days.

That star is an M-dwarf, smaller, dimmer and cooler than our sun.

So even though Kepler-186f sits close enough to fit inside the orbit of sun-seared Mercury, it is still safely located in a habitable zone.

In the past, scientists have argued that M-dwarf stars may not be particularly hospitable places for life to develop around.

This is because they tend to give off more flares and damaging radiation than G-type stars like our sun.

Kepler-186f, however, appears to sit far away enough from its star to be out of harm's way.

The discovery of Kepler-186f indicates that there may be more than one kind of habitable planet.

From now on, scientists will look beyond worlds circling stars similar to our sun.

"I believe that planets are very diverse and a whole range of them could be habitable," said astrophysicist Sara Seager.

That's an encouraging sentiment, given that planets like Kepler-186f could be easier to find than planets exactly like Earth.

Before it was hobbled last year by a broken gyroscope, the Kepler telescope stared at a patch of roughly 150,000 stars and waited for dips in the starlight as planets passed in front.

Close-in planets with shorter orbits complete these transits more often, which makes them easier to find.

Around our sun, those planets would be baked.

Around a red dwarf like Kepler-186, the climate could still be mild.

M-dwarf planets are also easier to find because they block relatively more of their star's light.

And given that M-dwarf stars account for 70 percent of the stars in the Milky Way, there could be billions of Earth-size planets throughout the galaxy, waiting to be discovered.

NASA's Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite, set for launch in 2017, could look for such planets closer to home.

And the James Webb Space Telescope, the follow-up to the Hubble Space Telescope, will be able to spot water and other molecules necessary for life in the atmospheres of nearby planets.

The discovery of Kepler-186f is a sign that scientists are homing in on the answers to fundamental questions about life in the universe.

"Whether we are an extremely rare fluke — a phenomenon that only happens once in a universe — or in a galaxy teeming with life is a very basic question not only of science, but of our existence," said planetary astrophysicist Dimitar Sasselov.

It's "the first time in human history we have a good shot at answering that question, and that's very exciting."

