Unless rapidly increasing meat consumption around the world is curtailed, grazing livestock will continue to emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and further degrade the environment.

Americans can help in curtailing greenhouse gas emissions by changing their eating habits.

Beef, lamb, chicken and pork, while described by Big Livestock as healthy food choices, are not.

Livestock production currently accounts for significant greenhouse gas emissions worldwide and the situation is not getting any better.

Deforestation to produce more grazing lands also contributes to a rapidly approaching global ecocide.

The folks behind Big Livestock, like their climate change-denying colleagues in the fossil fuel industry, have mounted an aggressively deceptive campaign against their critics.

They have even gone so far as to suggest, using junk science statistics prevalent among climate change deniers, that vegetarians contribute more to greenhouse gas emissions than meat eaters.

Nothing could be more absurd.

A groundbreaking 2006 report by the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, titled "Livestock's Long Shadow," concluded that 18 percent of annual global greenhouse gas emissions were caused by cattle, sheep, buffalo, pigs and poultry.

More recent scientific studies have raised to a whopping 51 percent the percentage of greenhouse gases being emitted by livestock.

It is an amazing fact that livestock produce more greenhouse gases than all the cars, trucks, airplanes, trains and ships in the world combined.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has also sounded the alarm bell over the production of methane by livestock.

The EPA has stated that methane emissions resulting from the digestive systems of livestock, a process known as enteric fermentation, represents a third of all emissions from the agriculture sector in the United States.

Adding to the problem of methane emissions is improper manure handling procedures on the part of Big Livestock.

In order to save money, massive industrial farms and ranches expose manure storage areas to oxygen and moisture, which contributes to methane levels in the atmosphere.

No one championing an environmentally sound livestock industry is calling for a ban on Big Macs or porterhouse steaks.

However, there is a need for an overall reduction in the consumption of meat products by the United States and other economically advanced nations.

Now that consumers in China and India are able to afford meat products, demand has skyrocketed but so have the adverse effects on the environment.

Increased demand for feed grain has also contributed to global climate change.

Reducing meat consumption must be part of an overall strategy for "clean" farming.

Improved and environmentally sustaining feeding practices, animal husbandry techniques, a livestock waste-to-clean energy system, and livestock health management must all be part of a livestock management infrastructure that can support a healthy environment.

Medical experts agree that reducing meat consumption also benefits one's health.

However, whether or not a person opts to be a vegetarian or a carnivore is a personal choice.

Proposals by governments to impose meat and dairy taxes to offset environmental damage and public health problems take on the aura of "nanny state" interventionism.

When it comes to the livestock industry and the environment it is a far better strategy to stick to the basic problem of greenhouse gas emissions and sound solutions to this particular problem rather than add medical concerns to the debate.

Although Big Livestock scoffs at the notion of a link between their industry and climate change, consider the results of a study by the respected medical journal Lancet, which found that a reduction in meat consumption of just a half cup a day can significantly reduce methane and nitrous oxide emissions.

We can all afford to make that easy sacrifice and our environment will be better off for it.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: The newly elected president of the Tampa Bay Press Club, Wayne Madsen is a progressive commentator whose articles have appeared in leading newspapers throughout the U.S. and Europe.

Readers may write him at 414 Choo Choo Lane, Valrico, FL 33594.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

Climate change activists are disappointed with the Paris agreement because, in the words of Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, it doesn't go "far enough."

High on their list of policy goals is a tax on meat, akin to tobacco and alcohol "sin taxes."

The theory is that meat, especially beef, is disproportionately responsible for greenhouse gas emissions and if we were able to change how people eat, primarily in wealthier countries like the U.S., we could take a significant bite out of climate change.

A blueprint to achieve the meat tax is laid out in a November report by Chatham House, a London-based think tank.

The group concedes that the issue is "complex."

Yet it advises governments to push for the taxes through publicly funded public relations campaigns which make the matter appear clear-cut, because "publics respond best to simple messages."

This is an unusual recommendation for a group known for promoting open debate.

For radical animal rights groups and puritanical health crusaders, promoting vegetarian diets is, well, a red-meat issue.

But the environmental case against meat is a stretch, requiring fuzzy math and politicized science.

Those backing the taxes cite the United Nation's Global Livestock Environmental Assessment Model, or GLEAM, which concluded in 2013 that livestock, including beef, milk production, and poultry, accounts for 15 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions.

However, the model was not developed as fodder for anti-meat campaigns, but rather as a tool to guide the livestock industry toward more sustainable production.

Using GLEAM as scientific evidence to argue against meat consumption is as far-fetched as it would be to fight organic agriculture because it relies on manure, a source of methane and nitrous oxide, both greenhouse gases.

No wonder advocates want to keep their messaging simple.

The idea that reducing meat consumption would make both humans and the Earth healthier is challenged by consideration of the environmental impact of alternatives.

For instance, almonds, a darling of health food advocates, are highly water-intensive.

The U.N. hasn't yet calculated the water-footprint of your almond milk-based smoothie.

So what would be the environmental impact if we did reduce our caloric intake and shifted to the U.S. government's dietary guidelines?

Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University evaluated just that.

In a study published in Environment Systems and Decisions last month, such a change "increases energy use by 38 percent, blue water footprint by 10 percent, and GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions by 6 percent."

Or, as the British newspaper The Independent reported it, "Lettuce is 'three times worse than bacon' for emissions and vegetarian diets could be bad for environment."

Of course, replacing lettuce for meat and comparing emissions on a calorie-for-calorie basis is absurd.

But it underscores a relevant point: meat is actually nutrient dense — and tasty.

The report explains, "these perhaps counterintuitive results are primarily due to USDA recommendations for greater caloric intake of fruits, vegetables, dairy and fish/seafood, which have relatively high resource use and emissions per calorie."

This isn't the first study to challenge the simplistic "meat is bad for the environment" claim.

According to a recent study from the University of Michigan's Center for Sustainable Systems, "An iso-caloric shift from the current average U.S. diet to USDA dietary recommendations could result in a 12 percent increase in diet-related GHG emissions, whereas a shift that includes a decrease in caloric intake, based on the needs of the population — assuming moderate activity, results in a small, 1 percent decrease in diet-related GHG emissions."

The lesson: if you want to advocate for meat taxes, follow the advice of the experts and keep it simple.

Otherwise, the science will get in the way of your agenda.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Jeff Stier is director of the risk analysis division of the National Center for Public Policy Research, a conservative think tank.

He earned his law degree from Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and served two terms as editor-in-chief of the Cardozo Law Forum.

Readers may write him at 20 F Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington DC 20001 or reach him on Twitter at @JeffAStier.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

