People around the world are eating more meat these days.

To feed them, farms are raising more animals.  Animals raised for meat are known as livestock.

Among them are cattle, sheep, pigs and chickens.

Livestock give off methane gas.

The gas comes out of their rear ends and mouths.

It happens when their bodies break down food.  Methane gas is one of the greenhouse gases.

Other greenhouse gases are created when fuels are burned.

Both oil and coal are common fuels.

We burn them to power cars and many machines.

Greenhouse gases remain in the air.

They build up and trap heat.

Over time they have been making the world much hotter.  Scientists call the way the world is getting hotter "global warming."

They also call it "climate change.

"  Global warming has led to many serious problems.  For example, giant icecaps are melting.

The melting ice is causing oceans to rise.

Coastal shorelines and island nations are being slowly swallowed up.  Other parts of the world have a different problem.

Hot weather is drying up lakes and rivers.

Many places may soon have too little water.

Growing food could become much harder.

One way Americans can help is by eating differently.

They can begin to eat less meat.

The big livestock companies say that meat is good for us.

It is not.

The way farm animals are raised is bad for the planet.

New studies show that half the world's greenhouse gas comes from livestock. The problem is getting worse, too.

No one is saying we should never eat another hamburger or steak again.

We do need to eat less meat, though.

Eating less meat is not only good for the planet.

Doctors say it is also good for your body.

Governments should not try to force people to eat less meat, though.

It should be up to us.

Also, the government should not tax meat.

A tax would make the cost of meat go up.

People should not be punished for eating meat.

Eating less meat is still a good idea, though. Eating just a half cup less a day would make a big difference.  We can all make that change.

It is easy to do.

It would also help save our planet.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: The newly elected president of the Tampa Bay Press Club, Wayne Madsen is a progressive commentator whose articles have appeared in leading newspapers throughout the U.S. and Europe.

Readers may write him at 414 Choo Choo Lane, Valrico, FL 33594.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

Some people believe livestock farming is a big problem.

They say it is worse than raising other kinds of food. They say people should change how they eat.

We should all eat less meat, they think.

Some of these people want to see a tax on meat.  The added tax would make meat cost more.

Then people would start eating less of it.

The change would be good for the planet, these people say.  They think it would work like this.

Farms would raise fewer animals if fewer people ate meat.

Then, less methane gas would be released.

Soon global warming would slow.

The idea sounds like it makes sense.

It would not work, though. It leaves out what would happen if farmers grew more of the other kinds of food.

Scientists at Carnegie Mellon University have studied the problem.

They looked at what would happen if farmers grew more fruits and vegetables.

They found that even more greenhouse gas would be given off.

The reason is that growing fruits and vegetables requires a lot of machines.

The machines need fuel to run.

Greenhouse gases are given off when that fuel is burned.

More greenhouse gas is produced from machines than from farm animals.

A British newspaper put it simply.

Lettuce is "three times worse than bacon" when it comes to greenhouse gases.

Being a vegetarian could be bad for the planet, the paper said.

Fruits and vegetables also need a lot of water.

Growing them uses up more water than raising farm animals.

If farmers switched away from meat, they would use more water.  Raising farm animals is less wasteful.

It is also less harmful for the planet.  Of course, people still need to eat fruits and vegetables.

They are good for people.

Eating less meat would not be healthier for the planet, though.

It might even make things worse.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Jeff Stier is director of the risk analysis division of the National Center for Public Policy Research, a conservative think tank.

He earned his law degree from Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law and served two terms as editor-in-chief of the Cardozo Law Forum.

Readers may write him at 20 F Street, NW, Suite 700, Washington DC 20001 or reach him on Twitter at @JeffAStier.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

