President Barack Obama announced that his administration is creating additional rules for airline passengers both overseas and in the United States to control contagious diseases such as Ebola.

The deadly Ebola virus has killed more than 3,400 people in West Africa.

A man from Liberia became sick after entering the United States, causing many people to become more afraid of the virus spreading.

Obama met with his top advisers on health and national security.

He told reporters on Monday that the officials would study whether they should increase the amount of screening passengers need before getting on a plane.

New measures could be announced shortly, an administration official said.

"I consider this a top national security priority," Obama said.

He spoke after Texas officials said they were making good progress in watching those who had been in contact with Thomas Eric Duncan, the Liberian diagnosed with Ebola in Dallas last month.

Texas Governor Rick Perry also called for more screening at the borders because of the Duncan case.

Perry held a news conference to announce his new 17-member task force to deal with infectious diseases.

Perry said federal officials should be extra careful with screening at all U.S. points of entry.

Screeners would take travelers' temperatures and use other medical tools to make sure they were not sick.

Duncan did not have a fever when he left Liberia on Sept. 19.

He developed symptoms days after arriving in Dallas.

He first sought medical care on the night of Sept. 25.

He was sent home with antibiotics, which treat bacterial diseases, not viruses.

When he became sicker on Sept. 28, he was rushed back to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas.

Duncan was in isolation at the hospital and severely ill.

He had been receiving an experimental treatment using the antiviral drug brincidofovir.

David Lakey is the head of the health department for Texas.

In Dallas, Lakey told reporters that they were continuing to monitor the people who may have come in contact with Duncan and with the people who may have come in contact with them.

Lakey said that the people being monitored had no symptoms yet.

He said even the 10 people in the high-risk group hadn't developed symptoms yet.

Those at high risk include the family and friends who stayed with Duncan at a Dallas apartment when he had symptoms.

The low-risk group, mainly those who encountered people in the high-risk group, has 38 people, Lakey said.

Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings said the second phase of the apartment cleanup has been completed.

They have thrown out most of Duncan's personal items, which could spread the disease.

Meanwhile, a freelance journalist who had been working for NBC News in Liberia arrived in Omaha, Nebraska.

He came back to the United States to be treated for Ebola.

He became sick with the disease while in Liberia.

Ashoka Mukpo was taken to the Nebraska Medical Center, where he will be kept in isolation.

Mukpo, who became ill last week, is the fifth American with Ebola to return to the United States for treatment during the outbreak.

Mukpo was able to walk off the plane on his own Monday.

Then he was loaded onto a stretcher for the ambulance ride to the hospital.

His father, Dr. Mitchell Levy, said his son wanted to help the people of Liberia because he lived there for two years while working with a nonprofit group.

It was not known how Mukpo became infected.

Levy said it may have happened when his son helped clean a vehicle in which someone had died.

Spain is also facing a case of Ebola.

Officials there announced that a nurse who helped care for two priests infected with Ebola has tested positive for the virus.

In doing so, she became the first person known to have contracted Ebola outside of West Africa.

Everyone else got the disease by traveling there.

The World Health Organization says that more than 3,400 people have died during the current outbreak.

It is the worst outbreak on record.

>UPDATE:  Thomas Eric Duncan died at 7:51 a.m. Central Time on Oct. 8 at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas.

