Doctor Rick Sacra is a brave and lucky man.

One year ago he was cured of a deadly disease.

The disease is called Ebola.

It has killed thousands of people, mostly in West Africa.

Most people who catch it die.

Sacra is 52 and lives in Massachusetts.

He works as a doctor there.

Every year he also travels to Liberia, a West African country that needs doctors badly.

Sacra caught Ebola while working in a Liberian hospital delivering babies.

He then spent three rough weeks in a hospital in Omaha, Nebraska, where doctors fought hard to cure him.

He did not know if he would make it out alive.

"Of course I knew that I might die," Sacra said this week.

He said the experience made him very grateful for "every day I'm given."

Sacra says he is now completely better.

"I'm doing fine," he said.

Sacra says he would do it all over again if he had to.

Sacra is now immune to Ebola.

He can no longer catch the disease because he has had it already.

It did not take him long to get back to work.

He has gone to Liberia three times so far this year.

In April and July, Sacra returned to the Liberian hospital where he caught Ebola.

For 20 years, he has spent part of every year working there.

Sacra is now back in the United States.

He plans to return to the Liberian hospital again in November.

So far Ebola has killed more than 11,000 people.

Doctors say the disease is now under control.

However, it has not been completely wiped out yet.

In Liberia, no one has gotten sick with Ebola for a while.

Still, in two nearby countries, people are still catching the disease.

Every week there a few new cases.

Sacra says Liberia still needs doctors badly.

Many Liberians stayed away from hospitals last year when Ebola was at its worst.

They were afraid they would catch the disease from being in a hospital with people who already had Ebola.

Now a lot of people are starting to return to hospitals.

They have other serious health problems.

Many, many sick people are showing up all at once.

It is hard for Liberia's hospitals to handle the rush.

They just do not have enough doctors and nurses.

Sacra has no plans to stop his trips back to Liberia.

He travels to the country four times a year.

When Liberia "doesn't need help anymore, I'll probably move on to someplace else," Sacra said.

He plans to keep going "as long as the needs are there."

If he can "make a difference, I think I ought to keep doing it," he said.

