new study shows that the deadly Ebola virus sweeping West Africa is mutating more slowly than scientists had previously thought.

That's good news for researchers who are testing potential Ebola vaccines and therapies.

What researchers do know, thanks to new findings just published in Science, is that the Ebola virus is not evolving particularly quickly.

As viruses mutate and change their structure, they sometimes become better and more efficient killers, as well as more difficult for the human body to fight off.

An earlier study had suggested the virus might be changing at a rate twice as fast as in previous outbreaks.

That now seems to not be the case.

Studies of the virus's mutation rate are essential.

Researchers, racing to find therapies and vaccines for the virus, need to understand Ebola in its current form.

If the virus was to dramatically change, vaccines would likely no longer work.

For this work, researchers analyzed full-length genome sequences from several disease clusters of Ebola.

They compared the genomes of several virus samples collected in Guinea in March 2014 with dozens of samples from Sierra Leone in June 2014, and newer samples from Mali collected in October and November 2014.

The researchers were looking for overall variations among them.

This new, more comprehensive snapshot of the virus seems to show that there were surprisingly few differences among the samples.

This is despite the fact that they were taken months apart and had likely been passed along through many individuals with the disease.

The mutations, in fact, mostly appear to be minor.

Notably, the researchers calculated that the mutation rate seemed to match that of earlier Ebola virus outbreaks in Central Africa.

The new study tracked genetic changes in Ebola over a longer period than anyone had examined previously.

This gives a fuller picture of the virus and its changes, study co-author Heinz Feldmann said.

He is a virologist with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease.

"We did not see the doubling in the evolution rate that we may have expected from earlier findings," he said.

The important conclusions from the newest finding, he added, are that it is "less likely than we thought that vaccines and treatment options will fail."

Still, Feldman's study may not be the final word.

More samples of the virus taken in 2015 from elsewhere in West Africa will provide a clearer picture of the virus's mutations in future studies, he said.

The Feldmann team finding provides much-needed good news in the fight against the virus that has killed more than 10,000 people in the past year.

Currently, there is no scientifically proven vaccine that is effective against Ebola.

However, several possible vaccines are currently in the early stages of being tested on people.

A vaccine was found to be successful at preventing disease in macaque monkeys, a stand-in test subject for humans.

The vaccine also prevented the disease after it was exposed to hydrogen peroxide.

The chemical was added to the vaccine as a safety precaution to ensure the virus would not be able to replicate and actually cause the disease it was designed to prevent.

"Findings in nonhuman primates are always significant," said Thomas Geisbert, a virologist at the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, Texas.

However, "it remains to be seen how it will compare with the vaccines that are already in human trials and what this other vaccine's timeline will be."

"The availability of a good and safe vaccine would make an immense difference.

We are going to see future outbreaks of Ebola," said Keiji Fukuda, the assistant director general for health security at the World Health Organization (WHO).

Even if one drug does get approval, he said, researchers should not stop trying to develop other drugs against Ebola.

"If we have the luxury of having multiple products to look at and evaluate, then so much the better.

There are safety considerations, effectiveness, cost — all of these things are important," he said.

The findings come even as researchers and health experts are starting to think about how to combat Ebola and other future threats after the Ebola outbreak is over.

At an Institute of Medicine conference devoted to Ebola in March, the institute's president, Victor Dzau, said that his organization is planning to bring together 15 international experts.

They will talk about how to better combat Ebola in the future, the best way to spend aid dollars and creating strong health systems.

Their findings will be especially important.

In the current Ebola outbreak, the international community took several months to organize a response, which was always critically underfunded.

The group's conclusions, Dzau said, will be published in a report that the group will likely put out in late 2015.

The number of Ebola cases has undeniably slowed in West Africa.

In total, 79 new cases of Ebola were reported to the WHO for the week of March 22, the lowest weekly total in 2015 so far.

Yet even as health planners are looking toward a future when Ebola is stamped out in West Africa, the virus is still infecting people in two major urban areas in Sierra Leone and Guinea.

In Liberia, a new case of Ebola was discovered last week, thwarting plans to declare the country Ebola-free in April.

As Ebola winds down and the international focus may move on to other problems, "I am terrified Ebola will evaporate from our collective memories," Fukuda said.

And that, he added, would be tragic.

