new study has found that Ebola has not become more dangerous over time.

This is good news for scientists trying to cure the deadly disease.

In the last year, Ebola has killed more than 10,000 people in West Africa.

The scientists discovered that Ebola is changing very slowly.

As viruses spread from person to person, they mutate.

This means that their structures change.

Sometimes, mutations make viruses better killers.

Mutations can also make it harder for people to fight off a virus.

Understanding how Ebola changes is important.

Scientists are trying to develop a vaccine — usually a shot — to prevent Ebola.

They must understand its structure.

If Ebola changes a lot, the medicine in the vaccine may not work.

In the new study, scientists studied the Ebola virus from several different outbreaks.

They compared samples collected in different places and at different times.

They were looking for differences among the samples.

The scientists discovered that there were surprisingly few differences.

The changes were mostly small.

In fact, the scientists found that the Ebola virus was not changing any faster than in earlier outbreaks.

The new study gives a better picture of the virus and how it changes, said Heinz Feldmann.

He helped to write the study.

Feldman is a virus expert at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease.

The discovery means that it is more likely that scientists will develop a way to stop Ebola.

Still, the study may not be the final word.

Ebola samples were taken in the last month or so from other places in West Africa.

Studying them will give a better picture of the disease, Feldman said.

Right now, there is no cure for Ebola.

There is also no good way to prevent it.

But scientists are testing several possible vaccines on people.

A vaccine was successful at preventing Ebola in macaque monkeys.

Testing monkeys is almost as good as testing on humans.

"The availability of a good and safe vaccine would make an immense difference," said Keiji Fukuda.

He is with the World Health Organization (WHO).

"We are going to see future outbreaks of Ebola."

Experts may invent a drug that is successful against Ebola, he said.

They should also continue to develop other drugs.

Victor Dzau is the president of the Institute of Medicine.

The organization is bringing together a group of 15 experts.

They will discuss how to fight future outbreaks of Ebola.

In particular, they will talk about spending money wisely to fight the disease.

Creating strong health systems is another important need.

Their conclusions will be very important.

During the current Ebola outbreak, countries around the world were slow to respond to the deadly disease.

They took too long to set up hospitals and send doctors to West Africa.

They also did not send enough money to pay for the doctors or hospitals.

The number of Ebola cases has gone way down in West Africa.

Just 79 new cases of Ebola broke out during the week of March 22.

Health planners are waiting for the day that Ebola will be wiped out.

It is not over yet.

People in Sierra Leone and Guinea are still coming down with the disease.

Ebola was almost gone from Liberia.

But a new case was discovered last week.

As Ebola slows, people may move on to other problems.

Fukuda said he is terrified that people will forget about Ebola.

He said that would be awful.

