A doctor in New York tested positive for the deadly Ebola virus last week.

Officials had long worried that a patient with Ebola would eventually turn up in the city.

It could quickly become a public health disaster.

New York is, after all, a city of 8.4 million people.

Strangers stand closely together on subway cars.

People walking there bump into each other on crowded sidewalks.

The doctor had been treating Ebola patients in Guinea.

A test showed that he had the virus a few days after he returned to New York from the West African nation.

The first time people in the United States were found to have Ebola was in Dallas, Texas, last month.

Confusion and mistakes happened with those cases.

New York got ready.

The doctor, Craig Allen Spencer, was separated from other people and rushed into isolation.

The woman he is going to marry and his friends were quarantined.

They are being kept from other people to make sure they do not spread the disease if they have it.

His apartment was sealed and specially cleaned.

New York and New Jersey announced new rules.

Anyone traveling from three West African nations who has had direct contact with an Ebola patient would be quarantined.

That includes health care workers.

Ebola was too serious to trust people to voluntarily quarantine themselves, said New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo.

Spencer had volunteered with the aid group Doctors Without Borders in Guinea.

He called the group on Thursday morning to report that he had a fever.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio and the city's health commissioner, Dr. Mary Basset, met with reporters.

They said Spencer did not have signs of Ebola until Thursday morning.

They said that he was not contagious, or able to spread the disease, during his outings earlier in the week.

Neighbors gathered outside Spencer's Harlem apartment building.

Crews there sealed the apartment and handed out Ebola information in English and Spanish.

Cleaners wearing protective suits and boots spent hours cleaning Spencer's apartment.

Pedro Vanegas lives and works across the street from the apartment building and said he was not worried.

"The truth is that I was surprised and worried when I found out last night," Vanegas said.

"But I think the government is doing the best they can.

They started cleaning the apartment immediately."

Others were not so sure and some repeated lawmakers' calls in Washington to prevent people from arriving from West Africa.

Ebola is suspected in more than 4,800 deaths in that region.

Juan Perez's family lives down the block.

He said his parents had not sent his younger sister to her school across the street out of fear she could catch Ebola.

"Everybody is scared," Perez said.

He said that he wished city officials would hand out more information on how to prevent Ebola.

"And masks," Perez added.

"I wish they would give people face masks."

Doctors Without Borders alerted city health officials to Spencer's fever.

The health department sent emergency medical services workers to Spencer's apartment.

Everything worked the way it was supposed to, de Blasio said.

He reminded New Yorkers that Ebola is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids like blood.

It is not spread through the air.

De Blasio sent a Twitter photograph of himself riding a crowded subway car.

He wanted to show New Yorkers that they did not need to worry.

He and Bassett said they had confidence in U.S. medical rules for people returning from Ebola-hit areas.

Government health officials advise them to isolate themselves for 21 days and to take their temperatures twice daily.

It is believed that 21 days is as long as it can take Ebola to show up in a person.

But Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie disagreed.

From now on, they said, health care workers and others who had direct contact with Ebola patients in West Africa will be made to spend 21 days in quarantine.

Officials at airports in New York and New Jersey will interview passengers coming from three West African countries.

Then they will decide whether there is reason to force those passengers into quarantine.

"He's a doctor," Cuomo said of Spencer, and even he did not follow the guidelines for the quarantine.

"Let's be honest.

So we have to do more."

