Officials in New York had long worried that a patient with Ebola would eventually turn up in the city.

It could quickly become a public health disaster.

New York is, after all, a city of 8.4 million people.

Strangers sit close together on subway cars and people walking in the city bump into each other on crowded sidewalks.

The city got its first test last week.

A doctor who had been treating Ebola patients in the West African nation of Guinea tested positive for the virus after returning to New York.

The first time people in the United States were found to have Ebola was in Dallas last month.

Confusion and mistakes surrounded those cases, but they helped New York get ready.

The doctor, Craig Allen Spencer, was quickly separated from other people and placed in isolation.

His fiancee and friends were quarantined, or forced into medical isolation.

His apartment was sealed and decontaminated.

New York and New Jersey announced new rules.

Anyone traveling from three West African nations who has had direct contact with an Ebola patient would be quarantined.

The quarantines include health care workers.

Ebola was too serious to trust people to voluntarily quarantine themselves, said New York Governor Andrew M. Cuomo.

Spencer had volunteered with the aid group Doctors Without Borders in Guinea.

He called the group on Thursday morning to report that he had a fever.

New York Mayor Bill de Blasio and Dr. Mary Bassett, the city's health commissioner, said Spencer did not have signs of Ebola until Thursday morning.

They said that he was not contagious during his outings earlier in the week.

Neighbors gathered outside Spencer's Harlem neighborhood apartment building.

Crews there sealed the apartment and handed out Ebola information fliers in English and Spanish.

Cleaners wearing protective suits and boots carried blue plastic waste-collecting drums into the apartment.

They would take hours to fully clean Spencer's apartment.

Pedro Vanegas, who lives and works across the street from the apartment building, said he was not worried.

"The truth is that I was surprised and worried when I found out last night," Vanegas said.

"But I think the government is doing the best they can.

They started cleaning the apartment immediately."

Others were not reassured.

Some echoed lawmakers' calls in Washington for a ban on people arriving from West Africa.

Ebola has caused more than 4,800 deaths in that region.

"I don't like the idea that the country is letting people come and go from these West African countries like normal," said Kenneth Clarke, who lives in the neighborhood.

"How many more people like him are walking around?"

Juan Perez's family lives down the block.

He said his parents had not sent his younger sister to her school across the street out of fear she could catch Ebola.

"Everybody is scared," Perez said.

He said that he wished local officials would hand out more information on Ebola prevention methods.

"And masks," Perez added.

"I wish they would give people face masks."

The aid group alerted city health officials to Spencer's fever.

The health department sent emergency medical services workers in full protective gear to Spencer's apartment.

Everything worked the way it was supposed to, de Blasio said at a news conference.

He repeatedly reminded New Yorkers that Ebola is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids and is not airborne.

De Blasio sent a Twitter photograph of himself riding a crowded subway car.

He did this to show that New Yorkers did not need to worry.

He and Bassett said they had confidence in the self-monitoring system recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) for people returning from Ebola-hit areas.

It advises them to isolate themselves for 21 days and to take their temperatures twice daily.

It is believed that 21 days is the longest it can take Ebola to show up in a person.

But Cuomo and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said later that the newest developments showed that voluntary self-isolation did not work.

From now on, they said, health care workers and others who had direct contact with Ebola patients in West Africa will be required to spend 21 days in quarantine.

Officials at area airports will conduct interviews with other passengers coming from Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

Then they will decide whether there is reason to force those passengers into quarantine.

"He's a doctor," Cuomo said of Spencer, and even he did not follow the guidelines for the quarantine.

"Let's be honest.

So we have to do more."

"We are no longer relying on CDC standards," Christie said.

"There are now New York-New Jersey standards on this."

It was not immediately clear how the quarantine would be enforced.

In New York City, officials said they had placed Spencer's fiancee and two close friends under mandatory quarantine.

Health officials will visit them each day to take their temperatures.

In addition, Bassett said that from now on, other people arriving in the city from the Ebola-afflicted region would be contacted by health officials each day.

The officials will ask for their temperatures.

