new study shows that the deadly Ebola virus is changing more slowly than scientists thought.

That is good news for researchers who are testing Ebola vaccines and therapies.

What researchers do know is that the virus is not mutating particularly quickly.

As viruses mutate and change their structure, they sometimes become better and more efficient killers.

An earlier study had suggested the Ebola virus may be changing twice as fast as in previous outbreaks — wrongly, it turns out.

The new findings were published in Science.

Studies of the virus's mutation rate are essential.

Researchers, who are trying to find a cure, must develop vaccines for Ebola in its current form.

If the virus then dramatically changed, vaccines against the disease would likely no longer work.

The virus has killed more than 10,000 people in the past year in West African nations.

For the new study, researchers analyzed DNA from several outbreaks of Ebola.

DNA controls how every part of the human body develops and functions.

They compared the DNA of Ebola samples collected in Guinea in March 2014 with samples from Sierra Leone from June 2014.

They also compared them to newer Ebola samples from Mali collected in October and November 2014.

The researchers were looking for general difference among the different samples.

This new snapshot of the virus seems to show that there were surprisingly few differences, although the samples were taken months apart.

The mutations mostly appeared to be minor.

Notably, the researchers calculated that the mutation rate seemed to match the rate of earlier Ebola virus outbreaks in Central Africa.

The new study tracked genetic changes in Ebola over a longer period than ever.

This gives a fuller picture of the virus and its changes, says study co-author Heinz Feldmann.

He is a virologist with the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease.

"We did not see the doubling in the evolution rate that we may have expected from earlier findings," he said.

The study means that it's "less likely than we thought that vaccines and treatment options will fail," he said.

Still, it may not be the final word.

More samples of the virus taken in 2015 from other places in West Africa will provide a clearer picture of the disease, he said.

The Feldmann team's discovery was much-needed good news in the fight against the virus.

Currently, there is no scientifically proven vaccine to prevent Ebola.

However, several possible vaccines are currently being tested on people.

Recently, a vaccine prevented the disease in macaque monkeys, a stand-in test subject for humans.

"Findings in nonhuman primates are always significant," said Thomas Geisbert, who studies viruses at the University of Texas.

However, "it remains to be seen how it will compare with the vaccines that are already in human trials and what this other vaccine's timeline will be."

"The availability of a good and safe vaccine would make an immense difference.

We are going to see future outbreaks of Ebola," said Keiji Fukuda, of the World Health Organization (WHO).

Even if one drug is successful against Ebola, he said, researchers should not stop trying to develop others.

Researchers and health experts are starting to think about how to combat future outbreaks of Ebola.

Victor Dzau is the president of the Institute of Medicine.

At a conference devoted to Ebola in March, Dzau said his organization is bringing together a group of 15 international Ebola experts.

Topics they will discuss include the best way to use international aid money and how to create strong health systems.

The findings will be especially important.

In the current Ebola outbreak, the international community took several months to organize a response, which always suffered from a severe lack of money.

The experts' conclusions, he said, will be published in a report that the group will likely put out later this year.

The number of Ebola cases has undeniably slowed in West Africa.

In total, 79 new cases of Ebola were reported to WHO for the week of March 22.

That was the lowest number of cases in a week in 2015 so far.

Yet even as health planners are hoping that Ebola will eventually be stamped out in West Africa, people in Sierra Leone and Guinea are still coming down with the disease.

In Liberia, a new case of Ebola was discovered last week.

There had been plans to declare the country Ebola-free in April, but the new case has prevented that.

As Ebola winds down, the international focus may move on to other problems.

Fukuda said he is terrified that Ebola will vanish from people's memories.

That, he added, would be tragic.

