Past outbreaks of the Ebola virus have consistently "burned out" in relatively isolated and rural areas in Central Africa.

These hard-to-reach places often had little transportation.

Sick patients did not come into contact with many people.

Without new people to make sick, the virus eventually had nowhere to go.

The current outbreak in West Africa is different.

It is taking place where several countries' borders meet.

This has helped this outbreak grow into a global problem.

What will it take to stop the ongoing Ebola outbreak?

One new study suggests at least half of all patients suffering from Ebola would need to be isolated.

Another says at least 70 percent of patients with the disease must be kept from infecting others.

Those figures come from two new mathematical forecasts.

One forecast is by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the nation's health protection agency.

Another was published by the medical magazine Eurosurveillance.

The outbreak could still be reduced but it won't be wiped out if people aren't isolated in the numbers the studies recommend.

Instead, it may continue to spread, perhaps for years.

Right now every ill patient with Ebola during this outbreak typically makes about two more people sick.

The World Health Organization (WHO) tally suggests there are 7,178 cases of Ebola and 3,338 deaths so far.

Forecasts suggest that the death toll could soon climb to the tens of thousands.

A great deal more would need to be done to prevent that.

In a worst-case scenario, the CDC said that Sierra Leone and Liberia alone could have up to 1.4 million cases by mid-January.

But that scenario could be avoided.

The huge increase in aid provided by countries and groups around the world can reduce that number.

The virus will not be contained, though, unless half of the sick patients are isolated.

Smaller efforts will buy communities some time to scale-up their hospitals, though.

They will also buy them time to, perhaps, develop a vaccine.

Yet the longer the response takes, the higher the chance that areas that are now Ebola-free could flare up again.

"This is also about how long it takes to stop the disease," says Alessandro Vespignani, a professor.

He has been working on Ebola forecasting at Northeastern University.

"If it's a more minimal response and it takes nine months, that means more deaths... and the cases in the region could spin out of control," he says.

The incubation period for the disease can last from two to 21 days.

Only then do people show signs, or symptoms, of the disease and can make others sick.

And it's clear that the disease can be contained.

Senegal and Nigeria appear to have stopped the spread of Ebola.

But there are other things to worry about if the disease continues to spread.

No one has studied how long Ebola immunity lasts.

It's possible that recovered patients may get ill again next year.

Ebola is a deadly virus, but it is not as readily passed between people as some other viruses.

In the 1918 Spanish flu that killed more than 30 million people worldwide, each ill person infected between two and five people, says Gerardo Chowell of Arizona State University.

How many were infected depended on their location and surroundings.

Chowell produced the first mathematical Ebola forecasts in 2004.

He looked at past Ebola outbreaks in Central Africa.

He concluded that those outbreaks led to an average of 1.3 to 1.8 secondary cases.

In September, Chowell published his calculations in the Eurosurveillance.

They suggest Ebola is reproducing at about the same rate now as in historical cases.

Chowell's estimate that half of the sick patients need to be isolated is lower than the CDC's estimate.

Its study found that 70 percent of the patients would need to be isolated elsewhere to alter the course of the outbreak.

The second case of Ebola was diagnosed in the U.S. recently.

The U.S. cases highlight the global threat of the virus and how important it is to contain Ebola.

"We can't make the risk zero until the outbreak is controlled in West Africa," says Tom Frieden, head of the CDC.

