A man who traveled from Liberia to visit family members in Texas tested positive for Ebola on Tuesday.

The unidentified patient is the first confirmed case outside of Africa, health officials said.

The man is extremely ill.

He has been cared for in a special isolation ward at Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas since Sunday, said Dr. Edward Goodman, a hospital official.

The patient first sought treatment in the hospital's emergency room Friday and was sent home with antibiotics, Goodman said.

"I have no doubt that we will control this importation of Ebola so that it does not spread widely in this country," said Dr. Tom Frieden, the director of the federal U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

"We will stop it here."

Frieden emphasized that the man could not spread the disease until he began to develop active symptoms of the fever.

He had been in contact with only a handful of people after he became sick.

Medical teams are now scrambling to find them all.

The man looked like he was perfectly healthy when he stepped off an airplane Sept. 20 from Liberia.

He began to feel sick four days later, Freiden said.

Officials would not say which flights the patient took to get to Texas.

Liberia is one of the three African nations now battling the worst Ebola outbreak in history.

However, Frieden said other passengers on the airplane would not have been at risk since the patient had no symptoms at the time of the flight.

Ebola is part of a group of diseases called viral hemorrhagic fevers.

It is a deadly disease that kills between 50 and 80 percent of people who become sick.

It is spread through direct contact with the blood and other body fluids of an infected person.

Ebola's symptoms include fever, headaches and stomach pain, severe vomiting and diarrhea.

As the virus grows, its effects on the body grow increasingly severe, and the person might start bleeding and their organs like their lungs and heart could start shutting down.

There is no vaccine or cure.

Henry Johnson lives in Dallas.

He heard about the Ebola patient while watching TV in the hospital's emergency room.

Johnson said that people in the crowded room watched closely and remained calm.

Johnson said he was worried about the people who were in the ER on Friday.

He was also concerned about those who might have been exposed to Ebola after the patient was sent home from the hospital.

According to Johnson, the hospital should have isolated him on Friday.

"I hope they catch it before it really gets out," he said.

A special team of CDC "disease detectives" and other experts have been sent to Texas to help Dallas County health workers locate everyone the patient came into contact with.

Once they are found, they will be monitored for 21 days.

If they show signs of a fever, they will be isolated and tested for Ebola.

"There are no other suspected cases in the state of Texas at this time," said Dr. David Lakey.

He is the top official of the Texas Department of State Health Services.

In West Africa, at least 6,574 people have become sick with Ebola and at least 3,091 have died, according to the World Health Organization.

The spread of the disease since March has been blamed on the failure of the West African nations to quickly recognize the threat and their lack of basic medical supplies and facilities.

The response from Western countries has also been slow.

Health experts say the situation in the United States is very different.

Good health care in the U.S. makes a large outbreak here highly unlikely.

"We have the ability to trace contacts, monitor people and to act quickly if any of them should start to exhibit symptoms," said Dr. Anne Rimoin.

She is a doctor at the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health.

If the African countries had these systems, "there wouldn't be this huge outbreak in the first place," she said.

The CDC announced Tuesday that Ebola outbreaks in Senegal and Nigeria were now under control.

It gave credit to the quick response of the medical teams.

Dallas-area residents, particularly those in the Liberian community, are worried that Ebola has come to their city.

Stanley Gaye is the president of the Liberian Community Association of Dallas-Fort Worth.

He said local Liberians were already anxious about being around people who had recently been to West Africa.

"This disease is a horrible disease, and I don't want to be in a gathering with someone (whose) family has been affected by the disease," Gaye said.

