Soccer officials in the African country of Togo are afraid to let their team travel to Guinea for a match.

Guinea is where the outbreak of the deadly Ebola disease started.

To protect their players, Togo is asking that the match be moved to another country.

The soccer match is part of the African Cup.

It is the biggest soccer tournament in Africa and it happens every year.

Soccer officials fear the spread of the painful and contagious disease could ruin the African Cup's final qualifying round.

The winners of the qualifying round will get to play in the finals in Morocco.

Ebola has killed nearly 1,000 people in West Africa.

More than 300 people are believed to have died from the virus in the African country of Guinea.

After spreading from Guinea, it traveled to Sierra Leone and Liberia.

Most recently, people have been getting sick in Nigeria.

Games involving Sierra Leone are already being looked at.

The country said it would not host any soccer matches for now because of Ebola.

Togo's request to move the match would affect the final group stage in Guinea.

It is set to take place the first week of September.

Togo's soccer officials said that its players feared traveling to Guinea.

Togo said it would not "put in danger" the lives of its players and officials.

Togo and Sierra Leone want to move qualifying games away from countries struggling with Ebola.

The Confederation of African Football is in charge of the tournament.

It has not decided whether to move the matches.

Sierra Leone was supposed to hold matches in its own country.

A public health emergency has been declared in Sierra Leone.

All soccer has been stopped there after nearly 300 people died.

Now it wants to play its matches in other countries.

To be fair, it wants those games to take place in countries not playing against them.

Possible countries could include Gambia, Morocco or Senegal.

The teams from Sierra Leone and Guinea may also face problems traveling to matches.

Last month, the African island nation of Seychelles prevented the Sierra Leone team from entering its country because it feared the players could bring in Ebola.

After refusing to let the Sierra Leone team in, Seychelles was forced to call the game a loss.

It also lost its chance to play in the finals.

Sierra Leone is due to play big-name teams Ivory Coast and Cameroon, as well as Congo, in the last round of qualifying.

The matches will run from early September to mid-November.

Guinea was placed in a group with Ghana, Togo and Uganda.

The qualifying matches will decide the 15 teams at the African Cup of Nations.

Morocco is the 16th team, and is hosting the finals in January and February.

