Togo soccer officials don't want their team to travel to a match in Guinea, where a deadly outbreak of the Ebola virus started.

More than 300 people are believed to have died from the virus in the country.

The African country of Togo has asked the African soccer confederation to find another country to host the match.

The match is part of the African Cup, the largest soccer tournament in Africa.

Soccer officials fear the spread of Ebola could wreck the Cup's final qualifying round.

The qualifying matches will decide the 15 teams that will get to play in the finals in Morocco.

Games involving Sierra Leone are already being looked at.

The country said it would not host any soccer matches until further notice because of Ebola.

The Togo soccer federation's request would affect the final group stage in Guinea.

It is set to take place in the first week of September.

The Togo federation said its players and officials feared traveling to Guinea.

"We are scared by the situation prevailing in that zone," the Togolese federation said.

The organization added that it would follow advice from its government, which would likely prevent the party from traveling to Guinea.

Ebola has killed nearly 1,000 people in West Africa.

After spreading from Guinea, it traveled to Sierra Leone, Liberia and most recently Nigeria.

Togo stressed that it would not put the lives of its players and officials in danger.

The African soccer confederation has not yet ruled on requests from Togo and Sierra Leone to move qualifying games away from Ebola-affected areas.

Sierra Leone wants to play its home qualifiers in countries not participating in the games.

Gambia, Morocco and Senegal are all possible host countries.

A public health emergency has been declared in Sierra Leone, ending all soccer until further notice.

Nearly 300 people have died there.

Even away games involving the Sierra Leone and Guinea teams could cause problems.

Last month, the island nation of Seychelles prevented the Sierra Leone squad from entering its country.

Seychelles feared they could bring in Ebola.

After Seychelles authorities refused to let the Sierra Leone team in, Seychelles was forced to automatically declare the game a loss.

They also lost their place in qualifying.

For Sierra Leone, it is time to play big-name teams Ivory Coast and Cameroon, as well as Congo, in the last round of qualifying.

The matches will run from early September to mid-November.

Guinea is in a group with Ghana, Togo and Uganda.

The qualifying competition will decide the 15 teams at the African Cup of Nations, the largest soccer tournament in Africa.

Morocco is the 16th team, and is playing host.

The finals take place in January and February 2015.

