Officials in the African country of Togo have asked the African soccer confederation to move a game out of Ebola-affected Guinea.

They fear the outbreak of the deadly disease could wreck the African Cup's final qualifying round.

Games involving Sierra Leone are already under scrutiny.

The country said it would not host any soccer matches until further notice because of Ebola, a virus that kills between 50 and 90 percent of the people who get it.

The Togo soccer federation's request would affect the first game of the final group stage in Guinea.

It is set to take place in the first week of September.

The Togo federation said over the weekend that its players and officials feared traveling to Guinea.

The Ebola outbreak started in Guinea.

More than 300 people are believed to have died from the virus in the country.

"We are scared by the situation prevailing in that zone," the Togolese federation said.

The organization added that it would follow advice from its government, which would likely prevent the party traveling to Guinea.

Ebola has killed nearly 1,000 people in West Africa.

After spreading from Guinea, it traveled to Sierra Leone, Liberia and most recently Nigeria.

Togo stressed it would not "put in danger" the lives of its players and officials.

Some squad members had already expressed fears over going to Guinea.

The African soccer confederation has yet to rule on requests from Togo and Sierra Leone to move qualifying games away from Ebola-affected areas.

Sierra Leone wants to play its home qualifiers in neutral countries — possibly Gambia, Morocco or Senegal — because of the Ebola outbreak in Sierra Leone.

A public health emergency has been declared in Sierra Leone, ending all soccer until further notice following the deaths of nearly 300 people from the disease.

Even away games involving the Sierra Leone and Guinea teams could be problematic.

Last month, Seychelles, an island nation off the coast of Africa, prevented the Sierra Leone squad from entering its country because of fears they could bring in Ebola.

After Seychelles authorities refused to let the Sierra Leone party in, the Seychelles soccer federation was forced to forfeit the game and its position in qualifying.

The group governing African soccer said it was investigating that move by Seychelles.

The team could end up not being allowed to play in some future games.

Sierra Leone is due to play big-name teams Ivory Coast and Cameroon, as well as Congo, in the last round of qualifying, which runs from early September to mid-November.

Guinea was drawn in a group with Ghana, Togo and Uganda.

The game will decide the 15 teams to join host Morocco at the African Cup of Nations finals in January and February.

In Liberia, which is not a part of the finals, a famous former AC Milan striker and world player of the year George Weah has recorded a pop song to raise awareness about Ebola.

