A nurse who took care of the first Ebola patient to die in the United States has come down with the disease.

The woman discovered she had a fever Friday night and drove herself to the emergency room of Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas.

She was placed in isolation 90 minutes later.

A blood sample sent to the state health lab in Austin confirmed Saturday night that she had Ebola — the first person to contract the deadly disease in the United States.

The director for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Sunday that the infection in the nurse resulted from a "breach in protocol."

The protocol refers to the series of rules which all health care workers who come into contact with a person suspected of Ebola must follow.

The nurse was not on the organization's watch list of people who had contact with the Ebola patient, Thomas Eric Duncan.

He brought the deadly disease with him from Liberia, Africa, when he came to visit relatives in Dallas.

"We have spoken with the health care worker" who cannot identify how she contracted the disease, said CDC director Dr. Tom Frieden.

The CDC has sent additional staff members to Dallas, he said.

Frieden said exposure to Ebola can result from a single accidental slipup.

"Unfortunately, it is possible in the coming days we will see additional cases of Ebola" in health care workers, he said.

Texas Health Commissioner David Lakey said the nurse had "extensive contact" with Duncan.

The nurse missed two days of work before going to the emergency room Friday night.

Officials thinks she came into contact with only one person since she developed symptoms of the disease.

Ebola, which is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids of a sick person, can be transmitted only by infected people showing symptoms.

"We have been preparing for an event like this," Lakey said.

Presbyterian Hospital chief clinical officer Daniel Varga said the exposure occurred during Duncan's second visit to the hospital.

Duncan, the first person to die of Ebola in the United States, went to the Presbyterian emergency room Sept. 26.

He was sent home with antibiotics only to return to the hospital on Sept. 28.

He was diagnosed with Ebola.

He died Oct. 8.

Officials haven't released the name of the nurse or what she did.

Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins, the county's top official, said he has spoken to the health care worker's parents, who have asked for privacy.

"Let's remember that this is a real person who is going through a great ordeal.

So is that person's family," Jenkins said.

The nurse's apartment was cleaned and sanitized Sunday.

Although the CDC didn't consider her to be at "high risk" of contracting Ebola, she had been checking herself for signs of the disease, including taking her temperature twice a day.

Symptoms of Ebola include fever, headaches and abdominal pain, and most patients experience severe vomiting and diarrhea.

As the virus multiplies,  its effects on the body become increasingly severe, and bleeding and organ failure can result.

Ebola is fatal in 50 percent to 80 percent of people who get it, and there is no proven vaccine or cure yet.

A team with experience in dealing with hazardous materials thoroughly cleaned the nurse's car and the common area of an apartment complex Sunday.

Police officers and a CDC representative talked to residents of the apartment complex Sunday morning and distributed information about Ebola symptoms.

Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings also visited with residents.

"It just breaks my heart.

She was just an innocent woman who took care of someone who was sick," said neighbor Colleen Watson.

Lindsey Carpenter, 33, said her roommate had searched on the Internet to find out why news helicopters were flying over their neighborhood.

The roommate barged into her room at 9:30 a.m. when he found an answer.

"There's an Ebola patient in the neighborhood," he said.

Carpenter, who works in a nearby hospital, said she hopes Presbyterian Hospital investigates how the nurse contracted Ebola.

The nurse caught Ebola during Duncan's second visit to the hospital while he was in isolation and the hospital was taking precautions, Carpenter pointed out.

"They were prepared with hazmat (hazardous materials) suits and everything," she said.

"I wonder how she got it.

It's really puzzling.

There's probably more to the story that we don't know."

