International health officials warned Friday that the outbreak of the deadly Ebola virus in Africa was exceeding their ability to control it.

Meanwhile, U.S. health providers prepared for the arrival of two Americans infected with the disease.

The medical evacuation from Liberia to Atlanta of two American citizens was underway over the weekend, according to the Christian aid organization Samaritan's Purse.

Dr. Kent Brantly and Nancy Writebol, a missionary worker, are currently in serious condition, the group said.

On Saturday, Brantly arrived in Atlanta and was escorted to a specialized isolation unit at Emory University Hospital.

The containment unit, which is one of only four of its kind in the nation, isolates infected patients from other areas of the hospital.

The isolation units were built in cooperation with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Writebol is expected to arrive in Atlanta in a few days, the hospital has said.

In Africa, Dr. Margaret Chan, head of the World Health Organization, told leaders of four West African countries that the international group planned to release $100 million to fight the disease.

More than 1,300 people have been infected with the virus, and 729 have died.

"This outbreak is moving faster than our efforts to control it," she said Friday at a meeting in the Guinean capital of Conakry.

If the situation continues to get worse, she said, "the consequences can be catastrophic in terms of lost lives," severe economic effects and "a high risk of spreading to other countries."

In addition, the aid group Doctors Without Borders (MSF) said Friday that the virus was raging "out of control" in Sierra Leone and Liberia.

The group said it has already deployed 550 health workers to Africa and doesn't have the ability to send more help.

"The situation in Liberia is dire and there is almost no capacity on the ground to respond," MSF spokeswoman Sandra Murillo said.

"Despite the fact that the response in Liberia is not nearly adequate, MSF does not have the capacity to increase its activities in the country."

There is no vaccine or specific treatment for Ebola.

The disease has a fatality rate of 60 to 90 percent.

It is spread through direct contact with the organs, blood or other secretions of infected people.

People who are infected with the virus experience sudden fever, intense weakness, muscle pain and headaches, along with vomiting and diarrhea.

The disease can also cause kidney and liver failure, as well as internal bleeding.

Samaritan's Purse said that other, noninfected workers are already in the process of departing West Africa.

Word that two infected patients were being transported to the United States for medical care has sparked fears among some that the disease could begin to spread here.

However, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases insisted that this was highly unlikely.

"Given the health care infrastructure and our ability to isolate people who are infected and to take care of them with the proper protective equipment, it is extraordinarily unlikely that there would be an outbreak in the United States," Dr. Anthony Fauci said Friday.

"It's the lack of health care infrastructure that leads to the problems."

Still, passersby at Emory University Hospital said they were uncomfortable with the idea of Ebola patients being treated in their hometown.

"What?

No, that worries me," Lisa Jackson told a reporter while sitting at a nearby bus stop.

"Why are they bringing them here?

They shouldn't even let them across the border," she said.

Greg Hammock disagreed but admitted he worried about the possibility of the virus spreading.

"All I know is Emory better be on top of their game," he said.

"If this is the only place they can get help, then sure they should bring them here."

Alexis Walker praised Emory and the CDC for the transfer.

"It's good to know when someone needs help and medical care, there's someplace they can go," Walker said.

"If you can give them the care they need, why not?"

As Walker spoke, a woman drove by the hospital wearing a mask over her face.

Walker said it was those kinds of sights, and social media postings warning of a deadly virus reaching American shores, that gave people the wrong idea about the situation.

"What they're doing is making people afraid," she said.

On Thursday, the CDC warned against travel to the West African nations of Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone.

"We do not have effective treatment or vaccine for Ebola," said Dr. Tom Frieden, director of the CDC.

"There is no proven treatment.

There is no proven vaccine.

There is not likely to be one for at least a year, even in the best case scenario.

We are not going to treat or vaccinate our way out of these outbreaks."

Frieden added, "We are going to use the traditional means that work of case identification, isolation, contact tracing, health communication, good meticulous management.

That's what has stopped every Ebola outbreak that's ever happened before.

That's what will stop this Ebola outbreak."

Writebol reportedly received an "experimental serum" of which there was only enough for one person.

Brantly reportedly received a "unit of blood" from a 14-year-old boy who survived the disease.

The boy's family wanted to thank the doctor for saving his life.

Leaders from across Africa will hold a summit next week in Washington, D.C. President Barack Obama said U.S. officials were working to minimize any risk of Ebola spreading to this country.

