The African Cup is the biggest soccer tournament in Africa.

It takes place every year.

This year, the spread of the deadly Ebola virus could ruin the matches.

The Ebola outbreak started in the African country of Guinea.

More than 300 people have died there from the disease.

Soccer officials are afraid that Ebola could hurt the Cup's final qualifying round.

The qualifiers will decide which 15 teams play in the final round.

The final game will take place in Morocco.

The Confederation of African Football is in charge of the tournament.

Soccer officials from Togo have asked it to move a game.

Togo doesn't want to play in Guinea.

Togo's soccer players are afraid of going to Guinea.

They are worried about Ebola.

Games involving Sierra Leone are already being looked at.

Sierra Leone won't hold any soccer matches for now because of the Ebola virus.

Ebola has killed nearly 1,000 people in West Africa.

After spreading from Guinea, it traveled to Sierra Leone and Liberia.

There have been outbreaks in Nigeria now, too.

Togo said it would not put the lives of its players in danger.

Togo and Sierra Leone want to move some games.

They want games held in countries without Ebola.

The Confederation of African Football has not decided if it will agree to that.

A health emergency has been declared in Sierra Leone.

All soccer has ended in Sierra Leone for now because almost 300 people have died there.

The teams from Sierra Leone and Guinea could have problems traveling to games.

Last month, the African island of Seychelles stopped the Sierra Leone team from entering its country.

Seychelles feared that the players could bring in Ebola.

Because it didn't let the Sierra Leone team in, Seychelles lost the game.

The country is now out of the Cup.

Sierra Leone will play big-name teams Ivory Coast and Cameroon in the last round of qualifying.

It also will face Congo.

The matches take place from early September to mid-November.

Guinea is in a group with Ghana, Togo and Uganda.

The qualifying matches will decide the 15 teams at the African Cup of Nations.

Morocco is the 16th team.

It is holding the finals in January and February 2015.

