President Barack Obama announced Monday that the government is creating more rules for airplane passengers.

The rules will be for people flying in from other countries as well as in the United States.

They are to help control diseases such as Ebola from spreading.

The deadly Ebola virus has killed more than 3,400 people in West Africa.

However, last month a man named Thomas Eric Duncan traveled from the African country of Liberia to the United States.

He appeared well when he got on the plane.

Days after he arrived in Texas, he became sick.

He went to the hospital for treatment, but doctors didn't realize he had Ebola.

When he became sicker three days later, he was rushed back to Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas.

He was in isolation at the hospital and extremely ill. Because doctors did not realize Duncan had Ebola, many are afraid the disease could have spread.

Forty-eight people are being closely watched for signs of Ebola.

Ten of those people are "high risk" because they were near Duncan when he was sick.

The rest of the people spent time with the 10 high-risk group.

David Lakey is the head of the health department for Texas.

Lakey told reporters that they were continuing to watch the people who might have been near Duncan.

They are still looking for more people who spent time with the high-risk group.

Lakey said that no one in either the high-risk group or the low-risk group has gotten sick yet.

Health officials cleaned out the apartment where Duncan was living.

They were afraid his personal items could spread the virus.

Nearly all of them were thrown out.

Obama met with his top advisers who focus on the country's health and safety.

He told reporters that the officials would look into screening before flights.

They will consider increasing the amount of checking passengers need before getting on a plane.

New rules could be announced shortly, an official said.

Rick Perry is the governor of Texas.

He also called for more screening at the borders because of the Duncan case.

Perry announced his new 17-member task force to deal with contagious diseases.

Perry said U.S. officials should be extra careful with screening wherever people are entering the United States.

Screeners would take travelers' temperatures and do other checks to make sure they are not sick.

Meanwhile, a journalist who had been working in Africa arrived in Nebraska.

Ashoka Mukpo came back to the United States to be treated for Ebola.

He became sick with the disease while in Liberia.

Mukpo was taken to the Nebraska Medical Center.

He will have to stay in a room by himself so other people do not catch Ebola from him.

Mukpo became ill last week.

He is the fifth American with Ebola to return to the United States for treatment during the outbreak.

Mukpo was able to walk off the plane on his own on Monday.

Then he was placed on a stretcher for the ambulance ride to the hospital.

His father, Dr. Mitchell Levy, said his son wanted to help the people of Liberia.

Levy said Mukpo lived there for two years while working with a charity.

It was not known how Mukpo became infected.

Levy said it may have happened when his son helped clean a vehicle in which someone had died.

Spain is also facing a case of Ebola.

Officials there said a nurse who was helping care for two priests infected with Ebola tested positive for the virus.

In doing so, she became the first person known to have caught Ebola outside of West Africa.

Everyone else got the disease by traveling there.

The World Health Organization says more than 3,400 people have died during the current outbreak.

It is the worst outbreak of Ebola on record.

>UPDATE:  Thomas Eric Duncan died at 7:51 a.m. Central Time on Oct. 8 at the Dallas hospital where he was being treated for Ebola.

