WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama was right to send U.S. troops to West Africa to help combat the Ebola outbreak.

But he did it for the wrong reasons.

Obama called it a "national security" mission.

It is definitely not that.

True "national security" issues are caused by the violent actions of humans, whether countries or extremist groups like al-Qaida.

Their acts threaten the lives of Americans.

Other types of challenges — be they bad bugs or bad weather — are just problems to be solved.

Helping West Africa deal with Ebola is really a humanitarian mission.

It is, of course, absolutely appropriate for the U.S. to provide humanitarian aid when we can.

America sent large amounts of humanitarian aid to help after the 2004 Tsunami in Asia.

Further, the U.S. military undertakes these kinds of missions quite frequently.

Our military is skilled at assisting in non-military emergencies.

It sandbags rivers during storms to prevent floods.

After disaster strikes, it delivers supplies and rescues people.

It is not the main job of our armed forces.

But these are appropriate missions to be done when U.S. troops are needed and available.

Deciding when to launch these missions depends on if they are suitable, possible and acceptable.

Without question, the West African crisis is a suitable use of U.S. forces.

The Pentagon can quickly send troops, experts and support to help people there stop the spread of the disease.

And it's in our own interest.

The best way to keep more Ebola cases from reaching the U.S. is to help defeat the outbreak at its source.

Containing the outbreak by banning travel is heavy handed.

Sending troops to West Africa also passes the "possible" and "acceptable" tests.

However, the mission will be risky for our troops.

Even medical workers who try to take all the right safety steps have caught the disease.

But, our troops should know the measures to take to lower their risk.

They understand the danger.

They accept that as part of the job.

The White House should have called the operation a humanitarian mission.

Obama made a similar mistake when he called our fight against the extremist group Islamic State a "humanitarian" mission.

It suggests that Obama is confused about what are true national security risks and what is the proper use of our military.

It also raises concern about this mission.

Has the White House sent enough troops to West Africa?

Is the mission planned well?

Or is the president simply sending troops so he can say he's done something?

> ABOUT THE WRITER: A 25-year Army veteran, James Jay Carafano is vice president of Defense and Foreign Policy Studies for The Heritage Foundation, (heritage.org), a conservative think tank on Capitol Hill.

Readers may write him at Heritage, 214 Massachusetts Ave. NE, Washington, DC 20002.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama is using American troops to combat Ebola.

It shows the world he cares enough to send our best people.

But he's putting them at risk.

Like many of Obama's foreign policy plans, his Ebola plan seems to be a case of acting without thinking.

Here are four reasons why sending our military isn't the best way to help: Our military is already taking on too much.

The president has decided to cut the Army from 570,000 soldiers to 440,000.

The administration's Quadrennial Defense Review said this "strains our ability" to respond to more than one major problem at a time.

Then the president announced plans to send 4,000 soldiers to West Africa.

And that number is sure to grow with the president's recent decision to call up National Guard soldiers waiting on reserve.

Obama has also launched bombing missions against the extremist group Islamic State.

Troops may need to be sent in to fight the group next.

In light of these challenges, Army Chief of Staff General Ray Odierno recently questioned the wisdom of continuing with the plan to reduce U.S. forces.

Sending troops to West Africa runs the risk that they'll get stuck there.

Beside giving humanitarian aid, our military would likely have to keep the peace as well.

The Council on Foreign Relations' Janine Davidson noted, "As the disease spreads, so does panic — and panic leads to violence."

Keeping the peace in African countries could be risky.

For one, it would require significantly more troops in the future.

The World Health Organization forecasts new Ebola cases could rise by 10,000 per week by December.

That could cause a lot of panic and violence.

Our troops would need to restore the peace.

For another, it could place our soldiers in an impossible position, such as one in which Liberian soldiers recently found themselves.

They had to choose between their safety and the public's.

Violent rioting triggered by a quarantine left four people wounded and one 16-year-old boy dead.

Imagine U.S. soldiers being forced to make the same choice: Having to shoot unarmed, possibly infected Liberians or allow Ebola to spread.

The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) isn't ready.

All of the Ebola patients who caught the disease on U.S. soil were health care workers.

They caught Ebola while treating it and using the instructions of the CDC.

The CDC is not ready to assist in Africa.

Bringing the military into humanitarian aid risks getting the U.S. dragged into disputes inside the West African countries.

All three countries at the center of the Ebola outbreak have weak governments.

Sierra Leone and Liberia have just emerged from civil wars in the past few years.

Guinea was ruled by the military until 2010.

Both Liberia and Guinea have canceled upcoming elections.

These countries could be so unstable that just banning U.S. travel there could cause chaos.

"You isolate them, you can cause unrest in the country," said the National Institutes of Health's Anthony Fauci.

"It's conceivable that government could fall."

Meanwhile, the Obama administration still doesn't want to stop travel from West Africa.

Yet, it's the one step that might give Americans some protection.

Our soldiers face enormous risk.

And it's all because the president is unwilling stop the flow of possibly infected people from West Africa.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: David A. Ridenour is president of the National Center for Public Policy Research (nationalcenter.org), a nonpartisan conservative think tank located on Capitol Hill.

Readers may write him at NCPPR, 501 Capitol Court NE, Washington, DC 20006.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

