The deadly virus of Ebola is spreading throughout Africa.

To stop the spread that has killed more than 550 people in its country, Sierra Leone asked people to stay in their homes for three days.

Ebola is very contagious.

Health care workers hoped that people staying home would help to stop the spread of the disease.

People who died from the disease have to be buried so the virus cannot spread.

As workers tried to bury the dead, angry people attacked them, forcing them to run away.

The angry mob was upset they were being forced to stay inside.

At the time of the attack the curfew was in the second of its three days.

It shut down most of the country.

Everyone but health volunteers and workers who perform important services were stuck in their homes.

"Today, the life of everyone is at stake," the president of Sierra Leone said.

"But we will get over this difficulty if we all do what we have been asked to do."

The attack on the team was a bad sign.

People in Sierra Leone don't trust a lot of the information from governments and global health agencies.

Rumors are going around.

Some think the disease is a plot by outsiders to kill people.

About 30,000 volunteers are supposed to visit every house in the country by Sunday.

They operate in teams of four.

Each team is expected to visit 20 houses a day.

After visiting a house, a team makes a chalk mark on the outside.

That shows that people living there had been seen.

The aim of the project is to find people who are hiding that may have Ebola.

Some sick people have refused to go into treatment.

For treatment, they must leave their families and friends to stop the disease from spreading.

By refusing to go for treatment, they put others at risk.

The visits are also supposed to make people less afraid and more trusting of the government.

To do that, volunteers plan to share information about the disease with the country's 6 million citizens.

Some people have said the program's goal is not realistic.

Aid workers have said it could do more harm than good.

They worry that it could hurt the trust between the population and health officials.

Sierra Leone is a place where rumors are widely believed.

"It has been our experience that lockdowns and quarantines do not help control Ebola," the charity group Doctors Without Borders said.

Quarantines lead to families hiding people who might have Ebola.

It "ends up spreading the disease further."

Most people stayed at home Saturday.

But news agencies reported some people ran away to skip the curfew.

The government's emergency Ebola center had received 102 calls.

Each call meant they had found a new suspected Ebola case, Steven Gaoja told reporters.

He runs the Ebola center.

"On the whole we came out successful," he said.

Sierra Leone is not the only nation giving a tough response to Ebola.

The number of people infected with Ebola has grown very quickly in West Africa.

Liberia is a country next to Sierra Leone.

The government there sealed off an entire neighborhood.

It forced more than 50,000 people to stay inside for more than a week.

Governments in five West African countries have said that there are more than 5,300 Ebola cases they know about for certain.

There have been 2,600 deaths.

Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea have most of the cases.

The people going door to door in Sierra Leone are often volunteers who have only been trained recently.

They will likely have a difficult job finding families that are hiding sick people.

Some people living in Sierra Leone support the effort.

They hope that it will stop the disease from spreading so fast.

"It will protect our country from this dangerous virus.

Many of our people have died, nurses and doctors too," said Ishmail Bangura "So if they ask us to stay home for three days, for me it is not bad."

