Students who skip school have a lower chance of finishing high school.

Even missing 10 days a year makes a big difference.

This discovery was an eye-opener for Bob Balfanz.

He is a researcher.

Balfanz has spent years trying to understand why 1 million American students drop out of high school each year.

Balfanz has tracked 13,000 middle-schoolers in Philadelphia.

The kids who did not finish high school had one thing in common, he said.

They all missed too many days of school.

Even missing 20 days of school as a sixth-grader put them at a big risk for dropping out.

Other researchers have found a link between bad attendance and doing badly in school.

"That has been proven for all kids," Balfanz said.

He does research at John Hopkins University in Baltimore.

This fact inspired Balfanz to create Diplomas Now.

The program sends college graduates into middle schools.

They focus on attendance and tutoring to keep kids in school.

Diplomas Now is making a big difference at two schools in Seattle.

The schools have struggled with student attendance and test scores.

In 2010, more than half of the students at Aki Kurose School missed at least 10 days of class.

In math, more than half the students did badly on tests.

"Attendance really does matter," said Principal Mia Williams.

"If you're not here, how are you going to pass your classes?"

There is no magic to Diplomas Now.

Kids learn best when they feel people care about them.

Every morning, City Year staff workers line up outside the schools.

They cheer on the sleepy students as they arrive.

City Year is a nonprofit group.

It works with Diplomas Now.

Now, school attendance is much better.

English and math scores are also way up.

Before, no one was paying attention to a lot of the kids, said Katrina Hunt.

She is the Diplomas Now coordinator at Aki Kurose.

"We never had any single person following them."

One eighth-grader had already missed weeks of class.

The boy is the youngest of seven children.

He didn't feel anyone cared if he went to school.

No one woke him up in the morning, Hunt learned.

He showed up at school only four days out of every five.

The rest of the time he came to school late.

"But we became close, and that's what made him want to come," Hunt said.

Diplomas Now is at work in 41 schools across the country.

The government is paying for a $30 million study to see how and why Diplomas Now works.

Every Friday, a handful of teachers and City Year staff members squeeze into student desks at Denny International School.

They meet to discuss students with bad attendance.

A month into the year, one eighth-grader had already missed seven days of class.

Another had been late 14 times.

Jonathan Barajas, 14, was failing English.

He arrived late to all of his classes.

On a recent day, he slumped into a meeting with the Diplomas Now coordinator, Roxana Amaral.

"Why are you late to class?"

Amaral asked.

Her dark eyes looked at him steadily.

"I don't know.

I don't want to go," answered the boy.

Two years ago, his attitude was worse.

He walked out of class, talked back to teachers and got suspended.

His mother thinks the change is due to Diplomas Now.

"I think he finally understands that teachers are not the bad guys," his mother said.

"I think it's helping him to grow up."

His English teacher asked him to read five pages a day.

Jonathan looked very unhappy.

"Jonathan, please," begged his mother.

Her voice trembled.

"I want to go to your eighth-grade graduation."

Finally, he turned back toward his mother and said, "OK, yes."

