To do well in school, kids need to be there.

Even missing 10 days a year makes a big difference.

For Bob Balfanz, this is an important discovery.

It helps him understand why 1 million students drop out of high school each year.

Balfanz is a researcher.

He studied 13,000 students in Philadelphia.

They have one thing in common.

Kids who miss too many days of school do badly.

They probably won't finish high school on time.

"That has been proven for all kids," Balfanz said.

Balfanz created Diplomas Now.

It is a program that helps keep kids in school.

Diplomas Now is making a big difference at two middle schools in Seattle.

Before, the schools had low attendance and test scores.

Now, attendance is up.

Kids also are doing much better in English and math.

"Attendance really does matter," said Mia Williams.

She is the principal at one of the schools.

"If you're not here, how are you going to pass your classes?"

There is no magic to Diplomas Now.

Kids learn best when they feel people care about them.

Every morning,  workers with City Year line up outside the schools.

They cheer on the sleepy kids as they arrive.

City Year is a group that is working with Diplomas Now at the schools.

No one paid attention to a lot of the kids, said Katrina Hunt.

She works for Diplomas Now.

One eighth-grader had already missed weeks of class.

No one woke him up in the morning.

He didn't feel anyone cared if he came to school.

"But we became close, and that's what made him want to come," Hunt said.

Diplomas Now is at work in 41 schools across the country.

Jonathan Barajas is 14 years old.

He was doing badly in English.

He came late to all of his classes.

He is doing better than he used to, says his mother.

Diplomas Now is making a difference.

"I think he finally understands that teachers are not the bad guys," his mother said.

"I think (Diplomas Now) is helping him to grow up."

Jonathan's English teacher asked him to read each day.

He looked very unhappy.

"Jonathan, please," begged his mother.

"I want to go to your eighth-grade graduation."

He finally said, "OK, yes."

