A newly signed bill will bring major changes to the No Child Left Behind education law.

The bill introduces a new approach to rating teacher performance and might  change what students must learn.

It also alters the way the most poorly performing schools are pushed to improve.  !

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/EDUCATION_BILL_Edit.png) President Barack Obama signed the bill into law on Thursday.

He called it a "Christmas miracle" and a gift for students, parents, teachers and schools.

Obama was joined Thursday by lawmakers, students and teachers.

He praised the 2002 No Child Left Behind law for having the right goals, but he said it has not been working well.

No Child in its original form was often too rigid and standardized, the president said.

All schools had to follow the same rules, no matter how different their students were.

Up until now, the federal government set the educational standards all states had to meet and the rules all states had to follow.

Under the new bill, states will have much more power to make their own decisions about state schools.

The bill ends what critics have called unhelpful, one-size-fits-all federal policies.

For more than 10 years the federal government has told the nation's 100,000 or so public schools how they must measure teacher and student performance.

Schools have been forced to meet certain rigid standards, and they have been punished when they failed to meet those standards.

One key feature of No Child Left Behind remains, however: Students will still take federally required statewide reading and math exams.

The new law does encourage states to limit the time students spend on testing, however.

In addition, schools will no longer be automatically punished for low average student test scores.

The long-awaited bill to replace the 2002 law easily passed the Senate on Wednesday and the House last week.  Congressman John Kline helped push the bill through.

Under the new approach, he said, American classrooms will no longer be "micromanaged" by the Education Department in Washington.

"Instead, parents, teachers, and state and local education leaders will regain control of their schools," Kline said.

Here is how teachers, students, schools, parents and the federal government are affected: The bill eliminates the federal rule that teachers must be rated according to how well their students do on the statewide tests.

Teachers hated that idea.

They said it was unfair to teachers whose students were less prepared, perhaps because they came from poor homes.  In addition, schools were punished if too many of their students got low test scores.

As a result, many schools began to spend too much time on preparing students for the tests.

Teachers say such over-testing actually hurts learning and makes school very stressful.  States will now be allowed to measure teacher performance in different ways.

They can consider student test scores, but they do not have to.

The nation's 50 million public school students will still have to take the statewide reading and math exams in grades three to eight and once in high school.

The testing will allow parents, teachers and others to judge each student's performance against a common measuring stick.

However, the bill encourages states to limit the amount of time students spend on testing.

Many states have been using so-called Common Core standards.

Common Core lays out what each student must learn in math and English by a certain grade.

For years, the federal government has pushed states to use Common Core.  Many parents and teachers have been very unhappy with Common Core, however.

They believe students have different interests and needs, and that teachers should have more power to decide what students will learn.

The new bill says the federal government cannot require or push any particular set of academic standards.

It will now be up to individual schools whether or not to stick with Common Core.

The bill makes information about test scores much more easily available.

Parents and others will now get a better look at how students in their states and in local schools are doing.

The bill requires that test scores be broken down by race and family income.

Parents also will be able to compare how much money each state and school spends per student.

It is now up to the states to shape school programs.

States will now be responsible for coming up with their own goals for schools.

They will be able to design their own measures of achievement and progress, and they can decide on their own how to turn around struggling schools.

Testing will be one factor considered, and graduation rates might be another.

The new bill seeks to ensure that all children get a quality education.

States will be required to step in when schools are performing particularly poorly.

They will have to take steps to improve those schools struggling the most, and high schools with high dropout rates.

The bill greatly limits the federal government's role in running schools.

The Education Department is now barred from telling states how to measure school and teacher performance.

