Across the country, some parents are being accused of "stealing an education" for their children.

The reason: They tried to send their children to schools in better districts or neighborhoods.

This is what happened to Hamlet Garcia and his wife, Olesia, just over a year ago.

They were accused of theft of services.

That's a crime usually for people who watch cable TV without paying or don't pay the bill at a restaurant.

Hamlet and Olesia's crime?

Stealing an education for their 8-year-old daughter, Fiorella, by sending her to a school she was not supposed to attend.

Fiorella is only allowed to go to schools in her district.

Some families have had to pay big fines for lying about where they live on official documents.

Others have been criminally charged and, in some cases, jailed.

Civil rights groups that work to protect people's rights say they are hearing that these harsh measures may be on the rise.

But nobody knows for sure how many school districts are trying to stop education theft.

"I'm hearing about it more and more every year," said Gloria Romero, a former California state senator and parent activist.

The examples are many.

Civil rights activists, parent advocacy groups and some local leaders are worried.

They say strict punishments unfairly affect poor families of color.

Poor families cannot easily pay their way out of trouble.

They can't afford to pay back the value of the education.

Jonah Edelman is the head of a national education group.

He says the real crime is the difference in the quality of schools in rich and poor areas.

In the case of the Garcias, Hamlet says that during the 2011-2012 school year, he and his wife Olesia had problems in their marriage and lived separately.

During that time, Olesia and their daughter lived with Olesia's father in Lower Moreland, Pennsylvania.

Lower Moreland is a small peaceful town with good schools.

His daughter attended the district's elementary school.

There, she read picture books, learned the alphabet and made friends.

The local prosecutor, Risa Vetri Ferman, said the Garcias were never truly separated.

She said they always lived in northwestern Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where many of the schools are struggling.

They lied to gain entry into the Lower Moreland schools, she said.

They "essentially stole from every hard-working taxpayer" who lives in the school district, Ferman said.

The Garcias agreed to pay nearly $11,000 to the school.

They also had to pay $70,000 for lawyers and court costs.

They now want to send their daughter to a private school.

There are several more cases of education theft.

At a school district in Orinda, California, officials hired an investigator to spy on a 7-year-old girl.

The girl's mother works as a live-in nanny and cares for other people's children.

Officials suspected the mother lived in another town.

It turned out the girl lived near the school in the home where her mother worked.

The girl was allowed to stay in the school after the mother's employers said they would become the girl's official caregivers and care for the girl.

Boston schools have a tip line for parents to report students they suspect are lying about where they live.

In Michigan, parents who provide false documents can be jailed for up to 20 days.

In Oklahoma, the punishment can be up to a year.

During her time as a state senator, Romero authored a 2010 California law.

It permits students attending poor schools to transfer to higher quality schools anywhere in the state, if there is space.

Romero says many parents aren't aware of the law.

"A lot of parents think they are trapped in these zones," she said.

Parent groups say they are increasingly helping parents who have been targeted by school districts.

They are fighting back by talking about the cases on television and in newspapers.

They want to stop punishing parents with jail time.

"The real issue is how do we provide quality schools for all children," said Ryan Smith, head of an education group.

