Most hens that lay the eggs we eat are kept in small cages.

People in California thought the cages were too tiny.

So Californians voted to make a law stopping the use of those cages.

The law goes into effect on Jan. 1, 2015.

The law prevents, or bans, eggs from being sold in California if the hens laying them were kept in tight cages.

States around the country sell eggs in California.

And now six of those states are angry.

They are fighting the law in court.

Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska and Oklahoma sued California.

They said the law is unfair.

It forces farmers in other states to change the way they run their farms.

They will have to buy new cages and henhouses.

"We think that California is dead wrong on this," the Governor of Iowa said.

Iowa produces the most eggs in America.

California's law says that hens must be able to turn around freely.

They have to be able to lie down and stand up.

They also need to be able to spread out their limbs.

The law prevents the sale of eggs from hens raised in "battery" cages.

Battery cages are tiny.

They give each hen only about 67 square inches of floor space.

That's smaller than an 8x10 sheet of paper.

Almost all of the eggs in the U.S. are produced in battery cages.

Western European countries have already banned battery cages.

People "are demanding higher animal welfare," said Joe Maxwell.

Animal welfare is how an animal is treated.

Maxwell is a farmer.

He helps run the Humane Society of the United States.

On the other side of the fight is Blake Hurst.

He is also a farmer.

He's also the boss of the Missouri Farm Bureau.

He says eggs will cost more because of the new law.

He worries that some people can't afford to pay more for eggs.

Missouri farmers sell one-third of their eggs to California.

Now they must decide what to do.

They might have to spend more than $120 million on new henhouses to follow California's law.

But the other choice is to stop selling to California.

They would lose a lot of money.

People in California buy more eggs than any other state.

Some other states are following California's example.

Michigan, Oregon and Washington have passed laws demanding more space for hens.

Ohio has also banned new battery cages.

New York and Massachusetts have considered laws.

A judge must decide the case.

Some egg producers around the country are trying to meet California's rules.

California's law did not say what size or type of cage is OK. People are confused.

Many farmers think Europe's rule of 116 square inches per hen is about right.

That gives each hen about 8.5x14 inches of space.

Dermot Hayes is a professor in Iowa.

Hayes thinks that 4 out of every 10 of the hens in Iowa will be killed.

They will be killed to make room for the bigger cages.

"Egg prices will go up everywhere — California, too, for a while," Hayes said.

Then, egg producers will build new henhouses and barns.

They will produce more eggs.

Prices will go down after that.

