Six states are in federal court to challenge a California ban on the sale of eggs from hens kept in cramped cages.

It's a case that could affect farmers and people shopping for eggs nationwide.

Alabama, Iowa, Kentucky, Missouri, Nebraska and Oklahoma are heading back to court after a U.S. district court dismissed their case.

They had argued that the law forces farmers in other states who sell eggs in California to make costly changes, like buying larger cages and building more henhouses.

They also say that the new costs imposed on farmers will drive up the prices of eggs people pay at grocery stores.

The states claim California's law violates the commerce clause of the U.S. Constitution by imposing its rules on how farms run their businesses in other states.

"We don't want a trade war in America but we think that California is dead wrong on this," said Iowa Governor Terry Branstad, a Republican.

Iowa is the country's top egg-producing state.

"In Alabama, consumers are free to make their own choice of which eggs to buy at their grocery stores.

It is preposterous and quite simply wrong for California to tell Alabama how we must produce eggs," Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange said.

"If California can get away with this, it won't be long before the environmentalists in California tell us how we must build cars, grow crops, and raise cattle, too."

In 2008, California voters approved a ballot measure, Proposition 2.

It prohibited the state's farmers from confining hens in a way that prevents them from turning around freely, lying down, standing up and fully extending their limbs.

Two years later, California lawmakers banned the sale of eggs — from any state — that have been produced by hens in "battery" cages.

The ban goes into effect Jan. 1, 2015.

Battery cages provide each hen an average of only 67 square inches of floor space, smaller than an 8x10 sheet of paper.

About 95 percent of eggs in the U.S. are produced in battery cages.

Farmers put hens inside battery cages in the 1950s as a way to reduce disease.

They also wanted to produce a cleaner egg than those from barnyard chickens that pecked in filth.

But animal welfare advocates have long claimed that battery cages are cruel because hens are unable to behave naturally.

The European Union banned battery cages in 1999 with a phaseout period, allowing farmers 12 years to get rid of the cages.

"What farmers and ranchers need to recognize is that consumers are demanding higher animal welfare," said Joe Maxwell.

He is a farmer himself, and a vice president of the Humane Society, an animal-rights group.

Some consumers are willing to pay higher prices for such products if they know animals are well treated, Maxwell said.

On the other side of the debate is Blake Hurst — also a farmer — and president of the Missouri Farm Bureau.

He said he worries about people who may care about animal welfare but can't afford to pay a higher price for eggs.

"That's the person who doesn't get a voice," he said.

Plus, said Hurst, it's not hard to imagine other states taking protectionist steps to fight back against California.

Missouri grows grapes without irrigation for wine, for example.

It might decide to prohibit imports of wine from grapes grown with irrigation, as in California, he said.

In passing the 2010 law, California legislators wanted to protect California egg producers from being unfairly disadvantaged by out-of-state competition.

It had become clear that complying with the 2008 rules would cost California farmers more than egg producers from other states.

The law was extended to cover all eggs sold in the state, including eggs from other places.

Missouri farmers export one-third of their eggs to California.

Now they must decide whether to spend more than $120 million in new henhouses to follow California's law or stop selling to the largest egg market in the country, said Missouri Attorney General Chris Koster.

U.S. District Court Judge Kimberly Mueller ruled Oct. 6 that the officials lacked legal standing to bring the lawsuit, because the law affects only the farmers who are not planning to follow California's law.

Now the states are appealing her ruling in court.

Meanwhile, some other states are following California's lead.

Three states — Michigan, Oregon and Washington — have passed laws mandating more space for hens, and Ohio has banned the construction of new battery cages.

Lawmakers in New York and Massachusetts also have considered laws.

A proposal for a national standard for laying-hen cages was dropped from the 2014 farm bill, which provides money and support to farmers from the federal government.

While the six-state appeal makes its way through the court, egg producers around the country are scrambling to meet California's requirements by Jan. 1.

The 2010 law did not specify what size or type of cage is acceptable, which has led to confusion.

Many in the industry believe the EU standard of 116 square inches per hen is about right.

That provides each hen space slightly smaller than a sheet of legal paper, which is 8.5x14 inches.

"We're in new territory," said Dermot Hayes, an agricultural economist at Iowa State University.

Hayes estimates that 40 percent of the laying hens in Iowa will be killed to make room for the new space requirements for the California market by Jan. 1.

"Egg prices will go up everywhere — California, too, for a while," Hayes predicted.

Then, egg producers will build new henhouses and barns and raise production, and prices will settle down.

