Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in Parkville, Missouri, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead.

Cooks weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan.

And owner Roxanne Gray gladly allowed it.

Today, Roxanne's is more strict.

A three-egg omelet means three eggs.

No more, no less.

"I have one cook that I can't control his egging.

He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now.

I told him, 'Make two scrambled eggs for me,' and he probably had six eggs in the pan," Gray said.

That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have escalated enormously in the past month.

On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs, while last week, she paid $42.85.

Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.

Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs leap from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.

Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu, or avian influenza, spreading through the Midwest.

"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.

Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago.

Iowa, the country's top egg-producing state, has been hit the hardest, with more than 30 million hens affected.

In Minnesota, almost 9 million birds, mostly turkeys, have caught the virus.

More than 53,000 birds in Missouri and 40,000 birds in Arkansas have been affected.

In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.

Despite the small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.

The series of outbreaks have meant that farms have cut egg production.

Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture predicted that 95.9 billion eggs will be laid this year, in contrast to the nearly 100 billion eggs produced last year.

The virus has struck just as eggs were becoming pretty popular in the food market.

Last year each person in the United States ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high.

"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, an official with the American Egg Board.

Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to compensate for high egg prices.

Owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs, and hasn't offered her egg-rich lemon meringue pie in two weeks.

Gray winced at the thought of raising menu prices.

Before the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen eggs was 63 cents.

That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a reporter for a food industry publication.

Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also grappling with the consequences of the virus.

Some of these egg products include the usual suspects — bakery items and ice cream, for example.

But other goods are made with egg products as well, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.

The Hen House grocery store chain said it is spending about 40 percent more on eggs just in the last couple of weeks, and it has had to pass some of that on to consumers.

Consumers have taken note.

For her egg supply, baker Rachel Ciordas goes to the farmers market, which used to be more expensive than supermarkets.

"Now it's the same price or cheaper to buy from a farmer," she said.

Local egg farmers remain largely unaffected by the avian flu and the drop in production from larger egg producers.

Carol Maddick, owner of Campo Lindo Farms, said bird flu in her flocks would have put her out of business.

She said she has not raised prices to take advantage of the problem.

It's not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds to poultry.

The obvious answer is that poultry caught the virus through physical contact such as bird droppings.

But Hongwei Xin, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, thinks that particles of the virus can also travel through the air and seep into the cracks of hatcheries and barns.

Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow under the scorching sun of the summer months.

Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, scientists will know how to curb further outbreaks.

But there are no guarantees.

