Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead.

Cooks didn't pay much attention to how many eggs they dropped into the frying pan.

And owner Roxanne Gray gladly allowed it.

Today, Roxanne's is more strict.

A three-egg omelet means three eggs.

No more, no less.

"I have one cook that I can't control his egging.

He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now," Gray said.

She told him to make two scrambled eggs for her, "and he probably had six eggs in the pan."

That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have risen enormously in the past month.

On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs, while last week, she paid $42.85.

Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.

Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs grow from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.

Everyone is feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu, or avian influenza, spreading through the Midwest.

Joe Manhart is the executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.

She called the bird flu outbreak "the most devastating foreign animal disease" in America.

Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago.

Iowa, the country's top egg-producing state, has been hit the hardest.

More than 30 million hens have been affected.

More than 53,000 birds in Missouri and 40,000 birds in Arkansas have caught the bird flu.

In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.

Despite this, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.

The outbreaks have meant that farms have cut egg production.

Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture predicted that 95.9 billion eggs will be laid this year, in contrast to the nearly 100 billion eggs produced last year.

The virus struck at a time when eggs were pretty popular.

Last year each person ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high.

"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," Kevin Burkum, an official with the American Egg Board.

Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to make up for high egg prices.

Gray changed the daily specials to include meals, like catfish, that don't include eggs.

She hasn't offered egg-rich lemon meringue pie in two weeks.

Gray hates the thought of raising menu prices.

Before the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen eggs was 63 cents.

That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a reporter for a food industry publication.

Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also struggle with the high egg prices.

Bakery items and ice cream are made with eggs, of course.

But other goods are made with egg products as well, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.

The Hen House grocery chain said it has paid about 40 percent more for eggs in the last couple of weeks.

It has had to pass some of that on to shoppers.

Consumers have taken note.

For her egg supply, baker Rachel Ciordas goes to the farmers market, which used to be more expensive than supermarkets.

"Now it's the same price or cheaper to buy from a farmer," she said.

It's not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds to poultry.

The obvious answer is that poultry caught the virus through physical contact such as bird droppings.

But Hongwei Xin, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, thinks that the virus can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of chicken coops.

Heat kills the virus.

Outbreaks are expected to slow down under the scorching sun of the summer months.

Xin hopes that as wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states in the fall, scientists will learn enough to stop further outbreaks.

But there are no guarantees.

