Last month, if you ordered three eggs at Roxanne's Cafe, you would might get five eggs.

Cooks did not bother counting.

Owner Roxanne Gray did not mind.

Today, Roxanne's is more strict.

Three eggs means three eggs.

Egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have gone way up in the past month.

On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.

Last week, she paid $42.85.

Twelve eggs makes a dozen.

Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.

Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs grow from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.

There is a reason eggs prices are going up.

Millions of birds in the United States are coming down with bird flu.

Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began a few months ago.

Iowa has been hit the hardest.

The state is the country's top egg producer.

More than 30 million hens have become sick.

In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.

Last week, the state decided to keep chickens and turkeys away from state and county fairs.

Officials are afraid the birds will spread the disease.

The outbreaks have meant that there are less eggs.

Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture predicted that 95.9 billion eggs will be laid this year.

Nearly 100 billion eggs were produced in the U.S. last year.

The flu came at a bad time for egg chicken farmers.

Eggs were getting to be pretty popular.

Last year each American ate 263 eggs on average, the highest in 30 years.

Before the outbreak "eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum.

He is with the American Egg Board.

The group promotes eggs and chicken farmers.

Roxanne's is trying to make up for high egg prices.

Gray changed the daily specials to include meals without eggs.

She has not offered lemon meringue pie in two weeks.

The pie is made with a lot of eggs.

Gray hates the thought of raising her prices.

Before the outbreak, farmers were paid 63 cents for a dozen eggs.

The price is now $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri.

He writes for a food industry newspaper.

Supermarkets are also struggling with the high egg prices.

Eggs go into bakery items and ice cream.

Other products are also made with eggs, like marshmallows, makeup and shampoo.

The Hen House grocery store company said it is paying a lot more for eggs.

It has had to pass the cost on and start charging shoppers more.

Wild birds spread the bird flu.

It is not clear how the chickens caught it, though.

Some of it was through contact with bird poop.

Hongwei Xin is the director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University.

He thinks that the virus can travel through the air and get into cracks in chicken barns.

Heat kills the virus.

Outbreaks are expected to slow down in the summer.

Xin hopes that by fall scientists will learn enough to stop the outbreaks.

He cannot promise anything, though.

