It has been only two years since the people of Egypt rose up to break the military's grip on their country.

They wanted to put the people in charge.

But the military is firmly in control once again.

The evidence is everywhere.

After President Mohammed Morsi was thrown out of power by the army, his supporters camped in protest.

Their camp is gone.

All that remain are ashes and military tanks stationed to control the area.

Government bulldozers sit where kitchens once prepared thousands of meals.

Burned-out hallways are all that are left where the injured from the sit-in camp once clung to life on dirty hospital floors.

Few people talk now about democracy or creating a modern country.

Few speak of elections or reforming the justice system or ending police brutality.

The military is back in charge, and many Egyptians support that.

People once hoped that the military would lead for a short time, then turn power over.

But then came Morsi's ouster and the furious crackdown on protesters.

At least 638 people were killed and another 3,000 were injured.

Events this summer showed that the military is shaping Egypt's political future.

Many people prefer the military, however undemocratic, over the Muslim Brotherhood.

The Brotherhood is the secretive group through which Morsi rose to the presidency.

The military's hand already is playing out on the streets.

Being linked to the Muslim Brotherhood now is seen almost as an act of terrorism.

Much of the country is under a state of emergency.

People have to be inside their homes after a certain time, which is called a curfew.

Some who led the 2011 revolution support the military action.

"Nobody is talking about Egypt's democratic process.

They are asking, 'Is this headed toward civil war?'"

said Eric Trager, who studies the region for a Washington think tank.

"The military is in charge."

The military is trying to get rid of the Brotherhood, Trager said.

There were growing signs that the military was gaining control before Wednesday.

More than 200 people had died in clashes with army forces before Wednesday.

Most supported Morsi.

The government announced that it had named 25 local governors earlier this week.

Nineteen were generals.

Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi was the man who announced Morsi's removal.

Then he named Adly Mansour as the president.

Mansour went on to appoint a government made up mostly of generals.

Or they were supporters of Hosni Mubarak, the president who was kicked out two years ago.

Among those who accepted a post was Nobel Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei.

He was the leader of the opposition when Morsi was president.

Mansour named ElBaradei vice president.

ElBaradei resigned Wednesday.

In his resignation letter, he referred to the quarreling nature of the new government.

He suggested that the people weren't in control.

Last month, weeks after Morsi supporters had set up their protest sites, el-Sissi urged Egyptians to take to the streets.

He wante**d their support to go after the protesters.

Millions did, then were frustrated when the sit-ins remained.

** The Muslim Brotherhood and the military started negotiating to end the standoff earlier this month.

Nadar Bakkar is a spokesman for the Nour Party who participated in the negotiations.

Bakkar said the talks had failed in part because it was unclear who was in charge.

The current government "is not thinking as a whole," Bakkar said.

"Sissi is leading."

More talks had been scheduled for Wednesday.

The military surprised several of the negotiators by clearing the protest sites instead.

Several government officials told McClatchy that they, too, had learned about it only when it began.

