Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians marched through villages and cities on Sunday against Egypt's president.

The massive protest raised fears of another revolution.

Just two years ago, Egypt pushed out a dictator who ruled for 30 years.

Protesters filled streets and squares to show their anger towards President Mohamed Morsi.

They yelled "Leave, leave."

Meanwhile, the president's supporters also gathered to cheer him.

Morsi belongs to the Muslim Brotherhood party.

The Brotherhood wants the Muslim religion to play a bigger role in Egypt.

Some violence was reported in the protests.

About 500 young men set on fire the Muslim Brotherhood's main office in Cairo.

Four people were killed in clashes in Upper Egypt.

More than 220 were hurt across Egypt, according to security officials.

A youth movement had gathered more than 22 million signatures.

They called for Morsi to step aside for early elections.

But the president and the Brotherhood have refused.

And the army sent out troops to guard government buildings.

The size of the protests was a huge blow to Morsi.

But the army hasn't said what it would do if there is violence.

Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi is in charge of Egypt's military.

He has sided with Morsi so far.

The army ruled from 2011 until Morsi's election.

But Sisi has said he will not allow the country to go into a "dark tunnel."

Thousands of protesters cheered and waved flags at army helicopters.

Many people took that as a sign that many Egyptians would support the army taking over.

"When the military was in control, things were better.

Now we have power cuts and no fuel," said Mohammad Khaled, a 19-year-old electrician.

"Morsi promised he would fix many problems in his first 100 days but did nothing.

If he's not able to handle it, then he should let someone else do the work."

He added, "We succeeded in removing Mubarak, who was here for 30 years.

You don't think we can remove Morsi, who has only been here for a year?

We've been preparing for this day for over two months.

I will stay until he says, 'I'm stepping down.'"

The protesters tried to find the spirit of the uprising that pushed out Mubarak.

They marched across streets.

They gathered at the presidential palace.

There they raised national flags and flew banners with the images of those killed in protests.

But Morsi's supporters accused their opponents of disorder.

They said the protesters were trying to drive out the country's first freely elected leader.

The battle for Egypt lies between these two groups.

The rallies Sunday were mostly peaceful.

At times strangers acted kindly.

People poured water off their balconies in Tahrir Square to cool protesters in the summer heat.

There were also moments of stillness.

Morsi supporters prayed with their heads pressed to the ground.

But there are fears the two sides might clash.

At least six people have been killed.

Much of the violence happened when anti-Morsi forces attacked Muslim Brotherhood offices.

And the police have not protected Brotherhood headquarters.

It's seen as a sign that the police do not support the president.

In a speech to the nation last week, Morsi admitted mistakes in his first year in office.

But he spent much of his time blaming other people.

He blamed other politicians, foreigners and journalists.

His comments didn't calm a tense poor and working class.

They have lived through months of rising prices, power shortages and gas stations lines.

Tourism workers joined marchers in the ancient city of Luxor to protest.

The number of people coming to visit Egypt has shrunk.

"I live in a room with a hallway, that's all I have," Khadiga Ibrahim said from her wheelchair in Tahrir.

She can't afford knee surgery.

"I want an apartment.

What did Morsi do for us?

For the poor?

God curse him.

I don't want Morsi.

I want God's justice.

We need someone who is good ... someone who cares about us."

