Hundreds of thousands of protesters took to the streets of villages and cities in Egypt on Sunday to denounce Egypt's Islamist president.

The protests raised fears of another revolution that could divide the nation and threaten its young democracy.

The protesters against President Mohamed Morsi yelled "Leave, leave" on the first anniversary of his inauguration.

Those chants echoed against distant cheers of support from Islamists who held rival rallies.

Scattered violence was reported as fireworks and lasers lighted the Sunday night sky.

The state news agency said about 500 young men hurling stones and Molotov cocktails set fire to the headquarters of Morsi's Muslim Brotherhood party in Cairo.

Four people were killed in clashes in Upper Egypt.

More than 220 were injured nationwide, according to security officials.

A youth movement, known as Rebel, has collected more than 22 million signatures on petitions calling for Morsi to step aside for early elections.

The president and the Brotherhood have refused.

The military has deployed troops around government buildings and along the shipping lanes of the Suez Canal.

Some wondered if  the president could survive if the protests continue.

And if violence becomes widespread, some fear the military will take control of the government like it did after the uprising that overthrew Hosni Mubarak two years ago.

Mubarak was a dictator who had ruled Egypt since 1981.

Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the defense minister, has so far sided with the president.

He has not signaled a military takeover.

The army's rule from 2011 until Morsi's election was condemned by human rights groups and hurt its reputation among most Egyptians.

Sisi has said he will not allow the country to veer into a "dark tunnel" of political collapse and economic turmoil.

The public mood has changed over the last year.

Thousands of protesters, including young mothers and old men, cheered and waved flags at army helicopters flying overhead.

Some saw that as a sign that many Egyptians would support an overthrow of the current government.

"When the military was in control, things were better.

Now we have power cuts, no fuel, and everything's going bad," said Mohammad Khaled, a 19-year-old electrician who stood in Cairo's Tahrir Square.

"Morsi promised he would fix many problems in his first 100 days but did nothing.

If he's not able to handle it, then he should let someone else do the work."

Khaled said, "We succeeded in removing Mubarak, who was here for 30 years.

You don't think we can remove Morsi, who has only been here for a year?

We've been preparing for this day for over two months, and I will stay until he says, 'I'm stepping down.'"

Presidential spokesman Ehab Fahmy told reporters, "Dialogue is the only way to reach mutual understanding and to reach national agreement around the different issues of our homeland."

The protesters swept across boulevards and massed at the presidential palace, raising national flags and flying banners with the images of those killed in protests.

Morsi's supporters, however, condemned their opponents for trying to unseat the country's first freely elected leader.

The battle for Egypt lies between these two poles, divided by sectarianism and driven by economic despair.

"Egypt is our country, the land of the Nile that carries us all, and it's our duty to protect it without violence or committing assaults," Coptic Orthodox Pope Tawadros II said on Twitter.

His Christian minority has been persecuted by some Islamists, some say.

"The blood of every Egyptian is precious, please participate, but respect others."

The demonstrations Sunday were mostly peaceful, and at times marked by acts of kindness.

Residents poured water off their balconies in Tahrir Square to cool protesters in the sweltering heat.

There were also moments of stillness, especially when Islamists put their heads down to the ground in silence to pray.

But security officials fear the two sides may collide.

At least six people have been killed in recent days.

Much of the violence erupted when anti-Morsi forces attacked Muslim Brotherhood offices in Alexandria and other cities.

The police have not protected Brotherhood headquarters, in what some are calling a mark of resistance against Morsi.

The president's opponents accuse him of betraying the revolution and accumulating power for the Muslim Brotherhood.

They point to a stumbling economy, broken government servicess and widespread social problems.

Morsi's supporters accuse those who once served in Mubarak's government of trying to sabotage his government.

In an address to the nation last week, Morsi admitted mistakes during his first year in office.

But he spent much of his time blaming the opposition, outside influences, Mubarak cronies, journalists and others for Egypt's downward spiral.

His comments did not satisfy the poor and working class who have endured months of rising prices, power shortages and long lines at gas stations.

Tourism workers joined marchers in the ancient city of Luxor — home to the Valley of the Kings where many pharaohs were buried — to protest a steep slide in visitors.

"I live in a room with a hallway, that's all I have," Khadiga Ibrahim said from her wheelchair in Tahrir.

She can't afford knee surgery.

"I want an apartment.

What did Morsi do for us?

For the poor?

God curse him.

I don't want Morsi.

I want God's justice.

We need someone who is good ... someone who cares about us."

