A night of largely peaceful protests ended early Monday in a bloody clash between protesters and Egyptian soldiers.

An estimated 51 people were killed in what some doctors called a "massacre."

The protesters are supporting the ousted president, Mohamed Morsi, who is from the Muslim Brotherhood party.

Officials from the Brotherhood said security forces raided their encampment outside an army compound with tear gas and gunfire about 4 a.m.

Supporters of Morsi have camped there for days.

They are demanding the release of the former leader, who has been under arrest since a military coup pushed him out last week.

Muslim Brotherhood officials called upon their supporters to donate blood and rush to the Nasr district of Cairo, where the clash took place, to assist the victims.

"Bloodbath!"

tweeted Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Gehad Haddad.

Egyptian television showed chaotic scenes of bloodied, unconscious protesters lying in makeshift medical facilities.

There were also images of more than a dozen bodies lying under sheets and Egyptian flags.

In a televised interview, Haddad said Egypt had returned to a "full-fledged police state in just five days."

Hours earlier, Egypt's new temporary leadership had narrowed in on a compromise candidate to serve as the next prime minister.

Egyptian media reported that the new front-runner is Ziad Bahaa El-Din.

El-Din is an attorney and former parliament member.

He served under the government of  Hosni Mubarak.

Mubarak was forced out of office in 2011 amid massive street protests.

The protests were similar to those that forced out Morsi, whose enemies accused him of accumulating power for the Muslim Brotherhood.

Critics of Morsi also pointed to a stumbling economy, broken government services and widespread social problems.

El-Din is seen as causing less conflict than opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei, whose nomination was abruptly blocked a day earlier.

Liberal youth activists had pushed hard for ElBaradei, a Nobel Peace Prize winner.

President Mansour seemed set to appoint ElBaradei, and a swearing-in was scheduled.

But late Saturday the government abruptly backtracked after the ultra-religious Nour Party rejected him for being too liberal and divisive.

The party threatened to quit the government if ElBaradei got the job.

Though viewed as a liberal, El-Din is seen as someone who will focus on improving Egypt's sagging economy and getting rid of corruption.

He has been an outspoken police critic and blamed Morsi for failing to involve other parties during his year in office.

Under the latest scenario, ElBaradei would become vice president, news reports said.

El-Din and the temporary officials cautioned that no final decision has been made.

The debate over the prime minister marked the first standoff among the anti-Morsi parties.

These groups, which have very different viewpoints, came together last week to support the military's removal of Morsi.

The military and temporary president Adly Mahmoud Mansour had hoped that a swift appointment of a prime minister would send a message of stability and give confidence to both Egyptians and the world.

Instead, the fumbling raised fresh doubts about Egypt's political future.

On Sunday, throngs of Egyptians from both sides had voiced their views in mass protests.

The protests were largely peaceful until the early morning violence.

In the Nasr neighborhood, speakers denounced last week's coup as illegitimate and called on mid-level army officers to revolt against top generals who pushed Morsi out.

"We will stay here for as long as it takes and peacefully pressure the army to reinstate Morsi," said Gamal Ragab, 41.

And in Tahrir Square, the number of anti-Morsi demonstrators surged into the tens of thousands early Sunday evening.

"We want to build the democracy that we dreamed of in 2011, not a religious state where religion is used to divide the whole population and exclude anyone who doesn't share the Brotherhood's ideology," said Samira Kamel, 21, a Cairo student.

"We want to show the world that this is a popular revolution, not a coup."

