Egypt's stormy political situation has taken a turn for the worse.

Last week the elected president, Mohammed Morsi, was overthrown.

On Monday, a largely peaceful protest by his supporters ended in a bloody clash.

An estimated 51 people were killed after the army fired on the protest.

The president's supporters said soldiers attacked them with tear gas and gunfire around 4 a.m. Morsi's supporters have been camped outside several army buildings for days.

They are demanding the release of the president, who has been under arrest.

Morsi was pushed out of office by the army on Wednesday.

He is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood party, which wants the Muslim religion to play a greater role in Egyptian life.

Before his removal, Egypt had been struggling to maintain a fragile new democracy.

Two and a half years ago Egypt's longtime dictator, President Hosni Mubarak, was overthrown by the people.

Mubarak had ruled for 30 years.

The military took over the country while elections were being prepared.

Morsi was elected president one year ago.

Many Egyptians were unhappy with Morsi's leadership, however.

They complained he was giving too much power to the Brotherhood.

Even after he was pushed out and arrested, his critics still rallied.

The protests were similar to those that had forced out Mubarak in 2011.

Morsi's enemies pointed to a stumbling economy, broken government services and widespread social problems.

Tens of thousands of anti-Morsi protesters gathered early Sunday evening in Cairo's famous Tahrir Square.

"We want to build the democracy that we dreamed of in 2011, not a religious state where religion is used to divide the whole population," said Samira Kamel, 21.

Brotherhood officials reported that many people were killed and hundreds hurt during the protest.

They asked supporters to donate blood and to rush to help the victims.

"Bloodbath!"

tweeted Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Gehad Haddad.

Egyptian television showed bloodied, unconscious protesters getting medical aid.

There were also images of bodies lying under sheets and Egyptian flags.

Egypt's military is widely respected by the Egyptian people.

It thus came as a shock to many that they fired on citizens and caused so many deaths.

Some feared the situation could lead to civil war.

After removing Morsi, the military named Adly Mahmoud Mansour to be temporary president.

Mansour is a top Egyptian judge.

Egypt's government also needs a prime minister.

The military and interim president Mansour wanted a prime minister to be named quickly.

They hoped to send a message that Egypt is stable.

A quick choice would have boosted confidence among Egyptians and in the world.

Instead, fumbling and conflict raised fresh doubts about Egypt's future.

At first, there were reports that Mohammed ElBaradei would be named.

ElBaradei is a Nobel Peace Prize winner who many young protesters supported.

After the ultra-religious Nour Party rejected him as too modern the government suddenly pulled back.

Egyptian news reports now say that the likely choice is Ziad Bahaa El-Din.

El-Din is an attorney and former parliament member.

He is seen as a compromise choice compared to ElBaradei.

ElBaradei would become vice president under the latest plan, reports said.

El-Din is expected to focus on improving Egypt's money problems.

He has been critical of the police.

He also has blamed Morsi for failing to involve more people during his year in office.

The arguments over who should be prime minister show how hard it will be for the different anti-Morsi groups to agree on Egypt's next steps.

Following Monday's violence various political and religious figures called for an end to clashes.

"Violence begets violence and should be strongly condemned.

Independent investigation a must.

Peaceful transition is only way," said Mohamed ElBaradei on his official Twitter account.

But the Muslim Brotherhood promised to keep fighting.

"This has never happened before in the history of the Egyptian army," the party wrote.

"Perhaps there are still some wise men in the army who can put a stop to this behavior."

