A night of protests ended early Monday in a bloody clash between protesters and Egyptian soldiers.

An estimated 51 people were killed as the mostly peaceful demonstrations turned deadly.

The protesters are supporting Mohamed Morsi, who was president up until Wednesday, when he was pushed out of office.

Morsi is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, a party that wants Islam to play a greater role in Egyptian life.

His removal was widely seen as a military "coup" — the term used when a small group of people uses force or violence to overthrow a leader.

Officials from the Brotherhood said soldiers raided their camp outside an army building at about 4 a.m.

Supporters of Morsi have staged their protest there for days.

They are demanding the release of the former leader, who has been under arrest since the military pushed him out of office.

The Brotherhood said they were attacked with tear gas and gunfire.

Brotherhood officials called upon their supporters to donate blood and rush to assist the victims.

"Bloodbath!"

tweeted Muslim Brotherhood spokesman Gehad Haddad.

Egyptian television showed scenes of bloodied, unconscious protesters getting medical treatment.

There were also images of more than a dozen bodies covered in sheets and flags.

In a televised interview, Haddad said Egypt had returned to a "full-fledged police state in just five days."

Hours earlier, Egypt's new temporary leadership had narrowed in on a candidate to serve as the next prime minister.

Egyptian media reported that the new front-runner is Ziad Bahaa El-Din.

El-Din is an attorney and former parliament member.

He is seen as someone who will work to improve Egypt's money problems and dishonest government agencies.

He has blamed Morsi for failing to involve other parties during his year in office.

El-Din previously served under the government of Hosni Mubarak.

President Mubarak was forced out of office in 2011 amid massive street protests.

The protests were similar to those that forced out Morsi, whose enemies accused him of hoarding power for the Brotherhood.

Morsi's critics pointed also to Egypt's money woes, broken government services and widespread social problems.

El-Din is seen as a compromise pick in place of Mohamed ElBaradei, whose nomination was suddenly blocked a day earlier.

Young activists had pushed hard for ElBaradei, a Nobel Peace Prize winner.

Many of these youths are led by the Rebel movement, which helped organize the mass protests that pushed out Morsi.

President Mansour seemed set to appoint ElBaradei, and a swearing-in was scheduled.

But late Saturday the government abruptly changed their mind after the ultra-religious Nour Party rejected him for being too liberal.

The party threatened to quit the government if ElBaradei got the job.

Under the latest scenario, ElBaradei would become vice president, news reports said.

El-Din and the temporary officials cautioned that no final decision has been made.

These problems choosing a prime minister were the first signs of trouble between the anti-Morsi parties.

Several groups with very different viewpoints had come together last week to support the military's removal of the president.

The military named a top Egyptian judge, Adly Mahmoud Mansour, as temporary president.

Both Mansour and the military had hoped to quickly name a prime minister.

They believed it would send a message to Egyptians and the world that the country is stable.

Instead, the fumbling raised fresh doubts about peace and fears of a possible civil war.

On Sunday, huge crowds of Egyptians from both sides had voiced their views in mass protests.

The protests were largely peaceful until the early morning violence.

Supporters of Morsi denounced last week's coup.

They  called on mid-level army officers to revolt against the top generals who had pushed him out.

"We will stay here for as long as it takes and peacefully pressure the army to reinstate Morsi," said Gamal Ragab, 41.

And in Tahrir Square, the number of anti-Morsi demonstrators surged into the tens of thousands early Sunday evening.

"We want to build the democracy that we dreamed of in 2011, not a religious state where religion is used to divide the whole population," said Samira Kamel, 21, a Cairo student.

"We want to show the world that this is a popular revolution, not a coup."

