A fight for control of Egypt has taken a turn for the worse.

Last week the elected president was forced out of power.

On Monday, a protest by his supporters that started peacefully ended in shooting.

It is believed 51 people were killed after the army fired on the protesters.

Mohammed Morsi was president up until last week.

He was put under arrest.

His supporters said soldiers attacked them with tear gas and gunfire around 4 a.m. For several days they have been camped outside several army buildings.

They are demanding Morsi's release.

Morsi was pushed out of office by the army on Wednesday.

He is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood party.

The Brotherhood wants the Muslim religion to play a greater role in Egyptian life.

Before his removal, Egypt was a struggling new democracy.

Two and a half years ago Egyptians pushed out President Hosni Mubarak.

Even though he was president, he ruled as a dictator for 30 years.

The army took over the country while elections were being prepared.

Morsi was elected president one year ago.

Many Egyptians were unhappy with Morsi, however.

They complained he was giving too much power to the Brotherhood.

Even after he was pushed out and arrested, people were still protesting against him.

The protests were similar to those that had forced out Mubarak in 2011.

Morsi's enemies blamed him for problems ranging from a job shortage to long lines at the gasoline stations.

Tens of thousands of anti-Morsi protesters gathered early Sunday evening.

They met in Cairo's famous Tahrir Square.

The Square hosts many major protests.

"We want to build the democracy that we dreamed of in 2011," said Samira Kamel, 21.

"Not a religious state where religion is used to divide the whole population," she added.

The Brotherhood said that many people were killed and hundreds hurt during Monday's protest.

They asked supporters to donate blood.

They told them to rush to help the victims.

"Bloodbath!"

wrote Brotherhood spokesman Gehad Haddad on his Twitter account.

Egyptian television showed bloodied, unconscious protesters.

There were also images of bodies covered with sheets and Egyptian flags.

The Egyptian people have always respected their army.

It shocked many that soldiers would fire on citizens and kill so many.

Some feared the clash could lead to civil war.

After removing Morsi, the military named Adly Mahmoud Mansour to be temporary president.

Mansour is a top Egyptian judge.

Egypt's government also needs a prime minister.

The military and President Mansour wanted a prime minister to be named quickly.

They hoped to show that Egypt is stable.

A quick choice would have boosted confidence among Egyptians and in the world.

Instead, there's been fumbling and disagreement.

At first, there were reports that Mohammed ElBaradei would be named.

ElBaradei is a Nobel Peace Prize winner.

Many young protesters support him.

But one of Egypt's ultra religious parties rejected him.

They complained he was too modern.

So the government suddenly pulled back.

Egyptian news reports now say that the likely choice is Ziad Bahaa El-Din.

El-Din is an attorney and former parliament member.

He is seen as a compromise over ElBaradei.

ElBaradei would become vice president under the latest plan, reports said.

El-Din is expected to focus on improving Egypt's money problems.

He has been critical of the police.

He also has blamed Morsi for failing to involve more people during his year as president.

The arguments over who should be prime minister show how hard it will be for the different anti-Morsi groups to agree on Egypt's next steps.

It makes some doubt whether Egyptians can live together in peace.

After the violence on Monday, politicians and religious leaders called for an end to fighting.

"Peaceful transition is only way," said ElBaradei on Twitter.

But the Muslim Brotherhood promised to keep fighting.

"This has never happened before in the history of the Egyptian army," the party wrote.

"Perhaps there are still some wise men in the army who can put a stop to this behavior."

