Tutankhamun was an ancient Egyptian king.

He died when he was just 19 and was buried in a tomb full of gold and jewels.

Now experts think a beautiful queen may be buried there, too.

Mamdouh el-Damaty is Egypt's antiquities minister.

He is in charge of the Middle Eastern country's ancient sites.

He said Tuesday that the 3,300-year-old tomb may contain hidden rooms.

El-Damaty wants to look for the rooms.

His plan is to use radar.

It bounces radio waves off an object.

When the waves come back, scientists can tell if something is there.

He spoke while visiting the tombs of King Tut and other pharaohs in the Valley of the Kings.

The valley is outside a city named Luxor.

Many Egyptian kings, called pharaohs, were buried there.

El-Damaty was visiting Luxor with British Egyptologist Nicholas Reeves.

An Egyptologist studies ancient Egypt.

Reeves thinks that the tomb was built for Egyptian Queen Nefertiti.

He says Tut buried her.

Tut died about 10 years after Nefertiti.

Reeves believes Tut was then buried in Nefertiti's tomb.

Reeves thinks that when Tut died someone remembered about the tomb.

"They thought, 'Well, perhaps we can extend it,'" he said.

He said images of the tomb showed details that do not look natural.

There are very straight lines.

Reeves said the walls may hide two secret doorways.

One of the doorways perhaps leads to Nefertiti's burial place.

He also said the tomb looks like it was built for a queen, not a king.

"I agree with him that there's probably something behind the walls," el-Damaty said.

He said if anyone is buried there it is likely Kia.

Some Egyptologists think Kia was King Tut's mother.

Nefertiti was famous for her beauty.

She was the main wife of the Pharaoh Akhenaten.

Ancient Egyptians believed in many different gods.

Akhenaten believed there was just one god.

After Akhenaten came a pharaoh called Smenkhare.

Then came Tut.

Many Egyptologists think Tut was Akhenaten's son.

Reeves argues that Smenkhare is actually Nefertiti.

When Smenkhare became pharaoh, Nefertiti seemed to disappear.

Reeves explained his theory inside King Tut's tomb.

"I think that Nefertiti didn't disappear, she simply changed her name."

Experts hope the tomb will give them more information about the time.

The ancient royal family is full of secrets, el-Damaty said.

