The Egyptian people kicked out their former president two years ago.

They hoped to end the military's grip on the country and take over.

But the military is back in charge again.

The signs are everywhere.

Military tanks sit to control an area where people once camped out to support Mohammed Morsi.

He was kicked out as president himself in July.

Kitchens that once prepared thousands of meals for the protesters are gone.

Government bulldozers are there instead.

A hospital where protesters were treated is now a burnt-out shell.

Not a lot of people talk about democracy or creating a modern state now.

Few speak of elections.

They are not talking about fixing the  justice system and controlling the police.

Many Egyptians support the military right now.

People once hoped that the military would lead for a short time, then turn power over.

But then came Morsi's removal and the furious crackdown on protesters.

At least 638 people were killed.

Three thousand were injured.

Events this summer showed that the military is shaping Egypt's political future.

Many people prefer the military over the Muslim Brotherhood.

The military might not be democratic.

But the Brotherhood is the secretive group through which Morsi rose to the presidency.

Being linked to the Muslim Brotherhood now is considered all but an act of terrorism.

Much of the country is under a state of emergency.

People have to be inside their homes after a certain time in the evening, which is called a curfew.

Some who were at the head of the 2011 revolution support the military action.

Eric Trager studies Egypt as part of his job in Washington.

He said people are no longer talking about what Egypt needs to bring democracy.

"They are asking, 'Is this headed toward civil war?'"

He said the military is in charge, and its goal will be to wipe out the Brotherhood.

There were growing signs that the military was gaining control before Wednesday.

More than 200 people had died in clashes with army forces before Wednesday.

Most supported Morsi.

The government announced that it had named 25 local governors earlier this week.

Nineteen were generals.

Gen. Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi was the man who announced that Morsi was thrown out.

Then he named Adly Mansour as the president.

Mansour appointed a new government.

Most of the people in it were military generals.

Or they were supporters of Hosni Mubarak, the president who was kicked out two years ago.

Nobel Prize winner Mohamed ElBaradei was named vice president.

He was the leader of the opposition when Morsi was president.

ElBaradei resigned Wednesday.

In his resignation letter, he referred to the quarreling nature of the new government.

He suggested that the people weren't in control.

Last month, weeks after Morsi supporters had set up their protest sites, el-Sissi urged Egyptians to take to the streets.

He wanted their support to go after the protesters.

Millions did, then were frustrated when the protesters remained.

The Muslim Brotherhood and the military started negotiating to end the standoff earlier this month.

Nadar Bakkar, a spokesman for the Nour Party who participated in the negotiations, said the talks had failed in part because it was unclear who was in charge.

The current government "is not thinking as a whole," Bakkar said.

"Sissi is leading."

More talks had been scheduled for Wednesday.

The military surprised several of the negotiators by clearing the protest sites instead.

Several government officials told McClatchy that they, too, had learned about it only when it began.

