Hundreds of thousands of Egyptians marched through villages and cities on Sunday to protest against their president.

The massive rallies raised fears of another revolution that could hurt Egypt's young democracy.

The protesters yelled "Leave, leave" against Mohamed Morsi, who has been president for exactly one year.

Morsi and his political party, the Muslim Brotherhood, believe Islam should play a role in Egypt's law and society.

While the protesters chanted, Islamists in the distance cried cheers of support for Morsi.

The dueling rallied signaled Egypt's growing divide.

Scattered violence was reported as fireworks and lasers lighted the Sunday night sky.

About 500 young men set fire to the Muslim Brotherhood headquarters in Cairo with molotov cocktails.

Four people were killed in clashes in Upper Egypt, three of them outside a Brotherhood office in Assiut.

More than 220 were injured nationwide.

A youth movement has collected more than 22 million signatures on petitions calling for Morsi to step aside for early elections.

The president and the Brotherhood have refused.

The military has sent in troops around government buildings and along the shipping lanes of the Suez Canal.

If the protests continue, some believe the president might be forced to step down.

And some wonder if the military will take control if more violence erupts.

The military stepped in two years ago when an uprising pushed Hosni Mubarak out of power.

Mubarak was a dictator who ruled Egypt for 30 years.

Gen. Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, the defense minister, has so far sided with the president.

He has not signaled a military takeover.

The army ruled from 2011 until Morsi's election.

Human rights groups criticized the army's takeover.

The army's reputation among the Egyptian people suffered during its rule.

But Sisi has said he will not allow the country to veer into a "dark tunnel."

The public mood has changed over the last year.

Thousands of protesters, including young mothers and old men, cheered and waved flags at army helicopters flying overhead.

It was an image many see as a sign that Egyptians would support a takeover by the army.

"When the military was in control, things were better.

Now we have power cuts, no fuel, and everything's going bad," said Mohammad Khaled, a 19-year-old electrician.

"Morsi promised he would fix many problems in his first 100 days but did nothing.

If he's not able to handle it, then he should let someone else do the work."

He added, "We succeeded in removing Mubarak, who was here for 30 years.

You don't think we can remove Morsi, who has only been here for a year?

We've been preparing for this day for over two months, and I will stay until he says, 'I'm stepping down.'"

Morsi's spokesman Ehab Fahmy told reporters, that talks will be the only way to find common ground "around the different issues of our homeland."

The protesters wanted to rekindle the spirit of uprising that removed Mubarak.

They swept across boulevards and massed at the presidential palace.

There they raised national flags and flew banners with the images of those killed in the protests.

Morsi's supporters criticized their opponents for trying to unseat the country's first freely elected leader.

The battle for Egypt lies between these two groups, who are divided by a question: how much role should the Muslim religion play in Egypt's government?

Making matters worse are economic problems such as poverty and unemployment.

"Egypt is our country, the land of the Nile that carries us all," Coptic Orthodox Pope Tawadros II said on Twitter.

His Christian minority has been targeted more and more by Islamists.

"It's our duty to protect it without violence or committing assaults.

The blood of every Egyptian is precious.

Please participate, but respect others."

The demonstrations Sunday were mostly peaceful, and at times marked by acts of kindness.

Residents poured water off their balconies in Tahrir Square to cool protesters in the sweltering heat.

There were also moments of stillness, especially when Islamists put their heads to the ground in silence to pray.

But there are fears the two sides may collide.

At least six people have been killed in recent days.

Much of the violence erupted when anti-Morsi forces attacked Muslim Brotherhood offices in Alexandria and other cities.

The police have not protected Brotherhood headquarters, a sign they do not support the president.

The president's opponents accuse him of betraying the revolution.

They say he has been hoarding power to advance the Brotherhood, while letting Egypt's social and money problems grow.

Morsi supporters say ex-members of the Mubarak government are behind the protests and that they are stirring up unrest to sabotage the new president.

In a nationwide speech last week, Morsi admitted mistakes during his first year in office.

But he spent much of his time blaming the opposition, outside influences, Mubarak's friends, journalists and others for Egypt's growing crises.

His comments failed to calm a tense poor and working class who have endured months of rising prices, power shortages and gas station lines.

Tourism workers joined marchers in the ancient city of Luxor to protest.

The number of tourists visiting Egypt has greatly declined.

"I live in a room with a hallway, that's all I have," Khadiga Ibrahim said from her wheelchair in Tahrir.

She cannot afford knee surgery.

"I want an apartment.

What did Morsi do for us?

For the poor?

God curse him.

I don't want Morsi.

I want God's justice.

We need someone who is good ... someone who cares about us."

