The wreck of the El Faro ship rests deep in the ocean.

At 15,000 feet deep, it is in one of the least explored places on Earth.

There is no light.

There is crushing pressure.

Temperatures are just above freezing.

Little life exists beyond tiny microbes, giant worms and strange-looking fish.

Even submarines cannot go down so deep.

The El Faro ship went down off the Bahamas during a storm named Hurricane Joaquin.

The Bahamas are islands located near Florida.

The ship sank within minutes of a final call for help.

All 33 crew members died.

Investigators are using a submersible to explore the shipwreck.

A submersible is a vehicle that can go deep underwater.

No one is inside the vehicle.

Pilots up above the water steer the vehicle down below.

Investigators hope the submersible will uncover clues about why the ship sank last month.

The type of submersible investigators are using is called a remotely operated vehicle, or ROV.

It has cameras to survey the ship's body.

Robotic arms can cut cables and grab important evidence, like the ship's black box.

The black box stores information about the ship and sound recordings from people on board.

The ROV was first developed by the Navy.

It may be the best hope for solving the mystery of why the El Faro sank.

Justin Manley is the ocean engineer who is piloting the ROV.

Manley said the ROV is very good at doing its job, but can be difficult to operate.

The ROV Manley is using can dive to 20,000 feet and is operated by cables.

First, sonar was used to find the El Faro resting upright on the ocean floor.

A U.S. Navy ship bounced sonar sound waves off of the El Faro and they came back to the ocean surface.

Then the Navy ship launched the ROV to examine the ship and locate the black box.

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is the government agency investigating the El Faro shipwreck.

The NTSB reported that the ROV has inspected the ship's sides.

The bridge is no longer attached to the ship.

The black box was kept in the bridge, the command room of the ship.

Finding the black box is important.

The audio recording could let investigators, and families, hear what the crew said during the ship's last moments.

There is also hope of recovering the bodies of the crew who went down with the ship.

Discovering the crew may bring comfort to their families.

However, the chances of that happening are unlikely.

NTSB spokesman Peter Knudson said investigators do not plan on trying to enter the ship.

Search teams have not located the bridge.

The captain and some of the crew would have been stationed in the bridge during the storm.

Good weather has allowed the crew manning the ROV to work constantly, Knudson said.

However, stormy weather and rough seas ahead may hold up the search.

Knudson expected it would take 15 days.

Though the ROV can withstand the deep ocean, it can be difficult to pilot.

Manley compared it to standing on top of a tall building and moving a small camera dangling from a string.

"It can be incredibly frustrating," he said.

The El Faro is 790 feet long, the length of two football fields.

Ships this big have airtight areas.

They are designed to float, even if water starts leaking into one of the areas.

In his final message from the ship, Captain Michael Davidson reported that the ship was unable to move forward.

A hatch had blown open.

The open hatch allowed water to enter one airtight area.

Davidson knew he was approaching a worsening hurricane.

He likely would have secured all the hatches.

> UPDATE: Crews working to find the black box for the El Faro were unsuccessful in finding the black box and recovering any of the bodies.

And the search has since been called off.

