The wreck of the El Faro ship rests at 15,000 feet deep.

It is in one of the least explored places on Earth, a lonely ocean grave as deep as the Rocky Mountains are tall.

There is no light.

There is crushing pressure.

Temperatures are just above freezing.

Little life exists beyond microbes, giant worms and strange tube-eyed fish.

Even the most advanced submarine cannot venture this deep.

The ship went down off the Bahamas, islands located near Florida, during Hurricane Joaquin.

In such difficult conditions, federal investigators have turned to an advanced unmanned submersible.

The submersible is a vehicle that can go deep underwater.

It can be operated remotely on the surface.

They hope the submersible will uncover clues to why the ship sank.

The type of submersible investigators are using to explore the El Faro is called a remotely operated vehicle, or ROV.

It is equipped with cameras to survey the ship's hull.

Robotic arms are also able to cut cables and grab important evidence, like the ship's critical black box.

The ROV was first developed by the U.S. Navy.

It may be the last best hope for unraveling the El Faro's fateful voyage.

Investigators hope to determine exactly why it sank last month.

It went down within minutes of a final distress call, killing all 33 crew members.

The ROV is "very capable," said Justin Manley, an ocean engineer.

But he also said these vehicles can be difficult to operate.

Manley piloted the same ROV, called a CURV 21, to map the famous Titanic shipwreck.

First, sonar detected the El Faro resting upright on the ocean floor.

A U.S. Navy ship bounced sonar sound waves off of the El Faro and they came back to the ocean surface.

Then the Navy ship deployed the ROV robot to document the condition of the ship and locate the black box, called a voyage data recorder.

The black box captures information about the ship's navigation and sound recordings from people on board.

The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is the federal agency investigating the El Faro shipwreck.

So far it has released little information about its findings.

The NTSB did report that the ROV has inspected the left and right sides of the vessel.

The bridge, which contains the critical black box, is no longer attached to the ship.

Finding the black box is critical.

The audio recording could let investigators, and families, hear what the crew said during the ship's last moments.

Efforts to track its "pinger" signal across a 260-square-mile search area have so far failed.

There is also hope of recovering the bodies of the crew who went down with the ship.

Discovering the crew may bring some measure of comfort to their families.

The families "would like to have closure," said John Moore, the lawyer who is representing the families of two crew members.

"I think recovering their loved ones is a step in that direction."

But the chances of that happening are remote.

NTSB spokesman Peter Knudson said investigators do not plan on trying to enter the ship.

Search teams have not yet located the bridge where the captain and some of the crew would have been stationed during the storm.

So far, good weather has allowed the crew manning the CURV 21 to work around-the-clock, Knudson said.

However, forecasts for stormy weather and rough seas may hamper the search.

Knudson initially expected it would take 15 days.

The CURV 21 is capable of diving to 20,000 feet and is operated by cables.

Fewer than 50 exist, Manley said.

They have increasingly been used to try to unravel the mysteries of deep sea wrecks, including the Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 that crashed in the Indian Ocean in March 2014 and a U.S. Air Force F-16 that plunged into the North Pacific six years ago.

Though the CURV 21 is capable of withstanding the harsh conditions of the ocean's deep floor, it can still be a bear to pilot.

Manley compared it to standing on top of a skyscraper and using a camera the size of a yo-yo, dangled from a string.

"It can be incredibly frustrating," he said.

Investigators probably will start by sweeping the outside of the ship, something called "mowing the lawn."

They will use this tactic to look for clues about the hull's condition when the El Faro sank.

Ships as big as the El Faro — at 790 feet, it is twice the length of a football field — often have airtight compartments.

They are designed to float, even if water starts leaking into one or more compartments.

In his final message from the ship, Captain Michael Davidson reported that the ship had lost its ability to move forward and a hatch had blown open.

The open hatch allowed water to enter one compartment.

Davidson knew he was approaching a worsening hurricane and told his bosses that he planned to sail south of the storm.

He likely would have secured all the hatches.

> UPDATE: Crews working to find the black box for the El Faro were unsuccessful in finding the black box and recovering any of the bodies.

And the search has since been called off.

