Somewhere trapped in the earth below Francisco Pineda's feet is about 1.4 million ounces of gold.

Pineda wants it to remain there.

He does not want Australian mining company OceanaGold to dig up the precious metal.

The El Dorado mine, where the digging for gold would take place, is located near the Lempa River.

The river is El Salvador's most important waterway.

"What will happen with the water?

To separate the gold and silver, they'll use cyanide," Pineda said.

Cyanide is a deadly poison.

Pineda, a famous environmentalist, worries it will end up in the river or in the water people drink.

There are many in El Salvador who share Pineda's views.

Their Central American country is tiny, but very crowded.

They say it cannot absorb the damage that would result from mining.

Yet the choice is not theirs.

Nor is it the choice of their government, which opposes the mining as well.

In fact, what happens at the El Dorado gold mine will not be decided in El Salvador at all.

The decision will be made by three judges in Washington, D.C.

The three judges belong to a tribunal, or court, few people have heard of.

Sometime early in 2015, they will decide if OceanaGold has the right to mine at El Dorado.

OceanaGold says the Salvadoran government has not acted fairly.

In 2008, the government announced that mining would no longer be allowed.

OceanaGold's lawyers say it had no right to do that.

They claim the government was ignoring a Salvadoran law from 1999 that permitted mining.

The current president of El Salvador, Salvador Sanchez Ceren, is very much against mining.

So were the two presidents before him.

"Everyone says that El Salvador has a wealth underground, having golden valleys and basins of silver," President Ceren said.

"But what does it mean if we allow it to be removed?

It will destroy our lives."

It might not matter that the Salvadoran government is against mining.

The tribunal may decide it should be permitted anyway.

They will be considering laws that cover the rights of companies doing business in other countries.

Some people feel such laws are a bad thing.

They say the laws give courts too much power over entire countries and their leaders.

"For us, it is very tough that three judges will be deciding this case," Pineda said.

"They've never been here.

They've never asked us what we want.

It is really ugly that someone is deciding our future without asking our opinion."

If OceanaGold wins its case, El Salvador will be in difficult, no-win situation.

It will have two choices: allow OceanaGold to mine or pay the company the $301 million it says it would have earned from the gold.

OceanaGold says people should not worry about its mining.

It says it can mine for gold without poisoning the water supply.

Not everyone in the small city of San Isidro is against OceanaGold.

There are people here who would like to see the jobs that come with a working mine.

"Let them come here," said Gilberto Vasquez Ramos, a city council member.

The mining might cause some damage, he admitted.

If that happens, however, the company can make up for it by paying a fine.

Luis A. Parada is a lawyer for El Salvador's government.

He feels it is particularly wrong for El Salvador's wishes to be ignored.

The big question, Parada said, is whether a foreign company should have to follow the current laws of the country in which it is operating.

Or, should a company have to change its laws to satisfy a foreign company?

If OceanaGold wins, he added, it would set a very bad example.

It would encourage other companies to try to force foreign countries to give them what they want.

