Somewhere in the earth below Francisco Pineda's feet lies about 1.4 million ounces of gold.

Pineda wants it to stay there.

He does not want the Australian mining company OceanaGold to dig it up.

The dig for gold would take place at a mine known as El Dorado.

It is near the Lempa River.

The river is El Salvador's most important waterway.

"What will happen with the water?

To separate the gold and silver, they'll use cyanide," Pineda said.

Cyanide is a deadly poison.

Pineda worries it will end up in the river.

Pineda is a famous environmental leader.

Many in El Salvador agree with him.

Their Central American country is tiny, but very crowded.

They say it cannot handle damage caused by mining.

Yet the choice is not theirs.

It is not the choice of their government either.

El Salvador's president is also against the mining.

What happens at the mine will not be decided in El Salvador at all.

Instead, the decision will be made by a court in Washington, D.C.

The court is made up of three judges.

In 2015, they will decide if OceanaGold has the right to mine at El Dorado.

OceanaGold says the Salvadoran government has not acted fairly.

In 2008, the government decided that mining would no longer be allowed.

OceanaGold's lawyers say it had no right to do that.

They claim the government was ignoring a 1999 law that allowed mining.

Salvadoran President Salvador Sanchez Ceren, is strongly against mining.

"Everyone says that El Salvador has a wealth underground, having golden valleys and basins of silver," President Ceren said.

"But what does it mean if we allow it to be removed?

It will destroy our lives."

It might not matter that the Salvadoran government is against mining.

The court could decide mining should be allowed anyway.

They will decide by looking at laws on how companies do business in other countries.

Some people feel such laws are wrong.

They say they give courts too much power over countries.

"For us, it is very tough that three judges will be deciding this case," Pineda said.

"They've never been here.

They've never asked us what we want.

It is really ugly that someone is deciding our future without asking our opinion."

If OceanaGold wins its case, El Salvador will be in difficult situation.

It will have two choices: allow OceanaGold to mine or pay the company $301 million.

OceanaGold claims that is how much money it would make from the gold.

OceanaGold says people should not worry.

It says it can dig for gold without poisoning the river.

Not everyone in the small city of San Isidro is against OceanaGold.

Some people there would like jobs at the mine.

"Let them come here," said Gilberto Vasquez Ramos.

He's a leader of San Isidro.

The mining might cause some damage, he admitted.

If that happens, he said the company can make up for it by paying money.

Luis A. Parada works for El Salvador's government.

Parada says companies are ignoring El Salvador's wishes.

The big questions, Parada said, are these: Shouldn't a foreign company follow the laws of the country it works in?

Is it fair for a country to have to change its laws for a foreign company?

If OceanaGold wins, he said it would set a bad example.

It would encourage other companies to act.

He said they would try to force foreign countries to give them what they want.

