Somewhere trapped in the earth below Francisco Pineda's feet is an estimated 1.4 million ounces of gold.

Pineda wants it to remain there.

He doesn't want an Australian mining company to dig up the precious metal.

"What will happen with the water?

To separate the gold and silver, they'll use cyanide.

This will either filter into the water table or go into the river," said Pineda, who is an internationally known environmental activist.

The mine is located near the source of the Lempa River, the nation's most important waterway.

There are many in El Salvador who share Pineda's views.

They say their densely populated nation cannot absorb the environmental damage that would result from mining.

Yet the choice is not theirs — just as it's not up to the Salvadoran government, which opposes the mining.

The fate of the El Dorado gold mine will not be decided anywhere near this tiny Central American country.

Rather, it's being weighed by a three-judge tribunal, or court, based in Washington, D.C.

The little-known court is formally called the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes.

Last month, it heard eight days of arguments over whether the Australian company OceanaGold is entitled to mine in El Salvador despite a government ban.

Sometime early in 2015, the tribunal will issue its ruling.

The unusual case is a sign of the effect international business laws are having.

They are allowing companies to sue foreign governments they believe are limiting their future profits.

Critics say such laws are giving tribunals power over entire countries and their leaders.

The lawsuit brought by OceanaGold could put El Salvador in a no-win situation: Either allow OceanaGold to mine or pay the company the $301 million it says it would have earned from the gold.

"For us, it is very tough that three judges will be deciding this case.

They've never been here.

They've never asked us what we want.

It is really ugly that someone is deciding our future without asking our opinion," Pineda said.

Suspicions run deep over the project, which has led to violence.

Four mining opponents were killed between 2009 and 2011, and their cases have yet to be resolved.

The Australian company now at the center of the conflict is a latecomer.

Late last year, OceanaGold bought a Canadian company, Pacific Rim, that had explored El Dorado.

OceanaGold says it can meet the strictest environmental standards.

According to company spokeswoman Andrea Atell, the mining operation can recycle a large portion of the water it uses.

OceanaGold argued that El Salvador imposed an "unjustified ban" on metal mining in 2008.

It called the ban a "gross misuse of authority" that ignored an earlier Salvadoran law passed in 1999.

Under the earlier law the first company, Pacific Rim, had spent tens of millions of dollars exploring for gold.

Pacific Rim entered El Salvador in 2002.

The president at the time was in favor of the mine.

The company's lawyers told the tribunal that activists opposed to the mine deliberately lied to frighten the people of El Salvador.

For example, the lawyers said activists claimed the company would use 2 tons of cyanide a day and that the pollution would make women unable to have children.

The current president of El Salvador and the two before him have all enforced a ban on mining.

President Salvador Sanchez Ceren flatly rejects mining.

"Everyone says that El Salvador has a wealth underground, having golden valleys and basins of silver," he said.

"But what does it mean if we allow it to be removed?

It will destroy our lives."

Still, there are people in the small city of San Isidro who would like the jobs that come with a working mine.

"Let them come here," said Gilberto Vasquez Ramos, a city council member.

"Yes, it might damage the environment a little bit, but the government can regulate this — if they do damage, they'll have to pay the fine."

El Salvador government lawyer Luis A. Parada said Pacific Rim had never obtained a mining license or fully followed Salvadoran mining law.

The big question, Parada said, is whether a foreign company should have to follow the laws of the country in which it is operating.

Is it really fair, he asked, for a country to have to change its laws to satisfy a foreign company?

If OceanaGold were to win, he added, it would set a very bad example.

It would, he said, encourage "other companies to force other countries to get what they want."

