The State Department closed U.S. embassies in numerous Muslim countries, and warned about travel during August, reacting to what it said was intelligence about a possible attack by al-Qaida.

The action, taken late last week, added new fuel to the debate of the National Security Agency's collection of cellphone records and Internet usage information.

Congressional supporters of the program said the latest warnings of unspecified threats showed that the programs were necessary.

Opponents said there was no evidence linking the NSA programs to the vague warnings of possible terrorist attacks.

As is typical over a Washington weekend, the debate was held across the Sunday television talk shows.

"Al-Qaida is on the rise in this part of the world and the NSA program is proving its worth yet again," Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., said on CNN's "State of the Union."

Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Calif., took the opposite position.

The program that has caused the most concern in Congress -- one that collects a host of information about cellphone use --  was irrelevant to detecting al-Qaida's plans in this case, he said.

"There's no indication, unless I'm proved wrong later, that that program ... contributed to information about this particular plot," Schiff said.

Meanwhile, there were no reports of violence or unusual activity Sunday in any of the countries where the United States kept its embassies and consulates closed.

The embassy closings and travel advisory were the result of an intercepted communication between Nasir al-Wuhayshi, the head of Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, and al-Qaida leader Ayman al Zawahiri, said an official who had been briefed on the matter in Yemen.

Zawahiri gave "clear orders" to al-Wuhaysi to carry out an attack, the official said.

He said he could not disclose details of the plot.

Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula is based in Yemen.

Embassies were temporarily closed in Egypt, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and more than a dozen other countries.

Some were set to reopen on Monday.

The last major attack by Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, in Sanaa in Yemen, was in May 2012.

A suicide bomber killed more than 100 military cadets at a rehearsal for a military parade.

"This is a good indication of why they're so important," Sen. Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

Chambliss is the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee.

There are two programs in particular that have come under scrutiny after leaks by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.

The programs operate under different parts of U.S. law.

The collection of the telephone records was authorized by a secret court established under the Patriot Act, which was passed following the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

A second program was authorized under a separate law.

Under that program, the NSA collects data on Internet traffic that moves through nine Internet companies, including Facebook and Yahoo.

The NSA has said that only data about accounts outside the United States is collected.

The distinction between the two programs has become an important part of the NSA debate as more and more lawmakers have proposed laws to change the way the agency collects domestic phone information.

"Do we need to collect all of the phone records of all of the people living in America for five years so that if we're going to target one particular person we're ready to jump on it?"

Senate Assistant Majority Leader Richard Durbin, D-Ill., asked on NBC's "Meet the Press."

Durbin said President Barack Obama, in a meeting with nine members of Congress last week, said he was "open to suggestions" on making the NSA program more transparent.

Graham, however, seemed to indicate that the fight to curb the NSA programs is likely to be fierce.

"To the members of the Congress who want to reform the NSA program, great; but if you want to gut it, you make us much less safe and you're putting our nation at risk," he said.

The temporary embassy closings became part of that argument, despite questions about what role either program might have played, or how real the threat was.

"The good news is that we picked up intelligence.

That's what the NSA does," said Rep. C.A.

Dutch Ruppersberger, D-Md., the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, speaking on ABC's "This Week."

Chambliss had a similar view.

"If we did not have these programs we wouldn't be able to listen in on the bad guys," he said.

The program to collect Internet information helped detect the current threat, he said.

Just what role the NSA programs had in intercepting the communication is unknown.

In Sanaa, Yemeni officials said they were on high alert, but there was little evidence that anything was amiss.

Traffic clogged major arteries as residents prepared for the end of the fasting month of Ramadan and the coming Eid al-Fitr holiday.

Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula has been the most active al-Qaida branch in recent years in attempting attacks on U.S. targets.

In 2008, it launched an assault on the U.S. embassy in Sanaa.

It was also responsible for the failed 2010 Christmas Day plot to blow up a bomb hidden in a passenger's underwear aboard a plane landing in Detroit.

