The United States closed embassies in several Muslim countries over the weekend.

The government made the decision after getting information about a possible attack.

The U.S. also warned travelers about the threat.

The embassies are where the official U.S. representative to a country works.

The grounds of a U.S. embassy are considered U.S. soil.

The closings are only for a few days.

It was not clear how the government found out about the threat.

But congressmen went on television Sunday to argue about it.

Some said it proved that the government is right to spy on people's cellphone and Internet information.

Others said the spying had nothing to do with finding out about this particular plot.

The spying is done by the National Security Agency.

"The NSA program is proving its worth yet again," Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said.

He was speaking on CNN's "State of the Union."

Democratic congressman Adam Schiff took the opposite side.

Congress is worried about an NSA program that collects information about cellphone calls people make.

That program was not important for finding the threat in this case, he said.

The embassies were closed because of a message between two leaders of the terror group al-Qaida.

An official who was told about the threat said Al-Qaida's leader gave "clear orders" to carry out an attack.

He said he could not give any details about the plot.

Embassies were closed in Egypt, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and other countries.

Some were set to reopen on Monday.

"This is a good indication of why they're so important," Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

He was talking about the spying programs.

People started looking at two NSA programs after Edward Snowden told reporters about what the agency was doing.

He used to do work for the NSA.

The programs had been secret.

A secret court said collecting cellphone records was allowed.

The court was set up after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the United States.

A second program comes under a separate law.

Under that program, the NSA collects information on Internet traffic on sites like Facebook and Yahoo.

Some people do not like the government looking at information about their phone calls or how they use the Internet.

They think the information should be private.

Others think the government should be able to check the information if it can help stop an attack.

"Do we need to collect all of the phone records of all of the people living in America for five years" to be ready to target one person,  Democratic Senator Richard Durbin asked on NBC's "Meet the Press."

President Barack Obama told nine members of Congress he would take suggestions on how to make the NSA program more open, Durbin said.

But Graham seemed to be ready for a big fight over changing the NSA.

Getting rid of the programs would make the U.S. less safe, he said.

The short-term embassy closings became part of the argument.

But there are questions about whether either program caught the message with the threat.

It is not even clear if the threat was real.

"The good news is that we picked up intelligence.

That's what the NSA does," said Democratic congressman C.A.

Dutch Ruppersberger on ABC's "This Week."

Chambliss had a similar view.

"If we did not have these programs we wouldn't be able to listen in on the bad guys," he said.

The program to collect Internet information helped uncover the current threat, he said.

Just what that help was is not known.

Officials say it's a secret.

