The United States shut embassies in several Muslim countries late last week.

The decision to close them was made because the government said terrorists could be planning an attack.

Embassies are where the ambassador, or official U.S. representative to a country, works.

The closings are only for a few days.

The government also warned travelers about the threat.

The closures quickly became part of an argument going on in Congress.

Lawmakers are debating whether it is right for the government to monitor people's cellphone records and Internet use.

The National Security Agency is responsible for the spying.

Congressmen in favor of the collection said the latest warnings showed that it was necessary to gather the information.

People who do not like the monitoring said there was no evidence linking the programs to the warnings.

They also said it was not known exactly what the threat was.

The debate was held across television talk shows on Sunday.

"The NSA program is proving its worth yet again," Republican Senator Lindsey Graham said.

He was speaking on CNN's "State of the Union."

Democratic congressman Adam Schiff took the opposite position.

The program that has caused the most concern in Congress collects information about cellphone calls people make.

It was not important for detecting al-Qaida's plans in this case, he said.

"There's no indication, unless I'm proved wrong later, that that program ... contributed to information about this particular plot," Schiff said.

There were no reports of unusual activity Sunday in any of the countries where U.S. embassies were kept closed.

The embassies were closed and the travel warning was given because of a message between two leaders of the terror group al-Qaida, said an official who had been informed on the matter in Yemen.

The U.S. was able to get its hands on the message, too.

Al-Qaida's leader gave "clear orders" to carry out an attack, the official said.

He said he could not give any details about the plot.

Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula is based in Yemen.

Embassies were temporarily closed in Egypt, Yemen, Afghanistan, Iraq and more than a dozen other countries.

Some were set to reopen on Monday.

"This is a good indication of why they're so important," Sen. Saxby Chambliss of Georgia said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

He was talking about the spying programs.

Chambliss is the top Republican on the Senate Intelligence Committee.

There are two programs that people are looking at after leaks by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.

The programs operate under different parts of U.S. law.

The collection of the telephone records was authorized by a secret court.

The court was set up under the Patriot Act, which was passed following the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

A second program comes under a separate law.

Under that program, the NSA collects information on Internet traffic on sites like Facebook and Yahoo.

Some people do not like the government looking at information about their phone calls or how they use the Internet.

They think the information should be private.

Others think the government should be able to check the information if it can help stop an attack.

"Do we need to collect all of the phone records of all of the people living in America for five years" to be ready to target one person?

Democtratic Sen. Richard Durbin said on NBC's "Meet the Press."

President Barack Obama told nine members of Congress he would take suggestions on how to make the NSA program more open, Durbin said.

But Graham seemed to be ready for a big fight over changing the NSA.

Getting rid of the program would make the U.S. less safe, he said.

There are questions about whether either program caught the message with the threat.

It is not even clear if the threat was real.

"The good news is that we picked up intelligence.

That's what the NSA does," said Democratic congressman C.A.

Dutch on ABC's "This Week."

Chambliss had a similar view.

"If we did not have these programs we wouldn't be able to listen in on the bad guys," he said.

The program to collect Internet information helped uncover the current threat, he said.

Just what that help was is unknown.

Officials say it's a secret.

