Two vans traveled deep into Mississippi.

Sheriff's deputies drove along.

It was early afternoon when they arrived at the rundown grocery store.

"Is this it?"

one of the travelers asked.

The building was barely standing, covered with thick weeds and ivy.

Bryant's Grocery and Meat Market was once the center of Money, which used to be a busy town of 400 people.

In 1955, the store was the site of 14-year-old Emmett Till's fatal crime — whistling at a white woman.

Today, Bryant's Grocery is deserted and forgotten, much like the town.

Emmett's murder helped spark the civil rights movement.

Yet, there is little here to recall those events other than a historic marker erected outside Bryant's four years ago.

Some say the grocery store should be turned into a museum or at least kept from falling down.

"They should have preserved all of it," said Eddie Carthan.

He is a distant relative of Emmett's mother and a former mayor of Tchula.

In the 1970s, the town became one of the first in the Mississippi Delta area to elect a black mayor.

Last weekend, on the 60th anniversary of Emmett's death, some of his distant family decided to visit Money.

Among the oldest of Emmett's relatives was Charles Kelly, 66, a second-cousin who said he had played with Emmett just days before he died.

Among the youngest was an 11-year-old boy, named Emmett Louis Till Marshall.

The family members viewed a film about Emmett's death.

They marched through the black neighborhoods of Jackson, Mississippi, in a parade to honor the boy's memory.

They took a tour of Bryant's Grocery, the place where Emmett was killed and the river where his body was found.

They also visited the courtroom where the two men accused of murdering him were put on trial.

In 1955, the Mississippi Delta was a place where most white people had very different racial attitudes toward black people, FBI investigators wrote in a 2006 report on Emmett's death.

Laws that discriminated against black people were widespread.

States across the South were involved in a fight over the rights of black people to vote and attend school with white children.

In Mississippi, the unrest turned deadly.

In spring and summer of 1955, two black men, who stood up for the rights of blacks to vote, were killed.

No one was ever arrested or charged in either killing.

Soon after, Emmett arrived in Mississippi from Chicago for a two-week visit with his mother's family.

After a few days, he went to Bryant's Grocery to buy bubblegum.

Some people said he whistled at Carolyn Bryant, the wife of Roy Bryant, the store's owner.

According to testimony in court, Roy Bryant was outraged when he found out, and the following evening, he and his half-brother kidnapped Emmett at gunpoint.

The boy's naked body was pulled from the Tallahatchie River three days later.

The two men claimed they had released Emmett after kidnapping him.

They were found not guilty by a jury of 12 white men.

People in the community did not believe the men would be convicted.

State Senator David Jordan, now 81 years old, recalled attending the trial as a teenager.

The most shocking thing about it, Jordan said, was seeing white reporters from out of town shopping at black businesses.

"It was the first time I had ever seen racial integration," said Jordan, who is black.

"There were all of these white people staying in the black hotel.

I couldn't believe it."

As the sun set, the group visited the shed where historians believe Emmett was killed.

"I haven't been back in these counties in decades, not since the late '60s," said Kelly, who wore a T-shirt covered in photos of Emmett.

"To come back, it's hard.

It brings back a lot of old memories that I had forgotten about what this did to our family."

"I'm so sorry, Emmett.

I'm so sorry," whispered Deborah Watts, a distant relative who helped start the Emmett Till Legacy Foundation.

She held her hands together near her chest as tears spilled from beneath her sunglasses.

"I'm so sorry."

"He knows you are," her daughter, Teri Watts, said as she wrapped her arm around her mother's shoulder.

They stood in the shed for several minutes longer.

Their eyes looked up at the wooden rafters where Emmett's body had once hung.

"He knows we are," the daughter said.

