SHINGTON - Kenny Clark is a letter carrier in Maryland.

But he brings people more than just the mail.

Clark greets nearly everyone he sees by name.

He puts packages under overhangs on cloudy days to keep them dry in case it rains.

He reminds people to grab keys they might have left in keyholes.

He shouts a quick "You OK?"

at the doors of seniors.

He is a like a landmark in the neighborhood.

"Him and his truck," said Amy Dick, who lives on Clark's route.

But his future is in doubt.

And so it the future of the U.S.

Postal Service.

The Postal Service has been around for more than 200 years.

But these days it is losing a lot of money.

It lost $15.9 billion last year.

Daily mail delivery could be in trouble within a year, officials say.

One reason is that Americans are sending a lot less mail.

They go online to write letters and pay bills.

They read magazines on the Internet.

Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe has cut jobs.

He has closed some buildings.

He has taken other steps to try to save money.

But the savings have not been enough to match the drop in postage sales.

"We are in real trouble," Mickey Barnett, chairman of the Postal Service Board of Governors, told Congress last month.

The board of governors is like a board of directors at a private company.

It chooses the postmaster general.

The Postal Service is set up like a business.

But it answers to Congress.

This makes it hard to change, said Mike Schuyler.

He has has studied postal issues for nearly two decades.

"It's really in handcuffs because of all the requirements Congress puts on it," Schuyler said.

The Postal Service recently tried to end Saturday letter delivery.

That could have saved $2 billion per year.

Congress blocked it.

Some lawmakers tried to replace doorstep delivery with curbside delivery.

But that also was blocked.

A plan to close thousands of country post offices was dumped after postal officials decided it would upset Congress, Barnett said.

But one of the biggest problems has nothing to do with the mail.

A 2006 law made the Postal Service start putting money aside for health benefits for people who will retire.

It must pay for the benefits decades before they retire.

This costs about $5.6 billion a year.

Some people say this has put the Postal Service in danger for no real reason.

The law also limited the Postal Service's ability to charge more for postage.

It cannot raise rates more than the cost of other goods people typically buy, like food and clothes.

A U.S. first-class stamp is cheap when compared with those sold in other rich countries.

The Postal Service and its employees agreed to the 2006 law because at the time it looked as if the service could afford it, said congressional and union staffers.

The recession changed that.

It hurt banks that typically send lots of mail.

It also hurt homeowners who receive it, said Jim Sauber, chief of the letter carriers union.

Two congressmen are sponsoring a bill to eliminate the requirement to prepay for retirement benefits.

They also want to allow the Postal Service to raise rates more freely.

Unions support the bill, and it has some supporters in the Senate and the House of Representatives.

But some members of Congress who have been leaders on postal issues are calling for a different approach.

Congress needs to correct basic problems, like a lack of flexibility, they say.

The nation's founders said there should be a Postal Service.

The service has survived new technology before.

Not all technology has hurt.

Package delivery has increased 14 percent in recent years as more people shop online.

Union representatives are quick to point out what the service does well.

It has been rated the most efficient postal service in the world.

Customers like the service.

On Clark's route, Ruth Hartmann made her position clear.

She was concerned about Clark's ability to pay for his daughter's college.

"If they reduce service, it seems to me they would have a pay cut, probably his benefits, and that is an absolute 'no,' " Hartmann said.

