The three Democratic senators are all "veterans of the tobacco wars," as Sen. Richard J. Durbin of Illinois put it.

They have sponsored legislation to ban smoking on airplanes.

They led efforts to stop smoking scenes in films.

They successfully sued the tobacco companies for misleading the public about the dangers of smoking.

At a recent hearing Durbin, Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut were at it again.

They grilled executives from an industry they said was selling an unhealthy product and an unsafe message to young people.

But the subject of their anger was not tobacco.

It was energy drinks.

The sweetened beverages  have large doses of stimulants for quick energy boosts.

They have become increasingly popular over the last decade, particularly with high school and college students who often use them to study late into the night.

The senators want to make it harder for minors to get the drinks.

The hearing was the biggest moment yet in that effort.

Energy drink companies say the senators overstate the health risk of caffeine to teenagers.

But Durbin, Markey and Blumenthal are using lessons learned from previous fights against the sale and advertising of cigarettes to children under age 18.

They have called upon the Food and Drug Administration to investigate the safety of energy drinks.

They have urged high school and college sports organizations to educate their athletes on the risks of combining the drinks with exercise.

Now they are focusing their efforts on how the energy drink makers promote and advertise their product.

They claim the companies are targeting young people.

At a recent hearing, Markey displayed photos from energy drink companies' Facebook pages.

Children were posing with cans of their products at public events.

He talked about the tobacco industry trying to attract young smokers to replace older customers who were dying off.

"Hook 'em early, keep 'em for life," he said.

"Makes a lot of sense to me as a marketing promotion."

The campaign on energy drinks began early last year.

It followed the death of 14-year-old Anais Fournier, a Maryland teenager, who had a malfunctioning valve in her heart.

Fournier died after she apparently consumed two 24-ounce cans of Monster energy drink in a 24-hour period.

Her death certificate noted a change in her heart rate.

It said it was "due to caffeine intoxication."

Essentially, this is caffeine poisoning.

The two drinks contained 480 milligrams of caffeine.

That's equal to the amount found in about 14 cans of soda and five times amount the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends as they daily limit for adolescents.

Monster Beverage Corp. has repeatedly denied any link between its product and Fournier's death.

"It struck me that we were back into the same problem" with energy drinks as with cigarettes, Durbin said in an interview.

Young customers were unaware the drinks were not tested by the FDA, he said.

A report from the federal Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration made the senators especially worried.

It showed the number of emergency room visits involving energy drinks doubled to nearly 21,000 from 2007 to 2011.

About 1,500 of those visits were by children aged 12 to 17.

Medical professionals tend to agree that energy drinks are unsafe for minors.

Young people are more likely to suffer the effects from large amounts of caffeine.

The energy drink industry disputes those claims.

It argues that caffeine has been studied for decades and is safe.

Rodney Sacks, chairman and chief executive of Monster Beverage, said during the Senate hearing that the company's products contain about 10 milligrams of caffeine per ounce.

Most coffee served in coffee bars has twice that amount, he said.

He and other industry officials argued that teens consume far more caffeine from coffee, tea and soft drinks.

Blumenthal acknowledged in an interview that the threat from energy drinks was not as severe as from cigarettes.

"Tobacco kills the consumer," he said.

"Energy drinks can be bad for kids, but they are not as lethal as tobacco.

Nor are they as addictive."

The senators are still disturbed by how the energy drink industry promotes the beverages.

The companies buy advertising on networks popular with youth such as MTV.

They fund development programs for teenage athletes, and sponsor concerts, sporting and gaming events that attract young people.

Blumenthal said it was like when tobacco companies' used cowboys and cartoon characters that young people would find cool.

For energy drink companies "to deny that they're appealing to children" was not really truthful,  he said.

Industry officials said at the Senate hearing that their target customers are men between 18 and 35.

They argued that their advertising is aimed at sporting events with broad appeal.

The advertising is not trying to target adolescents, they said.

