Three Democratic senators want to make it harder for minors to get energy drinks.

They say the companies that sell the drinks are targeting young people.

They compare the sales plan to what cigarette companies used to do.

The senators are Dick Durbin of Illinois, Edward Markey of Massachusetts and Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut.

All fought the tobacco companies.

They pushed for laws to stop smoking on airplanes.

They led efforts to get rid of smoking scenes in movies.

They successfully sued the tobacco companies for hiding the dangers of smoking.

Energy drinks have become popular over the last 10 years.

They are sweet.

They have caffeine to give you an energy boost.

High school and college students use them to study late into the night.

Energy drink companies say the senators are exaggerating.

They say caffeine is not as bad for teenages as the senators say it is.

But the senators are using lessons they learned when they fought against the tobacco companies.

They have asked the Food and Drug Administration to see if energy drinks were safe.

They have urged high school and college sports groups to teach athletes about the risks of combining the drinks with exercise.

Now they are looking at how the companies advertise their product.

They claim the companies target young people.

At a recent hearing, Markey showed photos from energy drink companies' Facebook pages.

Children were posing with cans of their products at public events.

He talked about the tobacco industry.

It tried to get young people to smoke.

It wanted to replace older customers who were dying off.

"Hook 'em early, keep 'em for life," he said.

"Makes a lot of sense to me as a marketing promotion."

Anais Fournier died early last fall.

She was 14.

Fournier died after she apparently drank two 24-ounce cans of Monster energy drink in a 24-hour period.

The Maryland teenager had a bad valve in her heart.

Doctors said there was a change in her heart rate "due to caffeine intoxication."

This is caffeine poisoning.

Her death lead to the campaign on energy drinks.

The two drinks she drank had as much caffeine as 14 cans of soda.

That's five times the daily limit doctors say teens should drink.

Monster Beverage has repeatedly denied any link between its drink and Fournier's death.

A government report really worried the senators.

It showed nearly 21,000 people went to the emergency room because of energy drinks in 2011.

That is twice as many people as in 2007.

About 1,500 of those visits were by children aged 12 to 17.

Doctors tend to agree that energy drinks are unsafe for minors.

Young people are more likely to be hurt by large amounts of caffeine.

The energy drink industry disagrees.

It says that people have studied caffeine for years.

Caffeine is safe, they said.

Rodney Sacks runs Monster.

He said the company's drinks have about 10 milligrams of caffeine per ounce.

Most coffee served in coffee bars has twice that amount, he said.

Teens drink far more caffeine from coffee, tea and soft drinks, he added.

Blumenthal agreed that energy drinks were not as bad as cigarettes.

Cigarettes kill, he said.

"Energy drinks can be bad for kids," but they are not as deadly.

The senators do not like how the companies advertise the drinks.

The companies buy advertising on channels that young people watch.

These are channels like MTV.

They pay for programs for teenage athletes.

They pay for concerts and sporting events that attract young people.

Blumenthal said it was like when tobacco companies' used cowboys and cartoon characters.

The idea was that young people would like the characters.

Industry officials said at the Senate hearing that their target customers are men between 18 and 35.

They argued that their advertising is aimed at sporting events with broad appeal.

They said they are not trying to target teens.

