Today Sam will plow through the city's rough boroughs in search of artisanal cookie dough, even though he ought to stay home to nurse his cough.

What's wrong with that picture?

Seven words containing "ough," some with different pronunciations.

Oo, uhff, oh, oh, oh, aww, aww.

Isn't English fun?

A group of experts in Britain and the United States believes the lack of logic in the spelling of the English language is more than just annoying for those who have to memorize the rules.

They propose an International English Spelling Congress to implement a spelling system that makes more sense.

"In some languages like Finnish, Spanish and Italian, there is a strong correlation between the written and spoken word," said Stephen Linstead, head of the English Spelling Society.

English, however, goes entirely the other way, he said.

Linstead said British and U.S. English have two major peculiarities: Words with the same letter groupings are pronounced differently and the same sound can be spelled differently, depending on the word.

Language experts from around the world would propose a list of new spellings to correct problematic word groups, like those with "ough," and the congress would select an alternative spelling system.

The effort is not simply to iron out kinks in the language.

Linstead said university studies in Britain have concluded that English-speaking children take significantly longer to learn basic literacy skills than children in other European countries, and that part of the problem lies in the spelling.

"One of the members said one of the reasons he joined us was because of the frustrations he felt teaching his children to read by using phonics," Linstead said.

"Any time he taught them a rule, there would be all sorts of exceptions."

The American Literacy Council also is involved in the endeavor.

Linstead acknowledged that to make any widespread changes would be a monumental task.

Portugal recently implemented sweeping changes to switch all Portuguese-language use over to the Brazilian system of spelling, which is more phonetic.

It's a decision that, though in the works for years, has been widely criticized, according to various news reports.

There have been similar movements throughout American history.

Colonel Robert McCormick, longtime publisher of the Chicago Tribune, was a major supporter of simplified spelling.

His newspaper for a time used "fantom" instead of "phantom" and "frate" instead of "freight," before switching back.

In the early 20th century, the Simplified Spelling Board published a list of 300 words with spellings that seemed more natural, including "fixt" for "fixed" for instance.

President Theodore Roosevelt endorsed the changes, but his executive order was overturned by Congress.

Linstead said the spelling congress is more of a grassroots movement supported by many average people, and changes may take hold more easily if society is able to decide what to adopt.

"We're trying to point to this new research rather than take a top-down approach," like one being pushed upon people by the government, Linstead said.

