Nieves Garcia came from Mexico when she was 6.

She learned English.

Even after she learned the language, her school considered her an "English learner."

When she became a mother, she didn't want her own daughter labeled the same way.

So she lied.

When Garcia signed up her daughter for kindergarten, she filled out a short survey.

Garcia said her family spoke only English at home.

It wasn't true.

Her husband does not even speak English.

"I just said we spoke English, English, English and English," Garcia said.

California education leaders say it is tough to know how many parents lie.

They say not answering truthfully can be a problem.

If children do not get the extra help they need with English, they can fall behind on their schoolwork.

Parents like Garcia are afraid to tell the truth.

They fear their kids will be separated from kids born into English-speaking families or be embarrassed.

Their kids could also miss out on advanced classes.

Rosaisela Rodriguez has twins.

She did not tell the school that her children knew Spanish.

She said most 5-year-olds learn languages easily so it shouldn't matter.

Rodriguez did not want them taken out of their class to work on English.

California plans to use a new English language test in 2016.

It may also change its home language survey, said Elena Fajardo.

She is with the state Department of Education.

The survey questions were written in 1980.

Since then, more people have come to California from other countries.

The number of people who speak a second language has gone up.

Nearly half of Californians age 5 and older speak a language other than English.

The most common is Spanish.

Most Spanish speakers in the state say they speak English very well.

That's a big change from 1990.

Then, less than a third of people age 5 and older spoke another language.

Also, less than half of Spanish-speakers said they spoke English very well.

Most states question parents about what languages they speak at home.

Often, children who speak another language are tested in English.

In California, nearly a quarter of public school students are labeled "English learners."

In 2012, kindergarteners took an English test.

The test decides what classes they will take later on.

Just one out of 10 children passed.

It made some parents angry.

They say that children should not be tested so young.

The test is given on a single day, and parents say it is too difficult.

Alison Bailey teaches at the University of California.

She studies people who speak more than one language.

She said many states do not really consider that a child might speak two languages well.

Cheryl Ortega is with United Teachers Los Angeles.

She knows that some parents lie because she has seen surveys that were filled out.

She said educators should explain the survey to parents.

Earlier this year, Tesha Sengupta-Irving signed her son up for kindergarten.

At the time, her parents were visiting.

She spoke to them in their native language, Bengali.

So she told the school that Bengali was spoken at home.

She didn't think the survey was a big deal.

Her son was tested and labeled an English learner.

Sengupta-Irving said it was funny.

She had tried hard to teach him Bengali.

Still, her son really spoke only English.

Sengupta-Irving said the survey "is catching too many kids."

