A growing language divide has opened up across the country: The rise in the number of Americans who speak English as a second language at home is leading to very different responses from cities and states.

In some places, policymakers are adopting or strengthening English-as-official-language laws, and barring the translation of certain documents into any other language.

Meanwhile, other places are becoming true multilingual societies, with laws and rules that make government forms and documents easier for immigrants who don't speak English.

The United States is one of the few countries without a national official language, and the debate over official-English laws has been around almost as long as the nation itself.

The lack of federal laws has not stopped cities and states from acting on their own.

The result is a variety of responses that are different from state to state, or even within states.

Right now, 31 states and many counties and cities have adopted English as their official language.

Oklahoma became the most recent state to do so in 2010.

Carroll County, Maryland, has done so as well.

This year, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Wisconsin saw attempts to adopt English as their official language.

Yet the number of non-English speakers is rising so fast that even in states with English as the official language, there is no guarantee that everyone will follow the laws.

"This growing diversity of languages is just simply a reality," said Patricia Gandara, a professor of education at the University of California-Los Angeles.

She is the author of an upcoming book, "The Bilingual Advantage."

"Things are changing," she added.

"And this nation is becoming a very multilingual nation."

Some local and state measures have roots going back more than a century.

In 1919, for example, Nebraska passed a law banning the teaching of any modern language other than English to any child who had not yet passed the eighth grade.

The law was later struck down by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Over the years, most of the arguments defending English language laws have not changed.

Those backing English as the official language say the law helps preserve unity.

They also say that having English as the official language offers immigrants better economic chances, and that learning English is the best way for new immigrants to succeed.

The laws are not about forbidding people from speaking other languages, explained Karin Davenport of the group U.S. English.

It promotes English instruction for immigrants and backs making English the official language.

By not asking immigrants to speak English, "you're still providing them with that crutch that's allowing them to remain linguistically isolated," she said.

Still, the country's changing population has challenged such beliefs.

Nearly 21 percent of Americans, or nearly 61 million people, now speak a language other than English at home, the U.S. Census Bureau reported.

In 2000, that number was 18 percent.

In some cases, state and local governments have made changes to adjust to changes in their population, regardless of what their own law says.

In California, for example, English is the state's official language.

Lawmakers and state officials have to take all steps necessary to make sure that the role of English as the common language of the state is preserved.

But the law is seen more as a symbol and it doesn't specifically bar the state from translating documents into other languages.

Today, California offers many documents in languages other than English, including an entire Spanish-language version of the state's Department of Motor Vehicles website.

California is a state with "many groups of people, who speak many languages," Gandara said.

Census numbers support that.

Forty-four percent of Californians reported speaking a language other than English at home, while in West Virginia just 2 percent do.

That could explain why California has found itself as the leader of a debate this year over official rules asking for the translation of patient instructions on prescription drug bottles.

Federal guidelines require drugstores that receive federal funding to offer some translation services, and some private drugstores have done it in order to attract more customers.

California would be the second state, after New York, to pass a law requiring translations on all prescription bottles.

Some worry about wrong translations or errors in communicating across languages.

But people supporting the idea say it as a matter of safety and necessity.

"The number of limited-English-proficient individuals in the United States continues to grow," said Evan Weibel of Language Scientific, a company that offers translation services for pharmacies.

"The need for services like this is something that's not going to go away."

Another example took place this year in Massachusetts.

The number of non-native-English speakers in Boston prompted the city to offer voting ballots in some areas in Chinese and in Vietnamese.

Despite the country's changing population, official-English laws have proven to be popular.

Supporters continue to push more states and cities to adopt English language laws.

They also work to convince states that have such laws, but do not enforce them, to take them more seriously.

In Arizona, an official-English group, ProEnglish, is supporting a community college student who was suspended when she complained that members of her class were speaking Spanish during group work.

ProEnglish's director, Robert Vandervoort, said the state's English law should have blocked the suspension, and that the case shows why such laws matter.

Pennsylvania is another state that may consider the issue later this fall.

"We can save tax dollars at the same time as promoting the unifying effect of English as the official language of the state," said Representative Daryl Metcalfe, who sponsored an official-English measure.

"It gives (immigrants) greater earning power, they mingle into the culture," he said.

