Read this sentence: Sam will plow through the city's rough boroughs in search of homemade cookie dough, even though he ought to stay home to nurse his cough.

What's wrong with that picture?

Seven words containing "ough," some with different pronunciations.

Oo, uhff, oh, oh, oh, aww, aww.

Isn't English fun?

A group of experts in Britain and the United States wants to change things.

They believe spelling in the English language is too annoying and difficult for those who have to memorize the rules.

They propose an International English Spelling Congress to come up with a spelling system that makes more sense.

"In some languages like Finnish, Spanish and Italian, there is a strong correlation between the written and spoken word," said Stephen Linstead, head of the English Spelling Society.

English often has no correlation, or link, between how words are written and how they sound.

Linstead said British and American English have two problems: Words with the same spelling are pronounced differently, and the same sound can be spelled differently, depending on the word.

To fix that, language experts from around the world would propose a list of new spellings to correct problem word groups — such as "ough."

The congress would then select an alternative spelling system.

The goal is not just to fix problems in the language.

Linstead said university studies in Britain have concluded that English-speaking children take significantly longer to learn basic reading and writing skills than children in other European countries.

He said part of the problem lies in the spelling.

One member of the English Spelling Society joined because he had trouble teaching his children to read by using sounds for letter groups, Linstead said.

He always found words that did not fit the rules he taught.

The American Literacy Council also is involved in the effort.

Linstead admitted that making any widespread changes would be a huge task.

Portugal recently made sweeping changes to switch all Portuguese-language use in several countries over to the Brazilian system of spelling.

Words in the Brazilian system sound more like they are spelled.

That decision, while in the works for years, has been widely criticized, according to news reports.

There have been similar movements throughout American history.

The Chicago Tribune newspaper once supported simplified spelling, and for a time used "fantom" instead of "phantom" and "frate" instead of "freight," before switching back.

In the early 20th century, the Simplified Spelling Board published a list of 300 words with more intuitive spellings: "fixt" for "fixed" for instance.

President Theodore Roosevelt agreed with the changes, but Congress stopped them from happening.

Linstead said the spelling congress is more of a grassroots program.

Changes may take hold more easily if society is able to decide what to adopt, he said.

"We're trying to point to this new research rather than take a top-down approach," like one being pushed upon people by the government, Linstead said.

