A British scientist says he may have solved the mystery of the Abominable Snowman — the elusive ape-like creature of the Himalayas.

He thinks it's a bear.

He ran tests on the creature, also known as the Yeti.

They suggest it is the descendant of an ancient polar bear.

Professor Bryan Sykes studied DNA from two Himalayan animals known as Yetis.

He found some of the same genes as a polar bear jawbone that is at least 40,000 years old.

Sykes said Thursday that the tests showed the creatures were not related to modern Himalayan bears.

They were direct descendants of the prehistoric animal.

It could be a new species, he said.

But it could also be a cross between polar bears and brown bears.

"The next thing is go there and find one," he added.

Sykes asked scientists, museums and Yeti fans for hair samples.

One sample came from an alleged Yeti mummy in India.

It was taken by a French mountaineer who was shown the corpse 40 years ago.

Another came from a hair found 10 years ago in Bhutan, 800 miles (1,300 kilometers) to the east.

The distance and dates suggest the species is still alive, Sykes said.

"I can't imagine we managed to get samples from the only two 'snow bears' in the Himalayas," he said.

Finding a living creature could explain the descriptions of the Yeti.

The polar bear genes could make them act and look different and walk on two feet more often, he said.

Sykes' report hasn't been published yet.

It is a reasonable explanation for the Yeti stories, said professor Tom Gilbert, of the Natural History Museum of Denmark.

"It's a lot easier to believe that than if he had found something else," said Gilbert, who was not involved in the study.

"If he had said it's some kind of new primate, I'd want to see all the data."

Sykes' findings are unlikely to lay the myth of the Yeti to rest.

The Yeti or Abominable Snowman is one of a number of legends about beasts, such as Sasquatch and Bigfoot.

Decades of eyewitness reports, blurry photos and stories have kept the legend alive.

But scientists doubt it.

The report won't stop yeti believers, said David Frayer, a professor at the University of Kansas.

But "no amount of scientific data will ever shake their belief."

If Sykes wanted "to refute the Yeti nonsense, then good luck," he said.

Sykes said he was simply trying "to inject some science into a rather murky field."

"The Yeti, the Bigfoot, is surrounded in myth and hoaxes," he said.

"But you can't invent a DNA sequence from a hair."

