The English language has a lot of strange spelling rules.

Take the letter grouping "ough," for example.

It can be said different ways.

There's "uhff" as in "rough" for one.

Or how about "oh" as in "dough?"

Sometimes it is "off" as in "cough."

A group of experts in Great Britain and the United States want to make changes.

They say there should be a meeting called an International English Spelling Congress.

The group would come up with a new spelling system.

The new way would make more sense.

Words in some languages usually sound like they are spelled, said Stephen Linstead.

Spanish and Italian are two examples.

But English words often do not sound like how they are written, he said.

Linstead runs the English Spelling Society.

Linstead said British and American English have two problems.

One is that words with the same spelling are sometimes pronounced differently.

Another is that the same sound can be spelled differently.

To fix it, language experts would make a list of new word spellings.

Then the congress would decide which ones to use.

Linstead also said studies in Britain have found that English-speaking children take longer to learn reading and writing than children in other European countries.

He said part of the problem is the spelling.

Linstead said that it would be hard to make big changes.

Portugal is trying to make a change.

People in both Brazil and Portugal speak Portuguese.

But they speak and spell it a little differently.

Portugal wants to switch to the Brazilian way of spelling.

Words the Brazilian way sound more like they are spelled.

People have complained about the change though.

People in America have tried to change the spelling system before.

The Chicago Tribune newspaper once tried simpler spelling.

It used "fantom" instead of "phantom."

It also used "frate" instead of "freight."

Now it does not.

Also, a group called the Simplified Spelling Board tried to make a change in the early 1900s.

It came up with a list of 300 words.

It changed the spellings to make more sense.

One word was "fixt" for "fixed."

President Theodore Roosevelt supported the changes.

Congress did not.

The lawmakers blocked any changes.

Linstead said lots of people want a spelling congress.

They are not trying to force it on people.

That could make it easier to make changes, he said.

