The English language has a lot of strange spelling rules.

Take the letter grouping "ough," for example.

It can be pronounced many different ways.

There is "uhff" as in "rough" for one.

Or how about "oh" as in "dough" and "off" as in "cough?"

A group of experts in Great Britain and the United States wants to make changes.

They want to hold an International English Spelling Congress.

The congress would come up with a spelling system that makes more sense.

In languages like Spanish and Italian, words are more likely to sound like they are spelled, said Stephen Linstead.

He is head of the English Spelling Society.

Linstead said British and American English have two problems: Words with the same spelling are pronounced differently, and the same sound can be spelled differently.

It depends on the word.

Language experts would make a list of new spellings.

Then the congress would decide which spellings to use.

The goal is not just to fix problems in the language.

Linstead said studies in Britain have found that English-speaking children take longer to learn reading and writing skills than children in other European countries.

He said part of the problem is the spelling.

One member of the English Spelling Society joined because he had trouble teaching his children to read by using sounds for letter groups, Linstead said.

He always found words that did not fit the rules he taught.

The American Literacy Council is also in favor of the changes.

Linstead said it would be hard to make big changes.

Portugal is trying to do the same thing.

People in both Brazil and Portugal speak Portuguese.

Portugal wanted to switch to the Brazilian way of spelling Portuguese words.

Words the Brazilian way sound more like they are spelled.

The decision to make the changes has been in the works for years, but many people have complained about it.

There have been other tries throughout American history to change English spelling.

The Chicago Tribune newspaper once supported simplified spelling, and for a time used "fantom" instead of "phantom" and "frate" instead of "freight."

Later, it switched back.

And in the early 1900s, the Simplified Spelling Board published a list of 300 words with spellings that made more sense: "fixt" for "fixed" for instance.

President Theodore Roosevelt supported the changes, but lawmakers in Congress stopped them from happening.

Linstead said the spelling congress is something that average people support, not just the government or professors.

Changes may happen more easily if everyone is able to decide which ones to choose, he said.

