A tegu lizard can't gobble down a full-grown deer or alligator like an 18-foot Burmese python can.

But the four-footer  may be a greater threat to South Florida's wildlife than even the deadly snake.

The python has drawn international media attention in recent years for eating large animals.

And now, scientists say, it's too late to wipe out the tegu which eats just about everything else in the wild.

"When we first found out about them in 2008, we thought we had a chance to nip this population in the bud," said the National Park Service's Tony Pernas.

Pernas co-chairs the Everglades Cooperative Invasive Species Management Area group.

Now, all they can hope for is to limit their spread.

The tegus probably were abandoned by irresponsible owners or escaped from breeding facilities in south Miami-Dade County.

They have been long popular in the exotic pet trade -- animals more commonly found in the wild.

Right now, the escapees' home base is in the Florida City-Homestead area.

Federal, state and local agencies, along with private trappers, are trying to round up as many tegus as possible before the lizards go into hibernation in October.

Scientists and wildlife managers mainly worry that the black-and-white tegus will spread to neighboring Everglades National Park, where a handful of them have already been caught.

Containment is urgent, they say.

The lizards will eat just about anything, including small mammals, birds, insects, plants, and their all-time favorite — eggs.

That means goodbye to the baby American crocodiles that would have hatched in the refuge and on the grounds of the power plant.

It could also mean lights out for the endangered Key Largo wood rat and other native creatures.

"They have the potential to impact all kinds of ([endangered](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species)) species," said Jenny Eckles.

She is a wildlife biologist with the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission (FWC).

Tegus are a big problem because they can swim in water and easily adapt to different surroundings.

Tegus thrive in temperatures as low as 35 degrees Fahrenheit and as hot as anything steamy South Florida can throw at them.

Tegus are often out in the open during the hottest time of day.

Burmese pythons, in contrast, can't handle extended cold weather.

Their numbers were reduced during a cold snap in 2010.

The tegus hibernate in burrows from October until about January or February then emerge once again to search for food and reproduce.

Females can lay 35 eggs a year.

Eckles and other scientists say they don't know the size of the tegu population in south or  west-central Florida.

But their numbers definitely are on the rise.

Pernas said trappers caught 13 tegus in 2009.

This summer, wildlife researchers captured more than 140 tegus.

These were found mainly on public lands and were killed humanely, according to Eckles.

She said citizen trappers have taken more than 300 from private lands.

Tegus are easiest to trap using eggs as bait, according to Jake Edwards.

He is a wildlife technician hired by FWC to capture the lizards.

Edwards said they are not easy to catch.

After spotting one, he may have 10 seconds to nab it before it runs away.

But neither Edwards nor Jeff Fobb recommends grabbing a tegu, which has needle-sharp teeth and claws, by the hand.

Fobb is a trapper who heads Miami-Dade Fire Rescue's Venom One unit.

"I'd rather get bit by a 10-foot snake than that guy right there," Fobb said.

He pointed to a two-footer he recently caught in someone's garage.

South Florida's growing tegu population has spawned a new industry: trappers who sell them as pets.

Rodney Irwin, 59, of Homestead, began trapping tegus on private land for fun and profit about two years ago.

He estimates he's taken between 800 and 1,000 of the lizards.

He sells most of them directly to customers on his website www.tegusonly.com for about $100 apiece.

Irwin says he's working to benefit South Florida's ecosystem.

"This is a chance for me to make a difference," he said.

"I can't do anything about the apes in Borneo, but I can do something about the natives in my hometown."

Irwin was asked whether he was concerned that the pets may end up right back in the Everglades abandoned by their owners.

Irwin responded that none of his customers are local.

In any case, they could buy a tegu in a pet store.

He said he shares his data about the captured lizards with scientists.

So far, there are no plans to restrict the ownership of tegus, according to Kristen Sommers.

She heads the FWC's exotic species section.

Sommers said the FWC is still gathering information.

The commission is trying to figure out the potential for the tegus expanding even farther and what the impact of that would be.

Within the next year, it will have enough data to be able to determine its next steps.

"We need to figure out what's going on with this," Sommers said.

