A tegu lizard can't gobble down an alligator like an 18-foot Burmese python can.

But a four-foot tegu can do a lot more damage to South Florida's animals.

And now, scientists say, it's too late to wipe the tegu out.

"When we first found out about them in 2008, we thought we had a chance to nip this population in the bud," said Tony Pernas.

He works for the National Parks Service.

Now, the scientists just hope they can stop the tegus from spreading.

Tegus come from Argentina.

They are popular as pets.

The ones found in Florida were most likely given up by their owners.

They might have released them into the wild because they got tired of them.

Some may have escaped from breeding centers in south Miami-Dade County.

Wildlife experts are trying to round up as many tegus as possible before October.

They go into hibernation then.

After that, it will be difficult to find them.

Scientists are worried that the black-and-white tegus will spread to nearby Everglades National Park.

A handful of them already have been caught there.

The lizards eat just about anything, including small animals, birds, insects and plants.

Their all-time favorite is eggs.

And that means goodbye to the baby American crocodiles that hatch there.

It's hard to keep them from spreading, said Jenny Eckles.

She studies wildlife for the state of Florida.

Tegus can live in temperatures as low as 35 degrees.

They also enjoy South Florida's steamy heat, she said.

Burmese pythons, on the other hand, can't handle the cold.

The animals hibernate until January or February.

Then they come out to search for food and lay their eggs.

Females can lay 35 eggs a year.

Eckles and other scientists don't know the exact size of the tegu population.

But the numbers definitely are going up.

Pernas said trappers caught 13 tegus in 2009.

This summer, researchers captured more than 140 tegus.

These were found mainly on public lands, Eckles said.

Trappers have taken more than 300 from private lands.

The tegus are hard to catch, said Jake Edwards.

He was hired by the state to capture the lizards.

After he spots one, he may have just 10 seconds to catch it before it runs away.

The best way to get them is to put eggs in traps.

It's not a good idea to grab a tegu by the hand, Edwards added.

The lizard has needle-like teeth and claws.

"I'd rather get bit by a 10-foot snake than that guy right there," said Jeff Fobb.

He is a trapper who works for the Miami-Dade fire department.

He pointed to a two-footer he caught in a garage.

The rising number of tegus in South Florida has created a new business: trappers who sell them as pets.

Rodney Irwin began trapping tegus for fun and profit about two years ago.

He says he's captured 800 to 1,000 tegus.

He sells most of them directly to people through his website.

They cost about $100 each.

Irwin said this is a chance to make a difference in his hometown.

Irwin was asked if he is concerned that the new owners will abandon the tegus he sells.

Irwin responded that none of them live in the area.

In any case, they could buy a tegu in a pet store.

He said he shares information about the captured lizards with scientists.

So far, there are no plans to stop letting people keep tegus as pets, said Kristen Sommers.

She works for the state of Florida.

Her department tracks exotic species like lizards, parrots and snakes.

Sommers said the state is trying to figure out if the tegus might spread farther and what would happen if they did.

Within a year, Florida will have enough information to decide its next steps.

"We need to figure out what's going on with this," Sommers said.

