People used to play computer games only at home.

They played against players they never met.

Things have certainly changed since then.

Gaming is now like any other sport.

The top players play in big halls.

They play in front of cheering crowds.

On Saturday the Fillmore theater was packed.

The Fillmore is a big hall in Silver Spring, Maryland.

A crowd was there to watch the Red Bull Battle Grounds championship games.

Top computer gamers had come to play against each other.

The crowd began cheering as the players walked onto the stage.

Fans waved pictures of the players they like most.

The players then began warming up.

One added a neck pillow to the back of his chair.

Another moved his shoulders up and down to get loose.

Once everyone was ready, the games began.

The gamers were playing a new form of the game StarCraft.

The new kind of StarCraft lets teams of two play against each other.

The first match was particularly exciting.

Choi Ji Sung and Mun Seong Won were on one of the teams.

Choi is known as "Bomber" and Mun is called "MMA."

Chris Loranger and Jang Min Chul were on the other team.

Loranger is called "Huk" and Jang is known as "M.C."

Bomber was the winner of the last big games.

He was hoping to win again.

Huk and M.C.

wanted to see if they could beat Bomber and MMA.

There is a large cash prize for the winners.

Some players can turn gaming into a job.

They can make a good amount of money from the gaming contests.

The fans came from all over the country to watch the competitions.

Sounil Yu and his two teenage sons came from Virginia.

The three like to play StarCraft together at home.

Yu and his sons think StarCraft is one of the hardest computer games.

Jessica Yuen was another one of the excited fans.

She was involved with a StarCraft club when she was in college three years ago.

Some club members are still her closest friends.

Yuen traveled with some members to the event.

She said her other close friends are gamers she met on the Internet.

Yuen was hoping Huk would be one of the winners.

"He's just a nice guy.

He cares about his fans," Yuen said.

Yuen got her wish.

Huk and M.C.

won their match.

The game lasted seven hours.

