Europe is experiencing a heat wave.

Temperatures reached 100 degrees outside the Palais Coburg Hotel in Austria.

Important talks about the Iranian nuclear program were happening inside the hotel.

World leaders have been talking about Iran's nuclear program.

It is important because of how dangerous nuclear power and weapons are.

Some people think Iran should not have nuclear energy.

Inside the hotel, it was even hotter than 100.

"You have no idea what our room is like," one government leader said.

"The Coburg Hotel is a lovely hotel," he added.

Still, "air conditioning is not what they did best."

Air conditioning is ordinary in the United States.

It makes warm places like Florida, Texas, and California's Central Valley comfortable during the summer.

It may cause men and women in offices to argue over the right temperature.

No one in Europe has those fights.

Europeans hate air conditioning.

Travel websites are filled with stories of how unpleasant the United States is with its indoor cold.

Many Europeans say it makes them ill.

Many Europeans say that air conditioning creates more greenhouse gases.

Global temperatures are rising because of these gases.

Greenhouse gases can be caused by power plants.

Air conditioners need electricity to work.

Power plants burn fossil fuels to make electricity.

Coal and gas are fossil fuels.

They release greenhouse gases.

The leaders of Germany recommend that Germans use fans.

A very small number of homes there are air conditioned.

Still, some people wonder if Germans really need to live so uncomfortably.

After all, summers are getting hotter.

Not Texas or Florida hot, but very hot for Europe.

The trains, for example, have problems when the temperatures get too hot.

When Germans set up their trains, they added air conditioning.

The air conditioning works only if temperatures do not go above 89.6 degrees.

No plan was made for temperatures higher than that.

With more and more days of higher temperatures, the trains are known for being very hot.

The windows also do not open on high-speed trains.

Frank Boehnke is an expert on the German train system.

He said passengers wonder how trains that can travel at more than 200 miles per hour can have such poor air conditioning.

"The temperature inside the trains can reach 122 degrees," Boehnke said.

"Passengers can be locked up in such conditions for hours."

At times, the problem is clear to everyone.

On Aug. 3, a high-speed train in Germany was sitting in a station.

Suddenly, one of its overworked air conditioning units burst into flames.

Trains are not the only place in Germany that could use air conditioning.

The temperature in the top of the Bundestag building has reached 104 many times this summer.

Important German government meetings happen there.

The temperature has soared as high as 120.

Around Berlin, people call it the "heat dome."

Visitors have passed out after climbing to it.

Still, the German government is not expected to call for more air conditioning.

Air conditioning is not good for the planet, it said.

The heat problem remains, though.

Lawmakers are not sure what they would do if Europe ever has another summer like 2003.

That year, nearly 70,000 Europeans died from the heat.

