Temperatures approached 100 degrees in Vienna as leaders recently discussed the Iranian nuclear program at the Palais Coburg Hotel.

Inside, where seven Cabinet-level leaders from six of the world's most powerful nations, as well as Iran, were engaged in some of the world's most delicate diplomatic negotiations, it was even hotter.

"You have no idea what our room is like," said one Western diplomat, who's not being named because he preceded his remarks with "if you write this, I will kill you."

"The Coburg Hotel is a lovely hotel," he added.

"But — way off the record — air conditioning is not what they did best."

Air conditioning may be considered normal in the United States.

It makes Florida's tropical summers livable and cools the blazing heat from temperatures that often reach into the triple digits in Texas or California's Central Valley.

And it may have set off office battles in the United States between men and women over what the proper temperatures should be.

In Europe, there are no such disputes.

Europeans hate the idea of air conditioning, noting that it uses huge amounts of electricity, which helps drive the production of the greenhouse gases blamed for increasing global temperatures.

Travel websites are filled with stories — mostly from women — of how unpleasant the United States is with its artificial cold.

Many Europeans report returning home ill after a U.S. visit.

In uber-green Germany, a recent government website offered sweating citizens the advice of turning on a fan.

Only 2 percent of the homes are air conditioned.

Still, there are those who wonder if citizens really need to live so uncomfortably.

Summers are, after all, getting hotter.

Not Texas or Florida hot, but by European standards, sweltering.

Take, for example, the trains.

When Germans set up their futuristic looking intercity train system (ironically called ICE), they added air conditioning that would keep passengers cool as long as the temperatures outside didn't go higher than 89.6 degrees.

In a 2010 report to the German government, the agency that runs the trains admitted there was no plan for temperatures above that.

With more and more days with higher temperatures, ICE trains have acquired a reputation for being extremely hot.

Windows also do not open on high-speed trains.

Frank Boehnke, spokesman for the Association of German Rail Users, said passengers wonder how trains that can travel at more than 200 miles per hour can have such outdated air conditioning.

The association looks out for the interests of German train riders.

"We have complaints every year.

The temperature inside the trains can reach 122 degrees," Boehnke said.

"Passengers can be locked up in such conditions for hours."

Passengers faint or get ill.

Trains run out of water.

Travel can be disrupted nationwide in a nation that relies on the trains for travel.

Boehnke says Deutsche Bahn, the agency that operates the trains, has said the issue will be addressed with the next generation of trains.

It needs to be dealt with "urgently," he said.

"With climate change, we have to expect more days of extreme temperature in the future," Boehnke said.

At times, the issue is obvious to all.

On Aug. 3, a high-speed train from Berlin to Munich was sitting in the Stuttgart station when one of its overworked air conditioning units burst into flames.

Trains are not the only place in Germany that could use an air conditioning upgrade.

The temperature in the transparent cupola above the Bundestag, where the German parliament meets, has reached 104 many times this summer, and has been recorded as high as 120.

Around Berlin, its new nickname is "Hitzekuppel" or "heat dome" and tourists have passed out after climbing up to see it.

As such, it is often been closed during Berlin's peak tourist season.

Hotels either do not offer air conditioning or it doesn't work.

Even grocery stores are unpleasant.

Entire sections of produce are thrown out for having over-ripened in the extreme temperatures.

Paul Becker, vice president of the German weather service, warned last month that the problem goes beyond mere comfort.

"In the wake of climate change, we expect more, longer and more intense heat waves in Germany in the future," he said.

If they do not adjust, it may lead to an increase in heat-related deaths due to heart disease, he said.

Still, the German government is reluctant to recommend more air conditioning.

This month, the German Ministry of the Environment specifically exempted air conditioning from aid provided to adapt to climate change.

"Air conditioning is ruled out as it works against the protection of the environment," it said.

The ministry called air conditioning a good example of a win-lose scenario: Those seeking relief from the heat might win, but the environment loses and it leads to more climate change problems in the long run.

But officials also aren't quite sure what they would suggest if faced with another summer like 2003, when an estimated 70,000 Europeans died from heat-related causes.

