On a cold, winter day in Berlin, the sun is only up for about 7 1/2 hours.

Still, many people ride their bikes to work.

Marion Gisske rides her bike to work almost every day.

This isn't a remarkable occurrence in her life.

Gisske, who is 55 years old, also rides in the warmth of summer, when Berlin's daylight lasts for almost 17 hours.

However, it does make her a success story in a grand design in Berlin and cities throughout northern Europe to encourage commuters to reduce their car  travel and switch to bikes.

For Gisske, riding a bike is an easy choice.

"Every day is a good day when it starts with a sunrise you see from your bike," Gisske explained.

"To come home on the bike is to relax, and to see everyone else looking very stressed in their cars.

The trains are packed.

The bike is perfect."

Berlin is aiming to have 1 of every 5 trips within the city to be made by bike before 2025.

To help in this effort, city law offers a tax break for cyclists.

For every mile a cyclist commutes, they receive a tax break that's equivalent to 53 U.S. cents.

Last year, the city invested $16 million in bike infrastructure.

By U.S. standards, Berlin's efforts represent both heavy investment and high goals.

By Northern European standards these days, however, Berlin is a follower, not the leader, in the push to encourage cycling.

In Copenhagen, 36 percent of commuters biked to work in 2012.

By the end of 2015, that rose to more than 50 percent.

Norway's capital, Oslo, is a city just about as far north as Anchorage, Alaska.

These days, the sun is rising after 9 a.m. and setting just after 3 p.m.

The city council there has been talking about banning cars from downtown.

Even though the country relies on oil revenue for wealth and has a surplus of electrical power, the city council wants to promote the bike as a primary form of transportation.

The council, which is proposing to spend $450 million during the next decade on bike infrastructure, was elected in September on a bikes-first platform.

The goal: By 2019, reduce car traffic citywide by 20 percent.

By 2030, reduce car traffic by a third.

To get there, the council is considering increasing the daily fee that gas-using cars pay to enter the city.

The payoff: reducing the nation's carbon footprint by 40 percent.

Ola Elestuen is a member of the Norwegian Parliament's Committee on Energy and the Environment.

Last year, at a green transportation conference in Portland, Oregon, Ola said, "Oslo wants to become an example for the world."

Setting an example means doing better than other places.

Amsterdam and many other cities in northern Europe are already bike friendly.

Many cities build bridges, traffic signals and parking garages with cyclists in mind.

Networks of bike paths and protected lanes often make a cycling commute faster than one by car.

Stefan Goessling co-authored what might be the most comprehensive study of the costs of travel by cycling vs. automobiles.

His recent study was called "Transport Transitions in Copenhagen: Comparing the Cost of Cars and Bicycles."

It determined that "when all aspects are included," the cost of a mile cycled is 14 cents, while a mile by car is 88 cents.

Goessling argues that there are social benefits of cycling.

He said cycling generates 28 cents a mile in savings on health care and other services.

On the other hand, he said commuting by car costs the community.

He said each car mile costs society 27 cents in road deterioration, energy and the lost time of commuters.

Goessling outlined one purpose of his study of Copenhagen.

He wanted "to determine whether it is economically justifiable to build more infrastructure for cycles."

He said the study looked only at Copenhagen, but he thinks the results would apply to many cities.  He even thinks the United States could benefit from biking more and driving less. "I could even imagine that health benefits in the U.S. could be greater than in Copenhagen, as you have a population that arguably in parts could do with more exercise," Goessling said.

