Mount Everest, the world's highest peak, has earned another nickname: "the world's highest garbage dump," because of the tons of trash climbers leave behind.

Now, in an effort to clean up Everest, Nepal is making new rules to persuade climbers to pick up after themselves.

So, litterbugs, beware.

Starting this spring, Nepali officials at Everest base camp will check that each climber descends the mountain with about 18 pounds of trash.

That's the amount the government estimates an exhausted climber throws away along the route down from the top.

"We are not asking climbers to search and pick up trash left by someone else," said Maddhu Sudan Burlakoti, head of the mountaineering department at the Tourism Ministry.

"We just want them to bring back what they took up."

The goal is to make sure no new trash will be left on Everest.

Officials hope the rules will help clear the mountain of crumpled food wrappers, shredded tents and spent oxygen cylinders littering the mountain.

The government has long asked climbers to clear their trash, but there was no way to check what people brought down.

There also was little or no enforcement despite threats to keep $4,000 climbing deposits for littering teams.

And the threats were rarely carried out.

The government did not say what action it would take against climbers who descend without the 18 pounds of trash.

About 230,000 people came last year specifically to trek the Himalayas, with 810 attempting to scale Everest.

About 450,000 foreigners visit Nepal each year.

More than 4,000 climbers have climbed the 29,035-foot summit since 1953.

Everest was first conquered that year by New Zealand climber Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay.

Hundreds of others have died in the attempt.

And many climbers have succeeded only with help from oxygen tanks, equipment porters and Sherpa guides.

Nepali authorities have never had much control over what happens at the mountain's extreme altitudes and remote regions.

Instead, private trekking companies organize climbs and report any problems.

They are also left to clear away the trash.

The trekking companies launch yearly expeditions to bring down whatever garbage hasn't been covered over by ice and snow since the last climbing season.

"There is no way to say how much garbage is still left on Everest," said Dawa Steven Sherpa.

He has been leading Eco Everest Expeditions since 2008 and plans this year's effort to include about 30 foreign climbers and 45 Nepalis.

"It is impossible to say what is under the ice."

Still, Sherpas and environmentalists applauded the government's new clean-up rules.

"This is a rule that should have been introduced a long time back," said Ang Tshering, president of Nepal Mountaineering Association.

"It is going to make sure that climbers obey the rules."

Nepalese sometimes attribute climbing deaths to bad karma earned through disrespecting the mountain.

They consider the mountain they call Sagarmatha to be sacred.

Sagarmatha means "forehead of the sky" in Nepali, while the Tibetan name for Everest is Chomolangma, or "goddess of the snow."

For the government, the mountain is the centerpiece of tourism industry.

Nepal earns $3.3 million each year in climbing fees alone.

The tourism industry also supports tens of thousands of Nepalese hotel owners, trekking guides and porters.

If the garbage-checking tent at Everest base camp is successful, the model will be rolled out to other climbing routes, the Tourism Ministry said.

The nine officials being posted to Everest base camp will also be better able to help climbers in trouble or resolve disputes.

Last year, a fist fight broke out between three European climbers and several Sherpa guides over safe climbing procedures.

"They will be there for the safety of the climbers," Burlakoti said.

"In case of medical emergency or disaster, these officers would be able to respond."

The new measures are part of a wider effort by Nepal's government to take control and increase revenues from its trekking industry.

Last month, the government said it would reduce Everest climbing fees to $11,000 a person next year to attract more people.

Climbers currently pay $25,000 unless they are part of a group receiving a discount.

Groups of seven pay only $70,000.

Fees for other mountains, including seven more of the world's 10 tallest, will also be reduced.

The group discount had been criticized for making climbing more dangerous.

Critics say it encourages people to team up even if they have vastly different experience and barely know each other.

However, the fee change irked environmentalists who said the mountain was already overburdened.

Italian climbing legend Reinhold Messner has called for Nepal to close down Everest for a few years for the mountain to rest and recover.

