Galden Sherpa wasn't startled by the low, thunderous boom he heard at the bsae camp of Mount Everest.

Mountain climbers are used to such noises, which happen when the ice breaks under the sun's morning heat.

But then he heard the radio: A massive glacier had crashed down the mountain.

Twenty-five Nepalese sherpa guides were buried under ice sheets the size of houses.

The next morning, Galden flew down the mountain in a helicopter.

He hiked a short distance to where a dead body lay half-buried in the snow.

Using a shovel and ax, he helped uncover the body.

His heart sank when he recognized the face of a friend laying before him.

In all, 13 bodies were recovered, nine men were rescued and three sherpas remained missing.

Galden will not return to Mount Everest this year.

His mother begged him to find another job.

The 28-year-old knew she was right.

The job had become deadly and it was devastating to see his friends die on the mountain.

Still, it was not easy for Galden to leave the career that he had known for so long.

The avalanche in April 2014 was the deadliest ever recorded on Mount Everest.

The mountain is the world's highest peak.

All 16 victims who died in the disaster were sherpas, the term for local men who are paid to help tourists climb the mountain.

Sherpas guide climbers, carry supplies and work at the camps.

The profession is dominated by the ethnic Sherpa people who live in the Himalayan highlands, at the bottom of Mount Everest.

A sherpa can earn up to $6,000 for reaching the top of Mount Everest, which is a lot of money in a country where most people make about $700 a year.

Many sherpas earn extra income in the offseason by guiding tours of the lower peaks and studying English.

The climbing and weather conditions have changed a lot over the years at Mount Everest.

Temperatures are increasing on the mountain, which melts the ice and leads to avalanches.

In addition, as more climbers visit the peak, the working conditions get worse for the sherpas.

The mountain is extremely important to Nepal's tourism industry.

According to the Himalayan Database, 658 people reached the summit of Everest in 2013, five times the number in 2000.

With customers willing to pay more than $60,000 to reach the summit, tour companies compete to provide their wealthy clients with luxury comforts.

High-end expeditions now offer sushi, espresso, fully stocked bars and Internet cafes on the mountain.

These amenities require equipment, which means that sherpas need to haul it all up themselves.

The Nepalese government has taken some steps to make the climbing industry safer.

They require that companies have insurance policies for their sherpas.

These policies will help pay for any injuries the sherpas get while climbing the moutnain.

Officials also contributed money to education funds for children of sherpas who died and paid death benefits to families following last year's avalanche.

Some critics say that country should be doing more and that the families of sherpas who are killed should receive more money from the government.

The avalanche happened early in the morning on April 18.

As the foreign climbers slept at base camp, the sherpas set off to begin preparations for the day's journey.

They slowly hauled supplies up the peak, through a long maze of jagged glaciers and yawning crevasses.

Shaky aluminum ladders lined the pathway to give the climbers support when walking.

The team stopped for more than half an hour, working to repair a broken ladder.

As they worked, a "traffic jam" developed, recalled Dawa Tashi, a 23-year-old sherpa.

Suddenly the ice crashed down.

Tashi turned his body as the snow hurtled toward him to protect his spine from impact.

He then fell unconscious.

Eventually, rescuers found his body and dug him out of the snow using a shovel.

His left shoulder, four ribs and nose were broken, and sharp pieces of ice had lodged in his face.

It took him months to recover.

Tashi hasn't decided about whether he will return to climbing.

His wife and doctor have encouraged him not to.

But Tashi is the son of a climber and the oldest of three brothers.

He feels a sense of duty that is hard to deny.

"The whole family would be unhappy if I go back," he said.

"But our profession is mountaineering.

It will be difficult for me to do anything else."

