Mountain climbers who hike up Mount Everest are used to hearing loud noises.

In the morning, the sun will often melt big sheets of ice on the summit.

So when Galden Sherpa heard a thunderous boom when he was at base camp, he wasn't startled.

But then he heard an announcement on the radio: A huge glacier of ice had just come crashing down the mountain, causing an avalanche.

Twenty-five mountain guides were buried under sheets of ice the size of houses.

The next morning, Galden flew down the mountain in a helicopter.

He hiked a short distance and found the bodies of avalanche victims buried in the snow.

Using different tools, he helped dig the men out of the snow.

Many of the men died in the avalanche.

Galden was heartbroken when he recognized the face of a friend.

After the avalanche, Galden decided to not return to Mount Everest this year.

Even though it was not easy to leave his career, the job had become too dangerous.

The avalanche that Galden saw was in April 2014.

It was the deadliest avalanche known to have happened on Mount Everest, the world's tallest mountain.

Sixteen people died.

All of the people were sherpas, the term for the local men who are paid to help tourists climb the mountain.

Sherpas guide climbers, carry supplies and work at the camps.

Most of the men in the profession are ethnic Sherpa people who live in the Himalayan highlands, an area at the bottom of Mount Everest.

A lot of things have changed at Mount Everest over the years.

For one thing, the temperatures have gotten warmer, which melts the ice and snow.

This can lead to avalanches, like the one in 2014.

Also, more visitors than ever are climbing the mountain.

The working conditions for sherpas have gotten worse as the number of climbers has increased.

Customers pay up to $60,000 to reach the summit.

Tour companies compete for their business and want to provide their wealthy clients with luxury service.

Some expeditions offer sushi, espresso and Internet cafes on the mountain.

These treats may be nice for customers, but sherpas are the ones who have to carry the supplies up the mountain.

The 2014 disaster happened early in the morning when the paying climbers were sleeping.

The sherpas left ahead of the climbers to prepare for the day's journey.

The men were carrying supplies up the mountain through a long maze of tall glaciers and steep canyons.

The sherpa team stopped along the pathway to fix a broken ladder.

They were working for more than half an hour and a "traffic jam" developed on the trail.

Suddenly, the ice crashed down.

Dawa Tashi, a sherpa, remembers how fast the ice fell down.

He was hurt during the avalanche.

He could not move or talk and he looked like he was sleeping.

Eventually, rescuers found his body and dug him out of the snow using a shovel.

His left shoulder, four ribs and nose were broken, and sharp pieces of ice had stuck in his face.

It took months to heal.

Tashi hasn't decided about whether he will return to climbing.

His wife and doctor have told him not to.

Still, Tashi is the son of a climber and the oldest of three brothers.

Being a sherpa is an important part of who Tashi is and he feels a duty to his family and the profession.

"The whole family would be unhappy if I go back," he said.

"But our profession is mountaineering.

It will be difficult for me to do anything else."

