Mount Everest, the world's highest mountain, has become the world's highest garbage dump.

Now, in an effort to get mountain climbers to clean up their trash, Nepal's government has made a new rule.

Litterbugs, watch out.

Starting this spring, Nepali officials will check that each climber leaves the mountain with about 18 pounds of garbage.

That's about how much trash a climber throws away on the route down from the peak.

"We are not asking climbers to search and pick up trash left by someone else," said Maddhu Sudan Burlakoti, head of mountaineering at the Tourism Ministry.

"We just want them to bring back what they took up."

The goal is to make sure no new trash will be left on Everest.

Officials hope the rules will help clear the mountain of crumpled food wrappers, broken tents and empty oxygen containers.

The government has long asked climbers to clear their trash.

But there was no way to check what people brought down.

There also was little or no enforcement in spite of threats to charge $4,000 for climbing teams that litter.

And the threats were rarely carried out.

The government did not say what action it would take if climbers descend without the 18 pounds of trash.

About 230,000 people came to Nepal last year to hike the Himalayas.

About 810 of them attempted to climb Everest.

An estimated 450,000 foreigners visit Nepal each year.

More than 4,000 climbers have climbed the 29,035-foot mountain since New Zealand climber Edmund Hillary and his Sherpa guide Tenzing Norgay reached the top of Everest in 1953.

Hundreds of climbers have died attempting to reach the top.

And many climbers have succeeded only with help from oxygen tanks, equipment porters and Sherpa guides.

The air is so thin at the top of the mountain that many climbers need extra oxygen.

Nepal's authorities have never had much control over what happens in the mountain's remote areas.

Instead, private trekking companies organize climbs and report any problems.

They also clean up the trash.

The trekking companies launch yearly expeditions to bring down that year's garbage.

"There is no way to say how much garbage is still left on Everest," said Dawa Steven Sherpa, who leads Eco Everest Expeditions.

"It is impossible to say what is under the ice."

Still, many applauded the government's new clean-up rules.

"This is a rule that should have been introduced a long time back," said Ang Tshering.

He is president of Nepal Mountaineering Association.

"It is going to make sure that climbers obey the rules."

Nepalese sometimes say that climbing deaths are caused by disrespecting the mountain.

They consider the mountain they call Sagarmatha to be sacred.

Sagarmatha means "forehead of the sky" in Nepali.

The Tibetan name for Everest is Chomolangma, or "goddess of the snow."

The mountain is the centerpiece of Nepal's tourism industry.

Climbers pay Nepal $3.3 million each year to go up the mountain.

The tourism industry also supports thousands of Nepalese hotel owners, trekking guides and porters.

Porters carry climbers' gear up the mountain.

The Tourism Ministry hopes climbers on other routes will bring down their garbage.

The officials at Everest base camp can better help climbers in trouble or resolve disputes.

Last year, a fist fight broke out between European climbers and Sherpa guides over safety.

"They will be there for the safety of the climbers," Burlakoti said.

"In case of medical emergency or disaster, these officers would be able to respond."

Nepal also hopes to increase its income from trekking.

The government plans to reduce Everest climbing costs to $11,000 a person next year to attract more people.

Individual climbers currently pay $25,000.

Groups receive a discount.

Groups of seven pay only $70,000.

Climbing fees for other mountains will also be reduced.

Nepal contains eight of the world's tallest mountains.

The group discount had been criticized for making climbing more dangerous.

Critics say it encourages people to team up even if they have very different experience levels and barely know each other.

However, the fee change irritates environmentalists.

They say that there are already too many climbers on Everest.

Italian climbing legend Reinhold Messner wants Nepal to close down Everest for a few years for the mountain to rest and recover.

