Scientists say they have proved an important idea in evolution.

The idea is called Cope's Rule.

It says that animals often start out small and get bigger over millions of years.

Evolution is an idea, or theory, about the way that types of life have developed over the years.

The scientists are Jonathan Payne and Noah Heim of Stanford University.

Payne and Heim studied records about fossils, the remains of things that lived hundreds of millions of years ago.

A fossil can be an ancient bone, or a shell, or even an image of a tiny animal preserved in a rock.

Scientists call these the fossil record.

Over the past 542 million years, sea (marine) animals have gotten 150 times larger, Payne and Heim said.

They reported their work in the magazine Science.

The scallop on your dinner plate is an example.

It may be fat now.

However, scallops from millions of years ago were about one-quarter inch long.

Scientists have argued about Cope's Rule for years.

Heim said the information in the fossil record proves it.

"We found that things are getting bigger.

And bigger," he said.

An example of Cope's Rule is the horse.

Horses started out the size of a house pet, basically dog-size.

Now they are so big that people ride them, and they can pull wagons.

Some scientists started doubting Cope's Rule in the 1970s.

Famous Harvard University scientist Stephen Jay Gould dismissed it.

Gould said that Cope's Rule was not a law of nature.

To be a law of nature it would need to be unchanging.

The Stanford team took a tough look at Cope's Rule.

They measured more than 17,000 groups of marine fossils.

Dozens of high school students and Stanford students helped.

Students carefully measured pictures of fossils.

Then the measurements were analyzed using computers.

They found that Cope was correct.

They also found out that evolution can be predicted, which was even more important.

Take the sea urchin, for instance.

Two million years ago, the typical sea urchin was about two inches long, and now it can be nearly a foot long, said Heim.

Animals didn't get steadily larger over time.

Instead, bigger animals usually push out smaller ones and take over and breed together, the scientists found.

Also, size didn't increase slowly.

It happened in significant leaps.

The urchin's first big increase in size came between about 500 million years ago and 250 million years ago, when plants, amphibians and reptiles first showed up.

Then urchins didn't grow in size from 250 to 65 million years ago.

But then they took another jump in size around 60 million years ago.

The growth spurts may happen when large numbers of species die out.

These "mass extinctions" make room for new creatures, Heim said.

The scientists didn't study why being big is so helpful.

Maybe it's harder for anything else to eat them or perhaps mates find them more attractive.

Or they could be better at fighting off competitors.

Will we someday live on a planet of giants?

No, size eventually becomes a problem, Heim said.

Breathing becomes difficult because lungs need to be huge and work very well to keep supplying the air needed to support such large bodies.

Food is a challenge, too.

There just isn't enough of it.

There is one final twist: Humans overrule Cope's Rule.

Hunters and fishers target large animals, which means smaller animals have a better chance to survive, said Heim.

So just when Cope's Rule is finally proven, people might be doing things to change it, Heim said.

