Biologists have long argued about whether bigger is better.

A Stanford University team now has proof that evolution favors growth: the researchers found that many family lines of sea creatures have evolved over millions of years into behemoths, or enormous animals.

Researchers Jonathan Payne and Noah Heim found that the fossil record shows that a century-old idea known as Cope's Rule is true.

Their study is one of the most comprehensive studies of the evolution of body size.

Over the past 542 million years, the average size of marine animals has increased 150-fold, they reported in the journal Science.

Take the scallop you have for dinner as an example.

It's pretty fat now, but the scallop's ancestors were only about one-quarter inch long.

"There has been this open question of whether animals get bigger, over time — but there's been a lack of data," said Heim of Stanford, a paleontologist, or scientist who studies fossils and ancient life.

"We found that things are getting bigger.

And bigger," he said.

Cope's Rule, named for a pioneering 19th century American paleontologist, argues that animals often start out small and get bigger over evolutionary time.

For proof, one need look no further than horses, which started out no bigger than a house pet.

But this model for evolution that traces an animal directly to its ancestors fell out of favor starting in the 1970s, when a few major exceptions were exposed.

The late Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould dismissed it in his book "Full House," saying it was not an invariable, unchanging law of nature.

The Stanford team took a tough look at Cope's Rule and Heim says the study "is the most comprehensive test of Cope's Rule ever conducted."

With the help of dozens of San Francisco Bay Area high school students and Stanford undergraduates, they measured more than 17,000 groups, or genera, of marine fossils.

That's three-quarters of marine animals whose fossils have been recorded —and almost two-thirds of all animals that ever lived.

Using tools called calipers, students meticulously measured photographs and detailed illustrations of fossils in the Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology.

The 50-volume set of books is considered to be the bible of every invertebrate (spineless) animal genus, or grouping, that has a known fossil record.

After the measurements were done, the data was analyzed using computer models.

A biological trend emerged, which revealed that Cope was correct that organisms get bigger.

The trend showed even more importantly that evolution can be predicted, which can be seen by looking at how the sea urchin evolved.

Two million years ago in the warm, shallow and salty oceans that sloshed around the Western U.S., the typical sea urchin was about 2 inches long, said Heim.

Now the creatures can reach nearly a foot.

The increase isn't because each animal grew steadily larger as each new generation was born, they found.

Instead, bigger species tended to trump small species, giving rise to a broader array of giants.

And size didn't increase gradually, but happened in significant leaps.

The urchin's first big jump came during the 250 million years of evolution between the Cambrian period (roughly 500 million years ago) and Permian period (about 250 millions years ago), when plants, amphibians and reptiles first emerge.

The urchin's sizes leveled off in the Mesozoic period, from 250 to 65 million years ago, then took another somewhat smaller jump in the late Cenozoic period, around 60 million years ago, when mammals first appeared.

These growth spurts may be related to mass extinctions, or large numbers of species dying out — which set the stage for new creatures, Heim said.

"There could be changes in the types of ecology — before and after extinctions, which change the pace of growth," Heim said.

They didn't study why being big is such an advantage.

Maybe it's harder for anything else to eat them, or mates find them more attractive, or they are better equipped to fight off competitors.

Will we someday live on a planet of titans?

No, size eventually catches up with you, Heim said.

Breathing becomes a problem, because lungs need to be massive and very efficient to keep supplying the air needed to support such a large body size.

Food is a challenge, too, because there just isn't enough of it.

"At some point, there must be some sort of maximum," he said.

There is this final twist: Humans overrule Cope's Rule.

Because hunters and fishers target large animals, they tip natural selection in favor of smaller animals, said Heim.

So just as the million-year-old pattern is finally proven, "people might be playing a role in changing it."

