According to new research, exercise isn't just good for the body.

It can also sharpen the mind.

Scientists have shown that exercise is linked to brain changes throughout all stages of life and can help the brain develop and stay healthy.

Babies, for example, need regular exercise to form connections in the brain.

In children, research suggests that exercise improves attention, focus and school performance.

In the elderly, exercise has been shown to help slow memory loss.

Lise Eliot is a neuroscientist who writes about the benefits of movement on the brain in her book "Pink Brain, Blue Brain."

She points out that exercise affects body and brain alike.

"The brain benefits as much as the heart and other muscles from physical activity," she said.

Charles Hillman, a professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, agrees.

"We've found exercise has broad benefits," he said.

These benefits include "improvements in attention, working memory and the ability to multitask."

How does exercise help the brain?

In the mid-1990s, Carl Cotman's team at the University of California-Irvine first showed that exercise triggers the production of something called BDNF in the brain.

BDNF helps support the growth of existing brain cells, called neurons, and the development of new ones.

As people get older, BDNF levels fall, and this decline is one reason why some older adults lose memory and mental abilities.

According to Cotman, certain types of exercise can keep BDNF levels from becoming too low.

"In a sense, BDNF is like a brain fertilizer," he said.

"BDNF protects neurons from injury and facilitates learning."

Over the last 20 years, researchers have learned that exercise can help keep the mind sharp in a number of other ways.

The brain is made up neurons, which are connected to each other by links called synapses.

As we age, many synapses break down.

Exercise can help, though.

Cotman's work has shown that in older rodents, exercise increases the number of synapses and causes the brain to develop more neurons.

Exercise also increases the release of neurotransmitters, chemicals that relay signals between neurons.

Research suggests that exercise improves blood flow to the brain.

"The blood carries oxygen and feeds neural tissues, so you're getting the benefits that come with that," Hillman said.

Increasing blood flow is one more way that exercise can improve mental abilities.

The positive effects of exercise on the brain can be seen during three key stages of life: infancy, pre-adolescence and adulthood.

Exercise is healthy for the brain even at a very young age.

Children who move around a lot, or are mobile, develop more quickly, Eliot said.

Infants are in near-constant motion, which is extremely important for development, she said.

This movement not only strengthens their muscles, but also helps their brains form connections.

The process continues throughout life but is most intense in infancy and toddlerhood, when children are mastering brand-new skills like sitting, standing, walking, running and jumping.

Eliot worries that babies in the United States are spending too much time sitting down.

Because of how important exercise is to a young developing brain, it is urgent that infants be allowed to be physically active.

Exercise is also healthy for pre-adolescent brains.

In fact, some research suggests that regular exercise can improve school performance.

Hillman's team found that children ages 7 through 9 who participated in a 60-minute after-school exercise program had better focus and processed information more quickly than children who did not exercise.

The extent of the effects depended on how much kids exercised.

The more days the children attended the exercise program, the more their focus improved.

Finally, exercise helps keep the mind sharp during adulthood.

Sadly, the hippocampus, an important area of the brain, gets smaller naturally in late adulthood.

The hippocampus is involved in memory and learning, and as it gets smaller, people start losing their memory.

Research suggests exercise can increase the size of the hippocampus and increase levels of a protein that aids the growth of new brain cells.

This can help prevent older adults from losing mental abilities and memory.

Researchers from the University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health also found that people who said they exercised for 30 minutes, five times a week in late-middle age did better on tests of mental performance.

Additionally, adults who exercised showed less accumulation of the beta amyloid plaque.

The beta amyloid plaque is a protein that builds up in the brains of people with Alzheimer's disease.

Alzheimer's disease is usually for older adults.

It causes them to lose their memory.

At all ages, active people did better on immediate memory and visual spatial tests and had larger hippocampi than inactive people.

