Exercising is important for keeping the body healthy.

Running, going to the gym, and playing sports are all ways of making sure your body stays fit.

Scientists have learned that exercise is not just important for your body.

Staying active also helps your brain.

Scientists have shown that exercise is related to several brain changes that take place over the course of a person's life.

Exercise also helps the brain grow and stay healthy.

Babies, for example, need regular exercise for their brains to develop fully.

Meanwhile, exercise improves children's attention and helps them to do better at school.

In the elderly, exercise has been shown to help slow memory loss.

Lise Eliot is a scientist who studies the benefits of exercise on the brain.

She says that exercise affects body and brain alike.

"The brain benefits as much as the heart and other muscles from physical activity," she said.

Charles Hillman, who teaches at the University of Illinois, agrees.

"We've found exercise has broad benefits," he said.

These benefits include "improvements in attention, working memory and the ability to multitask."

Scientists have been aware of the link between exercise and the brain for many years.

In the mid-1990s, a scientist named Carl Cotman showed that exercise causes an increase in something called BDNF.

That is what helps support the growth of brain cells.

As people get older, BDNF levels fall.

This is one reason why the elderly experience memory loss.

According to Cotman, certain types of exercise can keep BDNF levels from becoming too low.

"In a sense, BDNF is like a brain fertilizer," he said.

Over the last 20 years, researchers have learned that exercise affects the brain in several other ways.

The brain is made up of cells called neurons.

Neurons are connected to each other by ties called synapses.

As we age, many of these synapses start to break down.

Exercise may be able to help, though.

Cotman has studied the brains of rats and mice to get an idea of how human brains might work.

He has found that in older rats and mice, exercise increases the number of synapses and causes the brain to develop more neurons.

The same may be true of older humans.

Exercise also increases the release of chemicals that send signs from one neuron to another.

Additionally, scientists have found that exercise improves blood flow to the brain.

This helps the brain by keeping it supplied with oxygen, Hillman explained.

Exercise benefits the brain all through a human's life.

Babies, for example, are in near-constant motion, which helps their brains to grow.

Mastering new skills like sitting, standing, walking, running and jumping requires the brain to build new connections.

Exercise continues to be healthy for the brain as children start school.

Scientists have found that regular exercise can actually improve school performance.

According to Hillman, children ages 7 through 9 who participated in a 60-minute after-school exercise program processed information more quickly than children who did not exercise.

Finally, exercise helps keep the mind sharp during adulthood.

Sadly, the hippocampus, a very important region of the brain, gets smaller as people get older.

The hippocampus helps with memory and learning.

As it shrinks, adults' memory becomes worse.

Scientists have found that exercise can increase the size of the hippocampus and increase levels of a protein that aids the growth of new brain cells.

This can help prevent older adults from losing mental abilities and memory.

Scientists found, for example, that people who said they exercised for 30 minutes, five times a week in late-middle age did better on tests of mental performance.

Studies also suggested that exercise can help prevent Alzheimer's disease.

Alzheimer's is a disease that mostly affects older adults and is marked by the loss of memory and mental abilities.

At all ages, active people did better on immediate memory and visual spatial tests than inactive people.

The active people also had a larger hippocampus.

