Retired surgeon Peter Rork feels like Santa Claus with his sled pulling in.

"I've got all kinds of goodies in back of my plane," Rork said from his home in Jackson Hole, Wyo.

Rork and his co-pilot Doyle, a black Labrador retriever, spend their free time flying precious, sometimes barking, cargo in Rork's Cessna airplane.

His last flight in March included 30 small dogs traveling from Arizona to an animal shelter in Idaho.

Rork's organization, Dog Is My CoPilot, is one of several groups around the country that take dogs by car and plane from one state to another.

Their goal is to combat an overabundance of some breeds in some areas, a problem that often results in animals being put to sleep.

On trips out of Arizona, the main breed that fills Rork's plane is Chihuahuas.

"We have so many here that it tends to be overwhelming for people," said Melissa Gable.

She is the public information officer at Maricopa County Animal Care and Control.

"Sending them someplace where they might not have as many Chihuahuas certainly means they'll get adopted a lot quicker than they would if they stayed here."

In February, Arizona Chihuahua Rescue worked with Gable's shelter to transfer 25 Chihuahuas to an animal rescue group in Pennsylvania.

Judy Zimet is a Phoenix attorney who also serves as the executive director of Dog Is My CoPilot.

She said the organization flies to 10 states in the Pacific West and Rocky Mountain regions of the U.S.

Since the organization was founded two years ago, Rork has flown more than 1,000 animals to no-kill shelters in other states.

How the breeds are selected from the shelters comes down to supply and demand, Zimet said.

In some states, the organization may take big breeds from shelters and transfer them to cities such as San Francisco that don't have a lot of large dogs.

Maricopa County sends many small breeds to out-of-state rescue groups.

"Arizona is specifically Chihuahua country for us," Zimet said.

"Before we were bringing dogs, people would go to the shelter and they wouldn't find what they wanted and they'd end going to the puppy mills or they'd go on Craigslist or to breeders," she said.

Puppy mills are dog breeding centers that have the reputation for putting profits over the health of the animals.

"But now people can find what they need at the shelters, and that way we help reduce overpopulation."

Kari Nienstedt is the Arizona director for the Humane Society of the United States.

She said transporting animals to other regions is a national trend.

"I think it really kicked into high gear after Hurricane Katrina," Nienstedt said in a telephone interview.

Hurricane Katrina was a monster hurricane that hit New Orleans and the Gulf Coast in 2005.

Many pets were separated from their owners or were abandoned.

People became aware that some areas had too many adoptable animals and other areas had too few.

"Up North there are a lack of puppies and small dogs, so sometimes they're shipping from South to North.

Sometimes they're shipping from West to East," she said.

"It's a great opportunity to reduce euthanasia (killing animals) in some of these cities."

According to Michael Morefield, shelter operations manager at the Arizona Animal Welfare League and SPCA, Maricopa County has the second-largest rate of euthanasia for cats and dogs in the country.

The first is Los Angeles County.

Morefield said Chihuahuas and pit bulls are the most common breed put down in Arizona.

In 2012, he said, 2,476 Chihuahuas were euthanized.

"It's massive; we have a very serious problem in Maricopa," he said.

Morefield said his group joined with US Airways last year to transport Chihuahuas out of Arizona.

Over a few months, the partnership transported nine dogs to other states and Canada.

"One of our dogs that was taken to Canada lasted three hours before he was adopted because they're unique up there," he said.

For Jonathan McDonell, director of operations at HALO Animal Rescue, working with Dog Is My CoPilot has been tremendously successful.

"It's something that's been done for a while," but it's speeding up, McDonell said.

He called it "a fantastic opportunity" for HALO to get dogs that have been there awhile into communities that really want dogs.

Leigh Carter is the director of development at HALO.

She said 12 of the 30 dogs that were sent to Idaho last Friday have been adopted.

Rork, who pays for Dog Is My CoPilot mostly out of his own pocket, said he knows the animals he leaves behind likely won't survive.

So he tries to pack as many dogs into the plane as possible.

"It's like a Tetris puzzle trying get all the crates in the plane," he said.

"It really is a labor of love and money, but I enjoy it."

