Monday marked the day when disaster struck 25 years ago.

On that day, the oil tanker Exxon Valdez ran aground on Prince William Sound, a body of water in Alaska.

The tanker was shipping oil for the company Exxon Mobil.

When it crashed, the tanker spilled at least 11 million gallons of oil into the waters of the sound.

At the time, it was the nation's largest oil spill.

Andy Wills was laying on a friend's couch in Cordova, Alaska, on March 24, 1989.

He was up early, ready to head out to work.

He was a fisherman in Prince William Sound.

"My buddy had just handed me a cup of coffee in the morning," Wills said.

"And there's the Exxon Valdez on TV, spilling oil."

He added, "We were like, 'No!'

It was just the start of a nightmare."

Herring fish in Prince William Sound still have not recovered.

Neither have killer whales.

Exxon Mobil and the government are still fighting in court over the spill.

Prince William Sound today looks breathtaking.

It's a stunning setting of mountains, blue-green waters and forested islands.

But, pick up a stone on a rocky beach and dig a little.

Pockets of oil can still be found.

"I think the big surprise for all of us who have worked on this thing for the last 25 years has been the continued presence of relatively fresh oil," said Gary Shigenaka.

He's an ocean scientist for the government.

It's a big question as to how well Prince William Sound has recovered.

Oil company Exxon Mobil Corp. says studies show the area is bouncing back.

The sound has "had a very solid, complete recovery," said Richard Keil, a spokesman for Exxon Mobil.

Government scientists have a different view.

The Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council is in charge of the revival of Prince William Sound.

It considers salmon to be recovered.

Bald eagles and harbor seals have also bounced back.

However, sea otters have had a rough time.

Thousands died in the months following the spill.

Since then, they have struggled.

The U.S. government reported earlier this month that the sea otters had finally returned to the same numbers as before the spill.

The council says herring have not recovered.

Neither have a group of killer whales and a type of seabird.

Wills fished salmon as well as herring.

He said the spill left a huge mark on those who made a living from Prince William Sound.

Exxon sent money to pay people for their losses.

But, it was too late and too little, he said.

"A lot of people got real hurt.

I got divorced.

It was rough," said Wills.

He now runs a bookshop and cafe in Alaska.

There are puzzles left by the spill.

Among them is the herring mystery.

Herring are very important to other animals in the area.

Whales, salmon and birds all feed on it.

Scientists found physical changes in herring that swam through the oil.

Then, four years after the spill, the herring population crashed.

No one knows exactly why.

The spill might have made the herring weak.

Now herring suffer from diseases.

The herring never recovered.

The current population is low.

The killer whales of the sound also have suffered.

A newspaper photo showed a group of whales swimming near the tanker as it gushed oil.

Populations dropped in the year after the spill.

One group of whales is slowly recovering.

But, another group numbered 22 killer whales at the time of the spill.

Now it is down to just seven.

Scientists expect it to go extinct.

If so, it would be the end of a whale line forever.

The whale group has hunted in the area for thousands of years.

The government is still weighing the science of the spill's effects.

Court cases will decide whether to seek more money from Exxon Mobil for cleaning up remaining oil.

