The F-22 Raptor is a diamond-shaped fighter jet.

It can speed through the sky without being spotted by radar.

It was made especially for the U.S. military.

But for nearly 10 years it was never used in fighting.

People said the plane was dangerous to fly.

Others said it was much too expensive to build.

But finally, the F-22 was given a mission.

The F-22 dropped bombs over northern Syria.

U.S. military leaders said the plane was used along with other fighter jets.

They were attacking enemy fighters in northern Syria.

The fighters are part of a group called Islamic State (ISIL).

The extremist group calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

The group wants to take over land in the Middle East and create a strict religious government.

It has already taken control of land in Iraq and Syria.

General William Mayville is in charge of operations for the military.

He said the plane helped drop bombs directly on many targets.

The F-22 has made a real comeback.

Three years ago, the jet was not allowed to fly.

There were safety problems.

It did not give enough oxygen to its pilots.

For a while, the plane's future was in doubt.

The F-22 was designed back when the main enemy of the United States was the Soviet Union.

The United States wanted a jet that could beat the one the Soviets were building.

But then the Soviet Union broke up into Russia and other smaller countries.

The Soviet planes were never built.

The reason to build the F-22 was gone.

Still, the F-22 got its OK from Congress in 1991.

The plane can fly faster than the speed of sound.

It has high-tech radar and sensors.

A pilot is supposed to be able to follow and shoot an enemy plane before that plane can sense the F-22.

The Air Force said it needs the plane to keeping the United States in control of the air around the world.

But it faced a huge problem.

Military leaders said the plane was too advanced for low-tech enemies.

So it sat on the ground while other U.S. warplanes dropped bombs on targets in Afghanistan.

It did not get used during the war in Iraq.

There was no call for it in the fighting above Libya.

Twenty years ago, the Pentagon planned to buy 648 F-22s.

They were supposed to cost $139 million each.

But the cost kept going up.

By the end, one F-22 cost $412 million.

The government said it was the most expensive fighter jet ever.

In 2009, the U.S. Defense secretary stopped buying the F-22s.

The military already had 188 planes.

He said they cost too much.

The Air Force got its last F-22 in 2012.

The F-22 was originally supposed to take the place of F-15 fighter jets.

The F-15s were designed in the early 1970s.

But most of the Air Force still flies F-15s.

The military got its F-22s in 2005.

But it did not take long for problems to start.

Over the years, F-22 pilots have complained of one problem in particular.

The jet's systems were not feeding them enough oxygen.

This made them dizzy.

One pilot died in 2010 when his oxygen system failed.

The military kept the whole F-22 fleet on the ground.

They could not fly for nearly five months in 2011.

The next year, F-22s were allowed back in the air.

But only if they were near a spot where they could land.

This was in case a pilot lost oxygen.

The plane went back to regular service three months later.

But no one noticed until Tuesday.

At the Pentagon, Mayville shared black-and-white pictures with reporters.

They showed several targets before and after the airstrikes in Syria.

In one picture, a building used by ISIL fighters was seen.

Its satellite dishes were blown up.

The rest of the building was left almost untouched.

The "smart" bombs were dropped by F-22 Raptors, Mayville said.

