Blame your Facebook account if you feel down on a bright, sunny day, according to new research.

Too many of your friends may be posting gloomy messages.

In the paper, scientists said they found that happiness and unhappiness on Facebook can be contagious.

The research may have significance for a world increasingly connected by the Internet.

The authors examined more than a billion Facebook status updates.

In a status update on the popular social networking site, people share their feelings or what they're doing.

The researchers found that when a person posted a positive feeling, their friends also tended to write a positive post.

On the other hand, posts that expressed negative emotions like anger or sadness caused more negative posts.

The paper was published Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE.

"It was actually a very large effect."

said lead study author James Fowler.

He is a professor of medical genetics and political science at the University of California, San Diego, School of Medicine.

Every message people post causes their friends to post messages with similar feelings, he said.

How do Fowler and other researchers know this?

Weather records, researchers said.

The researchers looked for status updates in cities experiencing rain.

The researchers then used software to figure out if posts expressed positive or negative feelings.

Finally, they compared the rainy-day posts with non-rainy-day posts.

They found that people spread the joy and also the sadness.

Rain increased the number of negative posts by 1.16 percent.

Likewise, rain reduced the number of positive posts by 1.19 percent.

But it didn't end there.

The study's authors claimed that negative posts influenced Facebook friends in cities with dry weather.

Researchers said negative posts caused 1.29 more negative posts by friends.

Positive posts led to an extra 1.75 positive posts.

"What people feel and say in one place may spread to many parts of the globe on the very same day," authors wrote.

Positive posts had more of an effect than negative posts.

But those findings are worrisome, researchers said.

They suggest that emotions are spread through social networks to form groups of happy and unhappy people.

"As a result, we may see greater (highs and lows) in global emotion," they said.

These spikes could cause trouble in politics and financial markets.

Fowler and study co-author Dr. Nicholas Christakis have written papers about how things spread through networks of friends and acquaintances.

Even weight gain can spread through "social ties."

Christakis is  a doctor and sociologist at Yale University.

Sociologists study human behavior.

Their work has been the subject of many newspaper headlines, but it's also been criticized by experts.

Charles Mansk, a professor of economics at Northwestern University, said it's difficult to know if the study is correct.

Russell Lyons, a professor of mathematics at Indiana University, criticized another paper by them.

He called it "deeply flawed."

Lyons said he hasn't had the time or information to look closely at the Facebook study,  but expressed doubt.

"The information presented in this paper is certainly not convincing," he wrote.

In the Facebook study, the researchers said they examined posts from users in 100 U.S. cities from 2009 to 2012.

For Facebook users' confidentiality, the researchers did not view any of the names or actually read the posts.

A lot of research has been done on how feelings spread among humans.

This research argued that emotions play a special role in bonding.

People naturally tend to express their feelings rather than hide them.

Laughter, for example, may come from the "play face" expression seen in apes when they are relaxed.

These expressions and positive feelings strengthen social relations.

They create enjoyable feelings in others and and encourage social contact.

Fowler said that scientists and policymakers should consider using social networks to improve mental and physical health.

"We should be doing everything we can ... to learn how to magnify" the positive impact of social networks, he said.

A wave of good feelings would be the result.

