Blame Facebook if you feel sad on a sunny day.

Too many of your friends may be posting gloomy messages.

A new study says that people spread the joy on the hugely popular social networking site.

They also spread the sorrow.

In the study, scientists found that happiness or unhappiness can spread from person to person.

The research may be important for a world increasingly connected by the Internet.

The scientists examined more than a billion Facebook status updates.

In a status update on the popular social networking website, people share their feelings or what they're doing.

The scientists found that when a person wrote a happy post, their friends also wrote happy posts.

On the other hand, posts that expressed feelings like anger or sadness caused more angry or sad posts.

And then in a chain reaction, their friends wrote posts with similar feelings.

The study was published Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE.

"It was actually a very large effect."

said study author James Fowler.

He teaches at the University of California, San Diego, School of Medicine.

How do Fowler and other researchers know this?

Weather records, researchers said.

The researchers looked for status updates in cities where it was raining.

The researchers then used software to figure out if the posts were happy or sad.

Finally, they compared the rainy-day posts with non-rainy-day posts.

Rain increased the number of gloomy posts.

Likewise, rain reduced the number of happy posts.

But it didn't end there.

The study's authors claimed that the gloomy posts affected Facebook friends in cities with dry weather.

The Facebook friends in dry cities began writing gloomy posts also.

"What people feel and say in one place may spread to many parts of the globe," the authors wrote.

And what they feel and say can zoom around the globe in a single day.

Happy posts were spread more than sad ones, but even that is a cause for worry, the researchers said.

It means that feelings can be spread to form groups of happy and unhappy people.

"As a result, we may see greater (highs and lows) in global emotion," they said.

These spikes could cause a lot of trouble.

Fowler and study co-author Dr. Nicholas Christakis have written papers about social networks.

Even something like weight gain can spread through "social ties."

Christakis is  a doctor and studies social behavior at Yale University.

Their work has been written about in newspaper articles, but not everyone likes it.

Charles Mansk, a professor of economics at Northwestern University, said it's difficult to know if the study is correct.

Russell Lyons, a math professor at Indiana University, criticized another paper by them.

He said it was "deeply flawed."

Lyons said he hasn't had the time to look closely at the Facebook study.

But he said he had his doubts.

"The information presented in this paper is certainly not convincing," he wrote.

In the Facebook study, the researchers said they looked at posts from 100 U.S. cities.

The posts were from 2009 to 2012.

The researchers did not view any of the names or actually read the posts.

A lot of research has been done on the spread of feelings among humans.

This research argued that feelings are important for developing close relationships with other people.

Humans naturally tend to express their feelings rather than hide them.

Laughter, for example, may come from the "play face" seen in apes when they are relaxed.

These expressions and good feelings make them feel closer to each other.

They cause enjoyable feelings in others and encourage closeness.

Fowler said experts should use social networks, like Facebook, to improve health.

"We should be doing everything we can ... to learn how to" increase the positive effects of social networks.

It would cause a wave of good feelings, he said.

