clothing factory tumbled down in Bangladesh more than two weeks ago.

Rescuers are still pulling out bodies.

Meanwhile, lawmakers and clothing companies are asking themselves: what is the human cost of cheap clothes?

The eight-story Rana Plaza factory complex crumbled on April 24.

Nearly 3,000 workers were trapped inside.

More than 1,100 were killed.

It is the worst-ever accident in the clothing business.

Reports from the disaster area have been dramatic.

A baby boy was born under the rubble just after the collapse.

The baby's 26-year-old mother survived the falling concrete and bricks.

Another worker, Sonia Akthar, was sewing a shirt when the ceiling collapsed on her, Al-Jazeera reported.

Her leg became trapped under heavy concrete.

Rescuers had to take off her leg to save her.

Other workers were luckier.

Some acted heroically.

They went back into the building to save others.

Reshma Begum was rescued after 17 days.

The 19-year-old worker survived on just four packets of cookies and some water.

The building owner was Mohammed Sohel Rana.

He tried to flee the country after the disaster.

Police caught him at the border and arrested him.

Rana is involved in politics, but also has a reputation as a gangster.

Police, engineers and workers warned him that the building's pillars were cracking.

Workers say Rana ordered them back inside the factory.

The building crumbled the next day.

On Tuesday, survivors protested near the factory.

They blocked traffic demanding their pay.

The government has agreed to improve the factories.

It is promising more building inspections.

But labor experts say the government is part of the problem.

In the past, factory owners could just pay bribes.

Officials looked the other way.

That is why safety hazards were ignored.

Bangladesh needs clothing factories.

Clothes are the country's main trading good.

It is the world's second-largest clothing maker.

Almost half the population of 150 million lives on less than $1 a day.

Factories create much-needed jobs.

But about half of the nation's factories are unsafe, said Kalpona Akter, who speaks for workers.

Akter started working in garment factories at age 12.

Workers at the factory were sewing clothes for Canadian and European stores when it collapsed.

Western companies choose Bangladesh for its low wages and fast work.

But the cheap cost and quick delivery comes at a human cost: factories often use child labor.

Some force pregnant women to work right up until their due dates.

Western companies are responding to the disaster.

Target, Gap and J.C. Penney met with workers' rights groups last week to discuss safety conditions.

Adidas said it set up a hotline for workers.

They can send a text message to report abuse.

But some do not believe that Western brands will help.

The brands themselves demand quick, cheap production from the factories.

"How can a garment businessman keep up with this ever-increasing demand?"

said Shahidullah Azim, who speaks for the garment factories.

He suggests big clothing chains should agree to pay higher prices.

That would cover the cost of improving factory safety.

The government has taken nine more people in for questioning.

On May 1, workers gathered in the capital.

They demanded Rana be put to death.

There are rumors the construction workers built the factory with shoddy materials.

They also may have cut safety corners because they knew Rana would not pay for them.

Rana's case may teach other factory owners a lesson.

Customers shopping for budget fashions may think twice when they see a "Made in Bangladesh" label.

A small price tag may not outweigh the image of the crushed workers.

Some activists say shoppers should refuse to buy Bangladesh-made clothes.

That will pressure factory owners to change.

The Bangladeshi workers may spark change.

One woman came to lay flowers on the unmarked graves.

She told Al-Jazeera that "garment factories are prisons, they are like hell.

I will never work in one again."

