Farmer Mark Flamm has declared war on the birds eating his blueberry bushes.

To scare away his feathered foes, he has blasted them with noise, played recordings of bird distress cries, and ordered an employee to shake a bottle of gravel at them.

Flamm, who once lost a fifth of his blueberry crop to the birds, had even gone the traditional route.

He planted a scarecrow.

"That didn't work," said Flamm, "though I got a picture of a bird sitting on the scarecrow."

That's when Flamm called in the falcons.

Beginning three years ago, the Washington state grower hired master falconer Vahe Alaverdian to drive off the flocks of hungry sparrows and starlings eating his crops.

A blood sport for the rich through the ages, falconry has found a second life in the world of bird control.

Alaverdian of Falcon Force (http://falconforce.com), based in La Crescenta, Calif., uses a hunting method possibly dating back to the Bronze Age 4,000 years ago.

He launches his falcons into a series of high-speed dives, called "stooping."

The dives make the birds think they are under attack.

They panic and either become paralyzed with fear or fast flee the scene.

The falcons are trained to scare, not snack on, their targets.

"It's amazing.

Suddenly all the other birds go quiet because they know they could be eaten," said Flamm.

Since hiring Alaverdian, he has lost only about 3 percent of his crops to the birds.

In the age-old face-off between farmer and bird, falconry is tipping the scales in the grower's favor.

Modern farming has embraced technology to resist disease, conserve water and develop new types of fruits.

Yet when it comes to fruit-loving birds, growers have few solutions other than peppering the skies with shotgun blasts.

"There's not much we can do," said Joe MacIlvaine, president of Paramount Farming Co. in Bakersfield, Calif., the world's largest grower and processor of almonds and pistachios.

Many farmers scare birds away with noise makers that can make a peaceful country morning sound like a war zone.

Alex Weiser, a specialty fruit and vegetable grower in California, has an employee drive up and down the fields shooing away birds.

Recently, Weiser tried a device he calls the "evil eye."

His secret weapon is a specially made balloon with reflective patches and hung on the end of a branch.

It's meant to spook the birds in flight.

A flare gun still worked best, though it's not too popular with the neighbors, he said.

Although weather and water are still a farmer's chief concerns, birds are a huge challenge.

Birds raise the risk of contaminated food and cost growers hundreds of millions a year in damaged crops.

Recent research by the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that birds peck $49 million away from California's wine-grape industry each harvest.

They also cost the state's sweet-cherry growers $12.3 million and blueberry farmers $2.6 million.

Birds, like humans, prefer sugary fruit.

They also tend to like the crops that are expensive, said Stephanie Shwiff.

She is one of the study's authors.

Shwiff is a researcher at the USDA's National Wildlife Research Center in Fort Collins, Colo. On a recent summer morning at a vineyard in Los Alamos, Alaverdian showed off his falcons.

He released Genghis, one of four falcons perched patiently in the back of his car.

The 4-year-old peregrine circled over the grapes, flew up and then swooped with astonishing force toward his handler.

Genghis was lured by pigeon feathers tied to the end of a rope that Alaverdian twirled.

Each time the falcon got close, Alaverdian pulled back the lure.

"This whole process is devastating from the prey's point of view," said Alaverdian, 39.

He sent Genghis up several times until he chased away all the magpies.

Genghis's reward was a bloody pigeon carcass pulled out of a Ziploc bag.

Alaverdian's $700 day rate is a bargain compared to netting grapes, even though it can take a long time to solve the problem.

Covering grapes with nets can cost cost $400 an acre.

A large farm can spend $400,000 on netting.

Falconry is growing in popularity, according to the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service.

But there aren't enough certified master falconers like Alaverdian.

The life of a falconer can be grueling.

Alaverdian, whose Armenian family fled war-torn Iran in the 1980s, said the job requires being comfortable with rugged living and being alone.

He can spend months without a break on a single vineyard or farm.

Alaverdian hasn't bought meat from a store in 14 years.

He eats salmon, trout, elk and deer he catches in the wild.

He is so obsessed with his work that he can't help but flinch whenever he sees a flock of birds.

When he was in Washington, he was asked why he didn't go to church," said Alaverdian.

"I said, 'Unless the starlings go to church too, I'm not going either.'"

