Blueberry farmer Mark Flamm has declared war on birds.

Flamm tried scaring them away from his berry bushes with loud blasts of noise.

He tried blaring recordings of birds in distress.

The birds were such a problem that they once ate one-fifth of Flamm's berries.

Flamm even planted an old-fashioned scarecrow to try to scare them.

"That didn't work," he said, "though I got a picture of a bird sitting on the scarecrow."

That's when Flamm called in the falcons.

Three years ago, Flamm hired Vahe Alaveridan to drive off the birds.

Alaveridan is a master falconer, who raises and trains falcons.

These birds of prey are used to scare away the other birds from the fields.

Falconry once was a blood sport for the rich.

Now falcons have become a weapon in the world of bird control.

In the face-off between farmer and bird, falcons are helping man to win.

Alaverdian of Falcon Force uses a tactic that may have been around for thousands of years.

It is called "stooping."

Alaverdian sends his falcons up into high-speed dives.

The other birds think they are under attack.

They panic, and either become paralyzed with fear or flee the scene.

Falcon Force is based in La Crescenta, California.

The falcons are trained to scare their targets, not kill them.

"It's amazing.

Suddenly all the other birds go quiet because they know they could be eaten," said Flamm.

Since hiring Alaverdian, very few of his blueberries have been lost to birds.

Farmers have developed high-tech tools to keep crops healthy and conserve water.

But when it comes to birds, growers only have low-tech answers.

"There's not much we can do," said Joe MacIlvaine.

He is president of Paramount Farming Co. in Bakersfield, Calif.

The company is the world's largest grower of almonds and pistachios.

On Alex Weiser's farm in California, a worker drives around shooing away birds.

Recently, Weiser tried an invention he calls the "evil eye."

It is a special balloon with shiny patches.

The balloon hangs on the end of a branch.

It's supposed to scare away the birds.

Noise guns still worked best, he said.

They are not too popular with the neighbors, though.

Weather and water are still a farmer's main worries.

But birds are a huge problem.

Birds raise the risk that fruit will make people sick.

They also cost growers hundreds of millions a year in damaged crops.

Birds like sugary fruit, just like people.

They also like the crops that are most expensive, said Stephanie Shwiff.

She is a researcher at the USDA's National Wildlife Research Center.

On a summer morning, Alaverdian showed how his falcons chase away birds from grape vines.

He released Genghis, who had been waiting patiently in the back of his car.

The 4-year-old peregrine falcon circled over the grapes and flew up.

It then swooped down with astonishing force toward Alaverdian.

Genghis was lured by pigeon feathers tied to the end of a rope.

When the falcon got close, Alaverdian pulled back on the rope.

He flew Genghis until all the magpies left.

There were a couple dozen of them.

As a reward, Genghis was given a dead pigeon from a Ziplock bag.

Alaverdian charges farmers $700 each day.

This is far cheaper than covering grapes with nets.

But falconry isn't a quick fix.

It can take months for it to work.

The U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service says falconry is growing more popular.

But there aren't enough certified master falconers.

The life of a falconer can be tough.

Alaverdian said falconers must be comfortable with rough conditions.

They also are alone for long periods of time.

Alaverdian can spend months without a break on a single farm.

He hasn't bought meat from a store in 14 years.

He only eats what he can catch in the wild.

And he's so obsessed with his work that he shudders whenever he sees a flock of birds.

Alaverdian was once asked why he doesn't go to church.

He answered, "Unless the starlings go to church too, I'm not going either."

