Washington state farmer Mark Flamm has declared war on the birds munching on his blueberry bushes.

Flamm tried scaring them away with loud blasts of noise.

He played recordings of birds in distress, and even ordered an employee to shake a bottle of gravel at them.

Flamm, who once lost a fifth of his berries to the birds, even planted an old-fashioned scarecrow.

"That didn't work," said Flamm, "though I got a picture of a bird sitting on the scarecrow."

That's when Flamm called in the falcons.

Three years ago, Flamm began hiring master falconer Vahe Alaverdian to drive the blueberry-eating birds from his land.

Falconry is the sport of hunting with trained birds of prey.

For centuries it was a blood sport for the rich.

Now it has found a second life in the world of bird control.

Alaverdian of Falcon Force (http://falconforce.com),  based in La Crescenta, California.,  breeds and trains falcons.

He uses a hunting method that may have been around for thousands of years.

He launches his birds of prey into a series of high-speed dives.

The dives, called "stooping," make the birds think they are under attack.

They panic, and either become paralyzed with fear or quickly flee the scene.

The falcons are trained to scare, not eat, their targets.

"It's amazing.

Suddenly all the other birds go quiet because they know they could be eaten," said Flamm.

Since hiring Alaverdian, he only loses about 3 percent of his crops to birds.

Falconry is helping man come out the winner in the age-old face-off between farmer and bird.

Modern farming has embraced technology to resist disease and conserve water.

When it comes to birds, though, growers only have low-tech solutions.

"There's not much we can do," said Joe MacIlvaine.

He is president of Paramount Farming Co. in Bakersfield, Calif. Paramount is the world's largest grower and processor of almonds and pistachios.

California grower Alex Weiser has an employee drive up and down the fields to chase away birds.

Recently, Weiser tried a device he calls the "evil eye."

His secret weapon is a specially made balloon with reflective patches.

It hangs on the end of a branch.

It's meant to scare the birds A flare gun still worked best, he said.

It's not too popular with the neighbors, though.

Weather and water are still a farmer's chief concerns.

But birds are a huge challenge.

Birds raise the risk that food will become diseased.

They cost growers hundreds of millions a year in damaged crops.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates that birds peck $49 million away from California's wine-grape growers each harvest.

They cost the state's sweet-cherry growers $12.3 million and blueberry farmers $2.6 million.

Birds prefer sugary fruit, just like people.

They also tend to like the crops that are expensive, said USDA researcher Stephanie Shwiff.

Alaverdian demonstrated how his falcons chase away birds on a recent summer morning.

He released Genghis, one of four falcons perched patiently in back of his car.

The 4-year-old peregrine falcon circled over the grapes at a California vineyard and flew up.

It then swooped down with astonishing force toward Alaverdian.

Genghis was lured by pigeon feathers tied to the end of a rope twirled by Alaverdian.

Each time the falcon got close, Alaverdian pulled back on the rope.

"This whole process is devastating from the prey's point of view," said Alaverdian, 39.

He sent Genghis up until he chased away all the birds.

Genghis' reward was a dead pigeon from a Ziplock bag.

Alaverdian charges $700 per day.

Falconry is far cheaper than covering grapes with nets, which can cost $400,000 for at a large farm.

But it is slow.

The U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service says falconry is growing more popular.

But there aren't enough certified master falconers.

The life of a falconer can be tough.

Alaverdian said falconers must be comfortable with rugged conditions and being alone.

He can spend months without a break on a single vineyard or farm.

Alaverdian hasn't bought meat from a store in 14 years.

He eats salmon, trout, elk and deer caught in the wild.

He is so engrossed with his work that he can't help but flinch whenever he sees a flock of birds.

He was once asked why he doesn't go to church.

"I said, 'Unless the starlings go to church too, I'm not going either.'"

