The family of young musicians took the train to downtown Chicago.

They carried their instruments on their backs.

They set up their small orchestra at the corner of Michigan Avenue and Randolph Street.

For two hours on a warm weekday evening, their music softly flowed through the busy streets.

People stopped to listen or to snap a picture.

Many were surprised by the sight of a group of young African-Americans playing a harp, a cello and four violins.

A bus driver stopped at a red light, and opened his door and leaned from his seat so he could hear better.

A street beggar took a dollar bill and dropped it in an open violin case.

From time to time, the young musicians broke from their intense concentration to smile at the onlookers.

The Kelly family plays music for money one or two days a week over the summer.

By the time they boarded the train back home, the group had collected $240.

The family, which has 15 kids, can really use the money.

Eleven people cram into their three-bedroom, one-and-a-half bathroom apartment.

The oldest six children are grown and out of the house.

Inside the Kellys' home, music fills the small rooms, drowning out the noise from their crime-filled neighborhood.

"When we make music, everything is OK," said La Shone Kelly, the mother of the family.

It was the father's idea to introduce music to his children, he said, so that they could experience the joy and self-control it can bring.

"I know that music is best learned at an early age," the father, Jonathan Kelly, said.

"Then it becomes something you can do your whole life.

When we get together and sing and play, we do it for ourselves.

If others enjoy it, that's a good thing."

La Shone Kelly admits that she was worried when her husband suggested the children start taking music lessons.

Her husband had recently lost his job, and the family did not have much money.

The Kellys spend about $1,300 each month on music lessons and renting instruments, and have had to give up a lot to afford it.

The house is in need of repairs, and the walls could use a fresh coat of paint.

They shop for clothes at used clothing stores, and they gave up their van that could hold 15 people and now must take two cars.

"The children understand that if we're going to shell out that kind of money, they have to take it seriously," La Shone Kelly said.

"They have to practice."

The Garfield Park Fieldhouse is in a Chicago neighborhood that is poor and filled with crime.

On the second floor, children as young as 3 years old are learning the art of the violin through the Chicago West Community Music Center.

The Kellys take music lessons there also.

On Saturdays, music teachers come from across the city to teach violin, viola, cello, guitar and harp.

The lessons cost $100 a month, and most of the students, including the Kellys, receive scholarships to cover some costs.

Parents must stay while their children are taking lessons.

La Shone and Jonathan Kelly have so many children they must stay there all day, but they say it has been worth it, because their children have developed a love for music.

Darlene Sandifer began the music program with her husband, Howard, a former musician and teacher.

She said that music changes the heart and mind, and helps people find calm.

Sandifer said she is convinced that if children from poor areas could take music lessons, they would not get into so much trouble.

"These kids on the streets have a gift," she said.

"They just need someone to channel them in the right direction."

The students gave a musical performance on the last day of summer camp.

As Jonathan and La Shone Kelly cheered their children on, they said that all the money they spent was worth it.

Their father said they wanted the children to see that they have many choices in life.

