The Minter family cars weren't even out of Missouri's Weston Bend State Park, near Kansas City, when Tessa, 8, and Isaac, 6, began begging for a return trip.

A single day of catching bugs and completing scavenger hunts as part of Missouri State Parks' Learn2 Camp program wasn't enough for nature's newest recruits.

They wanted another night to roast marshmallows and belt out "I've Been Workin' On The Railroad" around a campfire - and soon.

That's exactly what Missouri State Parks wants to hear.

Camping permit sales in Missouri's parks dropped 13 percent between 2000 and 2013, the most recent year for which camping figures were available.

National parks across the country have been dealing with a decline in overnight stays since the 1980s.

Nowadays, visitors seem to prefer the comfort of nearby motels.

The Learn2 Camp program works to ease families who haven't camped before into the outdoors by bringing them out to a park for a weekend and providing equipment and structured activities, said Stephanie Deidrick.

She is a spokeswoman for Missouri State Parks.

"We hope that by showing them things like, 'How to pitch a tent' or 'How to cook over a campfire,' families will be more likely to camp on their own in the future," Deidrick said.

Deidrick said that getting kids into camping early can increase the chances they'll camp as adults.

The program was exactly what Kelly Minter had hoped for when she applied.

She and her husband Ron already had agreed to their kids' longtime pleas for a camping trip.

They had scheduled one to Johnson's Shut-Ins State Park for the end of June.

Kelly Minter had camped with her family as a child.

She admitted, however, that summer options like Oceans of Fun, a theme park in Kansas City, had been more appealing than the labor of preparing a campsite for her own kids.

After their camping trip was scheduled, she worried that her ideas and her husband's various "theories" about how to start a fire or set up a tent wouldn't match reality.

This year's Learn2 Camp at Weston Bend provided the perfect test run.

With the help of park employees, Ron Minter figured out how to put up the massive six-person tent that had been gathering dust in the garage.

Isaac and Tessa learned how to identify various trees, insects and animal tracks.

Kelly Minter is hoping instructions on using sticks to start a campfire will replace Ron's preference for lighter fluid and starter logs.

"I think we might be camping more," Kelly Minter said with a laugh.

One other family was chosen to spend the night with the Minters on a recent Saturday, so any dent the program makes in the decline in campers will likely be small.

Although 40.1 million Americans went camping in 2013, according to the Outdoor Foundation's most recent "American Camper Report," that was down about 424,000 from 2012 and down 6.1 million from 2009.

National parks hosted nearly 11.9 million overnight visits in 1981, according to the National Park Service.

That number had shrunk to 8.8 million by 2000, a 26 percent difference.

National Park Service spokesman Jeffrey Olson said the way Americans experience parks changed notably in the last 30 years.

Attendance numbers reached an all-time high last year, yet fewer people chose to spend the night.

Visitors now have more overnight options, including staying in nearby towns.

"We've seen a great change in what a gateway community looks like in the last 30 years or so," Olson said.

"They have a lot more in the way of services for visitors, like motel rooms and seats in restaurants.

Some people love to spend the night near national parks and then get up and go after breakfast in the morning."

Famous parks like Yellowstone and Yosemite are still full every weekend and require making reservations well in advance, Olson said, but camping numbers may never get back to the highs of the 1980s.

Any decline in camping may be more tied to Americans spending less time away from work than a lack of access to equipment and training.

In the 2014 "American Camper" survey, 71 percent of people gave "more free time or vacation time" as a reason that they would continue camping.

It was by far the top reason.

Yet the Learn2 Camp program does try to take advantage of one favorable number.

Among campers in the 2013 survey, 85 percent took their first trip before they turned 16.

After that key age, a person's likelihood of going camping decreases significantly.

Missouri State Parks is well aware of that fact.

"If we expose families with children to camping when they're younger, it starts an outdoor legacy for them that we hope will continue for generations," Deidrick said.

Chi Kim, who came to Weston Bend with her husband and three children, agreed.

She grew up camping in Colorado.

"I think you are passing on a legacy by coming out here and getting them into camping and the outdoors.

Just like anything else, you've got to expose them to it and teach them about it."

