A former lawmaker says online fantasy sports is actually gambling.

Jim Leach should know.

When he was in Congress, he wrote a 2006 law that made most Internet gambling against the law.

Gambling is when a person bets money on a game.

Fantasy sports, though, was allowed under the law.

Daily fantasy websites are the biggest worry of lawmakers.

They have become very popular for betting because they often take place over a single game.

Other fantasy sports take place over a full sports season.

When the law was written, few people played online fantasy sports.

Leach said lawmakers had no idea daily fantasy sports would become so big.

In fantasy sports, people pay money to put together fantasy teams.

They choose their favorite players and make their own team.

The fantasy teams play against each other.

People win money based on how well the real-life players do.

Leach's law is called the Unlawful Internet Gambling Enforcement Act (UIGEA).

It was supposed to stop gambling on the Internet, not encourage it, he said.

Daily fantasy sports websites claim that Leach's law gives them permission to exist.

The two website are FanDuel and DraftKings.

Both say they offer games of skill, not gambling.

Leach said the sites still must follow other government and state laws.

These could stop online fantasy sports.

Fantasy sites also say they can operate in states that do not outlaw them.

The sites claim Leach's law gives them the go-ahead.

Just five states say fantasy sports sites are against the law.

Betting on sports and Internet gambling are mostly against the law in the United States.

However, horse racing was allowed in the 2006 law.

People bet millions of dollars every day in fantasy sports contests.

Leach said they are not games of skill at all.

In a game of skill, a person has to be good at it.

Gambling relies more on chance and luck.

Leach said there is no way "fantasy sports betting can be described as not gambling."

Fantasy sports sites have been in the news.

Last week, a DraftKings worker won $350,000 on FanDuel.

People think it might not be fair.

Some people complain about commercials that promise to make millionaires out of fantasy players.

The sites have become important in the sports world.

Major League Baseball owns a small part of DraftKings.

NFL teams and other leagues have deals with DraftKings and FanDuel.

Leach said there are still many laws and rules that can stop the fantasy sites.

He said citizens can make up their minds if America is better off without gambling.

He said that UIGEA did not make fantasy sports free from all laws.

Fantasy sports companies still must follow other laws, Leach said.

**UPDATE:** Nevada regulators ordered daily fantasy sports sites like DraftKings and FanDuel to shut down last Thursday.

They say the sites cannot operate in the state without a gambling license.

