Idaho farmer Robert Blair is keeping an eye on his crops from the sky.

For more than four years, Blair has used an unmanned aircraft to monitor his 1,500 acres.

Equipped with a camera, the flying [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) is about the size of a turkey -- less than 10 pounds and 5 feet long.

He uses it to get a bird's-eye view of his cows and fields of wheat, peas, barley and alfalfa.

"It's a great tool to collect information to make better decisions.

And we're just scratching the surface of what it can do for farmers," he said.

Blair built the drone with a friend.

Drones are unmanned aerial vehicles -- or UAVs -- piloted either by onboard computers or remotely by a person on the ground.

Americans may be excited about Amazon's plans to use self-guided drones to deliver packages.

But many unmanned aircraft may fly far from the country's big cities.

Experts say agriculture will be the most promising commercial use for drones.

The technology is a perfect fit for farms and rural areas.

There, privacy and safety issues are not as much of a concern.

Already, farmers, researchers and companies are developing unmanned aircraft equipped with cameras and other sensors.

The drones will survey crops and monitor them for disease.

They also will be able to spray pesticides and fertilizers on farm fields.

Drones are already used for farming in other countries.

The possibilities are endless: Flying vehicles could be used to scare off birds from fields.

They can forecast water supply based on snowfall and monitor irrigation.

They also will be able to plant and harvest crops.

The technology could revolutionize agriculture, farmers say.

It can increase the health of crops and improve the way farmers use their fields.

This will reduce costs and increase the amount of crops farmers can harvest.

So far, drones have been used mainly by the military to collect intelligence or kill enemies.

But interest is booming in finding other uses for them.

Right now their potential is limited because of regulations on the use of airspace and concerns about privacy.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) does not allow drones to be used for business.

Businesses and researchers can only apply for a special, experimental certificate to fly them.

The certificates are good only for research and development, flight demonstrations or training.

The FAA does allow public agencies to operate unmanned aircraft in the United States.

About a dozen sheriff's offices, police and fire departments fly drones.

U.S. Customs workers use them to spot people trying to cross the border illegally.

There is growing concern about using drones to spy on people.

As a result, most states have introduced drone privacy bills this year.

About a dozen states have passed drone laws.

They limit the ability of law enforcement to watch people from the air.

These laws have discouraged drone manufacturers from developing UAV technology for policing.

Instead, drone makers are focusing on agricultural uses, said Josh Brungardt.

He is the director of unmanned systems at PARADIGM, a drone research company in Oregon.

"A small UAV flying over a field with nothing around it doesn't create a privacy issue," he said.

Last year, Congress directed the FAA to allow unmanned aircraft in U.S. skies by September 2015.

The agency is developing guidelines for drone use.

Next year, the agency plans to propose a rule for drones.

In the meantime, the FAA will choose six drone test sites across the country.

Blair's drone isn't breaking the law, because it's basically a model airplane.

Model airplanes are allowed by the FAA as long as they're flown under 400 feet above ground level.

They also must fly far from populated areas and no one can pay for the flight.

Blair said his UAV gives him a complete, aerial view of his crops.

He also uses it to gather information on his crops over time.

Companies and universities also are racing to develop the UAV technology.

University of Oregon researchers flew drones this summer over potato fields to look for disease.

Oregon plant nurseries and researchers are using drones to count potted trees.

In Florida, farmers and researchers have used small unmanned helicopters equipped with infrared cameras to monitor orange trees for citrus greening.

Citrus greening is a deadly bacterial disease that kills the trees.

And at the University of California, Davis, professors have teamed up with Yamaha Motor Corp. USA to fly unmanned remote-controlled helicopters to spray vineyards and orchards.

Some farmers fear environmental groups could use the technology to spy on them.

The organization PETA, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, recently announced plans to purchase drones to monitor factory farms.

But Blair said the use of unmanned aircraft would have the opposite effect.

Drones can help farmers be more environmentally friendly.

"We can be even more precise in how we apply fertilizer, water or pesticides," Blair said.

