Veronica Zaragoza grew up picking berries and tomatoes in this fertile region just south of the United States.

Many things have become better, but not her pay.

She has watched as technology increased the amount of fruits and vegetables being grown.

She saw new greenhouses built to grow produce indoors.

Irrigation lines were added to bring water to the fields.

Yet Zaragoza said she still earns only 110 pesos a day, about $8.

It is just a little more than when she started picking as a 13-year-old.

Zaragoza is now 26, and has three kids.

This week she joined thousands of pickers to protest low pay.

The pickers stopped work, and went on strike.

It was the first strike by farmworkers here in years.

Pickers stood shoulder to shoulder to block the main highway.

They stopped traffic for hours.

They also just about stopped the harvest at the height of the growing season.

Hundreds of police and army soldiers cleared away the crowds with rubber bullets and tear gas.

Tear gas is a chemical that makes the eyes tear up and is used to stop protests.

More than 200 people have been arrested.

Zaragoza was held in a field with others and surrounded by police.

She was released after 17 hours.

By Thursday morning, she was back protesting.

"We haven't done anything wrong," she said.

"We just want better lives."

The strike, which began Tuesday, has shut down schools and stores.

It has brought attention to the low pay and other problems at farms owned by large companies.

The companies export millions of tons of produce to the United States every year.

One of the companies is BerryMex.

It grows strawberries and raspberries sold in the United States under the brand name Driscoll.

The land around San Quintin grows much of the produce that Mexico sells to other countries.

Tens of thousands of people pick fruit there.

Farmworkers are seeking higher pay and health care.

They also want extra pay when they work extra hours.

Farmworker leaders met with government officials and leaders of the food companies on Thursday.

Defenders of the big food companies say they pay pickers more than other places in Mexico.

In a statement, BerryMex said it has been committed to "fairness, honesty and respect for all" of its workers.

But produce picker Bernardo Velasco, age 47, said his home has no running water.

He said he buys five jugs of water every week so his family can drink and bathe.

Velasco earns just $50 a week.

He said it isn't enough to feed and house his family.

"We've been here for years working and working for the same wage.

We've had enough," Velasco said.

The protests started peacefully but turned violent.

Zaragoza said she saw protesters thrown to the ground and hit by police.

Like others, she said police were arresting everyone on the streets, even peaceful protesters such as her.

On Thursday afternoon, dozens of police officers kept watch on hundreds of people gathered outside a government building.

The people were waiting for news of their arrested relatives and how the talks were going.

Alberto Munoz, a lawyer representing the growers, said it would be difficult to change conditions for workers, like pay.

There are already written contracts, or agreements, between the growers and unions that represent the farmworkers.

A union is a group of workers who join together to have more power.

By having many workers in a union, the union can ask companies to pay workers more money.

In Mexico, many farmworkers are part of large unions.

Union leaders, though, are often seen as more on the side of the business owners than on the side of the farmworkers.

Some farmworkers want to go around union bosses.

They want to deal directly with their employers to get better pay.

