The fruits and vegetables in your neighborhood grocery store today could come from Mexico or Brazil, not just California or Florida.

U.S. farmers already are having trouble finding workers to pick their crops.

That could become an even bigger problem if Congress does not pass a new law, farmers say.

That law would make sure enough workers could come from outside the country to harvest the crops and milk the cows.

Laws about who can live and work in the country are called immigration laws.

"The bottom line is people need to decide whether they'd rather import their labor or import their food," said Randall Patterson, a North Carolina farmer.

Patterson has about 140 foreign-born workers.

He hires them legally.

But crops are being left to rot in fields from across the country.

Farmers cannot find enough workers.

Many workers have been stopped on the way to the fields.

They have been sent back to their home countries.

Others do not show up to work.

They are afraid the same thing will happen to them.

About seven in every 10 farm workers are thought to be working here illegally.

Many lawmakers agree that the immigration system hurts farming.

A Senate plan would create a way for people living in the United States illegally to become citizens.

That number of people is about 11 million.

Farm workers could become "legal" quicker.

They would get special legal rights.

Farm workers could also ask to live here for good after five years.

They could even become U.S. citizens.

But some people say that farm jobs are jobs that should be held by Americans.

The jobs should not go to people who broke immigration laws to get here.

One person against the Senate plan is Jeff Sessions.

He is a senator.

He is a Republican from Alabama.

Some people do not think most Americans want to harvest crops.

Sessions thinks they will.

"I worked construction in the Alabama sun, hauling lumber and stuff.

I know Americans do that every single day, tough work," he said.

But there are few U.S.-born farm workers.

Charles Conner is president of a farm trade group.

He said the country couldn't keep growing as much food as it does without workers from other countries.

"If that labor was not available to us," Conner said, "... it would mean that we would get that food from somewhere else."

He said lots of fresh fruits and vegetables that had been grown in California are now grown outside the United States.

There are not enough workers to pick them.

Meanwhile, Americans want to know more about the food they eat.

They also want it to be locally grown.

A new study found that just 268 people in North Carolina applied for farm jobs.

There are nearly 500,000 people without jobs in that state.

Nine of every 10 who asked were hired.

But not many showed up for the first day of work.

Far fewer finished the growing season.

The plans in Congress have put caps on the number of guest workers.

The caps are limits.

Once the cap is hit, no more workers could come in.

The secretary of agriculture could raise or lower the cap.

But some growers like Patterson worry that there is a cap at all.

He wants to know how lawmakers will know how many workers he will need.

"Einstein couldn't figure that out," he said.

Lee Wicker helps run a North Carolina farm group.

He worries about the caps, too.

If the proposed law works and the illegal workers are  blocked, that could be a problem.

Wicker said  the caps would  not supply enough workers.

Crops are grown in North Carolina later than in places like California.

Wicker said  his farmers could be left out if the limits are reached before the Carolina growing season gets going.

They might not have anyone to bring in the crops.

