Farmers can't change the weather, of course.

But perhaps now they will be able to outwit Mother Nature.

New technologies like those from a California company called Climate Corp. are combining agriculture with math formulas.

They offer farmers a way to handle severe weather patterns.

These days more and more farmers are seeing crops wilt from overheating, drought and increasingly wild weather swings.

Climate Corp. is among those offering help.

"We're moving into a period of very unstable weather, and that's what producers need to be prepared for," said Jerry Hatfield, a scientist with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

Scientists believe they know the cause of the crazy weather: climate change, or [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) caused by humans when they burn fuels like gas.

There are still many people who don't believe that climate change is real.

And this is perhaps especially true in an industry as tradition-bound as farming.

Still, scientists and farmers are increasingly planning ahead.

They are trying to figure out ways to have a bountiful harvest if rain is less dependable and temperatures shift.

Enter Climate Corp.

Started six years ago, the company uses huge amounts of data and numbers to develop hyper-local weather forecasts.

Climate Corp. produces its forecasts from weather readings at 10 million locations.

These readings are matched with 40 years of national crop-yield data.

The company can provide detailed information about 29 million fields in the United States.

Farmers receive field-specific forecasts for rain, soil conditions and wind speed.

The service can also give farmers a range of details about their land.

For example, farmers can get information about projected yields, the amount of soil moisture and how well their crops are growing.

Climate Corp. promises a new way for farmers to adjust to extreme weather.

And, it adds, even farmers who can't stomach the words "climate change" or "global warming" will find it useful.

"Farmers still face a tough battle out there every year.

Hopefully this helps them," said Climate Corp. vice president Jim Ethington.

"It's by no means a silver bullet."

But some farmers don't just question global warming.

They are also doubtful about the new forecasting methods.

Ted Guetterman farms about 10,000 acres with his dad and three brothers.

Guetterman, 45, said he's willing to look at high-tech farming methods.

Still, he thinks he's his own best judge of what needs to be done.

"Nobody knows my land better than I do," Guetterman said.

"I've been farming it all my life."

Guetterman said he would take some advice from an outside company.

But, he added, "I'm not going to do my whole farm that way."

The emergence of farm number crunchers comes as global climate change is worsening.

Rising temperatures and increasingly unpredictable weather patterns are altering the outlook for the country's $300 billion agriculture industry.

And they are changing the way crops are grown.

A USDA report this year warned of increasing fluctuation in weather patterns and the effect on crops.

Agriculture will be able to adjust to climate change in the near term, the report asserts.

But in the long run, changing environmental conditions present "unprecedented challenges."

Those shifts will likely cause serious problems for Kansas and other Great Plains states, including Oklahoma, Nebraska and South Dakota.

The USDA estimates that wheat production across the Great Plains will drop 6 percent by 2050 because of warming temperatures.

And corn yields will fall 4 percent over the same period.

A study by Kansas State University researchers also points to serious problems ahead.

It estimated that for every 1 degree Celsius increase in average temperature, the state's wheat yield would drop 21 percent.

This translates to a loss of 10.6 bushels per acre.

It's a startling number considering that temperatures are expected to rise.

Much of the middle of the country is expected to see temperatures increase by 2 to 3 degrees C in the next 40 years.

Few in Kansas believe climate change is going to push wheat or corn out of the state.

But it could make growing them more risky.

"The variability from year to year is going be greater than it has been in the past," said soil scientist Charles Rice.

"The producer is going to have to have money in the bank to pay for those poor years."

Rice and others emphasize the need for better ways to adapt.

Areas of focus include better weather forecasting, new plant-breeding methods and better soil management.

For instance, scientists are looking at how to develop a type of wheat that holds up better against the warming effects of climate change.

Hatfield, the USDA expert, said farmers will need to adjust to climate change.

"Climate has changed, climate is changing," he said, "and climate is going to change in the future."

