Farmers can't change the weather, of course.

But perhaps now they will be able to outwit Mother Nature, with a little help from some number crunchers.

New technologies like those refined by a Silicon Valley, Calif., company called Climate Corp. are merging agriculture with algorithms, or math formulas.

They offer farmers a way to cope with severe weather patterns caused by global warming.

Climate Corp. is offering a possible fix for farmers whose crops are wilting from overheating, drought and increasingly wild weather swings.

"We're moving into a period of very unstable weather, and that's what producers need to be prepared for," said Jerry Hatfield, a scientist at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

The idea of climate change continues to draw doubters, perhaps especially in an industry as tradition-bound as farming.

Still, scientists and the farming business are planning for ways to have plentiful harvests if rain is less dependable and temperatures shift.

Enter Climate Corp.

Started six years ago by a pair of former Google employees, the company uses massive amounts of data to develop hyper-local weather forecasts to insure crops if things go bad and offer advice to farmers.

The company produces its forecasts from weather readings at 10 million locations.

These readings are matched with 40 years of national crop-yield data.

It can provide detailed information about 29 million fields in the United States.

Farmers receive field-specific forecasts for rain, soil conditions and wind speed.

The service can also give farmers a range of details about their land.

For example, farmers can get information about projected yields, the amount of soil moisture and how well their crops are growing.

Climate Corp.'s people promise a new way for farmers to adjust to extreme weather.

And, they say, even farmers who can't stomach the words "climate change" or "global warming" will find it useful.

"Farmers still face a tough battle out there every year.

Hopefully this helps them," said Climate Corp. vice president Jim Ethington.

"It's by no means a silver bullet."

But some farmers don't just question [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

They're also doubtful about the new forecasting methods.

Ted Guetterman farms about 10,000 acres with his dad and three brothers.

Guetterman, 45, said he's willing to look at high-tech farming methods.

Still, he thinks he's his own best judge of what needs to be done.

"Nobody knows my land better than I do," Guetterman said.

"I've been farming it all my life."

Guetterman said he would take some advice from an outside company.

But, he added, "I'm not going to do my whole farm that way."

The emergence of farm data specialists comes as the impact of global climate change is growing.

Rising temperatures and increasingly unpredictable weather patterns are altering the outlook for the country's $300 billion agriculture industry.

And they are changing the way crops are grown.

A USDA report this year warned of increasing fluctuation in weather patterns and the effect on crops.

Agriculture will be able to adjust to climate change in the near term, the report says.

But in the long run, changing environmental conditions pose "unprecedented challenges."

Those shifts hold real consequences for Kansas and other Great Plains states, including Oklahoma, Nebraska and South Dakota.

The USDA estimates that wheat production across the Great Plains will drop 6 percent by 2050 because of extreme weather brought on by warming temperatures.

And corn yields will fall 4 percent over the same period.

A study by Kansas State University researchers also points to serious problems ahead.

It estimated that for every 1 degree Celsius increase in average temperature, the state's wheat yield would drop 21 percent, or 10.6 bushels per acre.

It's a startling number considering that much of the interior of the country is expected to see temperatures increase by 2 to 3 degrees C in the next 40 years.

Few in Kansas believe climate change is going to push wheat or corn out of the state.

But it could make growing them more risky.

"The variability from year to year is going be greater than it has been in the past," said Charles Rice, a soil expert and professor.

"The producer is going to have to have money in the bank to pay for those poor years."

Rice and others stress the need for better ways to adapt, whether that might be better weather forecasting, new plant-breeding techniques or soil management.

For instance, Kansas State University is leading a $5 million study looking at how to develop a type of wheat that holds up better against the warming effects of climate change.

Hatfield, the USDA expert, said farmers need to be flexible to reduce risk in the face of approaching climate change.

"Climate has changed, climate is changing," Hatfield said, "and climate is going to change in the future."

