Two years ago, a team of researchers traveled to Africa to search for the best chickens.

They weren't looking for hens that laid delicious eggs.

They were seeking birds that could stay alive if the planet got hotter.

Around the country, food scientists are developing farm animals that can withstand [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global warming).

Some climate change activists pooh-pooh their work.

They consider it a distraction from the real problem of global warming.

They also say the scientists are giving in to large-scale agriculture.

The activists blame it for making global warming worse.

The scientists, though, say the new breeds of farm animals will be very important for feeding the world.

The federal government is changing its response to global warming.

At first, the government tried to slow global warming by limiting the burning of fossil fuels.

Fossil fuels are natural fuels like oil, gas and wood.

Burning them creates greenhouse gases, which cause global warming.

But that strategy isn't working.

So the government now is trying to make sure that food production won't suffer from a warmer Earth.

The government is spending millions of dollars on research.

In agriculture, "we are dealing with the challenge of difficult weather conditions at the same time we have to massively increase food production," said Tom Vilsack.

He is the U.S. secretary of agriculture.

In 2050, it's estimated there will be 9 billion people on Earth.

Now, there are about 7 billion.

More people mean there will be a need for more meat, he said.

At the University of Delaware, Carl Schmidt and other researchers are trying to map the genetic code of African naked-neck chickens.

The researchers are hoping to discover why the strange-looking chickens are able to withstand heat.

Then they will try to breed that ability into U.S. chickens.

"The game is changing since the climate is changing," Schmidt said.

Warmer temperatures can cause huge problems for animals farmed for food.

Turkeys are at risk for a condition that can make their meat mushy.

High heat makes chickens sick.

Terrible weather can kill entire herds of cows.

Gale Strasburg is a professor of food science at Michigan State University.

He is trying to develop turkeys that do well in the heat.

Right now, within a day or two after a heat wave, four in 10 turkeys are suffering.

Strasburg is studying how turkey chicks and eggs do when the temperature is a few degrees warmer.

He is trying to figure out which traits could help the animals stay alive in the heat.

"Worldwide, the demand is growing for meat," he said.

In the future, there will be more pressure to produce farm animals that don't need as much food and water.

Some climate experts, however, question why the government is focusing on meat.

Animals use a lot of resources, like food.

These resources create greenhouse gasses.

Getting people to eat less meat will lower greenhouse gasses, they said.

"There's no way to produce enough meat for 9 billion people," Bill Gates wrote recently.

Gates is the founder of Microsoft.

He wants to use pea proteins to create beef and chicken that will look and taste like the real thing.

The food scientists say they, too, are trying to save resources, like water and food.

Megan Rolf is a scientist at Oklahoma State University.

She is trying to develop cattle that need less water and feed.

But picky eaters make her work difficult.

The Brahman breed of cattle, for example, does well in hot, harsh conditions.

But it doesn't taste very good.

Rolf wants to create a steer as hardy as a Brahman and as tasty as an Angus.

Angus is a cattle breed known for its delicious meat.

Back in Delaware, Schmidt pulled up a picture of the African bird.

He pointed to the lack of feathers on its bare neck.

That helps to keep it cool.

That's what the meat industry needs, he said — self-cooling chickens.

Schmidt then pulled out a climate map of the United States.

The map is marked with yellow dots.

The dots show where the temperature rises above 100 degrees Fahrenheit more than 10 days a year.

Scientists say the Earth will warm an average of 2 degrees.

But that's not what Schmidt is focused on.

"It's the increased number and (length) of heat waves.

The issue is helping these chickens or any animals survive in a state of increased heat."

A few buildings away, students delicately drop chicken blood into test tubes.

Schmidt predicts chickens that can withstand the heat will be produced here in about 15 years.

But Schmidt really hopes to increase the survival of chickens in Africa and South America.

Many of the people there are very poor.

And they will be heavily affected by climate change.

If the developing world doesn't have enough food, he said, "that affects everybody."

