Veronica Zaragoza, who grew up picking berries and tomatoes, watched as the Mexican farming industry was transformed.

She saw new greenhouses built and irrigation lines spread through the fields.

She saw produce packing plants expanded and fruits and vegetables piled onto ever-larger trucks.

Everything in this fertile agricultural region in Mexico just south of the U.S. border changed, it seemed, except her wages.

Zaragoza said she still earns only 110 pesos per day, about $8 — a little more than when she started picking as a 13-year-old.

Zaragoza, now 26, joined thousands of pickers this week as they took to the streets to protest low wages, the first strike by farmworkers here in decades.

Pickers stood shoulder to shoulder on the main highway, blocking traffic for hours and nearly stopping the harvest right at the height of the growing season.

The clash became an early test of strength of a newly formed alliance of produce growers and food distributors.

The group, called the International Produce Alliance to Promote a Socially Responsible Industry, was started in February and is dedicated to improving conditions for farmworkers in Mexico.

During the protests, hundreds of police and army soldiers dispersed crowds with rubber bullets and tear gas, and more than 200 people have been arrested.

Zaragoza, a mother of three, was among those detained in a field surrounded by police for 17 hours before being released.

By Thursday morning, she was back protesting outside a government building in San Quintin, Mexico, where dozens of other protesters remained in police custody.

"We haven't done anything wrong," she said.

"We just want better lives."

The strike, which began Tuesday, has shut down schools and stores across the region.

It has focused attention on low wages and other problems at agribusiness farms that export millions of tons of produce to the United States every year.

Among those targeted are BerryMex, which grows strawberries and raspberries sold under the Driscoll brand in the United States.

Farmworkers are seeking higher salaries, government benefits like health care, and extra pay when they work overtime.

Farmworker leaders met with government officials and leaders of the food companies on Thursday but little progress was reported.

The land around San Quintin is one of Mexico's largest produce export regions.

It stretches along 50 miles of coastal plains and valleys and employs tens of thousands of pickers.

Most of them are indigenous — or native — people originally from southern Mexico who have now been in San Quintin for decades.

Some of the region's biggest growers have close connections to politicians, having served in the state government.

Their defenders say that the wages they offer are higher than in other Mexican agricultural regions.

In a statement, BerryMex said it has been committed to "fairness, honesty and respect for all employees."

"Our primary focus continues to be toward the well-being of our employees," the statement said.

"We are working with local authorities to ensure the safety of our workers and the local community."

But produce picker Bernardo Velasco, 47, said his family lives in bleak conditions.

His neighborhood of dirt streets south of Colonet, on Mexico's Baja California peninsula, has no running water.

He said he buys five jugs of water every week so his family can drink and bathe.

Families also point to other reasons for their plight.

The economy has been hard hit as the Mexican peso has lost value against the U.S. dollar, forcing merchants to charge families more for such things as toilet paper and eggs.

Velasco said he can't feed and house his family on the $50 he makes per week.

"We've been here for years working and working for the same wage.

We've had enough," Velasco said.

But what started as a peaceful protest turned ugly as some people began taking over government buildings and a police station.

At least one store was looted.

When government forces showed up, protesters threw rocks and police fired back with tear gas and rubber bullets.

Zaragoza said she saw protesters thrown to the ground and pummeled by police.

Like others, she said police were arresting everyone on the streets, even peaceful protesters such as her.

On Thursday afternoon, tensions remained high.

Dozens of police officers kept watch on hundreds of people gathered outside a state government building where families awaited word on their arrested relatives and what progress was being made in the negotiations with the farming companies.

Alberto Munoz, an attorney representing the companies, said it would be difficult to change work conditions for farmworkers, such as increased wages.

Contracts already exist between the growers and the unions that represent the workers and negotiate for them with the farming companies.

In Mexico, many farmworkers are part of large unions that represent employees from many industries.

But those union leaders are often seen as puppets of business owners.

Fidel Sanchez, a spokesman for the groups representing indigenous farmworkers, said the legal issues would be tough to overcome, at least in the short term.

He hoped to reach an agreement that would let them bypass union bosses and let the pickers deal directly with their employers.

"We need our own union," Sanchez said.

"And we need a good lawyer."

