Idaho farmer Robert Blair is watching his crops from the sky.

He is using a remote-controlled airplane, called a [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), to keep an eye on his 1,500 acres.

Equipped with a camera, the drone is about the size of a turkey.

It weighs less than 10 pounds and is 5 feet long.

Blair uses it to get a bird's-eye view of his cows and fields of wheat, peas, barley and alfalfa.

"It's a great tool to collect information to make better decisions.

And we're just scratching the surface of what it can do for farmers," he said.

Blair built his drone with a friend.

Drones are also called unmanned aerial vehicles -- or UAVs.

They are piloted by onboard computers or remotely by a person on the ground.

Experts say agriculture will be the best business use for drones.

The technology is a perfect fit for farms and rural areas.

There, privacy and safety are less of a concern than in cities.

Already, unmanned aircraft are being developed for farms.

Equipped with cameras and other sensors, drones will watch crops and monitor them for disease.

They also will spray pesticides and fertilizers on fields.

Drones are already used in farming in other countries.

The possibilities are endless: Flying vehicles could be used to scare away birds from crops.

They could also plant and harvest crops.

The technology could completely change agriculture, farmers say.

It will increase the health of crops and improve the way farmers use their fields.

This will reduce costs and increase the amount of crops a farmer can grow.

Drones are now mainly flown by the military.

They use drones to collect information or kill enemies.

But there is great interest in finding other uses for the planes.

Right now, drones are limited because of rules about where they can fly.

Privacy is also a concern.

Drones can watch people without them knowing.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) does not allow drones to be used for business.

Businesses and researchers need special permission to can fly them.

They can be flown only for research, flight demonstrations or training.

Government departments can operate unmanned aircraft in the United States.

About a dozen sheriff's offices, police and fire departments fly drones.

The government uses them to spot people crossing the borders illegally.

There are many concerns about drones.

Most states have introduced drone privacy bills this year.

About a dozen states have passed laws.

They limit the ability of law enforcement to watch people from the air.

The laws have made drone makers uninterested in drone technology for policing.

Instead, they are focusing on agricultural uses, said Josh Brungardt.

He is an official at a drone research company in Oregon.

Last year, Congress told the FAA to allow unmanned aircraft to fly by September 2015.

The FAA is in charge of rules for flying.

Next year, the agency will suggest a rule for drones.

In the meantime, the FAA will choose six drone test sites across the country.

Blair's drone is not breaking current laws.

His drone is basically a model airplane.

Model airplanes are allowed by the FAA as long as they're flown below 400 feet above ground level.

They also must fly far from populated areas.

Blair said his drone gives him a complete view of his crops.

Companies and universities are racing to develop drone technology.

Oregon researchers flew drones this summer to check potato plants for disease.

Oregon plant nurseries are using them to count trees.

In Florida, unmanned helicopters are used to monitor orange trees.

They look for citrus greening.

Citrus greening is a deadly disease that kills the trees.

In California, university professors teamed up with Yamaha to fly unmanned remote-controlled helicopters.

They spray vineyards and orchards against bugs.

Some farmers fear environmental groups could use drones to spy on them.

But Blair said using unmanned aircraft would help farmers.

Drones can help farmers be more environmentally friendly.

"We can be even more precise in how we apply fertilizer, water or pesticides," Blair said.

