Two years ago, scientists traveled to Africa.

They searched for the best chickens.

They didn't need hens that laid the tastiest eggs.

Instead, they looked for chickens that could live on a hotter planet.

The Earth is heating up.

This is called [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global warming).

Scientists say people burn too much fossil fuels.

Fossil fuels come from nature.

These include fuel from wood, oil and coal.

Many farm animals can't stand the heat.

So, food scientists are developing animals that can.

Some global warming experts don't like their work.

They say farming makes global warming even worse.

They believe people should eat food that comes from plants.

The scientists, though, say these new animals will feed the world.

The government is spending millions of dollars on their studies.

In about 35 years, there may be as many as 9 billion people on Earth.

Now, there are about 7 billion.

More people will mean a bigger need for meat.

But farm animals don't do well in the heat.

Heat makes chickens sick.

Bad weather can kill herds of cows.

The game is changing since the climate is changing, said Carl Schmidt.

Schmidt is a food scientist at the University of Delaware.

He showed a picture of a strange-looking African chicken.

Its neck has no feathers on it.

Schmidt said the chicken's bare neck helps keep it cool.

He said that's what chicken farmers need — self-cooling chickens.

Schmidt is trying to map the chicken's genes.

Genes are the building blocks of life.

They direct how living things grow and develop.

Schmidt wants to discover which genes keep the chickens cool.

Then he will try to put those genes into U.S. chickens.

Schmidt made a prediction.

Within 15 years scientists will develop a new kind of chicken.

The chickens will keep cool in the hot weather in the United States.

But Schmidt is more concerned about chickens in Africa and South America.

Climate change will make it even hotter there.

And people are poor.

They rely on chickens for food.

If they don't have enough food "that affects everybody," he said.

