Calorie counts must be listed on most packaged foods.

Now, many food sellers must also list calories.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

Too many calories can make people gain weight.

The government announced the new rules on Tuesday.

They include large restaurant chains, theme parks and movie theaters.

Too many Americans are overweight.

The government is concerned about this and wants people to make more healthy food choices.

The purpose of the new rules is to help them.

If people know how many calories are in their soft drinks or cupcakes, they might make healthier choices.

The rules apply to chain restaurants with more than 20 locations.

Bakeries, cafeterias, ice cream shops and pizza parlors are included.

Supermarkets that sell take-out food must join in as well.

The new rules start Dec. 1, 2015.

Vending machine owners must also post calories for each candy bar or bag of chips.

They have an extra year to do it.

Their deadline is Dec. 1, 2016.

The new rules were published Tuesday in the Federal Register.

The Register publishes government rules and laws.

The new rules are complicated.

It took 525 pages to explain all the details.

Americans spend nearly half of their food money on food made outside the home.

About one-third of our calories comes from these outside foods.

Also, two out of three adults are overweight.

About one out of every three children weighs too much.

Too much body fat is unhealthy.

It can cause diseases like diabetes and heart disease.

Many people do not know how many calories are in what they eat.

Some people think they eat fewer calories than they actually do.

Health experts praised the new rules.

They called them an important step.

They said the new rules will help make the country more healthy.

"These regulations are an achievement for public health," said Georges Benjamin.

He is the head of the American Public Health Association.

Benjamin called the rules "a positive step" toward fighting many diseases.

People will have the information "to make healthier, more educated decisions," he said.

Dawn Sweeney is the head of the National Restaurant Association.

About 200,000 restaurants around the country will have to post calorie counts.

In 1990, Congress passed a health law.

It said that calorie counts must be listed on most foods.

Restaurants and vending machines did not have to post calories.

Since then, state and local governments created their own labeling rules.

But these were different from state to state.

The new rules will solve that problem, the government said.

Some food sellers felt the new rules were too tough.

Peter J. Larkin is the head of the National Grocers Association (NGA).

The group is "disappointed" that the rules include grocery stores.

Larkin said the rules will be expensive to follow.

He said the NGA will try to get Congress to pass a law to cancel labeling for grocery stores.

These new rules also make it difficult for vending machine owners.

The rules could cost the companies $37.9 million over the next 20 years.

Carla Balakgie is the president of the National Automatic Merchandising Association.

The group is made up of 1,500 vending machine companies.

She said the group accepted the new rules.

