Next year, people will be able to learn how fattening that supersized soft drink is.

Since 1990, food makers have had to list how many calories their products contain.

The government announced Tuesday that many food sellers must count calories, as well.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

Too many calories can make people gain weight.

The government is concerned about the high number of overweight Americans.

In the United States, two-thirds of adults and one-third of children have too much body fat.

If people really knew how many calories were in that soft drink or cupcake, the government believes people might eat healthier.

The rules apply to chain restaurants with more than 20 locations.

They include amusement parks and movie theaters, as well as bakeries and ice cream shops.

Supermarkets that sell take-out food must also put calories on their menus.

The new rules take effect Dec. 1, 2015.

Food sellers also will have to give other information about their food if people ask.

This includes the amount of salt, sugar and fat.

Vending machine owners will have to post the calorie count of each candy bar or bag of chips.

They get an extra year, until Dec. 1, 2016.

The rules were published Tuesday in the Federal Register.

It publishes government documents such as laws and rules.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) rules were complicated.

It took 525 pages to explain all the details.

The rules are intended to help people make more healthy food choices.

Americans spend nearly half of their food money on items cooked outside the home.

About one-third of the calories come from these foods.

Many people have no idea how many calories these foods contain.

Other people think they have fewer calories than they actually do.

Health experts praised the new rules.

They said people will have more control over what they eat.

The rules will also lead to a healthier nation.

"These regulations are an achievement for public health," said Georges Benjamin.

He is the head of the American Public Health Association.

Benjamin called the rules "a positive step" toward fighting many diseases.

Being overweight can lead to health problems, like diabetes and heart disease.

People will have the information "to make healthier, more educated decisions," he said.

Dawn Sweeney is the head of the National Restaurant Association.

She said about 200,000 restaurants nationwide will have to post calorie numbers.

In 1990, the federal Nutrition Labeling and Education Act required that calorie counts be listed on most foods.

Restaurants, vending machines and other prepared foods were excused.

Since then, state and local governments created their own labeling rules.

They were different from state to state.

Chain restaurants had trouble following them.

The new rules will solve that problem, the FDA said.

Some food sellers felt the new measures were too tough.

Peter J. Larkin is the head of the National Grocers Association (NGA).

The group is "disappointed" that the FDA's rules includes grocery stories.

Larkin said grocery stores will have to spend a lot of money to put up calorie signs.

The NGA wants Congress to pass a law to cancel the labeling for grocery stores.

The new rules could cost vending machine owners $37.9 million over the next 20 years.

Carla Balakgie is the president of the National Automatic Merchandising Association.

The group includes 1,500 vending machine companies.

She said it accepted the new rules.

She said she is happy that vending machines have an extra year to post the signs.

