For 150 years, baseball has been played without a clock.

It is the only major sport without a time element, but that could change soon.

Football has a play clock, and basketball has a shot clock.

Now, Major League Baseball (MLB) is testing new clock rules in the Arizona Fall League (AFL), a minor league run by the MLB.

Baseball could have a pitch clock, a pitching-change clock, and an inning-break clock.

Umpires could soon penalize pitchers with automatic balls and batters with automatic strikes.

The rule changes are intended to address the increasing periods of inactivity during the game that some fear could turn away younger viewers.

Frank Kremblas, a manager in the AFL, thinks the slow-pace problem only shows up in major league games.

He explained that the AFL was changing its rules just as an experiment.

Baseball games have increased in length in the past few decades.

The time of an average game has increased from 2 hours, 23 minutes in 1950 to more than three hours this season.

More troublesome than the length of games is the slower pace of play.

Teams averaged 5.14 runs per game in 2000, the highest total in the live-ball era since 1936.

Since then scoring has declined, settling at 4.07 runs per game this year.

Strikeouts have steadily increased for the entire previous century and especially in the past 10 seasons.

If fewer runs are scored and fewer balls put in play, what's taking so long?

Teams use game plans that involve seeing more pitches and using more pitchers.

New rules about video reviews added dead time.

Pitchers and hitters are slowing the game as well.

Pitchers remove dirt from their cleats and fuss with the rosin bag, and hitters adjust equipment between pitches and take practice swings.

MLB has a computer system that tracks the time of each pitch thrown so officials can calculate the pace for each pitcher or hitter.

The fastest pitchers, such as Mark Buehrle of the Toronto Blue Jays and Doug Fister of the Washington Nationals, average around 18 seconds between pitches.

But others take longer.

Edinson Volquez of the Pittsburgh Pirates averaged 25.3 seconds between pitches, the fourth-slowest time this year.

Batters are guilty, too.

Hanley Ramirez of the Los Angeles Dodgers took a major league-leading 28.1 seconds between pitches, and his teammate Yasiel Puig took 26.7 seconds, which tied for third.

Dodgers games took an average of 3:14 this season.

The AFL experimental clock rules were announced in early October to address these problems.

MLBl officials see using the rules in the AFL as a chance to take away lessons to streamline the pace of play.

The most drastic measure is the pitch clock, which requires pitchers to deliver the ball within 20 seconds or receive an automatic ball to the batter's count.

Batters must keep at least one foot in the batter's box during their at-bat, with certain exceptions.

"You can only step out if you foul a pitch off or if you swing, something like that," said Pittsburgh Pirates prospect Josh Bell, who is playing in the fall league.

Pitchers have to deliver the first pitch of an inning within 2 minutes, 5 seconds after the end of the previous inning, and batters must be in the batter's box within 1:45.

Pitchers will be charged with a ball if they take too long, while batters will receive an automatic strike if they take too long.

Pitching changes can take no longer than 2:30.

Teams are also limited to three timeouts and can issue an intentional walk merely by saying so rather than throwing four intentional balls.

"Really, it's kind of a lot of time," said Pirates minor league pitcher Tyler Glasnow, also a fall league participant.

The rules are enforced at Salt River Fields, the only AFL ballpark outfitted with the clocks.

Five digital clocks — two in each dugout, two behind home plate and one on the wall in left-center field — counted down the various times.

The mere presence of the clocks altered play, Bell said.

The clocks behind home plate, offset so as not to distract the pitcher, lined up with the first and third basemen's view of the strike zone.

"So you're looking at 20, 19, you're trying to pick up the ball, the lights are flashing right behind," he said.

"It's definitely a little bit different."

Pitcher Mark Appel committed two violations on Oct. 14.

First, he stepped off the mound as the man on first faked toward second.

Later, he also exceeded the between-innings time limit after warm-up throws wound up off-target.

Both times, he was charged with an automatic ball.

"I don't think the pitch clock saves that much time with runners on," Appel told MLB.com.

Appel said the clock rules were very different.

So far, however, the rules seem to work.

Through Oct. 24, nine-inning games under the new rules averaged 2 hours, 20 minutes, while nine-inning games without clock rules averaged 2:49.

The average fall league game took 2:51 in 2013.

Whether the experimental rules move to the major leagues, and to what extent, remains unclear.

The game can only speed up so much, and shorter isn't always better, some say.

Said Pittsburgh Pirates manager Clint Hurdle in September: "If it's all about a clock, go watch another sport."

