A big change could be coming to Major League Baseball (MLB) — clocks.

For 150 years, there have been no clocks in baseball.

Now, the MLB is testing new clock rules in the Arizona Fall League (AFL).

It is a lower league run by the MLB.

Baseball is the only major sport without time limits.

The AFL now has clocks to time pitches, substitutions, and breaks between innings.

Umpires can charge players that take too long with balls or strikes.

The rule changes are intended to speed up the game and make it more exciting for younger viewers.

Frank Kremblas, a coach in the fall league, said major league baseball games are usually the slowest.

He said the AFL was changing its rules as an experiment.

Baseball games take longer than they used to.

An average game in 1950 lasted 2 hours, 23 minutes.

The average game this season lasted more than three hours.

Games are also being played more slowly.

Scoring has gone down since 2000.

There are more strikeouts than before.

With fewer runs and fewer balls hit, games should be faster.

There are a few reasons why that isn't happening.

Teams now try to see more pitches when they bat.

Coaches also make more substitutions than they used to.

New video reviews add dead time too.

Pitchers and hitters often adjust equipment and take practice swings.

The fastest pitchers, like Mark Buehrle of the Toronto Blue Jays and Doug Fister of the Washington Nationals, take about 18 seconds between pitches.

The slowest pitchers take more than 25 seconds on average.

Edinson Volquez of the Pittsburgh Pirates averaged 25.3 seconds between pitches, the fourth-slowest time this year.

Batters also slow games down.

Hanley Ramirez of the Los Angeles Dodgers took 28.1 seconds between pitches.

He was the slowest batter in the major leagues this year.

His teammate Yasiel Puig took 26.7 seconds, which tied for third.

Dodgers games took an average of 3:14 this season.

The new clock rules were announced in early October to address these problems.

MLB officials want to find out if they can speed up baseball games.

The biggest change is the pitch clock.

Pitchers must throw the ball in 20 seconds or be charged with a ball.

If batters take too long, they get a strike called.

Batters are supposed to stay in the batter's box during their at-bat.

Pitchers have to throw the first pitch of a new inning within 2 minutes, 5 seconds of the end of the last one.

Batters must be in the batter's box within 1:45.

Pitching changes can take no longer than 2:30.

There are other rules to speed up coaching decisions.

Only one ballpark in the AFL has clocks for the new rules.

There are five digital clocks that count down the different times.

Seeing the clocks had an effect, said Josh Bell, a player in the AFL.

"So you're you're trying to pick up the ball, the lights are flashing right behind," he said.

"It's definitely a little bit different."

So far the rules seem to work.

Games under the new rules averaged 2 hours, 20 minutes.

Games without the new rules averaged 2:49.

It's not clear if the major leagues will use any of the clock rules.

The game can only speed up so much.

Shorter isn't always better, some say.

Pittsburgh Pirates manager Clint Hurdle shared that feeling in September.

"If it's all about a clock," he said, "go watch another sport."

