Young Americans don't have much money.

What they do have, they don't want to spend on greasy fast food.

Fast-food restaurants are under pressure from the millennial generation to serve fresh, tasty and more healthy food.

Millennials are people 18 to 34 years old.

Many people say they want better food.

Now, young people are proving they want healthy food.

They have stopped buying as much fast food.

This is a big loss to restaurants like McDonalds.

The millennials spend a lot of money eating out — more than $1 trillion.

A magazine for customers asked readers to judge fast-food restaurants.

Readers ranked restaurants on quality and value.

They also judged the restaurants on how healthy their food is.

Older restaurants like Burger King, Krystal and Church's Chicken ranked near the bottom.

Older restaurants often are considered to be less healthy.

Fast-casual food costs more.

But these restaurants are becoming more popular, the magazine says.

Restaurants like Chipotle Mexican Grill offer counter service like fast food but serve healthier food.

Food quality matters more than cost to millennials.

Millennials are really interested in food, said David Farmer.

He is a vice president of the Chick-fil-A chain.

They grew up watching food shows on television and know a lot about food.

Also, social media puts a lot of attention on food freshness and quality.

Esther Yi is a millennial who loves food.

She thinks millennials know more about food than other generations.

They are more interested in trying new dishes, she said.

They also expect food to be fresh.

If possible, they want it to come from nearby farms.

Millennials don't have that much money and fast food is cheaper.

Still, even fast-food companies have trouble figuring out millennials.

Fast-food restaurants must offer dishes that interest as many customers as possible.

The more items they add, the more crowded and confused the menus become.

Like all customers, millennials demand healthy choices in surveys.

When they actually walk into a fast-food restaurant, it's sometimes a different story.

They buy hamburgers and fried chicken, said J.M.

Owens.

He helps run the McDonald's in Atlanta, Georgia.

"All of us want to do a better job on what we put in our bodies," he said.

In real life, people may buy a cheeseburger at McDonld's.

They'll feel healthier if they see salads on the menu, he said.

That may be why Krystal scored so low in the magazine's survey, said Doug Pendergast.

He is the company's president.

Krystal does have salads on the menu, but most people don't buy them.

Customers ask for more healthy food, he says.

Then most of them still order at least one hamburger.

Not every millennial is the same, but they have certain things in common.

They like food they can share.

They are more willing to experiment with different types of food.

They love snacking.

They also like restaurants that treat their workers well and use healthy food.

McDonald's Owens said that a lot of time has been spent trying to understand what millennials want.

He says they want the same thing as everyone else.

That is, "good food that you feel good eating on a regular basis."

