Young Americans don't have a lot of money.

The money they do have, they use on food.

They don't want just greasy fast food.

For them, good food matters more than cost.

In the past, many people said they wanted healthy food.

Young adults are willing to spend their money on it.

For restaurant owners, this is important.

Young adults spend more than $1 trillion on restaurants.

A magazine of product reviews asked readers to judge fast-food restaurants.

Readers ranked restaurants on food quality.

They also judged restaurants on value and healthiness.

Restaurants like Burger King and Krystal came in near the bottom.

Restaurants with healthier food were more popular, the magazine said.

These restaurants are also a little more expensive.

The millennial generation is really interested in food, said David Farmer.

He works for Chick-fil-A.

Millennials are young people from 18 to 34 years old.

Esther Yi is 25.

She loves food.

She says her generation really likes trying new dishes.

They want food that is fresh.

If possible, they also want it to come from nearby farms.

But millennials don't have that much money.

Fast-food restaurants are cheap.

Yet, fast-food companies have trouble figuring out these millennials.

Millennials say they want healthy food.

But they buy hamburgers and fried chicken, said J.M.

Owens.

He works with McDonald's owners in the Atlanta, Georgia, area.

What customers say and do are two different things, said Doug Pendergast.

He is Krystal's president.

Krystal is a hamburger restaurant.

It scored low on the Consumer Reports survey.

People may say they want healthy food, Pendergast said.

Most customers end up eating a hamburger.

Millennials have certain things in common.

They like fresh, healthy and tasty food.

They like food they can share.

They also love snacking.

The fast-food business really tries to understand what the millennial generation wants.

But millennials want the same thing as everyone else, Owens said.

That is, "good food that you feel good eating."

