Willie Bailey grabbed his dance partner's hands and twirled her in a circle.

Mellow soul music played as the two bopped back and forth on the floor.

But this was no ordinary party.

Bailey was dancing with his 7-year-old daughter.

"I feel so happy," Bailey's daughter, Taniya, said after they stopped moving.

"I feel pretty."

On Chicago's South Side recently, dozens of father-daughter couples gathered together for a memorable dance party.

The event celebrated how important black fathers are in the lives of their daughters.

The evening was also a reason to get dressed up and celebrate love.

"I wouldn't miss this for the world," said Bailey, who has been coming to the event for the last three years.

"I love it because it gives us a chance to spend time together, just us."

Father-daughter dances can help promote the special bond between fathers and their daughters.

Over the years, African-Americans have started to host dances to highlight the role fathers can have in helping their daughters grow up to feel confident and supported.

Haley Elementary Academy is organizing a dance.

The school is in the Roseland and West Pullman communities in Chicago.

School leaders have planned their first father-daughter dance for later this year, according to Principal Sherry Pirtle.

"There is already a buzz about it.

The girls are talking about what they want to wear," said Pirtle.

One reason that these dances are popular is because African-American communities are trying to keep fathers involved in their kids' lives.

Many black children are being raised by only one parent.

Still, that doesn't always mean that the father isn't involved or helping care for the child.

A father is the first male relationship that many girls have.

This relationship is important because it can shape what a girl looks for in other men as she grows up.

Kelly Fair has a mentoring group called Polished Pebbles that exposes young black girls to female professionals who can offer advice on how to succeed in school and work.

Fair said that men play an important role in the life of a young woman.

"There are men out here who are responsible, loving, trusting, caring and doing good things," said Fair.

"We want our girls to see them."

Polished Pebbles hosts a father-daughter dance on Valentine's Day in Chicago.

At the event, girls can bring their fathers, uncles, cousins or brothers to serve as male role models.

For girls who don't have a relationship with their biological father, Fair finds volunteers to step in and accompany the girls.

The event is light-hearted and fun.

The men introduce themselves to the girls and play group games.

Instead of dancing one-on-one, they line dance, play musical chairs and boogie down a soul train line.

At the father-daughter dance Bailey attended, about 70 men spent a Saturday afternoon with the special girls in their lives.

Most men were there with their young daughters.

Some brought nieces, cousins and girls from their neighborhoods so they could party, too.

Once the dance started, Joe Dunford, 36, floated from side to side, bouncing his shoulders and nodding to the music as his daughter did her own freestyle dance moves in front of him.

He grabbed her hands and pulled her arms in synchronized movements.

"It's a little embarrassing, but it's fun," said Miranda, 8.

"He dances weird.

I like it though."

Dunford laughed off his daughter's criticism.

It was his first time attending the dance and it meant more than just dressing up for a party.

"I want her to see from an early age what to expect from a man and how she should be treated," he said.

Bailey and his daughter turned the dance into a special day.

They had breakfast together and got dressed for the dance at his mother-in-law's house.

They took photos in their outfits.

Taniya wore a cream-colored gown with a pearl necklace and pink floral accessories.

Bailey wore his Sunday best with a cream apple cap and tan blazer to top off his look.

"She loves to get dressed up and look pretty," Bailey said.

"I love to do what makes her happy and keeps her smiling.

Our bond is unbreakable."

And after the dance, they went to Taniya's favorite restaurant, Red Lobster.

