Every four years the Summer Olympics are held in a different city.

In 2016, they will happen in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

In early 2014, Brazil hosted another big event: the World Cup soccer tournament.

The final match of the Cup took place in Rio.

Brazil was praised for the way it handled the Cup.

Many expect Rio to handle the Olympics well too.

Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff says the city will do a great job.

People from all over the world travel to the World Cup and the Olympics.

Cities that put them on often need new buildings and new roads.

Whole neighborhoods can go through big changes.

Sometimes those changes happen even if people don't want them to.

Sometimes people are forced to move.

That's what happened in poor parts of Rio called favelas.

It happened as Rio was getting ready for the World Cup.

Now people in the favelas are worried.

They are afraid they might see the same thing all over again as Rio gets ready for the Olympics.

Favela do Metro is one of Rio's favelas.

It is just 300 yards from the Maracana soccer stadium.

World Cup games were held at Maracana.

Olympic games will be held there as well.

People in Favela do Metro say they were mistreated as Rio prepared for the World Cup.

The city had wanted to build a new parking lot near Maracana stadium.

In 2010, the city started knocking down houses.

Many families were forced to leave.

Then, the city just stopped.

The parking lot was never built.

For the people who remain in Favela do Metro, things are now much worse than they ever were.

The city seems to have forgotten about them.

Rats roam freely.

Mounds of garbage and old furniture pile up.

Some houses are still standing, but they are surrounded by houses that have been destroyed.

The neighborhood now looks like it has been bombed.

People no longer even have running water.

City officials describe events in Favela do Metro differently.

They say they were fair.

One official said that people agreed to leave and were given plenty of time.

She said many were moved to new housing.

Others got money from the city to leave their homes, she added.

However, many deny those claims.

They say the people of Favela do Metro were given very little time to leave.

They say police did not treat them well when they were made to leave.

For those who remain in Favela do Metro, things are only getting worse.

Thirty-eight-year-old Barbara Cabral Souza is still there.

She says the city still hasn't offered her a way out.

The shops and jobs that were once here are gone.

There are no police around, and drug dealers have moved in.

"We are prisoners inside our own city," she said.

