The head of the FBI said Wednesday that the bureau used planes to spy inside the United States.

It was the first time he said this publicly.

The planes are called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

They fly without a pilot.

They are controlled from the ground similar to a remote-control plane.

The FBI uses them very little, Robert S. Mueller III, the FBI's boss, said.

He also said that the FBI does not have a lot of the planes.

The government spying inside the United States worries a lot of people.

Senator Dianne Feinstein wanted to know about people's privacy.

She asked Mueller how the FBI controls how information collected by the drones is used.

She called drones "the greatest threat to the privacy of Americans."

Mueller said he would have to check.

But he said there were limits.

The FBI is starting to write rules for how it uses the information to protect Americans' privacy.

This was probably Mueller's last time in front of Congress before he leaves office.

Spying on people inside the United States was a major topic.

There was a good reason.

The National Security Agency just said it is gathering user information from Web sites like Google and Facebook.

It uses the information to try to stop terror plots.

A man who worked for the NSA told reporters secrets about what the spy agency does.

He said the NSA gathers information about people's telephone calls.

That makes some people nervous.

But the boss of the NSA said the information has helped stop a lot of dangerous crimes around the world.

Mueller defended what the NSA does.

He said the pieces of information were like dots.

You never know which will be the important dot in connecting a crime.

"But you want as many dots as you can," he said.

If you stop letting the NSA collect the information, there will be fewer dots to connect.

Mueller said the bureau already was making plans for his replacement.

President Barack Obama has to name somebody to take Mueller's place.

The Senate gets the final say.

Mueller said he had met with Obama to discuss his replacement.

The FBI can prepare as much as it wants.

And President Obama will choose somebody to head it.

But something unexpected will happen, Mueller said.

The FBI changed immediately after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in 2001.

Those happened a week after Mueller took over.

The FBI went from fighting gangs and bank robberies to focusing more on terrorism and national security.

It will take a month for the new boss to get settled in, Mueller said.

"But in that month, I can tell you something's going to happen."

So whatever the new boss planned to focus on, something is going to change his focus, Mueller said.

Senators from both political parties complimented the departing director.

They thanked him for his 12 years of running the bureau.

Some praised him for updating the FBI through technology.

The upgrades helped the bureau deal with new kinds of threats like computer crime and Wall Street money schemes.

