The government's food watchdog took a step Thursday to make Americans' diets more healthy.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is making a rule against trans fat.

Trans fat is generally a man-made ingredient.

It blocks the major vessels that bring blood from the heart to the rest of the body.

It used to be in a lot of processed foods, or foods made in factories.

Food makers and restaurant chains have taken steps to remove the ingredient over the past 10 years.

People learned more about the risks of trans fat over that time.

They also bought healthier foods.

That helped cut down on the consumption of trans fat.

The FDA has made food companies put the amount for trans fat on labels since 2006.

The rule made many companies change their recipes.

The FDA is the government agency that makes rules about the safety of foods and medicines.

Cutting down on trans fats could prevent heart attacks, the FDA said.

Trans fats are formed when food makers turn liquid oils into solid fats by adding hydrogen atoms.

The process is called hydrogenation.

Trans fats are added to some foods.

The FDA now has declared that partially hydrogenated oils are not "generally recognized as safe."

Partially hydrogenated oils are the main source of trans fats.

This will be an important rule change.

The new guidelines mean that companies that want to use the ingredient have to get the FDA's approval.

Also, food companies can currently say that their food has "zero grams trans fat" if the product has a half-gram or less per serving.

Companies would not be able to say that under the new rules.

Scientists who focus on nutrition say it's a win that will take a dangerous substance out of the American diet.

Trans fats are used mostly to make foods feel a certain way in the mouth or to last longer on the shelf.

They keep pie crusts flaky, for example.

They keep peanut butter from breaking apart.

Americans started to eat more processed foods in the 1950s.

That's when companies started using more trans fat.

But in the 1990s questions came up about what trans fats did to people's health.

Americans have eaten almost 80 percent less trans fat in the last 10 years.

One reason is that Americans are learning more about the risks of trans fat.

Food makers and restaurants have also voluntarily eliminated the ingredient.

Some places have banned their use.

California made restaurants stop cooking with trans fats in 2008.

It was the first state to do so.

"Getting rid of artificial trans fat is one of the most important life-saving measures the FDA could take," said Michael F. Jacobson.

He runs the Center for Science in the Public Interest.

A lot of people do not know how much trans fat they eat.

Trans fats most often are in products without food labels.

These include things like the scones at your local coffee shop or restaurant French fries, said Jennifer Ventrelle.

She is a dietitian at Rush University Medical Center.

"It's how they prepare the food that's important," she said.

How people prepare foods at home matters, too.

Kraft Macaroni &amp; Cheese is an example.

The label on the box lists zero grams trans fat per serving.

But the label also says that adding margarine and 2 percent reduced fat milk adds trans fat.

Kraft declined comment.

Mondelez International makes Oreo cookies and other cookies and crackers.

It said all of its cookies and crackers are labeled as "zero grams trans fat" per serving.

But some products still contain partially hydrogenated oil, according to the label.

Most major restaurant companies got rid of partially hydrogenated oils in the mid- to late-2000s, the Center for Science in the Public Interest said.

But a number of chains still have food that contains some partially hydrogenated oil.

The oils are in baked goods.

McDonald's uses cooking oil that contains zero grams of trans fat per serving.

But the USDA says that some McDonald's products contain trans fats.

Those products include apple pies, cookies and pancakes.

McDonald's declined to comment Thursday.

