The American diet is about to get healthier.

Trans fats will no longer be allowed in foods made in factories.

The new rule was announced on Thursday.

Trans fat is generally not natural.

It was found in a lot of foods made in factories.

These are called processed foods.

Food makers and restaurant chains have gotten rid of a lot of trans fat over the past 10 years.

Why?

People learned more about the risks of trans fat.

They also bought healthier foods.

That helped cause the change.

The government has its own watchdog called the Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

The FDA's job is to make sure the food and medicines that Americans buy are safe.

The FDA has made food companies put the amount for trans fat on labels since 2006.

Many companies changed their recipes since then.

Cutting back on the use of trans fats could prevent heart attacks, the FDA said.

Food makers turn liquid oils into solid fats by adding hydrogen atoms.

When they do this, trans fats form.

The process is called hydrogenation.

It creates "partially hydrogenated oils."

Partially hydrogenated oils are the main source of trans fats.

The FDA now says that partially hydrogenated oils are not "generally recognized as safe."

From now on, if a company wants to use the oils, it has to get the FDA's permission.

Scientists who focus on nutrition say the change is a win.

It will take something dangerous out of the American diet.

Trans fats are used to make foods feel a certain way on the tongue.

They also help foods last longer.

They keep pie crusts flaky, for example.

They keep peanut butter from breaking apart.

Americans started to eat more processed foods in the 1950s.

That's when companies started using more trans fat.

But in the 1990s questions came up about what trans fats did to people's health.

Americans have eaten a lot less trans fat in the last 10 years.

The reasons include more education about the health risks of trans fat.

Food manufacturers and restaurants have also eliminated the fats.

Some places have made using them against the law.

California made restaurants stop cooking with trans fats in 2008.

It was the first state to do so.

A lot of people do not know how much trans fat they eat.

Trans fats most often are in products without food labels.

These include things like the scones at your local coffee shop.

They could also be in restaurant French fries, said Jennifer Ventrelle.

She is a dietitian at Rush University Medical Center.

"It's how they prepare the food that's important," she said.

How people prepare foods at home matters, too.

Kraft Macaroni &amp; Cheese is an example.

The box says there are zero grams trans fat per serving.

But the box also says that adding margarine and 2 percent reduced fat milk adds trans fat.

Kraft did not want to comment.

Mondelez International makes Oreo cookies.

The company also makes other cookies and crackers.

It said all of its cookies and crackers are labeled as "zero grams trans fat" per serving.

But some products still contain partially hydrogenated oil, according to the label.

Most major restaurant companies got rid of partially hydrogenated oils in the mid- to late-2000s.

But many chains still have food that contains some partially hydrogenated oil.

The oils are in baked goods.

McDonald's uses cooking oil that contains zero grams of trans fat per serving.

But the USDA says that some McDonald's products contain trans fats.

Those products include apple pies, cookies and pancakes.

McDonald's did not want to comment Thursday.

