The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took a step Thursday to rid trans fat from Americans' diets.

Trans fat is an artificially created substance that clogs the arteries.

It was found in a lot of processed foods, or foods made in factories, though food makers and restaurant chains have taken steps to remove the substance over the past decade.

Consumers also became more educated about the risks of trans fat over that time and have bought healthier alternatives.

The FDA has required that nutritional labels break out trans fat content since 2006.

The rule spurred many companies to alter their recipes.

The FDA noted that trans fats in processed food have been shown to raise "bad" cholesterol, increasing the risk of heart disease.

Reducing the use of trans fats could prevent 20,000 heart attacks and 7,000 deaths from heart disease a year, the FDA said.

Although consumption of trans fat has fallen, "current intake remains a significant public health concern," Food and Drug Commissioner Margaret Hamburg said.

Trans fatty acids, or trans fats, are formed when food makers turn liquid oils into solid fats by adding hydrogen atoms.

The process is called hydrogenation.

Under new rules, the FDA has declared that partially hydrogenated oils are a food additive that is not "generally recognized as safe."

Partially hydrogenated oils are the main source of trans fats.

The new guidelines mean that companies that want to use the ingredient have to first seek approval from the FDA.

It also would prevent companies from claiming their food contains "zero grams trans fat" if the product has a half-gram or less per serving.

Food companies currently can make that claim.

Nutritionists say it's a win that will take a dangerous substance out of the American diet.

Trans fats are used mostly for texture and stability.

They extend shelf life, preserve flavor, make crusts flaky and keep peanut butter from separating.

The fats were used more as Americans ate more processed foods starting in the 1950s.

By the 1990s, studies began to question the impact of trans fats on health.

The FDA has opened a 60-day review period to take comments from the food industry and other experts.

Americans' consumption of trans fats has declined almost 80 percent in the last decade.

Education about their risks, reductions by food makers and restaurants and some local bans have all helped.

California became the first state to make restaurants stop cooking with trans fats in 2008.

"Getting rid of artificial trans fat is one of the most important life-saving measures the FDA could take," said Michael F. Jacobson.

He is executive director for the Center for Science in the Public Interest.

Nutrition experts say that many people do not know how much actual trans fat is in foods.

Smaller serving sizes can sometimes distort true fat content.

"If the serving size is small and you eat several servings, the amount of trans fats adds up," said Jennifer Ventrelle, a registered dietitian at Rush University Medical Center.

Also, trans fats most often are in products without food labels.

Think of the scones at your local coffee shop or restaurant French fries, Ventrelle said.

"It's how they prepare the food that's important," she said.

How people prepare foods at home matters, too.

For instance, the nutrition label on a box of Kraft Macaroni &amp; Cheese lists zero grams trans fat per serving.

But additional information on the label says that preparing the dish by adding margarine and 2 percent reduced fat milk adds 4 grams of trans fat per serving.

Kraft declined comment.

Mondelez International, which makes Oreo cookies, Wheat Thins, Triscuits and Nilla Wafers, said all of its cookies and crackers are labeled as "zero grams trans fat" per serving.

But some Mondelez products, like Ritz crackers, still contain partially hydrogenated oil, according to the label.

General Mills, owner of brands Betty Crocker and Pillsbury, said that it has taken the trans fat out of more than 90 percent of its products sold in U.S. stores.

It pledged on Thursday to eliminate the rest in response to the FDA's proposed rules.

"This is a major development, and food companies will need to quickly consider and respond to this request," General Mills said in a prepared statement.

"We will ... need to move to respond quickly to FDA on this question, and we will."

Most major restaurant chains eliminated partially hydrogenated oils for use in cooking in the mid- to late-2000s, according to the Center for Science in the Public Interest.

But a number of chains still have menu items that contain some partially hydrogenated oil in baked goods.

McDonald's Corp. uses cooking oil that contains zero grams of trans fat per serving.

But the USDA's nutritional database notes that some of its products, such as apple pies, cookies and pancakes, contain trans fats.

McDonald's declined to comment Thursday.

The FDA proposal focuses on partially hydrogenated oils.

It would not affect the small amount of naturally occurring trans fat found in some meat and dairy products.

