Some lawmakers in Washington, D.C., want to get rid of the $1 bill.

They want people to use $1 coins instead.

The reason is that coins last longer than paper money.

They say it would save the government money.

But, the Federal Reserve says, "Don't bet on it."

The Fed is the bank of the U.S. government.

And it controls the nation's money.

The Fed studied the costs of moving from paper money to coins.

And it looked at the benefits.

The study by the Fed found that the dollar bill lasts longer than people realize.

And to switch it out for a dollar coin would cost the government $1.2 billion over 30 years.

Coins are more expensive to produce, it pointed out.

The Fed said the dollar bill should remain in use.

It shouldn't be replaced with a coin.

Those in Congress who want to get rid of the dollar bill say it doesn't last as long as a coin.

Canada and Britain have already gotten rid of paper for very small amounts of money.

And much of Europe has made the switch to coins as well.

Last year, another government study said a switch could save the government $4.4 billion.

Those savings would come over 30 years.

The Dollar Coin Alliance is trying to get the government to switch to the dollar coin.

It includes government watchdogs, agencies in charge of subways and bus lines, mining companies and companies in the vending machine business.

It says a report estimated a switch would save $13.8 billion over 30 years.

The group disagrees with the Fed study.

It says the central bank wants to keep the dollar bill because it profits from the sale of paper money.

It's no surprise the Fed is fighting the switch, said Shawn Smeallie.

He is the head of the Dollar Coin Alliance.

He said the Fed wants to keep the $1 bill for the wrong reasons.

"The best interests of taxpayers, not the Fed, must come first."

The Fed puts out money through its regional banks.

And it orders it from the Treasury's printing department.

The Fed said it doesn't make any profits.

Every year it turns over any profits to the Treasury Department.

The Treasury pays the government's bills.

And it collects taxes.

The Fed study said the idea that a dollar coin would save a lot of money is wrong.

The dollar bill is made with paper that blends cotton and linen.

It is now stronger than it used to be.

And it lasts about 70 months, the Fed said.

Paper money only lasted 18 months in 1990.

The bills that other countries got rid of lasted less than 20 months.

A dollar coin can be used for 30 years.

But, it also costs much more to produce.

A dollar bill costs about 5 cents to make.

A dollar coin costs about 33 cents, the Fed said.

Over 30 years, the government would spend $6.9 billion more if it replaced the bills with coins.

At that cost, the government would make money on the switch only if the bills lasted less than 4.75 years.

With a current shelf life of 70 months, or about 5.8 years, the bill is the better choice, the Fed said.

In addition, the shift to a dollar coin would have other costs.

Banks would need extra space to store them.

More equipment would have to be bought.

That would cost "perhaps in the hundreds of millions of dollars per year," the Fed said.

Also, the Fed said people don't really like the dollar coins.

The newest dollar coins have images of American presidents on them.

But people don't want them, the report said.

About 1.4 billion dollar coins are sitting in Fed vaults.

That's approximately a 40-year supply.

The report said surveys have shown that most Americans like the bill over the coin.

The same surveys found that making the switch could lead more people to stop using cash.

Instead, they might use credit cards and other ways of paying.

But the Dollar Coin Alliance said surveys have shown about two-thirds of Americans support a switch to a dollar coin.

But, that's if they think it could save the government money.

