To lawmakers and others arguing that replacing the $1 bill with a $1 coin would save the government money, the Federal Reserve says, "Don't bet on it."

The Federal Reserve is the central bank of the United States., and it controls the country's money.

A new analysis by the Fed said the old-fashioned greenback is more durable than people realize.

And replacing it with a dollar coin would cost the government $1.2 billion over 30 years, because coins are expensive to produce.

The Fed study looked at the benefits and costs of moving from paper money to coins.

It found that the $1 bill "should remain in circulation and not be replaced with a $1 coin."

Some in Congress are pushing the government to replace the dollar bill, because the dollar coin will last longer than paper money.

Several countries, including Canada and Britain, and the countries that use the euro, have replaced small-value paper currency with coins.

Last year, the Government Accountability Office estimated a switch could save the federal government $4.4 billion over 30 years.

The GAO works for Congress, and looks into how the government spends money.

The Dollar Coin Alliance is a lobbying organization.

It includes government watchdogs, transit agencies that run subways and bus lines, mining companies and vending machine groups.

It is promoting an economic report that estimated a switch would save $13.8 billion over 30 years.

The organization criticized the Fed analysis.

It says the central bank wants to keep the $1 bill because it profits from the sale of paper currency.

"It's no surprise the Fed is fighting currency modernization, when you understand their motives behind this report," said Shawn Smeallie, who runs the Dollar Coin Alliance.

"The best interests of taxpayers, not the Fed, must come first."

The Fed issues currency through its reserve banks and orders it from the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing.

The Fed said it is not a profit-making institution.

Every year it turns over any profits to the Treasury Department.

In addition to printing money, the Treasury also collects taxes and pays the government's bills.

The Fed study said estimates of costs savings for a $1 coin are way off the mark.

The $1 bill is made with paper that blends cotton and linen.

It is now more durable and lasts about 70 months compared with 18 months in 1990, the report said.

Small-denomination bills eliminated in other countries lasted less than 20 months.

Although a $1 coin has a useful life of 30 years, it also costs much more to produce.

A $1 bill costs about 5 cents to make while a $1 coin costs about 33 cents, the Fed said.

Over 30 years, the government would spend an additional $6.9 billion if it replaced $1 bills with coins.

At that cost, the government would make money on the switch only if dollar bills lasted less than 4.75 years.

With a current shelf life of 70 months, or about 5.8 years, the paper currency is more efficient, the Fed said.

Not to mention the shift to a $1 coin would result in additional costs.

Extra vault storage space at banks and equipment would cost "perhaps in the hundreds of millions of dollars per year," the Fed said.

Finally, the Fed said the public has shown no great love for dollar coins so far.

The latest incarnation — coins with images of American presidents — was promoted by the Fed and the U.S. Mint, but the effort failed to create demand, the report said.

As of June 30, there were 1.4 billion dollar coins sitting in Fed vaults.

That is approximately a 40-year supply.

The report said polls have shown that a majority of Americans prefer the dollar bill to the dollar coin.

It found that making the switch could lead more people to shun cash for credit cards and other alternative payment methods.

But the Dollar Coin Alliance said polls have shown about two-thirds of Americans support a switch to a dollar coin when told of potential budget savings.

