The first female head of a major automobile company arrived in 2014.

Mary Barra became chief executive officer (CEO) of General Motors and is one of a growing number of women in leadership positions in the auto industry.

Yet, women held about 25 percent of all jobs in the motor vehicle and parts industry as of late 2014, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics.

And fewer than 1 in 5 engineers in the auto industry are women, according to Lindsay Brooke, author of the report "Women in Vehicle Engineering."

The report was recently published in the Society of Automotive Engineers International Automotive Engineering magazine.

These statistics are despite the fact that women influence 80 percent of car buying decisions, according to "Women in Cars," a 2014 analysis by consulting firm Frost &amp; Sullivan.

In 2012, women held more driver's licenses than men for the first time in the United States.

The lack of female input may be why more than half the women around the world are unhappy with the automotive products presented to them, says Brandy Schaffels.

She is the chief editor of AskPatty.com, an automotive advice website geared to women.

Women want better storage, nicer interior lighting and materials, and cars designed for their smaller body size, she said.

"This is the time when the demand for product developers and technical expertise is acute," Brooke says.

"Female engineers in key positions including design, lighting, technology and product development add a lot to the mix."

There are three women car engineers preparing the groundwork for the next generation of young women interested in automotive science and technology.

The first is Dawn Piechocki, an engineering manager at Ford Motor Company.

Piechocki is responsible for integrating, testing and executing all of the engineering for Ford's full-size SUVs, Ford Expedition and Lincoln Navigator.

That includes overseeing vehicle development of the chassis — the internal framework of the car — powertrain, body and electrical components.

She commutes between two offices — one in Dearborn, Michigan, the other in Mexico City.

In Mexico, as the only woman in engineering management, she has 55 people reporting to her.

"When I came here I was unsure about how I would be viewed.

My concern was whether or not culturally I would be accepted as a female in a technical management position.

The engineering team asked for me specifically and I've been accepted very well."

She also tests out vehicles in different environments around the world.

These include test drives in the deserts of Borrego, California, and Dubai in the Middle East, and performance drives from Mexico City at 7,500 feet to Acapulco at sea level.

Piechocki began her career at Ford 23 years ago in car chassis engineering.

"I work on mentoring the engineering team in Mexico and getting them more exposure to the automotive industry," she said.

"I also speak to younger women who are interested in science and math.

And I have found a lot of women, especially younger women, are just intimidated by vehicles.

But I explain that the automotive field is huge, and even if you are not doing work on a vehicle, there are so many areas that you can impact."

The second women is Elizabeth Krear, chief engineer of the Ram 1500 truck for Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.

As chief engineer of the Ram 1500, Krear oversees all budgets, planning, engineering, development, quality and launch management of the truck.

"As an engineer, I can be a decision-maker," says Krear, who has a husband and two children.

Krear says when she was graduating from high school and was not quite sure what to study, her dad asked her what she wanted to be.

A businesswoman, she said.

"He told me to go get an engineering degree.

It was great advice," she said.

"Engineering training is basically problem solving.

It has so many business elements as well.

I mentor a lot of women and high school girls in the Chrysler Mentoring Program.

I tell them that if you are good at math and interested in how things work, then engineering is a great field.

There are so many facets of engineering."

The third woman is Elizabeth Baron, technical specialist in virtual reality and advanced visualization at Ford.

Baron has invented a new technology, which immerses a person into a full-size, photo-realistic vehicle simulation.

It enables real-time product evaluations on engineering, design, comfort and manufacturing, all before the vehicle is built.

"The biggest challenge is representing the physical world — the workings of a vehicle — and have it make sense using 3-D technology," says Baron.

Last fall, she was presented with Ford's highest technical honor, the Dr. Haren Gandhi Research and Innovation Award.

Baron became a tech specialist on Ford's first digital team in the mid-1990s.

Baron exchanges ideas with a lot of outside sources, including NASA, Boeing, John Deere, Disney and DreamWorks Animation.

With Disney, she might share ideas that result in better cars for Ford and better theme parks for Disney.

With NASA, the U.S. space agency, it could be motion tracking and capture.

"I am the only woman on my team.

And I am immersed in two male-dominated fields, both engineering and computer graphics programming," Baron says.

"But I don't think about my interactions with my co-workers in that way.

Thankfully we respect each other, and that's what is important."

