Women have a big say in the purchase of most cars in the United States.

Yet, fewer than 1 in 5 car engineers are women, according to Lindsay Brooke, author of the report "Women in Vehicle Engineering."

Also, just one woman is in charge of a major automobile company.

Mary Barra was named head of General Motors in 2014.

The majority of people working in the car industry are men.

This fact may explain why more than half of the women around the world are unhappy with the cars on the market, says Brandy Schaffels.

She is the chief editor of AskPatty.com, an automotive advice website geared to women.

Men are designing cars for men, not women.

Women want more places to store things, and nicer lighting and materials.

They also want cars designed for their smaller body size, Schaffels said.

Car designers and engineers are jobs in great demand, particularly for women designers and engineers.

They are needed to work on car design, lighting, technology and car development, Brooke said.

Three women car engineers are making a difference in the car world.

They are role models for young women interested in a career in the car industry.

The first engineer is Dawn Piechocki.

She is engineering manager for the Ford Expedition and the Lincoln Navigator at Ford Motor Company.

She is involved in the design and engineering of the chassis, the vehicle's frame.

She also works on the vehicle's engine, body and electrical parts.

Piechocki travels between two offices.

One is in Dearborn, Michigan, the birthplace of the American car industry.

The other is in Mexico City.

In Mexico, she is the only woman in engineering management, and 55 people report to her.

"When I came here I was unsure about how I would be viewed," Piechocki said.

She did not know whether the men would accept a woman as their boss.

"I've been accepted very well."

Piechocki also tests vehicles around the world.

She has tested cars in the deserts of Borrego, California, and Dubai in the Middle East.

She also test-drove cars on long distance drives from Mexico City at 7,500 feet to Acapulco at sea level.

She also speaks to younger women who are interested in science and math.

"And I have found a lot of women, especially younger women, are just (scared) by vehicles," she said.

"But I explain that the automotive field is huge."

There are many areas where women can make a difference.

The second auto engineer is Elizabeth Krear, who works for Fiat Chrysler Automobiles.

As chief engineer of the Ram 1500 truck, she oversees all budgets, planning, engineering, development and quality.

"As an engineer, I can be a decision-maker," says Krear, who has a husband and two kids.

Krear says she was not quite sure what to study after high school.

When her dad asked her what she wanted to be, she said a businesswoman.

"He told me to go get an engineering degree.

It was great advice," she says.

"Engineering training is basically problem solving," Krear says.

"It has so many business elements as well."

She tells girls "that if you are good at math and interested in how things work, then engineering is a great field."

The third female engineer is Elizabeth Baron.

She uses virtual reality to design cars at Ford.

Baron invented a new technology that uses 3-D imaging.

It lets engineers analyze how a car works before it is even built.

Last fall, she won Ford's highest technical award.

Baron helps advise women students at the University of Michigan for Women in Science and Engineering.

She also exchanges ideas with NASA, the U.S. space agency, Disney and DreamWorks Animation.

With Disney, she might share ideas that result in better cars for Ford and better theme parks for Disney.

"I am the only woman on my team," Baron said.

She is involved in two fields where most workers are men — engineering and computer graphics programming.

But, she says, "Thankfully we respect each other, and that's what is important."

