Food has the power to heal, says Cat Daniels.

Daniels has been serving Sunday meals to people holding signs and protesting the death of Michael Brown since August.

On Aug. 9, the 18-year-old was killed by Officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson.

Since then, Daniels has been calming the angry crowds with plates of food.

"Food can heal your soul," Daniels said.

Daniels served Thanksgiving dinner in a church near St. Louis.

The hungry crowd had traveled far for their Thanksgiving meal.

They happily dug into trays of fried turkey, collard greens and tres leches cake, which is made with three different kinds of milk.

Most of them did not know each other three months ago, but inside the church it seemed like a family dinner.

They were united by their anger over Brown's death and their thankfulness for Daniels.

Daniels, whom they call "Momma Cat," has fed them since August.

People listen to her, said Pastor Henry Logan.

"She does it one meal at a time."

The previous Monday, violent protests broke out again.

People were angry after a grand jury decided not to charge the officer with a crime.

A grand jury is a group of citizens.

They decide if a person should be charged with a crime.

The protesters think that Brown, who is black, would not have been killed if he were white.

On Thanksgiving, though, the city of Ferguson seemed to stop and take a deep breath.

The protesters were gone.

The holiday was cold and quiet — at least for a few hours.

"It's a day to breathe, to love one another, to share and give thanks for what we have and what we will have," said Daniels.

She was surrounded by the food she stayed up all night to cook.

Momma Cat said she was trying to help the protesters.

She said they are fighting against the unfair treatment of black people by police.

"I can't sit down.

I have to be on the right side of history," Daniels said.

She added that it is the fight of younger people, but her generation should support them.

To do that, Daniels turned to one thing that unites people, regardless of what they think or where they come from, food.

Most Sundays since Brown's death, Daniels has served food in the parking across from the police station.

She stood behind a row of warming dishes and cooking pans.

She gave food and advice to anyone who walked up.

At first, Daniels paid for most of the food out herself.

As the weeks wore on, she began accepting help from the dozens of protesters she fed each week.

Daniels has been attending classes at a cooking school in St. Louis.

She also cooks meals for doctors at DePaul Health Center in St. Louis.

Daniels says her passion is cake design.

She serves up Southern-style comfort food on Sundays.

Police officers have not yet walked across the street for a meal, Daniels said.

But if any officer joins the line, she would gladly fix them a plate.

A great-grandmother, Daniels has been a mother, cook and friend to the protesters.

"She's definitely one of the mother hens," said Biko Baker.

He is a protester from Milwaukee.

"When you've got 35- and 40-year-old people calling you Momma, you've done something."

Baker said the Thanksgiving dinner at the church came at an important time for the protesters.

"Momma Cat gives us an opportunity for people to come together and heal."

Before Brown's death, Daniels and her husband had been thinking of selling their house.

They wanted to move away from the area, which she says is divided between black and white and rich and poor.

After Brown's death, Daniels said, she knew she had to do something.

Maybe she didn't belong on the front lines of the protests.

But she could keep the protesters fed.

Although she said she is not an activist, "we had to get active.

We had to say, that's enough."

