A Justice Department report released Wednesday accused the Ferguson Police Department and courts of treating black people unfairly.

The report found that police searched black people without a legal reason.

They often ignored people's rights.

Also Wednesday, the Justice Department announced that a white police officer will not be charged over the shooting of an unarmed black teenager.

On Aug. 9, former Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson  killed Michael Brown.

The teen's death touched off protests across the country.

It also led the Justice Department to begin its six-month investigation into Ferguson.

Attorney General Eric Holder said that the Ferguson police and courts had destroyed people's faith in justice.

They created a tense atmosphere where blacks felt like they were under attack.

Now it is up to the city to respond.

Will leaders agree to make the more than two dozen changes the Justice Department recommended?

Will they challenge the findings?

Could the city afford to make the changes, which can be very expensive?

Could it afford not to?

If city leaders had answers to these questions on Wednesday, they did not say.

At a news conference, Ferguson Mayor James Knowles read a statement, but did not take questions.

He said the city had suspended two employees and fired another for writing racist emails.

The city also stopped charging some court fees.

It also hired three black women.

"We must do better," Knowles said, "not only as a city, but as a state and as a country."

Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson did not speak at the news conference.

The report said his  department treated blacks unfairly.

Black people were arrested so they would pay fines to the city government.

Many of them were poor.

On Tuesday, Department of Justice officials went over the report with top Ferguson officials.

Both sides must agree on changes to the police and court systems.

If they do not agree, the Justice Department can ask a judge to force the city to change.

The 102-page report discussed dozens of cases of people treated unfairly.

In one of those, a 32-year-old black man was sitting in a car after playing basketball.

A police officer stopped him because his windows were too dark.

The officer kept him from using his phone, ordered him out of the car and asked to search his car.

The man refused.

"The officer reportedly pointed a gun at his head, and arrested him," the report said.

Ferguson police demand obedience even when they have no legal right, the report said.

Blacks make up 67 percent of the population in Ferguson.

A total of 85 percent of all traffic stops were for black drivers.

They received 90 percent of traffic tickets.

Also, 93 percent of the people arrested by Ferguson police over the last two years were black.

Many of them were arrested just for walking down the street.

Ferguson's police department "enforces the law more harshly against black people than others," the report said.

The investigation found seven racist emails written by police and court workers from 2008 to 2011.

One of them described President Barack Obama as a chimpanzee.

Even as recently as a month ago, officers ignored people's right to free speech, the report said.

On Feb. 9, several people were peacefully protesting outside the Ferguson police station.

Video footage showed an officer announce, "Everybody here's going to jail."

A man who recorded the scene was himself arrested.

Officers pushed him to the ground and began handcuffing him.

The video showed the man did nothing wrong.

The Justice Department recommended 26 reforms to the city's police department and court system.

Officials said Ferguson has already started training police to treat blacks equally.

It also changed some police and court rules.

Justice Department officials said they know that police departments are short of cash.

The reforms can be expensive.

The cost of not doing this, though, "are pretty severe," a Justice Department official said.

