Cultural images from the Ferguson protests have become firmly established in recent Missouri history.

The images include everything from street-artist paintings on boards protecting store windows to signs showing the now famous statement, "Hands Up.

Don't Shoot."

Now the Missouri History Museum is gathering images and items that show the unrest that followed the August shooting death of Michael Brown.

The 18-year-old Brown, an African-American, was shot by a white officer of the Ferguson police.

The museum, in St. Louis, is gathering not only physical items from Ferguson, but Facebook posts, Twitter feeds and even cellphone videos.

It is also asking for protesters, residents and the police to tell their stories.

These recollections are called oral histories.

It's all meant to give future generations real-time views from those affected by the shooting and what happened afterward.

Protests broke out and relations were strained between the police and minority communities.

The items are not being collected for exhibition at the museum.

They will mostly be used for research.

The goal is to capture history as it happens.

"This is a rare example of being at a point where history is made all around you," said Chris Gordon, Library and Collections director for the museum.

"We're standing in the midst of it, and we haven't had that chance very often.

Documenting everything we can — getting all sides, all perspectives — is very important."

The museum has regular exhibits, as well as a public library housing a range of documents, objects and writings from events dating back more than 200 years.

The collection includes items from the Lewis and Clark Expedition and the Louisiana Purchase.

The historical significance of what happened in Ferguson quickly became evident.

Brown was fatally shot on Aug. 9 after a confrontation with Officer Darren Wilson.

Brown was unarmed and some witnesses said he was trying to surrender.

Wilson said Brown was threatening his life.

A day after the shooting, protesters flooded the streets near the shooting.

Several businesses were damaged.

Anger simmered in the community for months, and escalated on Nov. 24 after a grand jury decided not to indict, or charge, Wilson with a crime.

Furious protesters swarmed streets across the St. Louis area, spurring a nationwide movement protesting police brutality.

Some protests became violent and a dozen Ferguson-area businesses were destroyed in fires, while several others were damaged.

Media focused on the St. Louis region because of the shootings and unrest.

Images of police in riot gear facing off with angry protesters were shown on the news around the world.

Gordon said the museum has already collected T-shirts, protest signs and buttons.

Photos have been taken of a memorial for Brown in the street where he was killed.

Efforts are being made to save graffiti art, which can still be seen all over Ferguson.

Plywood boards over store windows still contain messages such as "Injustice anywhere is a threat to Justice everywhere" and "Stop the Violence."

On a recent chilly morning, Carol Snyder of Pennsylvania walked along South Florissant Road.

She snapped photos of the plywood art with her phone as her husband followed along in the car.

Standing in front of a plywood sheet painted with the words "Hands Up Let's Pray," the 60-year-old felt a mixture of sadness and hope.

"I do hope for a brighter future," she said.

"I do hope for peace for the people here in Ferguson and throughout the United States."

Some items have been hard for Gordon to collect.

He has failed to find an empty tear gas canister or rubber bullet — items used by police when the protests turned violent.

He is also pursuing buttons, T-shirts and signs showing support for Wilson, but they are hard to come by because there were not many demonstrations in the officer's favor.

Museum officials are also working with Washington University.

Researchers there are collecting cellphone video along with Tweets, emails, Facebook posting and other social media related to unrest in Ferguson and St. Louis for a project called "Documenting Ferguson."

It is unclear if any of the items will ever be put on display.

"The biggest portion of this will be for research purposes," Gordon said.

"Our hope is to preserve this for future generations so they can get a clearer picture of what actually happened."

