Missouri Governor Jay Nixon ordered the National Guard to Ferguson early Monday, just hours after police used tear gas to clear protesters off the streets.

The move follows a week of angry demonstrations against the killing of an unarmed black Missouri teenager by a white police officer.

The National Guard would help "in restoring peace and order," Nixon said.

Ferguson, a St. Louis suburb, has been filled with angry crowds since 18-year-old Michael Brown was killed Aug. 9.

"These violent acts are a disservice to the family of Michael Brown and his memory," Nixon said.

The protests are also unfair "to the people of this community who yearn for justice to be served and to feel safe in their own homes."

On Sunday, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder ordered an autopsy to be performed on Brown.

An autopsy is a medical examination of a corpse to determine the cause of death.

A private autopsy found the unarmed teen was shot at least six times, including twice in the head.

Results of an autopsy ordered by the state have not been released.

As night fell in Ferguson, another peaceful protest quickly turned violent.

Marchers pushed toward one end of a street and police pushed them back with tear gas.

Officials said the tear gas was in response to reports of gunfire, destruction of property, stealing and protesters who hurled bottles of flammable liquids.

Captain Ron Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol said he had no alternative because of the violence and had to respond more strongly.

Johnson is in command in Ferguson.

At least two people were shot by protesters, he said.

The federal Justice Department decided to conduct the autopsy because of events surrounding Brown's death and a request by his family, agency spokesman Brian Fallon said.

The Justice Department is investigating the shooting, Fallon said.

Dr. Michael Baden used to be New York City's chief medical examiner.

He conducted the private autopsy, or examined the body, for the Brown family.

He said that one of the bullets entered the top of Brown's skull.

Brown's head may have been bent forward when he was shot, Baden said.

Brown also was shot four times in the right arm, and all the bullets were fired into his front, Baden said.

A federal autopsy "more closely focused on entry point of (bullets), defensive wounds and bruises" might help the Justice Department's investigation, said David Weinstein.

Weinstein is a former federal prosecutor.

A defensive wound is an injury sustained while a person is defending himself.

A federal autopsy is "not that unusual," Weinstein added.

Federal authorities also want to calm any public fears that nothing will be done, Weinstein said.

Sunday's clashes in Ferguson erupted at about 9 p.m. A day earlier, Nixon had ordered everyone to stay inside during a midnight to 5 a.m. curfew.

Officers in riot gear ordered all protesters to leave.

Many of the marchers retreated.

But a group of about 100 stood about two blocks away until they got hit by tear gas.

Protesters laid a line of concrete blocks across the street, apparently attempting to block police vehicles.

But the vehicles easily plowed through.

The crackle of gunfire could be heard from several blocks away.

By about 11 p.m., most people had been cleared off.

Earlier in the day, Johnson said he had met members of Brown's family.

The experience "brought tears to my eyes and shame to my heart," he said.

"When this is over," he told the crowd, "I'm going to go in my son's room.

My black son, who wears his pants sagging, who wears his hat cocked to the side, got tattoos on his arms, but that's my baby."

Johnson added, "We all need to thank the Browns for Michael.

Because Michael's going to make it better for our sons to be better black men."

Brown's death has worsened racial anger between the black community and the mostly white Ferguson Police Department.

Ferguson police waited six days to reveal the name of the officer who shot Brown.

They also waited to release documents claiming Brown robbed a store shortly before he was killed.

Police Chief Thomas Jackson said the officer did not know Brown was accused of robbery before Brown's death.

Brown allegedly stole a $49 box of cigars.

Police haven't said much about what happened, only that it involved a scuffle in which the officer was injured and Brown was shot.

Witnesses say the teenager had his hands in the air as the officer fired at him.

Darren Wilson, the officer who shot Brown, has served on the police force for six years.

He had no previous complaints against him.

Wilson has been taken off the streets since the shooting.

The department has refused to say where he is.

About 150 people, mainly police and relatives of officers, gathered in St. Louis on Sunday to show support for Wilson.

Some of them carried signs urging people to wait for all the facts in the case before making up their minds.

