Middle and high school teachers in a Illinois school district have been banned from discussing the chaos in Ferguson, Missouri.

Edwardsville School District teachers have been told by principals to "change the subject and refocus the students."

On Aug. 9, an unarmed black teenager was shot and killed by a white police officer, setting off more than a week of protests.

The ban has upset some parents.

They say the events surrounding the death of Michael Brown, 18, present a wealth of teaching opportunities for their children.

Many of the students have been watching the situation develop on television.

The parents say the protests give teachers a good opening to talk about the criminal justice system, civil disobedience - which is the refusal to obey laws for a higher purpose - racial issues and the role of media.

However,  school officials say the problem is that teachers have been expressing their own opinions to students.

That lack of fairness is why they are shutting down the discussion altogether.

"Such comments have caused students and parents to lash out, which is not healthy in the District 7 community," said a memo to staff on Tuesday.

The memo came from the principal at Edwardsville High School, Dennis Cramsey.

Across the region, teachers are trying to figure out how to talk with students about Ferguson.

Brown's death has brought international attention to the area's racial anger.

The protests that happen almost every night — both peaceful and violent — in Ferguson have raised awareness of the lack of diversity in many local police departments.

For example, most of the police officers in Ferguson are white.

The protests have also brought attention to the feelings of powerlessness among many African-Americans.

Several school superintendents met Wednesday at EducationPlus.

It is an organization that represents dozens of local school districts.

The superintendents discussed having counselors in the schools to help students.

They also talked about how to address the stress students might bring to class after watching the nighttime clashes between protesters and police on TV, or witnessing them firsthand.

For a couple of minutes, they talked about the kinds of discussions that might take place in classrooms.

"Nobody said the staff should be silent," said Don Senti, executive director of EducationPlus.

Edwardsville might be the only school district in the region that has told the staff not to discuss the issue, he said.

Edwardsville District 7 Superintendent Ed Hightower said the situation was a worthwhile topic of discussion.

However, discussion is not useful if teachers are not objective.

In his 19 years leading the district, Hightower said he has never seen an  issue that has divided people like Brown's shooting or the unrest in Ferguson.

"We all have personal opinions about what has gone wrong, what has gone right.

And we all have opinions on what should be done," Hightower said.

"We don't need to voice those opinions or engage those opinions in the classrooms."

Abigail Wilson, an Edwardsville senior, disagrees.

She said she would like to talk about what's going on in Ferguson.

She talks about it with friends.

She would like to discuss it in class.

"It's modern history," she said.

"It's huge.

It's so much more interesting than things that happened 200 years ago."

On Tuesday, there was a discussion about Ferguson in senior Nate Hunsell's health class.

The teacher led the class in considering two sides - of residents and police.

"It wasn't heated," Nate said.

"No one got upset about anything that was said."

Then he learned from teachers on Wednesday that Ferguson was now off limits.

"I thought it was kind of dumb," Nate said.

"It's something that's going on.

It's kind of a big deal."

Parents have responded to the discussion ban on the Edwardsville parents Facebook page.

Many of them said teachers should try to keep their opinions out of discussions, but not have to ignore them altogether.

This big of an event "shouldn't be swept under the rug," said one of those parents, Glenn Beckmann.

"I agree with everything in that letter except for the provision forbidding them from talking about it.

We have hundreds of teachers in the school district and I would bet 98 percent would discuss this with students objectively."

Hightower said the district is not trying to ignore current events in its middle and high schools.

Stopping the conversation in class has more to do with preventing teachers from focusing too heavily on one side of the story.

"We engage," he said.

"We encourage discussion of current events.

But you have to be careful injecting personal opinion when you don't have the facts."

