On Thursday, two police officers were shot during a night of protests in Ferguson, Missouri, which has been troubled since the killing of Michael Brown last summer.

The shooting occurred outside the Ferguson Police Department.

St. Louis County Police Chief Jon Belmar said two officers were hospitalized after the shooting.

The incident took place shortly after midnight during demonstrations that followed the resignation of the Ferguson police chief Wednesday.

"These police officers were standing there, and they were shot — just because they were police officers," Belmar told reporters.

A 41-year-old officer was shot in the shoulder, and a 32-year-old officer was shot in the face.

Both remained conscious, the chief said.

The demonstrators at the scene of the shooting had gathered following the announcement that Ferguson Police Chief Thomas Jackson is resigning.

Jackson's resignation was prompted by a highly critical U.S. Justice Department report on the fatal police shooting in August of 18-year-old Michael Brown, an unarmed black man.

A wave of violent protests followed the shooting last summer.

More demonstrations erupted when a grand jury chose not to put Darren Wilson, the white officer who shot Brown, on trial for murder.

Officer Wilson claimed he shot Brown after the young man tried to grab his gun.

The Justice Department also cleared Wilson of any civil rights charges — that is, it said his actions were not motivated by racism.

However, it found a "pattern of unconstitutional policing" in the department, and that the department had unfairly treated blacks.

During Wednesday night's protest, which stretched into early Thursday, a group of officers was standing directly in front of the police station.

Suddenly, shots were fired from an undetermined location to the northwest.

"I don't know who did the shooting, to be honest with you right now," Belmar said.

The shots were fired parallel to the ground and hit a group of officers standing together, he said.

That suggests the shots were aimed "directly at my police officers."

"My heart goes out to the officers injured tonight.

There is too much violence in our city and this crisis of trust makes us all less safe," said Antonio French, a St. Louis political leader.

French has played a prominent role in the Ferguson protests.

Several witnesses said that the shots appeared to come from a hill beyond where protesters had gathered.

Just before the shooting, about 50 protesters were in the parking lot of a tire store.

Police in riot gear were gathered in the parking lot of the police station across the street.

Suddenly, several shots were fired, said Heather De Mian, who was recording the events on video.

"It came from behind us," De Mian said.

Protesters had gathered to celebrate Jackson's resignation and to call for Mayor James Knowles III to resign as well, De Mian said.

"We heard, like, a firework — we thought it was a firework — it was loud," said Bradley Rayford, a journalist.

"You couldn't even see where it was coming from," said Rayford, though he said he did see a flash coming from somewhere up the hill.

"The bullets went right past my head."

"We all ducked down" and the police took cover, Rayford said.

"I saw a cop on the ground, obviously in pain — they had to drag him from the front lines."

A video of the events shows the protesters and the police standing idly when shots rang out.

Screams could be heard before the camera operator apparently began running.

Tony Rice, a Ferguson resident and activist at the protest, said about three shots were fired.

"It was the first time I'd heard a bullet whiz and pass my head," Rice said.

He added that when the shooting began several officers dropped their riot shields to take cover.

One officer fell to the ground and yelled out, as if he had been hit, and officers surrounded him and carried him inside, Rice said.

Rice said he didn't see who fired the shots.

"They were way up the hill" and concealed in the dark, he said.

Mike Kinman, 46, a priest, had just arrived at the protest five minutes before the shots were fired.

"It was really pretty mellow at that point," Kinman said of the protest.

He, too, has been an active participant in the demonstrations since August.

Demonstrators were "standing around talking" in the parking lot when four or five shots "in rapid succession" sent protesters and officers ducking for cover, he said.

"A bunch of officers went down to the ground, and there was one that just didn't move," Kinman said.

He said "the shots definitely came up from behind us, up the street — it definitely did not come from the protesters."

