The McCluer Pommies linked their arms.

They held their shiny silver and black pom-poms and said a prayer.

Then Sierra McKenzie, the leader of the Pommies, told her team, "Remember your stuff.

You all know what to do."

The music started, and their smiles grew wider.

Once they start dancing, nothing else matters but the McCluer basketball team and the fans.

Lately, it has not been easy for the Pommies.

The 12 Pommies go to McCluer High School in Florissant, Missouri.

The town is near Ferguson.

Over the summer, an African-American teenager, Michael Brown, was killed by a white police officer.

In November, a grand jury decided there would be no charges against the officer.

A grand jury is a group of people who hear from witnesses and study what happened.

After Brown's death and again after the grand jury decision, protests broke out in Ferguson.

Some protesters were violent.

They blocked streets and smashed stores.

Because of what happened, the team has had difficulty raising money to pay for uniforms, dance camps and other expenses.

The girls even have to pay for their pom-poms themselves.

A fundraiser had to be canceled.

The girls had trouble selling tickets.

People did not want to go to the area because of the violence.

The school district canceled classes.

After-school activities and practices were also canceled.

The girls had to miss practice less than two weeks before a big competition in St. Louis.

The team has faced many challenges, but they have also had victories.

The team has done well.

They have won two first places at the St. Louis dance competition against 40 teams from other schools.

"We just keep pushing," said Pommie coach Rega Wesley-Stewart, who is also a math teacher at the school.

The girls have to try out to earn a spot on the team.

They go through interviews and parent meetings.

The cost of being a Pommie is not cheap, and a new Pommie this year paid nearly $1,000.

Students say being a Pommie is an honor and a lot of work.

Jackie Allen is the team's other coach.

She said the girls must be committed to the team and to school.

A McCluer Pommie must be loyal, honest and do the right thing, according to the team website.

She must "be a good example in and out of school."

The girls develop self-control and confidence.

"There are good kids out there, and good parents," Wesley-Stewart said.

It has not been easy for the girls to raise money.

Many of them come from families without a lot of money.

The girls have sold pizza and cups.

They have also sold clothes with the school logo.

The team is also trying other ideas, such as selling ads on its website.

"A lot of people don't have the money," said Pommie Victoria Mantia.

She is in her third year at McCluer.

At a basketball game was a former Pommie, Aaries Wadsworth.

She goes to the University of Missouri-Kansas City.

Wadsworth came to see the team and her former coaches before heading back to college.

"This was everything for me in high school," Wadsworth said.

"These are a bunch of really intelligent woman doing something good for themselves and the school."

The girls say they work harder every year and become more confident.

Some said Wesley-Stewart helped them get their grades up.

Others said the experience also will stay with them after high school.

"I just want it to keep going," said Pommie Jerianna Harden.

