On Aug. 9, Michael Brown was shot and killed by a white Ferguson police officer.

Brown was black.

The officer was white.

Brown was 18 years old and was not carrying a weapon when he was shot.

His shooting led to weeks of protests.

Some of the protests became violent.

Ferguson is a mostly black suburb of St. Louis.

The police officers there are almost all white.

After Brown died, his body lay for hours in the center of a street.

An angry crowd gathered.

Violence occurred the next night and police responded with armored vehicles and tear gas.

Protests continued for weeks.

They were often peaceful, but sometimes turned violent.

Twelve people were chosen by chance to be part of a grand jury.

Nine of them were white and three of the members were black.

The grand jury is a group of people who listen to a case.

They hear from witnesses and look at evidence, or proof, of what happened.

They would decide if the officer, Darren Wilson, should have to go to court and defend himself for shooting Brown.

The group met for 70 hours and heard from 60 witnesses.

On Monday, the jury chose not to charge him with a crime.

The lawyer who brought the case forward was named Bob McCulloch.

He announced the jury's decision Monday evening.

McCulloch said that the grand jurors were "the only people who heard every witness ... and every piece of evidence."

He said many witnesses said things that in the end did not match the physical evidence.

A crowd gathered around a car to listen to McCulloch's speech on the radio.

Brown's mother, Lesley McSpadden, was there.

When the decision was announced, she burst into tears.

The crowd became angry.

Some began throwing things at the police.

The officers stood where they were.

The protesters wanted the jury to vote to charge Wilson with a crime.

Nine people were needed to charge Wilson.

Brown's family wrote a statement.

They said they were very disappointed in the decision.

The family said they know people are upset.

They asked people to act "in ways that will make a positive change."

The government will look into the Brown case.

It wants to know if he was treated worse because he was black.

If they find that police acted wrongly, more police may have to go to court.

The government is also looking into the Ferguson Police Department.

It is trying to see if the department often treats black people unfairly.

