The results of a six-month federal investigation came to a dramatic conclusion Wednesday with a 102-page report that accused the Ferguson Police Department and courts of unfairly targeting African-Americans, searching people without probable cause, abusing authority to quash protests and routinely violating civil rights.

Now it's up to the city to respond.

Will leaders agree to make the more than two dozen changes the Justice Department recommended?

Did they take issue with the findings?

Could the city afford to follow the recommendations?

Could it afford not to?

If city leaders had answers to those questions on Wednesday, they declined to say.

At a brief news conference, Mayor James Knowles read a statement, but did not take any questions.

He said the city had suspended two employees and fired another for writing racially insensitive emails outlined in the report, eliminated some court fees and hired three African-American women recently.

"We must do better," Knowles said, "not only as a city, but as a state and as a country."

Police Chief Thomas Jackson did not speak at the news conference, nor has he returned phone calls in recent days seeking comment on the report that depicts his department as using citizens as ATMs, tolerating a culture of police brutality and using his officers to generate revenue through court fines without regard to public safety.

On Tuesday, three DOJ officials went over the reports with top Ferguson officials in downtown St. Louis.

The meetings were described as positive.

But DOJ officials stressed that the process of coming to an understanding with the city on improvements has only begun.

The agency still has the option to force change by suing the city.

DOJ officials gave no timetable on when they wanted to reach a consent decree agreement with the city over the proposed reforms.

It's a process undergone nationally by only about 25 police departments, which typically lasts for about five years and costs millions.

Should a police department disagree with the findings, there is little recourse.

Departments, such as Maricopa County, Arizona, have tried, unsuccessfully, to sue the federal government.

Most departments, such as New Orleans, Seattle, Los Angeles, Detroit and Cincinnati, have been able to sustain the costs because of their size.

With a force of about 53 officers, Ferguson could become one of the smallest to face a consent decree.

East Haven, Connecticut, is nearly identical in size to Ferguson's force, and it is projecting a cost of about $3 million, according to media reports.

The DOJ report about Ferguson came out the same day the Justice Department announced that former Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson won't face any federal charges over the Aug. 9 shooting of Michael Brown, the incident that launched the federal probe.

The report draws no link between Brown's death and any of the police department's policies and practices, but says that the department's actions created an atmosphere of distrust between the city and its citizens.

Attorney General Eric Holder on Wednesday condemned a "pervasive, corrosive" lack of trust in the police department, and said that the practices of Ferguson police and courts had "severely undermined the public trust," creating a "tensely charged atmosphere, where people feel under assault, under siege."

DOJ officials said they believe that many of the practices in Ferguson they criticized were also occurring in neighboring jurisdictions.

One DOJ official involved in the negotiations with Ferguson officials expressed hope that that those "maybe engaging in similar kinds of police practices and activities that are unconstitutional ... will similarly choose to engage in reform."

The report says that "African-Americans are disproportionately represented at nearly every stage of Ferguson law enforcement, from the initial police contact to final disposition of a case in municipal court."

The report discusses dozens of cases of people abused by the system.

In one of those, a 32-year-old black man was sitting in a car after playing basketball.

A police officer stopped him because his windows were more deeply tinted than permissible by city code.

The officer accused the man of being a pedophile, prohibited him from using his phone, ordered him out of the car for a pat-down and asked to search his car.

"When the man refused, citing his constitutional rights, the officer reportedly pointed a gun at his head, and arrested him," the DOJ report says.

"Officers expect and demand compliance even when they lack legal authority," the report said.

Despite making up 67 percent of the population, African-Americans accounted for 85 percent of all traffic stops, and were the subject of 90 percent of the citations and 93 percent of the arrests made by Ferguson police over the last two years.

One of the charges where blacks are cited more often than whites: "Manner of Walking," which is issued to blacks 95 percent of the time.

The report says that the consistency and magnitude of the racial disparities throughout Ferguson's police and court practices — one that "at each juncture, enforces the law more harshly against black people than others" — paired with racial bias found in the communications of police and court supervisors, demonstrates a discriminatory purpose and denies African-Americans equal protection of the laws in violation of the U.S. Constitution.

The investigation found seven racially insensitive emails circulated among police and court employees from 2008 to 2011, one of which depicted President Barack Obama as a chimpanzee.

The traffic stop numbers the Justice Department used appear to be based on data from the Missouri Attorney General's Office.

Rick Rosenfeld of the University of Missouri-St. Louis said judging whether police departments are guilty of racial profiling based on those numbers can be problematic.

"We have a denominator problem with Missouri stop rates because they are normed by the racial composition of the municipality in which the stop was made, and yet the drivers who are stopped may or may not reside in that community, so the racial composition of the driving populations in a municipality may not be similar to the racial composition of the residential population," Rosenfeld said.

Even as recently as a month ago, officers violated people's right to free speech, the report says.

On Feb. 9, several people were protesting outside the Ferguson police station, standing peacefully in the police department's parking lot, on the sidewalks in front of it, and across the street.

Video footage showed two Ferguson police vehicles abruptly accelerate from the parking lot, and an officer announce, "Everybody here's going to jail," causing the protesters to run.

Video shows that as one man recorded the police arresting others, he was arrested for interfering with police action.

Officers pushed him to the ground, began handcuffing him, and told him, "Stop resisting or you're going to get tased."

But video showed the man was neither interfering nor resisting.

In addition to the practices criticized as discriminatory, the report says Ferguson increasingly used its police and courts to raise revenue — often at the expense of those who were poor and African-American.

Ferguson's municipal court revenue has shown consistent growth, year by year.

In 2010, the city's municipal court generated $1.38 million in fines and fees, the report said.

For the current year, the city's budget anticipates fines and fees of $3.09 million.

The report said Ferguson used its police department as "a collection agency."

"Patrol assignments and schedules are geared toward aggressive enforcement of Ferguson's municipal code, with insufficient thought given to whether enforcement strategies promote public safety or unnecessarily undermine community trust and cooperation," the report said.

"Officer evaluations and promotions depend to an inordinate degree on 'productivity,' meaning the number of citations issued."

The report stated: "Ferguson police officers from all ranks told us that revenue generation is stressed heavily within the police department, and that the message comes from city leadership.

The evidence we reviewed supports this perception."

The department has recommended 26 reforms divided equally among the city's police department and court system.

Proposed police reforms include: requiring a supervisor to approve any arrest on charges of failure to comply, resisting arrest, disorderly conduct and obstructing government operations; changing the department's use of force policy and training officers on de-escalation techniques; training officers to detect biased-based profiling and other forms of discriminatory policing; involving civilians in police decision making; developing better mechanisms to respond to officer misconduct.

Among the proposed court reforms are: making the court process more transparent; providing accurate information to those charged with violations; reducing of some fines; offering payment plans; and stop using the arrest warrants as a means of collecting fines and fees.

While Justice officials stressed they want to work with Ferguson in enacting the recommendations, Holder stressed everything remains on the table, including a lawsuit to force compliance if the city resists.

DOJ officials said the first steps are "a range of meetings" over the coming weeks with community members, police and city officials, with the goal of agreeing on a list of reforms for legally enforceable consent decree.

A court-appointed overseer would monitor progress.

Officials said they were encouraged that Ferguson has already begun "bias-free policing" training and has implemented changes in police and court policies that require supervisor approval for officers to issue more than two tickets at one stop; a reduction in the time people are held in jail on warrant-less arrests from 72 to 12 hours; and new procedures streamlining bail bonding and making it easier for people to pay fines and penalties.

DOJ officials said they were cognizant that police departments, including Ferguson's, are financially strapped.

But "the cost of not doing this, not just monetarily, but otherwise, are pretty severe," a Justice Department official said.

