A little more than a day after Michael Brown was killed last August, the peacemakers arrived.

They introduced themselves to police and city officials and then met with the teen's family late that night, in a police truck down the street from where he was killed.

Brown, an unarmed 18-year-old, was shot by a Ferguson police officer, setting off nearly nightly protests by members of the black community who said he wouldn't have been killed if he was white.

The peacemakers, the first federal officials to arrive in Ferguson, were with a little-known unit of the U.S. Department of Justice called the Community Relations Service.

They are called mediators, because they mediate, or help all sides reach an agreement.

Since then, as many as eight mediators have worked in Ferguson every day.

They've held dozens of meetings with police, residents and community leaders, nearly all of them in secret.

They run town hall meetings, closed to everyone except residents, often often asking participants not to use names or specific details.

Justice Department officials in Washington won't even provide basic information on the mediators or their work in Ferguson.

To justify the secrecy, they refer to parts of the 1964 Civil Rights Act that created the unit.

The act outlawed discrimination because of race, color, sex, religion and national origin.

And yet the agency is playing what may prove to be the most important role of any in Ferguson.

They are persuading worried residents, overwhelmed city officials, angry protesters and frustrated police to sit together and talk.

"God bless them," said Patricia Bynes, a Democratic Party leader for Ferguson.

Days after the shooting of Brown by Officer Darren Wilson, the Justice Department launched an investigation.

About a month later, following nightly protests and violence, the department began looking into the use of police force in Ferguson.

It also sent its community policing unit to to analyze police methods and offer training.

But the Community Relations Service — a 50-person, $12 million-a-year unit — has no authority to investigate.

Its mediators have been in St. Louis quietly working on disputes long before Ferguson became known worldwide.

Its goal, said Director Grande H. Lum, is to give all sides a private place to talk, so hopefully, they will solve their own problems.

"Those are the longest-lasting solutions — when the people themselves resolve their own disputes," Lum said.

His unit, he said, allows "people to speak."

Lum said mediators are trained to identify underlying causes, the people involved, and those who need to be included.

"We are going to be there," Lum said, "as long as it is needed."

But Lum and his team still will have to overcome the perception, among some, that they are biased.

"Fifty years ago, they were incredibly important and incredibly effective," said John Christian Adams, a former Justice Department attorney and frequent critic of Attorney General Eric Holder.

"They got between people (who were) at each other's throats.

Now they've evolved into something that has taken sides."

The Community Relations Service calls itself the nation's peacemaker.

For more than 50 years, it has responded to racial problems and unrest in American cities.

In 2013, mediators visited the small town of Geneva, New York, after an officer shot a black man, and demonstrators gathered in front of the police department.

Geneva Police Chief Jeffrey E. Trickler said that mediators helped create a community agreement, which included police training, increasing minority recruitment and improving complaint procedures.

"Anything we felt we needed, they were a phone call away," Trickler said.

"From my eyes, things have improved."

In St. Louis, the federal mediators have been in and out of the city for years.

Adolphus Pruitt, president of the St. Louis city branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), said he can't list all the times he has called a police department with a problem.

"Sometimes they respond; most of the time they don't, and an enormous amount of the time the response is one of protecting the force and their officers," Pruitt said.

But when Justice Department mediators get involved, Pruitt said, the different groups all sit down and are willing to talk.

The mediators work under the radar and shun publicity.

"They don't like to talk to the press, and don't like to talk about what they do," said Rue Landau, chief of the Philadelphia Commission on Human Relations.

That secrecy, Landau said, is in part why the agency is so effective.

Two Sundays after Brown's shooting, Rita Valenciano called a morning meeting of nine community leaders, and they talked for three hours.

Valenciano was the first Justice Department mediator to arrive in Ferguson.

"No breakfast.

No orange juice.

No nothing.

Just us in a room," said Patricia Washington, who is with the county.

The conversation was tense.

Ferguson police and city officials were there, and some in the room didn't want to sit down with them.

But there was also a general sigh of relief.

Before that meeting, "nobody was talking," Washington said.

The group has grown to more than 50, Washington said, and the difficult discussions aren't gone, but at least they're happening.

Moreover, mediators have provided training for those who want to protect protesters and need help getting information.

It's far from over, Washington said.

She's been trying for weeks to get young, angry black men to come to the meetings.

Still, she said, now they're calling her, and four have promised to come to their next meeting.

