From midnight to 5 a.m, everyone has to stay inside in Ferguson.

Missouri Governor Jay Nixon is putting a curfew on the city.

New violence took place in the St. Louis suburb on Saturday.

Public anger here has been high since the shooting death of an unarmed black teen by a white police officer.

The governor's order showed how serious the situation is in Ferguson.

Officials there have been unable to calm tempers and racial anger since the Aug. 9 shooting of unarmed 18-year-old Michael Brown.

Brown, who is black, was killed by a white police officer, Darren Wilson.

Some people were quick to say they didn't like the curfew.

Many said it could further anger protesters.

Crowds of people have gathered on the streets of Ferguson every night since Brown's death.

Nixon spoke to reporters on Saturday.

There were many people there.

At times, he was shouted down by the crowd.

They demanded charges be filed against Wilson.

The governor said the only way to restore peace was to have safety on the streets.

"We cannot have looting and crimes at night," Nixon said.

"We can't have people fearful."

"We can't have police officers killing people!"

someone in the crowd yelled.

Highway Patrol Captain Ron Johnson said police wouldn't be too harsh while enforcing the curfew.

Some people still don't believe him.

Nixon put Johnson in charge of Ferguson's police response on Thursday.

Nixon did not say how long the curfew would be in effect.

As night fell, police blocked the south end of West Florissant Road.

That was the scene of most protests and unrest.

They also blocked off a shopping center about half a mile down the road.

At least 200 demonstrators holding signs and chanting cries for justice marched along the avenue in a peaceful line.

Ferguson officials had hoped that Johnson's presence would calm the city.

Johnson, who is black, took over security from the city's white police chief on Thursday.

The handover followed five straight nights of fights between protesters and police.

Johnson immediately stopped the military vehicles and tear gas that had been used on demonstrators.

Ferguson enjoyed its first calm night on Thursday.

On Friday, everything changed.

Police released a report naming Brown as a suspect in a strong-arm robbery.

The robbery had occurred minutes before he was shot.

Brown's family and many Ferguson residents said the robbery report was a distraction.

They said it was aimed at deflecting attention from what they see as the real crime.

Wilson still shot a young man who didn't have a weapon.

A government official said Saturday that Ferguson police had planned to release the video Thursday.

Then the federal government told them not to release it.

"We strongly objected.

We told them it would just [anger] the community," said the government official.

Dorian Johnson, a friend of Brown's who was walking with him at the time of the shooting, said Wilson shot Brown as Brown held up his hands.

Several other witnesses have said the same thing.

Police have said Brown attacked Wilson and was shot during a scuffle.

FBI agents have begun talking to people in Ferguson.

The FBI is looking into the shooting on its own.

St. Louis County prosecutors also are looking into Brown's death.

But there have been calls for the county prosecutor, Robert McCulloch, to take himself off of the case.

Some critics say he has a poor history of prosecuting police officers in cases like these.

"There is a history of reduced charges or no convictions at all," said William Lacy Clay.

Clay works for the government.

He said the "only way to true justice" was to have an independent investigator.

This is because of the "past history of prosecutions of police shootings in St. Louis County."

McCulloch was the county prosecutor in 2000.

That's when two white officers shot to death two unarmed black men in a car in Berkeley.

Berkeley is about two miles from Ferguson.

Then, just like now, officials took a long time to identify the officers.

This made the public angry.

At the news conference, Nixon and Johnson told residents to follow the curfew.

"This is not to silence the people of Ferguson," Nixon said.

But Mary Moore, a protester who lives in nearby Florissant, was worried.

Rather than making sure people follow a curfew, she said officials should focus on investigating Brown's death.

"Until that happens," Moore said, "the curfew is a problem before it starts."

