For the first time in Ferguson's 120-year history, the six-member City Council will have three black members.

Before this Tuesday's elections, Dwayne James was the only black council member in this predominantly black city.

Now James will be joined by two other African-Americans: Wesley Bell and Ella Jones.

Ferguson has seen massive unrest since last summer's police shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown.

Many here feel that policing and the court system are heavily biased against minorities.

One way to bring about reform, many say, is to elect more African-Americans to political office.

Tuesday's election is an important step in that direction.

Even so, it was less than a clear victory for those hoping to bring about real change in Ferguson, some said.

Two candidates supported by protesters — Bob Hudgins and Lee Smith — lost to more establishment candidates, who were seen as representing the way the city is currently being run.

Hudgins was defeated by Brian Fletcher, the white former mayor of Ferguson.

"I was being portrayed by the media as an establishment candidate and the old guard," Fletcher said.

"I guess the signal was sent tonight that this old dog has a few tricks.

Experience isn't a bad thing.

It can be a good thing."

Smith lost to Wesley Bell.

While Bell is African-American, he is a municipal court judge, and thus associated with a court system that many see as extremely unfair.

Jones, who was the candidate favored by protesters, won nearly 50 percent of the vote in a four-way race.

Jones, chair of the city's Human Rights commission, started sending out letters to raise support for her campaign long before Michael Brown was killed by Officer Darren Wilson.

She said she ran partly because of the way she witnessed young black men being treated by police.

Overall, turnout was much higher than is typical for City Council elections.

Thirty percent of the city's 12,738 voters cast ballots — more than double the typical turnout.

In most years, it is not uncommon for candidates in Ferguson to run uncontested, and turnout typically hovers around a paltry 12 percent.

The Brown shooting and the numerous protests, riots and federal investigations which followed changed all that.

This year's election featured eight candidates vying for three council seats, and it attracted the attention of media from California to New York.

On Tuesday, just as the first wave of voters headed toward the polls, a thunderstorm rolled across the region, raising fears that turnout would be low.

At Koch Elementary School, only about 10 people had voted by 9 a.m., said those outside the polling location.

The polling site is less than a half-mile from the Canfield Green apartment complex where Brown was killed.

"I'm worried that this is going to look bad for Ferguson because I know the world is watching, and the world is anticipating a large turnout," said LaRhonda Wilson.

The stormy weather did not stop Sharon Bell-Price, who said she never misses a chance to vote.

"As for this election, it's extremely important," she said.

Brown's shooting, questionable practices in municipal courts, and racial profiling were weighing on her voting decisions, Bell-Price said.

"I'm hopeful we'll get the change we're looking for," she added.

Even though there is much anger at the court system in Ferguson, the fact that Bell is a municipal court judge did not seem to hurt him.

Dan Peterson, Bell's campaign manager, said the key to victory was voter outreach.

"It was knocking on doors talking to people in person," Peterson said.

"We talked about why Wesley was the best candidate."

A half-hour before the polls closed at 7 p.m., Bell and Smith were at Our Lady of Guadalupe Catholic Church, trying to sway last-minute voters.

A weary Bell stopped to shake one woman's hand and then noticed that his flier given to her moments earlier by a volunteer was buried beneath a stack of other election materials.

He gently plucked it from the pile and then repositioned it in her hand.

"You want to put that one on top," he said.

The next council will be seated during a period of significant turnover in city government.

Both City Manager John Shaw and Police Chief Thomas Jackson resigned after a Department of Justice investigation accused the city's police department of routinely violating residents' civil rights.

Bell, an advocate for community policing, said that whoever interviews for the police chief's job "better be doing his homework."

