Elections held this Tuesday have brought big changes to Ferguson.

Its six-member City Council will have three black members, for the first time ever.

Dwayne James was the council's only black member.

Now he will be joined by two other African-Americans: Wesley Bell and Ella Jones.

Ferguson has seen a wave of protests against police and the courts.

The protests began after last summer's police shooting of unarmed black teenager Michael Brown.

Many people feel that the police and courts in Ferguson treat blacks very unfairly.

Ferguson is mostly black, but there have been very few blacks in city government.

Many here feel that the police and courts will not change until more blacks are elected.

Tuesday's election is a step in that direction.

However, it was only partly a victory for protesters, some said.

Voters chose three new council members.

Of those, only one was the person protesters hoped would win.

Bob Hudgins and Lee Smith were supported by many who are angry about police and courts here, but both lost.

Hudgins was defeated by Brian Fletcher, who is white and who was once the mayor of Ferguson.

"I guess the signal was sent tonight that this old dog has a few tricks," Fletcher said.

"Experience isn't a bad thing.

It can be a good thing."

Smith lost to Bell.

Bell is African-American, but he is a judge.

He is part of a court system that many think is very unfair to blacks, so protesters did not support him.

Still, Bell says he wants to change the way the Ferguson police treats blacks.

Jones was the candidate favored by protesters in her race.

She won almost half of the votes, beating the other three people in her contest.

Jones began her campaign long before Michael Brown was killed by Officer Darren Wilson.

She said she ran partly because of the way she saw young black men being treated by Ferguson police.

Voter Sharon Bell-Price said this year's election was "extremely important."

"I'm hopeful we'll get the change we're looking for," she added.

The fact that Bell is a judge did not seem to hurt him.

He managed to win election even though many here are angry at the courts.

The key to Bell's victory was talking directly to voters, said Dan Peterson, who ran Bell's campaign.

"It was knocking on doors talking to people in person," Peterson said.

"We talked about why Wesley was the best candidate."

Ferguson now needs to find a new chief of police.

Its previous police chief, Thomas Jackson, quit after a U.S. government report said that Ferguson's police department had regularly treated blacks badly.

Whoever tries out for the police chief's job "better be doing his homework," Bell said.

