Missouri Governor Jay Nixon is telling the city of Ferguson to stay inside at night.

Nixon is worried because of violent protests that have been going on in the town.

People have been angry since Aug. 9.

On that date, 18-year-old Michael Brown was shot.

He did not have a gun or knife on him.

Brown is black.

He was killed by a white police officer named Darren Wilson.

Public anger in Ferguson has been high.

Many people have been protesting.

They are angry about Brown's death.

Now the governor is calling for a "curfew."

People will face punishment from police if they are not inside between midnight and 5 in the morning.

The curfew shows how serious the situation is in Ferguson.

Officials there have not been able to calm people down.

Some people are saying they don't like the curfew.

Many said it could make protesters more angry.

Crowds of people have gathered on the streets of the St. Louis suburb every night since Brown's death.

Nixon spoke to reporters on Saturday.

It was noisy and chaotic.

At times, Nixon was shouted at by the crowd.

They demanded that the white officer, Wilson, be charged with murder.

The governor said the only way to have peace was to make sure the streets were safe.

"We cannot have looting and crimes at night," Nixon said.

"We can't have people fearful."

"We can't have police officers killing people!"

someone in the crowd yelled.

Highway Patrol Captain Ron Johnson spoke, too.

He started handling the situation on Thursday.

He is black and police thought it might calm the city down.

Once Johnson took over, he stopped police from using military vehicles and weapons.

He was able to calm Ferguson down on Thursday night.

Then, on Friday, everything changed.

Police released a report naming Brown as a suspect in a robbery.

The robbery had occurred minutes before he was shot.

Brown's family and many people in Ferguson said the report was a distraction.

They said it was turning attention away from what they see as the real crime.

Wilson shot an unarmed young man.

Johnson said on Saturday that police would not be too harsh on people who were out past curfew.

Many people were still upset.

Governor Nixon did not say how long the curfew would be in effect.

On Saturday, Nixon and Johnson asked residents to cooperate with the curfew.

"This is not to silence the people of Ferguson," Nixon said.

But Mary Moore was worried.

She is a protester who lives in nearby Florissant.

Rather than policing a curfew, she said officials should focus on looking into Brown's death.

"Until that happens," Moore said, "the curfew is a problem before it starts."

