In many ways, the chaos in Ferguson, Missouri, is the perfect topic for high school discussions.

The death of a black teen by a white police officer could be a good opening for teachers to raise subjects like the judicial system, civil disobedience, racial divides and the role of media.

But in the Edwardsville School District of Illinois, middle and high school teachers have been told to "change the subject and refocus the students."

The district's ban has upset some parents.

They say the events following the death of Michael Brown, 18, present a wealth of teaching opportunities for their children, many of whom have been watching the situation unfold on television.

School administrators say teachers have been inserting their opinions into the discussions, which is why they are shutting them down altogether.

"Such comments have caused students and parents to lash out, which is not healthy in the District 7 community," said a memo to staff on Tuesday.

The memo came from Dennis Cramsey, the principal at Edwardsville High School.

Across the region, educators are trying to figure out how to talk with students about Ferguson.

Brown's death has brought international attention to the region's racial wounds.

The nearly nightly protests — both peaceful and violent — have raised awareness of the lack of diversity in many local police departments.

They have also brought attention to the oppression and feelings of powerlessness among many area African-Americans.

Several superintendents met Wednesday at EducationPlus, an organization in the area representing dozens of area school districts.

They discussed bringing counselors to the schools.

They also talked about how to address the stress students might bring to class after watching the nighttime clashes between protesters and police on television or witnessing it firsthand.

For a couple of minutes, they talked about the kinds of discussions that might play out in classrooms.

"Nobody said the staff should be silent," said Don Senti, executive director of EducationPlus.

Edwardsville may be the only school district in the region that has told the staff not to discuss the issue, he said.

Edwardsville District 7 Superintendent Ed Hightower said the situation 25 miles away in Ferguson was a worthwhile topic of discussion.

However, it was not useful if teachers don't explore it in an objective way.

In his 19 years leading the district, he has never seen a more divisive issue than Brown's shooting or the unrest in Ferguson, he said.

"We all have personal opinions about what has gone wrong, what has gone right.

And we all have opinions on what should be done," Hightower said.

"We don't need to voice those opinions or engage those opinions in the classrooms."

Abigail Wilson, an Edwardsville senior, said she would like to talk about Ferguson and its many aspects.

She talks about it with friends, and she would like to discuss it in class.

"It's modern history," she said.

"It's huge.

It's so much more interesting than things that happened 200 years ago."

On Tuesday, there was a discussion about Ferguson in student Nate Hunsell's health class.

The teacher led the class in considering two perspectives — the side of the residents and that of the police.

"It wasn't heated," Nate, a senior, said.

"No one got upset about anything that was said."

Then he learned from teachers Wednesday that Ferguson was now off limits.

"I thought it was kind of dumb," Nate said.

"It's something that's going on.

It's kind of a big deal."

The district's new rule has sparked a flurry of responses from parents on the Edwardsville parents Facebook page.

Many of them said teachers should try to keep their opinions out of discussions, but not stifle them altogether.

"An event of this magnitude shouldn't be swept under the rug," one of those parents, Glenn Beckmann, said in an interview.

"I agree with everything in that letter except for the provision forbidding them from talking about it.

We have hundreds of teachers in the school district and I would bet 98 percent would discuss this with students objectively."

Hightower said avoiding the topic should not be misinterpreted as the district trying to ignore current events in its middle and high schools.

Stopping the conversations have more to do with preventing teachers from focusing too heavily on one side of the story.

"We engage," he said.

"We encourage discussion of current events.

But you have to be careful injecting personal opinion when you don't have the facts."

