A grand jury is meeting in Missouri.

It is made up of regular citizens.

It is their job to listen to evidence in the deadly shooting of Michael Brown.

He was shot dead by a Ferguson, Missouri, police officer.

The group will decide if the officer should be put on trial for the shooting.

The shooting was followed by violence in the streets of Ferguson.

The police tried to calm the protests.

Some say that the police went too far and acted in a violent way.

Now, some people are worried.

They fear how people will behave when the grand jury makes its decision known.

Missouri Governor Jay Nixon has asked people to be calm when the decision is announced.

Lawyers for Michael Brown's family had a message on Thursday.

They said the family also wants people to stay calm.

They said the governor should also have asked the police to be calm.

Anthony D. Gray is a lawyer for the Brown family.

He said that everybody should have been given the same message.

No violence should be accepted by anyone, he said.

Brown was 18 years old when he died on Aug. 9.

He was fatally shot by Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson.

Some people protested peacefully after Brown died.

But there was also violence.

Many fear there will be more violence if the grand jury does not say that Wilson should be put on trial.

A grand jury meets in secret.

Brown's lawyers said they do not trust the secrecy.

The grand jury will have a decision by the end of November.

Benjamin Crump is also a lawyer for the Brown family.

He said Prosecutor Robert P. McCulloch had too much control over the grand jury.

McCulloch is the lawyer for the government.

He decides what evidence the grand jury sees, Crump said.

"The grand jury will do whatever the prosecutor wants them to do," he said.

Crump said that police sometimes went too far during the protests in August.

He said people had the right to protest peacefully.

Police violated the rights of peaceful protesters, he said.

Police pointed guns in their faces, he said.

Police used tear-gas.

They shot protesters with rubber bullets.

Some were arrested for no reason, Gray said.

These things happened before the protesters acted "uncivilized," he said.

Crump said that officer Wilson should have been charged with a crime long ago.

Gray said that Brown's parents had a request.

They wanted Brown's supporters to stay on guard, "yet peaceful, calm and dignified."

On Tuesday, Governor Nixon talked about how police are preparing.

They are getting ready for what might happen after the grand jury's announcement.

Police want to keep people and businesses safe.

At the same time, people will be allowed to protest, he said.

