The Missouri governor sent the National Guard to Ferguson on Monday.

The National Guard would help "in restoring peace and order," said Governor Jay Nixon.

Angry crowds have filled Ferguson for a week.

On Aug. 9, a white police officer killed a black teenager, Michael Brown.

Almost every night since then, protesters have fought with police.

People in Ferguson are mainly black.

Its police department is mainly white.

The black community is angry at the police for the shooting of Brown and say they are fighting for justice.

The violence is hurtful to the teen's family and to his memory, the governor said.

The protests are also unfair to community members.

They want "to feel safe in their own homes," Nixon said.

On Sunday, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder ordered that doctors look at Brown's body.

Holder is in charge of the federal government's Justice Department.

The doctors were supposed to figure out how Brown died.

A doctor who was asked by Brown's family to examine the body found that the teen was shot six times.

Another doctor exam was ordered by the state.

It is not known what the state's doctors found.

As night fell in Ferguson Sunday, a protest became violent.

Marchers pushed toward one end of a street.

Police pushed them back with tear gas.

Tear gas is a chemical that causes the eyes to tear up.

Tear gas is used to stop protests.

Officials said protesters had shot guns, destroyed property and set fires.

At least two people were shot by protesters, an official said.

Officers ordered all protesters to leave.

Many of the marchers obeyed, but about 100 people stayed.

They only moved when they got hit by tear gas.

Protesters laid a line of concrete blocks across the street.

They seemed to be trying to block police vehicles.

But the vehicles easily plowed through the blocks.

The crackle of gunfire could be heard from several blocks away.

By midnight, most protesters left.

A day earlier, the governor ordered everyone to stay inside from midnight to 5 a.m. Captain Ron Johnson is with the Missouri Highway Patrol.

He is in command in Ferguson.

He said police had to use tear gas to stop the violent protests.

Earlier on Sunday, Johnson said he had met members of Brown's family.

The experience "brought tears to my eyes and shame to my heart," he said.

Johnson, who is black, said, "We all need to thank the Browns for Michael.

Because Michael's going to make it better for our sons to be better black men."

Ferguson police waited six days to say which officer shot Brown.

They also waited to say that Brown was accused of robbing a store before he was killed.

Thomas Jackson is the police chief.

He said the officer did not know Brown was a suspect in the robbery.

Brown was accused of stealing a $49 box of cigars.

Police have said little about what happened next, only that there was a fight.

The officer was injured and Brown was shot.

Witnesses say Brown had his hands in the air as the officer fired at him.

Brown was not carrying a gun when he was killed.

Darren Wilson is the officer who shot Brown.

He has been a police officer in Ferguson for six years.

No one had officially complained about him before.

The department will not say where he is.

About 150 people gathered in St. Louis on Sunday to support Wilson.

They were mainly police officers and relatives of officers.

Some of them carried signs asking people to wait for all the facts before they make up their minds.

