In South Florida, a rare fern is struggling to survive.

The fern was discovered in 2006 near Florida City.

Plant experts prefer to keep its location a secret.

The fern is the only one of its kind in the wild in North America.

The experts worry that if people knew where to find it, they might take it.

Then the fern could disappear forever.

Two years ago, Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden decided to rescue the fern.

They sent a team to collect fern spores.

Spores are seed-like cells that can become new plants.

The spores themselves are no bigger than the period at the end of this sentence.

The team planted the spores and waited to see if they would grow.

Jennifer Possley is a botanist at the botanic garden.

Botanists study plants.

As she showed off the rare fern, called the Caribbean maiden hair fern, Possley said she had a hard time getting the spores.

The fern is about six inches tall.

It is one of about 20 now growing at the garden.

The team rescued the maiden hair fern.

Still, there is a big fern crisis in the area.

With 124 types of ferns, Florida has more species of ferns than almost anywhere else in the United States, Possley said.

Only Hawaii and Puerto Rico have more.

Of the Florida ferns, 48 types grow in Miami-Dade County in South Florida.

Twenty-six are in danger of dying out.

Fourteen ferns have already disappeared.

Possley would worry less if the ferns grew in large, protected reserves like Everglades National Park.

Unfortunately, seven of the ferns grow in small nature areas.

These areas are surrounded by highways, businesses and busy neighborhoods.

"This is where I come in and start to sweat," Possley said.

Native ferns were once all over South Florida.

People used to visit fairy-like caves, filled with thorny vines and spiders, to see rare species.

Tours were even led into fern-lined sinkholes, which are big holes in the ground.

Then wild ferns began disappearing.

Buildings and roads are now in the places where ferns once grew.

Also, people have taken the plants from the wild, which nearly wiped out some species.

Possley says fern spores are everywhere.

One plant can produce billions of spores, but ferns can be picky about where they grow.

They also grow very slowly.

The brown-hair comb fern is a good example.

It was first spotted in 1962, but nearly died out three years ago.

Possley and other plant experts collected spores of the fern just before they were almost wiped out.

Then the experts had to grow the ferns from the spores.

Mike Freedman, who is with the botanic garden, spent months caring for the spores.

He made a special container to improve their chances of living.

Six weeks after the spores started growing, the ferns were still tiny.

Their heart-shaped leaves could be seen only under a microscope.

At three months, they measured about an inch tall, looking a little like parsley.

At about a year, the ferns were finally 2 to 3 inches tall and large enough to be put in pots.

They were sent to a greenhouse where Possley and other botanists have been growing about 300 rare ferns.

The brown-hair fern managed to hold on, Possley said.

Ferns face another threat.

The sea is rising because the earth is growing warmer and this can change the fern's habitat.

Fairchild garden is now working to figure out where rare ferns used to grow so they can be replanted there.

The garden is also sending spores to the nation's seed bank.

The National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation in Colorado saves seeds that are important for U.S. agriculture.

Possley would love to see the "little fairy gardens" planted once again with ferns.

She knows the challenges, though.

"Now most of them are buried underneath Miami" roads and buildings, she said.

