Somewhere in South Florida is a rare fern.

It is one of the last of its kind known to still be growing in the wild in continental America.

The fern was discovered in 2006 near Florida City in a location botanists prefer not to reveal.

Botanists, scientists who study plants, have long worried that the fern could disappear forever if just one thief, one hurricane, or one shot of weed-killer runs into it.

So two years ago a team led by Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden launched a rescue mission.

Its purpose was to collect and grow the fern's spores into new plants.

The spores are like tiny seeds no bigger than the period at the end of this sentence.

After planting the spores, the team from the botanic garden waited.

"I had a heck of a time getting spores," Fairchild botanist Jennifer Possley said this month, as she displayed the fern.

The wispy, Caribbean maiden hair fern is about 6 inches tall and it is one of about 20 now growing at the garden.

Despite the successful outcome, the maiden hair is a prime example of the fern crisis playing out across Miami-Dade County.

With 124 natives ferns, Florida has more species than anywhere else in the United States outside Hawaii or Puerto Rico, Possley said.

Of those, 48 ferns grow in Miami-Dade County.

More than half, 26, are threatened or in danger of going extinct.

Fourteen have already disappeared.

If the surviving ferns grew in large, protected preserves like Everglades National Park or the Big Cypress National Preserve, Possley would worry less.

However, seven of the ferns are found only in a patchwork of small nature areas managed by Miami-Dade's Environmentally Endangered Lands program.

The areas are now surrounded by highways, business districts and busy neighborhoods.

"This is where I come in and start to sweat," Possley said.

Native ferns were once all over South Florida.

They inspired a loyal following among admirers who flocked to fairy-like caves, braving thorny vines and spiders in search of rare species.

Tours were led into fern-lined sinkholes, which are huge holes in the ground.

"Fern enthusiasts like me consider it a small price to pay," Possley wrote in an article about conservation.

Even with their hard work, wild ferns began disappearing from the wild, just like dozens of other rare plants and creatures.

Construction and new roads covered over the ferns' habitat.

In addition, collectors who poached the plants from the wild nearly wiped out some species.

Possley says fern spores are "everywhere on earth," floating through the air.

With their slow growth, though, ferns don't bounce back quickly.

One plant can produce billions of spores, but ferns can be picky about where they grow.

Consider the brown-hair comb fern.

First spotted in 1962, the rare fern was nearly wiped out about three years ago after the South Florida Water Management District began restoring the water flow to Biscayne Bay.

Possley was alerted to the threat because she tracks rare plants for the county.

She and other Fairchild botanists collected spores of the fern just before the numbers of them in the wild plummeted.

Then began the time-consuming work of growing the ferns from the spores.

Mike Freedman, Fairchild's horticulturist, spent months tending to the spores.

He constructed a special plexiglass chamber to improve their chances of surviving.

Six weeks after the spores started growing, the ferns remained tiny, revealing heart-shaped leaves only visible under a microscope.

At three months, they measured about an inch tall, looking a little like parsley.

At about a year, the ferns were finally 2 to 3 inches tall and large enough to be potted and shipped to a greenhouse where Possley and other botanists have been growing about 300 rare ferns.

The botanic garden was able to reintroduce greenhouse-grown ferns to grow in nature, and the brown-hair fern managed to hold on, Possley said.

Beyond poaching and loss of habitat, there is another threat that increasingly puts ferns at risk.

Rising sea levels linked to climate change could alter the habitat some ferns require.

Fairchild is now working to identify land where rare ferns used to grow so they can be replanted.

The garden is also sending seeds to the nation's seed bank, the National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation in Colorado, where seeds and animal tissue important to U.S. agriculture are stored.

Possley would love to see the "little fairy gardens" that once drew tourists replanted, but she recognizes the challenges.

"Now most of them are buried underneath Miami," she said.

