Somewhere in South Florida, an extremely rare fern is barely hanging on in the wild.

The fern was discovered in 2006 near Florida City in a location plant experts prefer not to give away.

They worry that the fern — the only one of its kind growing wild in North America — could disappear forever.

So two years ago, a team led by Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden launched a rescue mission.

Its purpose was to collect and grow fern spores, seed-like cells which can become new plants.

The spores themselves are no bigger than the period at the end of this sentence.

The team planted the spores and waited.

"I had a heck of a time getting spores," Fairchild botanist Jennifer Possley said this month, as she displayed the fern.

Botanists study plants.

The wispy, Caribbean maiden hair fern is about 6 inches tall.

It one of about 20 now growing at the garden.

The Caribbean fern mission was successful, but a larger fern crisis is playing out across Miami-Dade County in South Florida.

With 124 native ferns, Florida has more species than anywhere else in the United States outside Hawaii or Puerto Rico, Possley said.

Of those, 48 types of ferns grow in Miami-Dade County.

More than half, 26, are threatened or in danger of becoming extinct.

Fourteen species of fern have already disappeared.

If the surviving ferns grew in large, protected preserves like Everglades National Park, Possley would worry less.

However, seven of the ferns are found only in small nature areas.

The areas are now surrounded by highways, business areas and busy neighborhoods.

"This is where I come in and start to sweat," Possley said.

Native ferns were once found all over South Florida.

They had admirers who flocked to fairy-like caves, braving thorny vines and spiders, in search of rare species.

Tours were even led into fern-lined sinkholes, giant holes in the ground.

Fern fans like her will go almost anywhere for the plant, Possley wrote in an article.

Like dozens of other rare plants and creatures, wild ferns began disappearing from the wild.

Buildings and roads were built over fern habitats.

Collectors also nearly wiped out some species by taking the plants from the wild.

Possley says one fern can produce billions of spores.

But spores can be picky about the location where they will grow.

Also, ferns grow slowly, so its hard to bring them back quickly.

Consider the brown-hair comb fern.

First spotted in 1962, the rare fern was nearly wiped out about three years ago.

Possley learned about the threat because she tracks rare plants.

She and other botanic garden plant experts collected spores of the fern just before they were destroyed.

Then began the time-consuming work of growing the ferns from the spores.

Mike Freedman, who is with the botanic garden, spent months tending to the spores.

He made a special container to improve their chances of surviving.

Six weeks after the spores started growing, the ferns remained tiny.

Their heart-shaped leaves could be seen only under a microscope.

At three months, they measured about an inch tall, looking a little like parsley.

At about a year, the ferns were finally 2 to 3 three inches tall and large enough to be put in pots.

They were shipped to a greenhouse where Possley and other botanists have been growing about 300 rare plants.

The garden was able to plant its greenhouse-grown ferns in the wild, and the brown-hair fern managed to hold on, Possley said.

There is another threat that increasingly puts ferns at risk.

Rising sea levels blamed on climate change could alter the fern's habitat.

Climate change involves the warming of the earth.

Fairchild is now working to identify land where rare ferns used to grow so they can be replanted there.

The garden is also sending seeds to the nation's seed bank.

The National Center for Genetic Resources Preservation in Colorado stores seeds and animal tissue important to U.S. agriculture.

Possley would love to see the "little fairy gardens" that once drew tourists replanted.

Still, she recognizes the challenges.

"Now most of them are buried underneath Miami," she said.

