A rare fern was found in Florida in 2006.

Plant experts will not say where.

The fern is one of a kind.

The experts do not want anyone to find it.

They worry that someone might take it.

Then it could disappear forever.

Two years ago, Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden decided to rescue the fern.

They sent a team to collect its spores.

These are like seeds that can grow new plants.

The spores are tiny.

Each one is no bigger than the period at the end of this sentence.

The team members planted the spores.

Then they waited.

Finally, it worked.

Not long ago, Jennifer Possley showed off the fern.

She studies plants at the garden.

The fern is called the Caribbean maiden hair fern.

It is about 6 inches tall.

Now there are 20 growing at the garden.

Many ferns are still in danger in South Florida.

Florida has 124 types of ferns growing in the wild.

The state has more types of ferns than almost anywhere else in United States, Possley said.

Of those, 48 types grow in Miami-Dade County in South Florida.

Twenty-six are in danger of dying out.

Fourteen types of ferns have already disappeared.

Seven of the ferns grow in places with not much nature.

They are surrounded by highways and busy neighborhoods.

Ferns once grew all over South Florida.

People used to visit fairy-like caves to see them.

Then wild ferns began disappearing.

There are several reasons.

People built buildings on land where ferns grew.

Some people stole the plants.

It nearly wiped out some kinds of ferns.

Ferns face another danger.

Ferns are picky and need just the right conditions to grow.

The earth is getting warmer.

The ocean level is rising.

This is changing the soil ferns grow in.

The Fairchild garden is trying to find where ferns used to grow.

Then it will plant new ferns there.

The garden is also sending seeds to a seed bank.

The bank in Colorado saves seeds that are important for farming.

Possley would love to see fairy caves planted again with ferns.

She knows there are problems, though.

Most of the caves are now under roads and buildings, she said.

