In recent months, soccer's biggest sponsors have been asked to put pressure on the sport's global governing body, the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA).

Following Wednesday's arrests of seven FIFA officials, several international corporations are stepping up to make it clear that FIFA needs to clean up its act.

The U.S. Department of Justice charged FIFA officials with money-laundering, wire fraud and making money illegally during the past two decades.

Charges like these come as no surprise.

Lately, FIFA has made headlines for everything from allegations of corruption to the abuse of laborers building World Cup venues in the small Arabian Gulf country of Qatar.

As a result, major supporters like Coca-Cola, Visa and Adidas have shown a growing willingness to speak out about FIFA's string of scandals.

Now Swiss prosecutors have opened criminal proceedings into FIFA's awarding of the 2018 World Cup to Russia and the 2022 tournament to Qatar.

According to Cobus de Swardt, sponsors shouldn't hold out any longer to demand change.

De Swardt leads a global non-governmental organization called Transparency International.

He says that putting millions of euros into FIFA gives sponsors "a right and responsibility to demand that (it is) not tainted."

Wednesday's developments serve as a "wake-up call" for everyone involved with FIFA, says de Swardt.

He is calling for big changes to the governing body's structures and practices.

De Swardt recommended that Friday's FIFA presidential election should be postponed and he discouraged longtime leader Sepp Blatter from running again.

"FIFA needs a new start," said de Swardt.

"These scandals have taken place under Sepp Blatter's watch."

The vote took place as scheduled on Friday and Blatter was re-elected for a fifth term as president.

A large range of companies are involved with FIFA and the soccer world.

The strength of their connections to the organization -- and their potential to be hurt by its scandals -- is quite varied.

FIFA's partners include Adidas, Coca-Cola, Visa, Gazprom and Hyundai/KIA Motors.

They support FIFA through long-term contracts that give them the right to use official FIFA trademarks in their advertising campaigns.

Partners also benefit from exclusive exposure in and around stadiums.

There are also second-tier sponsors, like Budweiser and McDonald's, who pay to be involved with events like the World Cup.

Beyond those corporations, there are companies that make deals with national soccer associations.

Nike, for example, pays to have the Brazilian national team wear its shirts.

Nike was not mentioned by name in the Department of Justice charges, but a "multinational sportswear company headquartered in the United States" is noted.

The unnamed sportswear company is included in the section about bribery allegations involving Brazil.

Without confirming whether it is the company in question, Nike said it was concerned by the "very serious allegations" and was cooperating with authorities.

"Nike believes in ethical and fair play in both business and sport and strongly opposes any form of manipulation or bribery," it said.

A marketing agency called Traffic Sports USA was mentioned by name in the Department of Justice charges.

Traffic Sports USA buys up media and marketing rights for different FIFA competitions, then sells broadcasting and merchandising rights to media companies and corporations.

Because of their close connections with FIFA, the organization's sponsors and partners could face the risk of damage to their reputations and revenues.

It's still unclear whether they will push FIFA any further, but so far none have issued an aggressive criticism.

The reason: there's too much at stake.

Corporations with long-term connections to the World Cup know that ending their relationships with FIFA would mean handing powerful opportunities over to competitors.

Much like the Olympics, soccer's global popularity makes relationships with FIFA especially hard to give up.

"We've already seen sponsors making more noise than they ever used to," said Nigel Currie, a sponsorship and branding consultant in the United Kingdom.

"But big sponsors get an awful lot of exposure and they'll be wary: if they pull out, one of their rivals will step in."

That doesn't mean sponsors will sit back as quietly as they have for years during previous FIFA scandals.

Last week, for example, Adidas, Coca-Cola and Visa urged FIFA to push Qatar to improve conditions for migrant workers preparing the country for the 2022 World Cup.

Without commenting directly on Wednesday's incident, Adidas, FIFA's oldest partner, said it's "fully committed to creating a culture that promotes the highest standards of ethics and compliance," and expects the same from its partners.

Adidas urged FIFA to "continue to establish and follow transparent compliance standards in everything they do."

Currie thinks those involved commercially with FIFA would be more effective in prompting changes if they united to speak out with a stronger voice.

"I think we'll see the pressure mounting in coming days," he said.

"Sponsors don't like uncertainty or scandal; they want to be involved in something clean."

Since they provide almost a third of FIFA's revenue, sponsors and their views aren't something that FIFA can simply ignore.

Recent figures showed that the organization generated $5.7 billion in 2011-2014, which encompassed the Brazil World Cup, with sponsors and commercial partners contributing almost $1.6 billion.

"When a business sponsors an event or association such as FIFA, it is effectively tying part of its brand with them," said Peter Walshe, Global BrandZ Director at Millward Brown in London.

"There needs to be a fit and when trust issues threaten the organization, the sponsor will need to monitor whether that will have a negative effect on the trust of the brand."

