Soccer fans all over the world are waiting to see what happens next.

They are not just watching for news about a player being traded or a team getting a new coach.

Instead, they want to hear more about FIFA.

FIFA is short for Fédération Internationale de Football Association.

It is the organization in charge of soccer all over the world.

FIFA is similar to American sports leagues like the NBA or the NFL.

But its teams are in about 200 different countries.

On Wednesday, seven FIFA employees were arrested and charged with making money illegally.

The U.S. Department of Justice says the problems have been going on for many years.

Switzerland is also taking a closer look at FIFA.

The Swiss government wants to find out whether FIFA officials were secretly given money when they were deciding where to host the next World Cups.

These issues are also creating problems for companies that partner with FIFA.

Coca-Cola, Visa and Adidas all pay to advertise with FIFA.

Now they are being asked to speak out about how FIFA does business.

Cobus de Swardt leads an organization called Transparency International.

His group tries to make sure companies are honest with the public.

De Swardt says that FIFA's advertising partners give them millions of dollars and they have a right to know where the money is going.

He says they also have a responsibility to make sure it is not being used for anything illegal.

He hopes Wednesday's arrests will be a "wake-up call" for FIFA's partners.

He says partners should not wait to see what happens.

They should demand change now.

De Swardt recommended that FIFA delay its presidential election.

He also discouraged Sepp Blatter from running again.

At the time, Blatter was just finishing his fourth term as president.

"FIFA needs a new start," said de Swardt.

He pointed out all of the problems that Blatter had not been able to stop or prevent.

Voting took place on Friday as scheduled.

Blatter was re-elected for a fifth term.

Partners like Adidas, Visa and McDonald's have spoken out about the FIFA arrests.

So far, none of them have been very harsh.

They mainly talked about how doing the right thing is important to them.

Advertising expert Nigel Currie says FIFA's partners might be scared to say something stronger.

There is just too much for companies to lose.

FIFA's partners do not want to end such powerful relationships.

Big companies make lots of money from having their names on FIFA jerseys.

Their TV commercials during games help them get customers.

Also, lots of rival companies would be glad to take over for one of FIFA's partners.

For example, if Coca-Cola stopped working with FIFA, Pepsi could take its spot, and try to get its customers.

That does not mean FIFA's partners will just sit back quietly and do nothing, though.

Last week, three FIFA sponsors told FIFA they want to see changes in the country of Qatar where they said the workers who are preparing for the 2022 World Cup are not being treated properly.

Currie says companies that partner with FIFA should work together to get its attention.

He thinks they should speak with one loud, strong voice.

Sticking together will be the best way to get FIFA to make changes.

FIFA's partners provide almost a third of the organization's multibillion dollar revenues.

Currie says that is one of the main reasons why FIFA can't just ignore their concerns.

