Millions of Filipinos are desperately searching for food and shelter in the wreckage left by Typhoon Haiyan.

But, there may be one reason for optimism.

Their family members working overseas are trying to get help to them.

The Philippines' biggest export has long been its workers.

At least 10 percent of the country's roughly 100 million people live and work in other nations.

That's about 10.5 million people.

Some clean rich peoples homes in the Persian Gulf or work as nannies in Europe.

Others staff cruise ships in the Caribbean, and crew merchant marine vessels the world over.

For more than 30 years, the jobless of the Philippines have gone elsewhere to seek their fortunes.

Since the late Ferdinand Marcos, leaders have failed to provide enough jobs in the country.

Now, just like after other natural disasters, that global workforce is at the forefront of relief efforts.

And it is galvanizing the generosity of the foreign populations they serve.

About a third of the Filipinos living overseas are in the United States, according to Philippine government figures.

That has provided a committed force to raise money for typhoon victims, said Albert Santoli.

He's a Philippine native who founded the Asia America Initiative.

The organization provides development assistance and emergency relief to the Philippines.

These funds are over and above the money Filipino emigres and overseas workers send home regularly.

"People will send money to their families, since they don't trust the government," said Santoli.

"Some will send money to the Red Cross, but effectively, they will want to be helping their own families and hometowns."

Countries with large populations of Filipino workers tend to be more generous.

Familiarity with the islands' people has made the crisis more real, Filipino expats say.

The United Arab Emirates, where 680,000 Filipinos work, has donated $10 million to the relief effort.

"This gesture shows the UAE's strong support for the Philippines and its people, particularly the overseas Filipino workers here who have contributed to the development of this country," said Alan Bacason.

He works in Dubai, but his family lives in Tacloban.

It was one of the areas hit hardest by the typhoon.

Saudi Arabia has 1.55 million Filipinos — the highest expat population after the United States.

It is giving $100,000 to help typhoon victims.

The Arab Gulf Program for Development has vowed to give the same amount.

Australia, home to 380,000 Filipino workers, has pledged $10 million in relief.

Money transfers sent back to families, or remittances, make up a huge part of money the Philippines has.

Last year, overseas workers sent home $21 billion, or 13.5 percent of the money the country produced, the Philippine Central Bank reported.

But those figures cover only officially registered transfers.

It is believed that an additional 30 percent, at least, is sent home.

It isn't tracked because it is sent without people to be the go-betweens, because it's cheaper that way.

In Malaysia, where 569,000 Filipinos work, delivery services for money transfers to the Philippines are pitching in.

Some are helping with getting storm relief to those who need it.

LBC Remittance Express is usually busy this time of year.

It ships Christmas packages to Filipino families back home.

But right now it is using its motorbike and bicycle delivery services to get relief goods from the ports to the devastated inland.

Roads there are too clogged with storm wreckage for trucks to pass.

Even in countries with few Filipino workers, the expats are leading the fund drives.

For example, just over 700 Filipinos live and work in the Bahamas.

But, more than 200 came together Sunday in an emergency meeting to organize a fundraiser.

The money they raise will go to help restore communications with relatives cut off, Filipino expat community leader Leo Ignacio said.

Damage to electric utilities and cellphone towers has made it difficult to reach some people.

There are several Filipino overseas workers associations worldwide.

Two that are helping out are the Rappler social media site and the H5N1 group of expat medical professionals.

They are using the Internet and Manila government databases to help Filipinos overseas search for missing relatives in the Philippines.

They're also reviewing the official death count and finding people worthy of sending money to.

