Millions of Filipinos are desperately searching for food and shelter in the wreckage left by Typhoon Haiyan, a large storm that swept through the country.

But there may at least be one reason for optimism.

Help is coming to them from family members working overseas.

For more than 30 years, Filipinos have gone overseas to find jobs.

At least one-tenth of the country's roughly 100 million people live and work in other nations.

They are called "expats" or "ex-patriots."

That's about 10.5 million Filipinos.

Some clean homes for rich people in the Middle East or work as nannies in Europe.

Others work on ships all over the world.

They leave the Philippines because leaders have failed to provide enough jobs in the country.

As in other natural disasters, the overseas workers are leading relief efforts.

And it is increasing the generosity of the countries they work in.

About a third of the Filipinos living overseas are in the United States, says the Philippine government.

That has provided a force of people to raise money for storm victims, said Albert Santoli.

He's a Philippine native who founded the Asia America Initiative.

The group provides emergency relief to the Philippines.

The money being raised by expats is over and above the money Filipinos overseas send home usually.

"People will send money to their families, since they don't trust the government," said Santoli.

Some will send money to the Red Cross, he said.

But, they will want to be helping their own families and hometowns.

Countries with lots of Filipino workers tend to be more generous.

Familiarity with the islands' people has made the disaster more real, Filipino expats say.

About 680,000 Filipinos work in the United Arab Emirates.

The country has donated $10 million to the relief effort.

Saudi Arabia has 1.55 million Filipinos — the highest ex-patriot population after the United States.

It is giving $100,000 to help storm victims.

Australia is home to 380,000 Filipino workers.

It has pledged $10 million in relief.

Money transfers sent back to families are called remittances.

The transfers sent home make up a huge part of the money the Philippines has.

Last year, overseas workers sent home $21 billion in remittances.

That's almost one-seventh of the money the Philippines made last year.

But those figures cover only official transfers.

It is believed that a lot more is sent home, but that money isn't tracked.

In Malaysia, there are about 569,000 Filipino workers.

Delivery services there let Filipinos send money back home.

The companies that handle these delivery services are also pitching in.

Some are helping get storm relief to those who need it.

LBC Remittance Express is usually busy this time of year.

It ships Christmas packages to Filipino families back home.

But right now it is using its motorbike and bicycle delivery services for another purpose.

It's getting relief goods from the ports to places that are wrecked.

Roads there are too blocked with ruins from the storm for trucks to get through.

Even in countries with few Filipino workers, the expats are leading the drive to raise money.

For example, just over 700 Filipinos live and work in the Bahamas.

But, more than 200 came together Sunday in a meeting to put together a fundraiser.

The money they raise will go to help fix communications with relatives that are cut off.

Damage to electricity and cellphone towers has made it difficult to reach some people.

There are several Filipino overseas workers groups worldwide.

Two that are helping out are the Rappler website and the H5N1 group of expat health workers.

They are using the Internet and government lists to help Filipinos overseas find missing relatives.

They're also reviewing the number of dead and finding people to send money to.

