Millions of Filipinos are desperately searching for food and shelter in the wreckage left by Typhoon Haiyan.

But, they may at least be comforted knowing that help is coming from family members working abroad.

While some countries' biggest exports are often crops or machinery, the Philippines is different.

The country's biggest export has long been its workers.

At least 10 percent of the country's approximately 100 million people live and work in other nations.

They staff cruise ships in the Caribbean, clean homes in the prosperous Persian Gulf, work as nannies in Europe and crew merchant marine vessels the world over.

For more than 30 years, the Philippines' legions of jobless and those lacking enough work have been encouraged to seek their fortunes elsewhere.

Since the late Ferdinand Marcos, a succession of leaders have failed to develop an economy capable of providing enough jobs.

Now, just like when other natural disasters hit, that global workforce is at the forefront of relief efforts.

And it is galvanizing the largess of the foreign populations they serve.

About a third of the 10.5 million Filipinos living abroad are in the United States, according to Philippine government figures.

That has provided a committed force to raise funds for typhoon victims.

This is over and above the money Filipinos living abroad send home regularly, said Albert Santoli, a Philippine native who founded the Asia America Initiative.

The organization provides development assistance and emergency relief to the Philippines.

"People will send money to their families, since they don't trust the government," said Santoli.

"Some will send money to the Red Cross, but effectively, they will want to be helping their own families and hometowns."

Countries with large populations of Filipino workers tend to be more generous.

Familiarity with the islands' people has made the crisis more tangible, Filipino expats say.

Expat stands for ex-patriot.

Expats are people from one country, such as the Philippines, who are living and working in another country.

President Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan of the United Arab Emirates, where 680,000 Filipinos work, has donated $10 million to the relief effort.

"This gesture shows the UAE's strong support for the Philippines and its people, particularly the overseas Filipino workers here who have contributed to the development of this country," said Alan Bacason.

He works in Dubai, but his family lives in Tacloban.

It was one of the areas hit hardest by the typhoon.

Saudi Arabia, with 1.55 million Filipinos — the highest expat population after the United States — pledged $100,000.

The Arab Gulf Program for Development has pledged the same amount.

Australia, home to 380,000 Filipino workers, has pledged $10 million in government relief.

Money transfers, or remittances, are a staple of the Philippine economy.

Last year, overseas workers sent home $21 billion, or 13.5 percent of GDP, the Philippine Central Bank reported.

GDP is the value of all the goods and services produced in a country each year.

But those figures cover only officially registered transfers.

Economists estimate that an additional 30 percent, at least, is sent home without intermediaries, to avoid fees and taxes.

In Malaysia, where 569,000 Filipinos work, established delivery services for money transfers to the Philippines are pitching in.

Some are helping with the huge task of getting storm relief to those who need it.

LBC Remittance Express is usually busy this time of year shipping Christmas packages to Filipino families back home.

But right now it is using its motorbike and bicycle delivery services to get relief goods from the ports to the devastated inland.

Roads there are too clogged with storm debris for trucks to pass, dispatcher Emily Yap told Channel NewsAsia.

Even in countries with relatively few Filipino workers, the expats have taken the lead in fund drives.

In the Bahamas, for example, where just over 700 Filipinos live and work, more than 200 came together Sunday in an emergency meeting to organize a fundraiser.

The money they raise will go to help restore communications with relatives cut off by damage to electric utilities and cellphone towers, Filipino expat community leader Leo Ignacio said.

There are several Filipino overseas workers associations worldwide, such as the Rappler social media site and the H5N1 group of expat medical professionals.

They are using the Internet and Manila government databases to help Filipinos abroad search for missing relatives.

They're also reviewing the official death toll and locating people worthy of donations.

