U.S. states are trying to decide whether it makes sense to keep giving movie companies tax discounts to film in their states.

Louisiana is one of them.

People who live In Louisiana may be thrilled to see Mark Wahlberg and Kate Hudson come to the state to film a movie.

But state officials are wondering if they are giving away too much money.

The company making the movie came to Louisiana mostly because the state offers unlimited tax credits to film companies.

The credits let film companies save money on their taxes.

Louisiana was the first state to adopt the credits in 1992.

Now, 39 states have tax breaks for the film and television business.

The tax credits are also called incentives.

People who think there should be incentives say that people in the state get jobs when a movie is made.

Workers like carpenters, electricians and drivers get hired by film companies.

People who don't like the incentives say those jobs do not last.

They say studies show that states never make back the tax money they give away with the credits.

This month, Louisiana lawmakers voted to limit film tax credits to $200 million each year.

The governor still has to decide if he wants to sign the law.

Right now there is no limit to the amount of credits.

The state is $1.6 billion short on the money it needs to run itself this year.

If it cannot get the money, it may have to give less money to public universities and hospitals.

Other states also are looking at reducing film tax credits.

Some may get rid of them completely.

Alaska lawmakers voted to kill the state's film tax credit program in 2016.

Those who want to end the program said that they need the money because the state is now getting much less money from oil and gas sales.

In Massachusetts, Governor Charlie Baker called for ending the state's $80 million film tax credit program.

He wants to use the money for a tax credit for poor people.

Other states are actually increasing the incentives they offer.

California is worried that other states are using tax credits to attract Hollywood productions.

So last year, the state tripled the money available for film tax breaks.

It now offers $330 million.

Movie companies shop for the best tax deals.

They frequently make states compete against each other.

For example, Netflix's "House of Cards" last year threatened to leave Maryland.

Then the state agreed to keep giving more tax credits.

The state gave out $62.5 million in credits the last four years.

Most of the credits went to "House of Cards" and HBO's "Veep."

Todd Lewis works on the Wahlberg and Hudson movie.

He said tax incentives are almost the first thing movie producers consider when deciding where to shoot.

Lewis said Louisiana's incentives are especially attractive.

A group called the Louisiana Budget Project looked at the tax credits Louisiana offered.

It said the state paid $231 million in credits in 2011-12.

The state has paid more than $1 billion in the past 10 years.

The study said the spending was a bad idea.

It said that taxpayers have paid $60,000 for every job created.

But a group representing moviemakers disagreed.

It said that in 2013 movie companies supported 10,800 jobs in the state with the spending.

