Louisiana residents may be thrilled to see Mark Wahlberg and Kate Hudson when they arrive in the state later this year to film a movie.

But Louisiana officials are starting to wonder whether they are giving up too much money to get film companies to make movies in the state.

Other states have the same question.

The movie is being made in Louisiana largely because the state offers unlimited tax credits to film companies to get them to film in the state.

The credits let film companies save money on the taxes they owe to the state.

Louisiana was the first state to adopt the credits in 1992.

Now, 39 states and Puerto Rico have tax breaks of one kind or another for the film and television industries, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Supporters of the tax breaks, or incentives, point to the many jobs created during filming.

Workers from carpenters and electricians to caterers and drivers get hired by film companies.

Critics say those jobs do not last.

They point to numerous studies that show that states never make back the tax money they give away with the credits.

Louisiana currently has no limit on the value of the credits it will give out in a single year.

But that may change.

This month, the Louisiana House voted to limit film tax credits to $200 million annually.

The governor still has to decide if he wants to sign the law.

The state is $1.6 billion short on the money it needs for the year to pay for such services as public hospitals and universities.

Other states also are looking at reducing or eliminating film tax credits.

The Alaska Legislature on April 19 approved a bill to kill the state's film tax credit program in 2016.

Governor Bill Walker also called for a halt to new credits.

Those who supported ending the program noted that the state could not afford it since the state is getting much less money from oil and gas sales now.

In Massachusetts, Republican Governor Charlie Baker called for ending the state's $80 million film tax credit program.

He wants to use the funds to partially pay for increasing a tax credit for poor people.

The state's House has voted to keep the film credit.

Its Senate has yet to vote on it.

Other states are actually increasing the incentives they offer.

California is worried about the incentives other states are using to lure Hollywood productions.

So last year, the state tripled the money available for film tax breaks.

It now offers $330 million.

Meanwhile, Maine is considering giving a tax credit for wages paid to residents employed by film productions.

It is also looking at a credit on wages paid to non-Maine residents.

Backers of the bill argue that Maine loses productions to Massachusetts.

Both states can offer similar coastal scenery for a movie.

Studios shop for the best tax deals and frequently pit one state against another.

For example, Netflix's "House of Cards" last year threatened to pull production out of Maryland until the state extended its generous tax credit program.

The state gave out $62.5 million in credits between 2012 and this year.

Most of the credits went to "House of Cards" and HBO's "Veep."

Todd Lewis is working on the Wahlberg and Hudson movie being filmed in Louisiana, which is about the BP oil spill disaster.

He said tax incentives are almost the first thing movie producers consider when deciding where to shoot.

Lewis said Louisiana's incentives are especially attractive.

A group called the Louisiana Budget Project looked at the tax credits Louisiana offered.

It said the state paid $231 million in credits in 2011-12, bringing the state's total film spending to more than $1 billion in the past 10 years.

The study called the return on that investment "a flop."

It said that taxpayers have paid $60,000 for every job created.

But the Motion Picture Association of America said that in 2013 production spending associated with the credit supported 10,800 jobs in the state.

The association said that jobs from movies created $471.2 million in personal income and $1.59 billion in business in Louisiana.

That study called for the unlimited credit to continue.

