!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_ELECTIONS-CARSON_3_FL_1.png) WASHINGTON — The Republican field of presidential hopefuls is expanding again.

Former technology executive Carly Fiorina announced she's running for president, and retired neurosurgeon Ben Carson launched his bid as well on Monday.

Both Fiorina and Carson could help the Republican Party win over a more diverse and varied group of supporters in 2016.

Fiorina is likely to be the only prominent woman to run for president as a Republican, with Carson the only likely African-American.

They are both also political outsiders in a group likely to be dominated by governors, former governors and senators.

The two are not considered political associates and the timing of their announcements, planned weeks ago, is coincidental.

Fiorina, 60, chose a nationally broadcast morning network news show to announce her candidacy.

She also posted a video.

The former chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, a technology company, appeared on ABC's "Good Morning America."

She said she understands "executive decision-making."

She also criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton, the front-runner for the Democrats, for a lack of openness.

As examples, she cited the use of a private email server while Clinton was secretary of State and foreign donations to her family's charitable foundation.

"I have a lot of admiration for Hillary Clinton, but she clearly is not trustworthy," Fiorina said.

Carson revealed his plans to run in an interview that aired Sunday on an Ohio television station.

"I'm willing to be part of the equation and therefore, I'm announcing my candidacy for president of the United States of America," he said.

Carson, 63, made his formal announcement Monday in a speech from his native Detroit.

He spoke shortly after having breakfast at a local museum of African-American history.

Both candidates begin the race as underdogs in a campaign expected to feature several people who are experienced in politics.

They include former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, Florida Senator Marco Rubio and Texas Senator Ted Cruz.

Yet while they have claimed much of the early attention and have received money from donors, the GOP race is a wide-open contest that could ultimately feature as many as two dozen major candidates.

The Republican field is already more diverse than it was four years ago.

Rubio and Cruz are each trying to become the first Hispanic president.

And most of the candidates are relatively young, in their 40s and 50s.

Still, the Republican National Committee, which oversees the Republican party, says it wants to expand the party's appeal beyond its traditionally older, white, male supporters.

President Barack Obama won re-election in 2012 with the strong support of women and ethnic minorities.

Both groups now make up a larger percentage of registered voters.

Raised in Detroit by a single mother, Carson practiced medicine for close to 30 years at Baltimore's Johns Hopkins Children's Center.

He gained national attention in conservative politics after criticizing Obama's health care law at the 2013 National Prayer Breakfast.

He has strong support from people in the ultra-Conservative tea party.

Some of them tried to push Carson into the race before he set up an exploratory committee earlier this year.

Yet he has made some mistakes while in the political spotlight.

Once, he suggested that Obama's health care law was the worst thing since slavery.

Another time, he compared present-day America to Nazi Germany.

And once, he called problems at the nation's Veterans Affairs hospitals "a gift from God" because they uncovered difficulties in the way the country was caring for veterans.

Fiorina, meanwhile, has a background more likely to draw support among the Republican establishment.

The former business executive became a prominent figure in Republican politics in 2010, when she ran for Senate in California and lost to Senator Barbara Boxer by 10 points.

Both Carson and Fiorina are launching national tours in early-voting states.

Carson was scheduled to spend the first few days of his presidential campaign in Iowa, before heading to South Carolina at the end of the week and New Hampshire and Nevada the next.

Fiorina's first public event is scheduled for Tuesday in New York City.

She also plans to campaign in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina by week's end.

