!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_ELECTIONS-CARSON_3_FL_1.png) WASHINGTON — More Republicans are jumping into the race for president.

These are people who oppose President Barack Obama's Democratic Party.

Carly Fiorina is a former technology official.

Ben Carson used to work as a brain surgeon.

Both have announced they're running for president, and both believe they can help their party win support from voters in different communities.

Fiorina is likely to be the only well-known woman to run for president as a Republican.

Carson is likely to be the only African American.

Neither of them has worked in government before.

They will be competing with people who've worked in government for a long time.

Fiorina, 60, chose a national morning news show to announce her candidacy.

She also posted a video.

The former leader of Hewlett-Packard, a technology company, appeared on ABC's "Good Morning America."

She said she knows how to make important decisions.

She also criticized Hillary Rodham Clinton, who is leading in the Democratic race for president.

The Republican and Democratic groups oppose each other on many issues.

Fiorina said Clinton is not open enough about her activities.

As an example, she said Clinton should not have used a private email account while she was secretary of state.

As secretary of state, Clinton was in charge of the United States' relationships with other countries.

"I have a lot of admiration for Hillary Clinton, but she clearly is not trustworthy," Fiorina said.

Carson revealed his plans to run in an interview that aired Sunday on an Ohio television station.

"I'm willing to be part of the equation and therefore, I'm announcing my candidacy for president of the United States of America," he said.

Carson, 63, made his formal announcement Monday in a speech from his native Detroit.

He spoke shortly after having breakfast at a local museum of African-American history.

Both candidates are entering the race as underdogs.

It means, at this point, they are unlikely to win.

They are expected to run against several people who are experienced in politics, including former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker, Florida Senator Marco Rubio and Texas Senator Ted Cruz.

These men have received a lot of attention and have gotten money for their campaigns.

But the race is still wide open, and as many as two dozen major candidates could eventually decide to run.

The Republican field is already more varied than it was four years ago.

Rubio and Cruz are each trying to become the first Hispanic president.

And most of the candidates are young compared to previous presidents.

Still, the Republican National Committee, which manages the Republican Party, says it wants to attract a new kind of supporter.

A lot of the party's members are older, white men.

The party wants more women and ethnic minorities like Hispanics and African-Americans.

President Obama won re-election in 2012 with the strong support of these groups.

Carson was raised in Detroit by a single mother.

He worked as a doctor for almost 30 years.

He gained national attention in politics after criticizing Obama's health care law.

He has strong support from people in the group known as the tea party.

They support traditional views.

Some of them tried to push Carson into the race before he even decided to run himself.

Yet he has made some mistakes while in the political spotlight.

Once, he suggested that Obama's health care law was the worst thing since slavery.

Another time, he compared present-day America to Nazi Germany.

And once, he called problems at the nation's Veterans Affairs hospitals "a gift from God" because they uncovered difficulties in the way the country cares for people who have served in the military.

Fiorina, meanwhile, has a background more likely to draw Republican support.

The former business leader became a well-known figure in Republican politics in 2010, when she ran for Senate in California and lost to Senator Barbara Boxer by 10 points.

Both Carson and Fiorina will be touring states that have early voting.

Carson was scheduled to spend the first few days of his presidential campaign in Iowa.

He will head to South Carolina at the end of the week and New Hampshire and Nevada next week.

Fiorina's first public event is scheduled for Tuesday in New York City.

She also plans to campaign in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina by week's end.

