On Friday, first lady Michelle Obama said that the most important issue facing blacks today is education.

Veterans of the civil rights movement were at her side as she made her remarks.

"These women represent many different facets and eras of the movement," Obama said of them.

She was speaking during an event marking Black History Month.

Still, as different as they are, she said, "there is something that connects each of their stories, a common thread that animates their lives."

What they all share in common is "their hunger for and belief in the power of education."

Obama was joined at the White House by a panel that included women of the civil rights movement, among them, two who broke down barriers that had kept them from attending school: Charlayne Hunter-Gault and Carlotta Walls LaNier.

Hunter-Gault was one of the first to desegregate the University of Georgia.

LaNier was the youngest member of the Little Rock Nine, the group of black high school students barred from entering Arkansas' racially segregated Little Rock Central High School.

LaNier and Hunter-Gault often faced physical resistance while attempting to receive an education.

Obama said that while times have changed, many children today still fail to meet their full potential.

Even if there are no mobs with bricks and bottles to ward young black women away from higher education, many still do not manage to get the education they should.

"Nobody needs a military escort to get to class — but that doesn't mean that our children don't still face struggles when it comes to education," she said.

While the high school graduation rate for black students is on the rise, it remains the lowest rate of all the racial groups in the country.

Because of that, Obama urged the young women in attendance to go to school no matter what — even if it means attending "bad" schools with crumbling facilities and outdated technology.

She insisted that if children fall behind in school, they fall behind in life.

"If we really want to solve issues like mass incarceration, poverty, racial profiling, voting rights, and the kinds of challenges that shocked so many of us over the past year, then we simply cannot afford to lose out on the potential of even one young person," she said.

"We cannot allow even one more young person to fall through the cracks."

Obama herself is a graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School.

She heads the program Reach Higher, an effort to boost the desire for post-secondary education in high schoolers.

Essence magazine co-hosted the event, which took place just days after the appearance of the publication's first cover without a photo in 45 years.

Instead of an image, the cover features the words, "BLACK LIVES MATTER."

Essence Editor-in-Chief Vanessa K. DeLuca moderated the panel discussion, which focused on the women's own educational experiences and on how education must continue to fuel social progress across generations.

"Education is still the key to success," LaNier said.

"Be prepared to open that door.

You need all the education you can possibly get, because that door might be a crack or flung wide open."

