There are many fish in the sea.

There are also many fish in our garbage cans.

Of all the food that Americans waste, seafood gets tossed out the most.

That is not a good thing.

After all, very few foods are as healthy.

Fish is high in protein and low in fat.

Eating fish can even make people live longer.

A new university study found about half of all seafood in the United States is wasted.

Families and food businesses buy fresh and frozen fish.

Sometimes they do not eat it or sell it quickly enough.

Then it spoils.

Nearly 2.3 billion pounds of seafood are wasted each year.

That would give 10 million men or 12 million women enough protein for a year.

Men and women need different amounts of protein.

David Love is a scientist who worked on the study.

He says people should stop throwing away so much seafood.

Not all of the fish that lands in the garbage is because of people.

Almost one-third of seafood waste happens during fishing.

It is called bycatch.

That is when large nets capture more fish than are needed.

The extra fish are tossed back into the water.

Often the fish are injured or dead.

People do not just throw away seafood.

The amount of food that ends up in the garbage in the United States has increased.

In 2012, Americans threw out about 35 million tons of food.

It was almost one-fifth more food than Americans tossed in 2000.

Today, Americans throw away more food than plastic, paper, metal and glass.

Jane E. Brody writes for The New York Times newspaper.

She wrote an article explaining how good it is to add more types of fish to meals.

Brody mentioned a study by Dutch scientists.

The scientists followed 872 Eskimo men in Greenland.

They were between ages 40 and 59.

The scientists watched them for 20 years.

The Eskimos who ate fish just once or twice a week were half as likely to die from heart attacks than those who did not eat fish.

Eating more fish and wasting less go together.

Fish will likely spoil if it is not cooked and eaten quickly.

Fish sometimes goes bad because people buy it, but then are just not that into eating it.

Christopher Lischewski runs a company called Bumble Bee Foods.

It makes canned tuna.

He thinks people need to be taught that seafood really is healthy.

He said it would also help to teach them how to prepare fish.

Still, the plan could fail.

Even if people buy more fish, they might not cook it.

Food can only sit in the refrigerator for so long.

