Even fish need a beauty makeover every now and then.

Veterinarians at the Vancouver Aquarium have improved the looks — and the lives — of fish there thanks to a surgical procedure that was pioneered in the 1990s.

Two rockfish at the aquarium now sport bright yellow ocular prosthetics, or glass eyes.

The rockfish each lost an eye due to disease, and the operation restored their former good looks.

The primary goal, however, was not to make the fish more beautiful — it was to help them fit in.

The one-eyed rockfish were being attacked by other fish, who seemed to view the empty eye socket as a sign of weakness, according to Seattle Aquarium veterinarian Dr. Lesanna Lahner.

Lahner said the operation does make the fish look better, but she emphasized, "my main concern is fish health."

At the Seattle Aquarium, a handful of fish have received the implants.

Lahner assisted the Vancouver veterinarians with their one-eyed rockfish last month.

The staff at the aquarium in British Columbia, Canada, were very concerned about a copper rockfish that had an eye surgically removed after a cataract rupture.

The 6-pound fish started avoiding its tank-mates and hiding in nooks and crannies, said Dr. Martin Haulena, the aquarium's head veterinarian.

"Fish were picking at it," he said.

"Its fins were tattered, and it was really getting banged up."

Rockfish can live for more than a century in the wild, so it is particularly important to make sure they have a good quality of life in captivity.

Giving the rockfish a glass eye takes veterinarians about 20 minutes.

First, the fish was anesthetized so it wouldn't feel pain.

Then, a technician bathed the animal's gills and skin with water while Lahner popped the prosthetic eye into the socket.

Lahner then coached Haulena on the best way to thread fishing line through the fish's bones to hold the eye in place.

The glass eyes are the same kind used to stuff trophy trout and salmon for display on walls.

Lahner takes two of the flat-backed inserts and glues them together to form a single round eye.

Fake eyes for fish are not new, she pointed out.

The idea was pioneered in the 1990s by Dr. Craig Harms and Dr. Greg Lewbart, Lahner's mentors at North Carolina State University.

They developed a surgical procedure especially for ornamental koi — the large fish, often orange and white, that swim in Japanese-style ponds.

Collectors can pay tens of thousands of dollars for a single, exquisitely patterned specimen, so there is little tolerance for one-eyed fish when the money to be made is so big.

Lahner took her mentors' techniques and adapted them for cold-water species.

To do this, she had to eliminate an adhesive glue that can harm the fish, and devise a way to hold the prosthetic eye in place with fishing line and titanium clips.

"It's still a work in progress," she said.

"I would not say by any means this technique is perfected."

In the past, fish with a missing eye would often be euthanized, or put to sleep, at aquariums, because they were considered ugly, Haulena said.

"It's no longer a good idea by any stretch of the imagination to think of animals as disposable, and just go out and get another one," he said.

Eye disease is the most common problem in captive rockfish, perhaps because they evolved to live under high pressure in deep water, Lahner said.

In aquarium tanks, some rockfish have problems with their swim bladders — the balloon-like sacs that maintain buoyancy.

As a result, air can leak into the eye cavity, possibly triggering problems.

Lahner is collaborating with radiologists and veterinary ophthalmologists, or animal eye doctors, to better understand the details of the problem and develop fixes.

In the meantime, she will be outfitting several Seattle Aquarium rockfish with prosthetics soon.

The results from Vancouver's experience are encouraging.

Since getting a new eye, the copper rockfish seems to be back to its old self, Lahner said.

"It's now out in the open and behaving like a normal fish."

