There are plenty of fish in the sea.

Plenty are in U.S. trash cans as well.

Of all the food that Americans waste — and Americans waste a lot of food — it's the uneaten seafood that should concern us the most.

Few sources of nutrition, after all, are as beneficial as fish.

They are high in protein, and low in fat.

Eating fish is associated with all sorts of beneficial health outcomes.

And yet, few foods are discarded so frequently.

Between 2009 and 2013, as much as 47 percent of all edible seafood in the United States went to waste, according to a new study from the Johns Hopkins Center for a Livable Future.

The majority of that is due to families and food businesses that buy fresh and frozen fish but never end up eating it or selling it.

To make sense of the scale of seafood loss in the United States, consider what curbing it could mean for our combined diets.

Estimates suggest that 2.3 billion pounds of seafood are wasted each year.

The wasted seafood could provide enough protein for more than 10 million men or 12 million women for an entire year.

The calories, meanwhile, would be enough to feed 1.5 million adults for that long.

"It is critical and urgent to reduce waste of seafood," said David Love.

He is a researcher at the Johns Hopkins Center and the study's lead author.

Not all of the fish that finds its way into the garbage is the fault of people who buy it but never use it.

As much as one-third of seafood waste is due to a regrettable byproduct of fishing, known as bycatch, where large nets capture more than intended.

Much of that is thrown back into the water, often after being injured or killed.

The problem of food waste touches far more than merely our fish supply.

In 2012, the most recent year for which estimates are available, Americans threw out some 35 million tons of food, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.

That is about 40 percent of the country's food supply.

Food waste is not only vast, but growing.

The 35 million tons of food discarded in 2012 is 20 percent more than the United States tossed out in 2000, 50 percent more than in 1990, and roughly three times what Americans discarded in 1960.

Currently, Americans throw out more food than plastic, paper, metal and glass.

Fish is a particularly unfortunate thing to waste.

The nutritional value of seafood is incomparable — it's likely of little coincidence that many of the places where people live the longest are fond of fish.

Jane E. Brody, writing for The New York Times last year, chronicled the endless benefits of adding more sea-dwellers to our diets.

The most convincing bit mentions an important study from the 1980s.

Nearly three decades ago, Dutch researchers published a groundbreaking study in The New England Journal of Medicine.

The Dutch team was intrigued by the extremely low death rate from coronary heart disease among Greenland Eskimos.

For 20 years, the team followed 872 men ages 40 to 59.

The scientists found that those who ate as little as one or two fish meals a week had a 50 percent lower death rate from heart attacks than those who did not eat fish.

The plea for people to eat more and waste less are, in many ways, are interrelated.

Fish, the researchers regret, is particularly prone to be lost because it is especially perishable.

But it's also prone to loss because people just are not that into it.

Per-capita seafood consumption is about 14 pounds per year in the United States, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA).

In Spain it is upward of 90 pounds per year and in Japan, it is about 120 pounds per year.

"You have a population that is somewhat fish-averse ... and we really don't take the opportunity to educate consumers about all the great attributes that go along with seafood," Bumble Bee Foods CEO Christopher Lischewski said.

Teaching people about the health benefits of eating fish would be helpful, Lischewski said, along with providing cooking tips.

Still, that may not work.

Communicating the benefits of eating fish could force more fish purchases at the grocery store, but because of America's still underdeveloped culture in cooking fish, it might not make it to the dinner table.

Food can only sit unused for so long.

