There are plenty of fish in the sea.

There are also plenty in the trash.

Of all the food Americans waste, it is the seafood that never gets eaten that should trouble us most.

After all, very few sources of nutrition are as healthy as fish.

They are high in protein and low in fat.

Eating fish is associated with all sorts of useful health outcomes.

Yet few foods are discarded so frequently.

Between 2009 and 2013, as much as half of all seafood in the United States was wasted, according to a new study from Johns Hopkins University.

Families and food businesses buy fresh and frozen fish.

Sometimes, they don't eat it or sell it before it goes bad.

Nearly 2.3 billion pounds of seafood are wasted each year.

The wasted seafood could provide enough protein for more than 10 million men or 12 million women for a year.

"It is critical and urgent to reduce waste of seafood," said David Love.

He is a scientist at Johns Hopkins and the study's lead author.

Not all of the fish that finds its way into the garbage is the fault of people who buy it and do not use it.

Almost one-third of seafood waste is due to a byproduct of fishing, known as bycatch.

It happens when large nets capture more than is needed.

Much of the extra fish is thrown back into the water, often after being injured or killed.

The problem of food waste goes beyond fish.

In 2012, Americans threw out about 35 million tons of food, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.

The EPA is an agency of the U.S. government.

The wasted fish is nearly half of the country's food supply.

Food waste is not only large, it is also growing.

The 35 million tons of food discarded in 2012 is 20 percent more than the United States tossed out in 2000.

It is 50 percent more than in 1990, and roughly three times what Americans threw away in 1960.

Americans currently throw out more food than plastic, paper, metal and glass.

Fish is a particularly unfortunate thing to waste.

The nutritional value of seafood is unequaled.

It is likely not an accident that many of the places where people live the longest are fond of fish.

Jane E. Brody, a New York Times writer, wrote about the numerous benefits of adding more sea-dwellers to our diets.

The most convincing bit mentions an important study from the 1980s.

Nearly 30 years ago, Dutch researchers published an important study in The New England Journal of Medicine, a magazine for doctors and scientists.

The Dutch team was intrigued by the extremely low death rate from coronary heart disease among Eskimos in Greenland.

For 20 years, the team followed 872 men between ages 40 and 59.

They found that those who ate fish just once or twice a week were half as likely to die from heart attacks than those who did not eat fish.

The plea for people to eat more fish and waste less go together.

Fish, the researchers stressed, is likely to spoil if it is not cooked and eaten quickly.

On the other hand, it is also likely to go bad because people just are not that into it.

The average person eats about 14 pounds of seafood per year in the United States, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

In Spain, people eat at least 90 pounds per year and in Japan, it is about 120 pounds per year.

Christopher Lischewski is the head of Bumble Bee Foods, a canned seafood company.

Lischewski said that people who are fussy about fish should be taught about all of its health benefits and how to prepare it.

Still, there is no guarantee.

People may be purchasing more fish because of the health benefits, and then forget to cook it in time.

Fish can only sit uncooked for so long.

