A rockfish at the Vancouver Aquarium was having a hard time after veterinarians had to remove one of its eyes.

Now, the rockfish, and others like it, are living better lives thanks to an eye surgery that was developed just for fish in the 1990s.

The rockfish are thriving again because of prosthetics, or glass eyes.

Getting a glass eye made the fish look normal again.

More importantly, it helped them to fit in.

Before the implants, the one-eyed fish were being picked on by other fish.

The bully fish seemed to view the one-eyed fish as weaker, according to Seattle Aquarium veterinarian Dr. Lesanna Lahner.

Vets at the Vancouver Aquarium were especially concerned about one 6-pound rockfish that had an eye removed.

"Fish were picking at it.

Its fins were tattered, and it was really getting banged up," said Dr. Martin Haulena, the Vancouver Aquarium's head veterinarian.

The rockfish had begun avoiding its tank-mates and hiding in nooks and crannies, Haulena said.

Lahner said the operation does make the fish look better, but she said, "my main concern is fish health."

She has been improving this surgery over the past few years.

At the Seattle Aquarium, a handful of fish have received glass eyes.

Lahner assisted Haulena and the other Vancouver veterinarians with their one-eyed rockfish last month.

Rockfish can live for more than a century in the wild.

That is why it is very important to make sure they have a good life in the aquarium.

Giving the rockfish a glass eye took veterinarians about 20 minutes.

First, the fish was given anesthesia so it would not feel pain.

Then, a doctor bathed the fish with water while Lahner popped the prosthetic eye into place.

Lahner then helped Haulena to thread fishing line through the fish's bones to hold the eye in place.

The glass eyes they used are the type found on dead fish — those caught by fisherman, stuffed, and mounted on a wall.

Lahner uses two flat-backed eyes and glues them together to form one round eye.

Fake eyes for fish are not new, she pointed out.

The idea was pioneered in the 1990s by doctors at North Carolina State University.

They were working with ornamental koi, the large fish, often orange and white, that swim in Japanese-style ponds.

Collectors can pay tens of thousands of dollars for a single, beautifully patterned koi.

Since koi are meant to look a certain way, collectors usually do not want one with just a single eye.

Lahner took the surgery techniques developed by the doctors at the university and adapted them for fish that live in cold water.

She had to find a new kind of glue and a new way to hold the eye in place.

For that, she used fishing line and titanium clips.

"It's still a work in progress," she said.

"I would not say by any means this technique is perfected."

In the past, fish with a missing eye would often be euthanized — put to sleep — at aquariums, because they were considered to be ugly, Haulena said.

"It's no longer a good idea to think of animals as disposable, and just go out and get another one," he said.

Eye disease is a common problem in captive rockfish.

Lahner thinks it is perhaps because they developed over time to live in deep water with high pressure pushing on their bodies.

In aquarium tanks, some rockfish have problems with their swim bladders.

These balloon-like sacs help the fish to float.

Air can leak from the bladders into the eye area, causing problems.

Lahner is working with radiologists — X-ray doctors — and veterinary ophthalmologists — eye doctors — to better understand the problem and fix it.

In the meantime, she will be giving several Seattle Aquarium rockfish prosthetic eyes soon.

The results from Vancouver's experience are encouraging.

Since getting its new eye, the rockfish seems to be back to its old self, Lahner said.

"It's now out in the open and behaving like a normal fish."

