William Howard Taft was the heaviest president in U.S. history.

He grew very tired of being made fun of.

One day, Taft asked his doctor to help him lose weight.

"No real gentleman weighs more than 300 pounds," Taft said.

Taft was president around 100 years ago.

For those who want to be president now, being overweight is still a problem.

In fact, it is much more of problem than it was for Taft.

Chris Christie is the governor of New Jersey.

He might run for president in 2016.

Christie has not said yet if he will, but many people believe he plans to.

Christie was once about 200 pounds overweight.

Twenty-one months ago, he decided to have a special surgery to help him lose weight.

A small band was placed inside Christie's body around the upper part of his stomach.

The band, called a Lap-Band, keeps the governor from eating too much.

Since then, Christie seems to have lost a lot of weight.

Many feel his weight loss is very important.

It is not just a simple question of Christie looking and feeling better.

People worry that being overweight would hurt Christie's chances of becoming president.

Our country is obsessed with weight.

Many people are trying to shed their extra pounds.

An overweight person running for president would draw a lot of unwanted attention.

Many would feel he or she was not healthy enough for the job.

They would point out that being overweight can cause many illnesses.

Others would feel that an overweight person just does not look like a "real" president.

They might not want to pick him or her for that reason alone.

Christie will not say exactly how much he has lost.

He has said that only his doctor and his wife know how much he weighs.

Dr. Jaime Ponce has never treated Christie.

However, he was shown before-and-after photos of the governor.

Ponce said the photos suggest the governor is doing very well.

"He's lost 100 pounds, if not a little bit more," he said.

Christie still has a lot more weight to lose.

However, the change in the governor's body is quite visible.

His face is much thinner.

His clothes used to appear tight but now they sometimes hang on him a bit.

There is much talk about the new, slimmer Christie.

Supporters often shout words of encouragement, like "Looking good, governor."

Christie still has to lose around 100 more pounds.

Connie Mariano was once the White House's official doctor.

She would like the governor to run for president.

Still, Mariano is worried about Christie.

She said she is afraid he might have a heart attack or stroke and end up dying while he is president.

Christie pointed out that Mariano is not his doctor.

He said she should not talk.

Christie has said he works out four times a week.

However, he rarely talks about his meals.

Christie did mention ordering a steak one night last year.

He said he was full after eating just a third of it.

Christie will not let reporters watch him eat.

For example, the governor recently sat down for a taco lunch while visiting Mexico.

Once his food arrived, reporters were shooed away.

But some people have seen Christie eat.

In September, Christie had a birthday party.

Mitt Romney helped pick out the food.

Romney ran for president in 2012, but lost.

Romney ordered food he thought Christie would like, such as lasagna and ravioli.

"I bought all this food and put it out in front of the table," Romney said.

"Chris sat there and picked at a couple of pieces of lettuce."

