Airlines are squeezing more people into planes.

With more people on a plane, the airlines get more money.

Some people are getting angry in the tight spaces.

People are even getting into fights.

The fights force planes to land before the trip is finished.

Amy Fine was recently in an airplane fight.

She put her head on her tray table to take a nap on a Delta flight.

The plane was traveling from New York to Palm Beach, Florida.

The passenger in front of her wanted to knit.

She put her seat back and smacked Fine's head.

A screaming match started.

Fine said mean things to the flight attendants.

She demanded that the plane land immediately.

The plane landed in Jacksonville, Florida, instead of Palm Beach.

Two other fights caused planes to land early last week.

A passenger on a United Airlines flight used a tool called a Knee Defender.

He wanted to stop the flier in front from putting the seat back.

The fight that followed caused the flight to land.

Travelers hate uncomfortable seats and shrinking legroom.

Polls say they hate them more than anything else on flights.

Airplanes are becoming increasingly crowded, and people are upset.

The airline industry will not apologize.

Travelers who want more room can simply pay more for roomier seats, said Jean Medina.

She is a spokeswoman for Airlines for America.

The group represents America's largest airlines.

Ira Goldman invented the Knee Defender.

Goldman is 6 feet 3 inches tall.

He said he needed something to protect what little legroom he had.

Airlines do not want to admit there is a problem, he said.

Airlines have also tried thinner seating materials.

The thinner seats let them squeeze in more people.

Sometimes airlines use the extra space to add roomier seats.

The seats go to passengers who pay more money.

Passengers who pay less, get less legroom.

Spirit Airlines stuffs 178 seats on an Airbus 320.

United puts only 138 seats in the same aircraft.

Airlines have also started charging passengers for extra legroom.

JetBlue sells seats with 5 to 6 inches of extra legroom.

They cost $10 to $65 more than the lowest-priced tickets.

Spirit's Big Front Seat has 6 extra inches of legroom.

It costs an extra $12 to $199 more.

Things are likely to get worse, said Jan Brueckner.

He is a professor who studies the business of transportation.

Brueckner said he gets upset when somebody leans the seat in front of him all the way back.

"But I think people need to be more considerate in these tight cabins," he said.

Seth Kaplan works for Airline Weekly.

He predicts that passengers will continue to fly on airlines with tight seats.

The airplane tickets are more affordable so people will still buy them, he says.

Kaplan says Spirit Airlines has the least legroom in the industry.

It also makes the most money on each dollar passengers spend.

Sometimes though, the crowding can bother some passengers too much.

On Aug. 24, a traveler on a flight from New Jersey to Colorado could not lean back.

The flier behind her had installed the Knee Defender.

She threw a glass of water in the passenger's face and the flight was sent to Illinois.

The two passengers were removed there.

On Aug. 27, Edmund Alexandre flew on an American Airlines flight from Miami, Florida, to Paris, France.

It was said that he began fighting with another traveler over a reclining seat.

The argument got worse.

Eventually Alexandre followed a crew member to the back of the plane and grabbed her arm, government lawyers said.

Police on the plane put Alexandre in handcuffs and the plane landed in Boston, Massachusetts.

Alexandre could be punished in court for disrupting a flight.

