SHINGTON – At least four people died in Midwest floods this Spring.

But the death toll could have been higher.

Forecasters said more people could have died if there were no river gauges.

A gauge is a kind of measuring stick.

It sits in the water.

The United States has 8,000 gauges to quickly track the rise of rivers.

But that number may shrink.

The reason is that lawmakers in Washington are in the middle of a fight.

They cannot agree over how much money the government should spend.

That is what the people who run the gauges say.

The gauge system is already shrinking because state and cities are cutting down spending.

They work with the U.S. government to pay for the gauge sytems.

The gauges each cost a lot of money to keep running.

But the chances of big floods are getting higher.

Experts say shutting the gauge stations could have really bad results.

The government says 145 stations already have been shut.

Meanwhile, 508 more will not get the money they need to stay open.

The cutbacks threaten to slow down flood warnings.

They will also hurt the work of people who use the data for other things.

Studying water quality and building dams or bridges will be harder to do.

"They're used for so many things," Michael Norris said, talking about the gauges.

Norris helps run the gauge system.

Texas and Oklahoma are arguing over water in the Red River Basin.

They have taken their dispute to the U.S. Supreme Court.

One lawyer said not having gauges in the basin makes it really hard to tell how much water each state is taking.

Emergency officials say information from the gauges can mean the difference between life and death in a flood.

There can be a lot of deaths from flash floods.

Those are caused by sudden, heavy rains.

That type of flood killed at least 26 people in 2010 in Tennessee and Kentucky.

Studies show that warnings can cut down on death and money lost from floods.

Just a one-hour warning can cut damage by 10 percent.

Longer-term actions, such as putting down sandbags, can save about $163 million each year.

Information was very important this month, said Mark Walton, manager of the National Weather Service Forecast Office in Grand Rapids.

That is when the Grand River's flooding forced 1,700 people to leave their homes in Michigan.

Without the gauges, "we would have basically been flying blind," he said.

The flood caused bad property damage.

However, no injuries have been reported.

Last year, Michigan could have lost a lot of gauges.

Some of the gauges were near cities with a lot of people.

But the authorities were able get enough local support to keep them running -- for now, at least.

New York almost lost dozens of gauges.

That included gauges in the Susquehanna River Basin.

That is one area of the country most likely to get hit by a flood.

The state's senators strongly asked for more money.

Their calls were answered.

They  got the money and put it aside to keep some gauges running.

Susan Obleski, a river basin official, said she was glad the money came through.

But the cash will only last four months.

That is not enough for something so important, she said.

Norris agrees.

He said money is needed to keep the gauges running everywhere.

Last-minute local efforts are not enough.

This is because much of the nation's water system is linked.

President Barack Obama has a plan to get more money for the gauges.

But the plan does not have much of a chance of passing through Congress.

But Norris still sees it as a positive sign.

He thinks it means politicians value the gauges.

"It's a no-brainer," he said.

"Like motherhood and apple pie."

