Gerald Marion has spent his whole life fighting fires, not racism.

The Englewood resident rose to become the city's second black fire chief.

He is known as a calm, strong figure who stands up for his department and stays out of politics.

But Marion reached a breaking point when a Florida jury decided George Zimmerman was not guilty for the deadly shooting of Trayvon Martin.

Zimmerman had admitted to killing the unarmed black teenager in Sanford, Fla. last year.

The chief entered the racially charged controversy around the verdict this week.

He asked the City Council to not do business with companies in Florida.

He wants to boycott Florida because of its stand-your-ground laws.

The laws allow people to use guns or other weapons defend themselves if they believe someone is trying to kill or seriously harm them.

"I've never been an activist," the 46-year-old said.

"I'm fed up.

It should not be a law that you get to murder because you're uncomfortable."

Marion said stand-your-ground laws hurt blacks more than other races.

This is even more true when police and others assume black teens are up to no good.

White teens get the benefit of the doubt, he said.

"We read the news every day and you're always coming across a story … an African-American gets shot because the shooter was threatened by their presence or the shooter was reacting to a stereotype," he said.

"It could be me.

It could be my son.

It could be my nephew."

Marion may be the first public official in Bergen County to ask a local city to shun Florida businesses.

He might be the first in all of New Jersey.

But he is far from alone.

There is widespread desire to make Florida business leaders lean on state lawmakers to get rid of the controversial self-defense law.

Singer Stevie Wonder said he would no longer play in Florida or other states with stand-your-ground laws.

More than 10,000 people have signed online petitions calling for a Florida boycott.

People on Twitter have used hash tags such as #boycottflorida and #notflorida.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) is thinking about a boycott of the state, said Anthony Cureton.

He is an Englewood police officer and the local NAACP president.

He grew up with Marion.

He said he understood the fire chief's anger and the reason for his request.

"I share the same position," he said.

"He has belief in this.

He doesn't hold back when there's something he's passionate about.

I stand with him on that point."

Marion said the Fire Department would "not spend one taxpayer dollar" on anything made in Florida.

It used to buy its trucks from a company based in Ocala, Fla.

He said companies in New York and Wisconsin sell good fire tools as well as trucks.

The chief told council members that the boycott would allow him to "sleep with a clear conscience."

"I don't want to be a target anymore," he said.

"And I want someone to help.

And that has to start with us."

But elected officials may not be able to boycott.

Legally, they are not allowed to boycott a state's companies when accepting bids for goods and services.

For example, if a town wants to buy a fire truck, it puts out a bid.

Companies respond by naming a price.

The town picks the lowest bidder.

New Jersey's law does not allow preferences, said Bill Dressel.

He is the executive director of the New Jersey association of cities.

"Local governments must follow state law," he said.

Dressel said state lawmakers could change the law.

They did years ago in boycotting South Africa when it was under apartheid, a system of laws that separated whites from non-whites, and prevented blacks from voting and owning homes.

Englewood only works with one Florida company right now.

It was hired in May to make an online list of vacant properties.

"This was publicly bid and they were the only bidder," City Manager Timothy Dacey said.

Councilman Marc Forman called stand-your-ground "an abomination," something disgusting and hateful.

But he wasn't sure a boycott was the right course of action.

"I mean, we are the United States," he said.

"Florida is not the only state with stand-your-ground laws."

