Doctors have a warning for Congress: Don't cut food stamps.

If it does, the government could be socked with bigger health bills.

Maybe not immediately.

But over time more poor people could end up in doctors' offices or hospitals as a result.

That could cost the government more money than just paying for food stamps.

There are many health risks of hunger.

Among them are an increased chance of diabetes.

And young children's brains may not develop normally.

The doctors' warning comes as Congress is working on a law that's certain to include food stamp cuts.

Republicans want bigger cuts than do Democrats.

They are the two big parties in our government.

Republicans usually want less money spent on things like health and education.

Democrats usually want more money spent in those areas.

Food stamps now feed 1 in 7 Americans.

They cost the government twice what they cost five years ago.

Costs went up because many Americans lost their jobs during those five years.

So, they needed food stamps.

Some people say the program is not affordable in the long term.

They say the neediest people will not go hungry if food stamps are cut.

But doctors say cutting food aid could backfire.

It could lead to higher Medicaid and Medicare costs.

Both of those huge health programs are paid for by the government.

Medicaid is health coverage for people who don't make a lot of money.

Medicare is coverage for those 65 and over.

"If you're interested in saving health care costs, the dumbest thing you can do is cut nutrition," said Dr. Deborah Frank.

She's a children's doctor at the Boston Medical Center.

A study published this week helps show the link between hunger and health.

Many poor families run out of money for food at the end of the month.

It found that more poor people with a dangerous diabetes complication are hospitalized then, too.

The study looked at cases of hypoglycemia in California over the last eight years.

This condition is a complication of diabetes in which the blood sugar level drops dangerously low.

The study linked cases to patients' ZIP codes.

Among poor patients, hospitalizations were higher in the last week of the month compared with the first.

Most states send out government checks and food stamps at the beginning of the month.

Those benefits often run low by the end of the month.

Hospitalizations didn't increase among diabetics in areas where people had more money.

Dr. Hilary Seligman headed up the hypoglycemia study.

She couldn't prove that running low on food was to blame for the increase in hospitalization.

But she called it the most likely explanation.

She said it costs a lot to treat people for problems from too little food.

The money could provide months of food stamps instead.

A different study looked at the possible effects of cutting food stamps.

It found that cuts would cause a big increase in the cost of treating diabetes.

Other studies have looked at children who don't always get enough food.

It shows that they are almost a third more likely to have been hospitalized for a range of illnesses.

Just how much money will be cut from the food stamp program is unclear.

Those pushing for the cuts say they want to give benefits to the neediest people.

They say people who are hungry should have no problem getting help if they need it.

But those opposing the cuts are not convinced.

They say cutting food stamps could worsen health.

And they say it could raise health costs for the poorest.

"Food is medicine," says Massachusetts Congressman Jim McGovern.

He is a Democrat.

He says people against food stamps are just looking at the money being spent.

"I wish they understood that if we did this better, we could save a lot more money in health care costs," he said.

Dr. Thomas McInerny is a well-known children's doctor.

He said that too often, poor families buy cheap junk food because it's filling.

Such food doesn't provide enough of what children need to develop properly.

One big problem caused by junk food is diabetes that happens later in life.

Another is a lack of iron in the body.

Not having enough iron can damage the brains of children.

And when that happens, children have trouble learning in school.

Such children don't look skinny the way children in poor countries look, he said.

But he said that they are lacking in food that's good for the body.

