Scientists are coming up with ways to use DNA to help protect people from getting sick from their food.

They are also using DNA to make sure the food we buy is what it is supposed to be.

Each year, illnesses that are spread through food make 48 million Americans sick.

About 128,000 people end up in the hospital and 3,000 die, U.S. health officials say.

Food fraud is another problem.

Businesses sometimes label food as something it is not.

Food fraud is rising.

A 2014 study by one group found that one-third of the fish it tested was mislabeled.

That could soon change.

Scientists are working to put together information about tiny living things found in food.

They are also trying to map, or sequence, the most common bacteria or other tiny disease-causers.

These tiny living things are called pathogens.

Scientists are also coming up with ways to use DNA to be able to trace a food's path from the farm to when it reaches the dinner table.

DNA holds the information that tells all living things how to grow and work.

Every creature's DNA is different.

The new ways of using DNA could make it quicker to track diseases spread through food.

They could also prevent food fraud.

Genome Trakr is one program that tries to do this.

It promises to map the DNA of 100,000 types of common foodborne pathogens.

The technology allows scientists to tell one type of microbe, or tiny living thing, from another.

It could allow scientists to stop outbreaks around the world quicker.

The database will be put online.

It will be free for scientists and public health officials.

The method has already helped stop serious food outbreaks.

In 2012, researchers figured out the strain in a salmonella outbreak in tuna sushi.

The salmonella, a type of bacteria, made 258 people sick.

It was tracked back to India, where the fish was handled.

The U.S. government investigated the plant.

It found 10 cleanliness problems.

Genome Trakr's list of pathogens would be huge.

It would speed up this kind of detective work.

China has joined the project.

Scientists there will map DNA for another 10,000 different types of living things.

Other countries may join the program soon.

There is also a large project called the International Barcode of Life (iBOL).

The project is building a DNA library of all life on Earth.

It offers a global online listing of DNA labels.

The labels are sort of like the bar codes on food packaging.

The project has already created more than 2.6 million bar-code records.

They cover almost 200,000 species of plants and animals.

The project aims to reach 500,000 species by the end of 2015.

The iBOL can already tell wild salmon from salmon raised on farms, because they are two different species.

A 2015 report used bar coding to identify imported poisonous puffer fish.

The fish were being sold in the United States as nonpoisonous varieties.

Finally, inspired by the bar-coding idea, one new company, DNATrek, is creating bar codes for food items.

It uses DNA information taken from plants to make bar codes.

The bar codes are odorless, colorless and tasteless.

They can be mixed with waxes and oils already used on foods like apples and oranges.

Then the bar codes are sprayed on food.

The DNA information work like invisible bar codes and can be sprayed on at different points where food is moved: the farm, where food is sorted, the distributor, the packer and even the seller.

Anthony Zografos started DNATrek.

He says that when an outbreak occurs, the tags can be read in about 20 minutes.

The food can then immediately be traced back to where it came from, he said.

Right now, this takes weeks or months.

Zografos thinks that cellphones may one day have apps that can actually read the bar codes.

They could also spot bad bacteria in a food.

Then we can hold our phones over a piece of fish to make sure we know what we are eating.

