Doctors have a warning for Congress: If it cuts food stamps, the federal government could be socked with bigger health bills.

Maybe not immediately, they say, but over time if the poor wind up in doctors' offices or hospitals as a result.

There are many health risks of hunger.

Among them are spiked rates of diabetes and, for young children, developmental problems.

The doctors' lobbying effort comes as Congress is working on a bill that's certain to include food stamp cuts.

Republicans want heftier cuts than do Democrats.

Food stamps feed 1 in 7 Americans and cost almost $80 billion a year, twice what they cost five years ago.

Costs went up because many Americans lost their jobs during those five years, and so applied for food stamps.

Critics say the program is not affordable in the long term.

They say the neediest people will not go hungry if food stamps are cut.

The risks of hunger have not played a major role in the debate.

But doctors say cutting food aid could backfire by leading to higher Medicaid and Medicare costs.

Both of those massive medical programs are funded by the government.

Medicaid covers people with low incomes, while Medicare is for those 65 and over.

"If you're interested in saving health care costs, the dumbest thing you can do is cut nutrition," said Dr. Deborah Frank of Boston Medical Center.

"People don't make the hunger-health connection," she said.

A study published this week helps illustrate that link.

Many poor families run out of money for food at the end of the month.

Researchers found that more poor people with a dangerous diabetes complication are hospitalized then, too.

The researchers analyzed eight years of California hospital records to find cases of hypoglycemia.

This condition is a complication of diabetes in which the blood sugar level drops dangerously low.

Researchers linked those cases to patients' ZIP codes.

Among poor patients, hospitalizations were 27 percent higher in the last week of the month compared with the first, said lead researcher Dr. Hilary Seligman.

Most states send out government checks and food stamps at the beginning of the month.

Thus benefits are often stretched thin by the end of the month.

Hospitalizations didn't increase among diabetics from higher-income areas, she reported.

Seligman couldn't prove that running low on food was to blame for the spike in hospitalization.

But she called it the most likely explanation.

And, she added, the money spent on extra treatment could provide months of food stamp benefits.

"The cost trade-offs are sort of ridiculous," Seligman said.

Research last year looked at the possible effects of cutting $2 billion a year in food stamps.

The conclusion was dramatic: It could trigger an increase of $15 billion in diabetes treatment costs over the next 10 years.

Other research has looked at children who don't always get enough food.

It shows that they are 30 percent more likely to have been hospitalized for a range of illnesses.

It also reveals the effects of a short-term boost in benefits in 2009: Children whose families used food stamps were significantly more likely to be well than kids in low-income families that didn't receive them.

About half of those receiving food stamps are children, and 10 percent are elderly.

Just how much will be cut from the food stamp program is unclear.

Congress is now eyeing about $800 million a year in cuts.

Benefits were already cut a bit in November.

According to the government, a family of four receiving food stamps is now getting $36 less a month.

The average household gets around $270 a month.

Since November, food banks are reporting more demand because people's food stamps aren't stretching as far.

Those pushing for the cuts say they want to give benefits to the neediest people.

They argue that those who are truly hungry should have no problem getting help if they apply.

The bill will likely add some money for food banks.

And in a few test states, it will probably also introduce new work rules for those receiving benefits, as such changes are an important goal for many Republicans.

"While this program is an important part of our safety net, our overriding goal should be to help our citizens with the education and skills they need to get back on their feet," said Rep. Eric Cantor.

He's a Republican from Virginia.

By helping poor people gain skills they can "provide for themselves and their families," he said.

Democrats and anti-hunger groups opposing the cuts say they could worsen health and raise health costs for the poorest.

"Food is medicine," says Massachusetts Rep. Jim McGovern, a Democrat.

"Critics focus almost exclusively on how much we spend, and I wish they understood that if we did this better, we could save a lot more money in health care costs."

Dr. Thomas McInerny is a well-know children's doctor.

He added that too often, poor families buy cheap, high-calorie junk food because it's filling.

Such food doesn't provide enough of what children need to develop properly.

That can cause diabetes later in life.

It can also result in a lack of iron in the body.

Not having enough iron can damage a developing brain so that children have trouble learning in school.

Such children don't "look malnourished the way children in Third World countries look," he said.

"But they are malnourished."

