Taste is the sense that lets us appreciate the beauty of good food.

It is something that scientists already understand fairly well.

The sensation we feel when eating a piece of cake, chewing on a hamburger or taking the first bite of a piping hot piece of pizza is triggered when chemicals in our food interact with receptors in our mouths and send messages to our brains.

For hundreds of years, scientists believed there were four basic tastes: sweet, sour, salty and bitter.

Recently, a Japanese chemist discovered a fifth basic taste called umami.

It is triggered by monosodium glutamate, or MSG, as it is more widely known.

Umami could perhaps be best described as savory, a food that has a rich, salty flavor that is not sweet.

It is especially common in truffles, brothy soups, meat and anchovies.

Now scientists believe they have found a sixth basic taste that could profoundly change the way we eat.

In a new study, researchers found evidence that fat actually interacts with human taste buds in a way similar to the five basic tastes.

Scientists have known for some time that receptors in our mouths recognize fat.

It led many scientists to believe that it could change the way we perceive and experience food, in the same way that tastes such as sweet and sour do.

Now there's evidence that it does.

"Fat is likely another one of the basic tastes.

I think we have pretty clear evidence for this," said Richard Mattes, a professor of nutrition science at Purdue University, and the lead author of the study.

The findings could be great news for food lovers around the world as chefs are always looking for new ways to expand their cooking skills.

Mattes said that if people learn to work with the taste of fat correctly in the kitchen, it will allow us to make lots of foods taste better by either reproducing the taste of fat or introducing substitutes that successfully mimic it.

"We could isolate it and use it in the same way we have used the other basic tastes," Mattes said.

There are literally thousands of taste buds on a single human tongue, not to mention on the tops, bottoms and sides of our mouths.

Receptors are all over our taste buds, too — there are as many as 100 taste receptors on each taste bud.

How we experience a mouthful of food depends on how the chemicals in the foods interact with the receptors on our tongues.

The basic tastes blend together like primary colors to produce wildly different paintings of flavor.

In order to figure out that fat could be another one of the basic tastes, Mattes conducted two experiments.

In the first, more than 100 participants were given solutions that had one of six different tastes: sweet, salty, sour, bitter, umami and fatty.

They were then asked to sort them into as many groups as they believed were necessary.

The participants had little trouble identifying sweet, sour and salty as unique tastes, but, interestingly, they put the remaining three into one general group.

"We're pretty sure that they did that because bitterness, umami-ness and fattiness, when isolated, can be pretty strange," Mattes said.

"So they put them in a 'This is bad' or 'This is strange' group."

Then the researchers pressed the issue further, and that's when a clear division surfaced.

In another experiment, they gave participants solutions containing only the three "bad" or "strange" tastes, and the participants easily divided the tastes into three groups.

"It was really very telling," Mattes said.

"We already knew that people have a taste receptor for fatty acids.

Now we know that it's a distinguishable taste — that it doesn't have overlap.

The combination of those two things is what is important."

The fat taste that Mattes is talking about is hidden in a bite of steak or a dollop of olive oil — just as umami is hidden in a bite of anchovy.

Fat is what's called a triglyceride, because it is made up of three fatty acids.

The combination of the three — which are different in size and therefore different in flavor — gives fat the mouth feel and creaminess we associate with it.

The kind Mattes is talking about is actually only one of those three fatty acids: the longest.

It is the one that stimulates the flavor profile that is unique to fat.

As with primary colors, a primary taste can be recognized as such only if it doesn't share characteristics with other primary tastes.

The fact that people can so easily recognize fat as a unique sensation in this situation is evidence that it is a primary taste, especially since it already meets all of the other qualifications.

The impact of Mattes' research could extend well beyond the reach of his lab.

It might very well end up affecting what is on your plate, and, more specifically, how it tastes.

"Understanding this could have huge implications for the food industry," Mattes said.

"It could make a lot of food taste a lot better."

