It is lunchtime at Washington Preparatory High School in Los Angeles.

And Parrish Jackson is dumping her school lunch in the trash can.

The apricots are "sour," says Parrish, who is 16.

The turkey burger is "nasty."

If it were up to her, she would just have taken the potato wedges.

Then she would fuel up on hot Cheetos and juice at the school store.

And so it goes at hundreds of schools in Los Angeles Unified.

The school district is the country's second largest and serves 650,000 meals a day.

Each day, students throw out at least $100,000 worth of food.

It's probably much more, according to David Binkle, who is in charge of food services for the district.

That comes to $18 million a year of wasted food.

The money, Binkle says, would be far better spent on strawberries or watermelons.

But under [federal school meals rules](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch), students must take at least three items.

It doesn't matter if they will eat them.

All students must take at least one fruit or vegetable.

Otherwise, the federal government won't pay for the meals.

"What can we do about this?"

Binkle says, "We can stop forcing children to take food they don't like and throw in the garbage."

Many health experts don't agree.

Studies show that if kids are repeatedly served fruits and vegetables, they will eventually eat more of them.

And more fruits and vegetables will help keep kids from becoming [overweight](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity), says William J. McCarthy.

He is a UCLA professor.

Too much body fat can lead to diseases later in life.

McCarthy said the extra cost is worth it to get kids to eat healthy.

These foods will lengthen their lives and prevent health problems, he said.

There's a big argument over improving school meals without higher costs, and getting students to stop throwing away their meals.

The $11.6 billion federal school lunch program feeds 31 million students each day.

The rules are part of the 2010 Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act.

The law was supported by first lady Michelle Obama.

The law imposed a dizzying variety of rules.

They limit the number of calories and portion sizes of school meals, and even get into the color of fruits and vegetables.

The rules require that more fruits, vegetables and whole grains must be offered.

And this costs school districts more money.

For many schools, the hardest part of the new law is offering both a fruit and vegetable to each student.

Before, schools had to offer one or the other.

The extra food costs school districts $5.4 million a day.

But about $3.8 million of that is being tossed in the garbage.

Nationally, the cost of wasted food is more than $1 billion each year.

The School Nutrition Association is trying to change the school lunch law.

The group represents 55,000 school meal providers.

"We're not opposed to healthy changes," said Julia Bauscher, who is with the group.

But they are against changes that make meals cost more without a good reason.

They are also against rules that make students take foods they won't eat.

Other nutrition experts are pushing back.

Juliana Cohen is at Harvard University in Boston.

She said the rules have helped children eat healthier.

That's particularly important for inner-city, low-income students who rely on school meals.

She co-wrote a study that found that students in Boston ate more fruits and vegetables after the new rules took effect.

They still threw away much of them though.

The solution, Cohen and others say, isn't to throw out the rules.

The solution is to find other ways to get children to eat their veggies.

This includes making meals taste better and planting school gardens.

Recess before lunch also helps.

At LA Unified, celebrity chefs have helped develop menus.

More than 270 schools offer "harvest of the month" lessons about fruits and vegetables.

About 450 schools have started gardens.

Still the food piles up in school garbage cans.

At Washington Prep, a few students said they ate their entire lunches.

Student Daniel Ofa said he doesn't really enjoy the spaghetti or enchiladas.

But he eats them anyway.

"Since we're football players, we eat all of it, bad or good," he said.

"If the food was good food, we'd have no problems," said senior A'lea Rendey.

She pulled a hair from her turkey burger.

She then dumped her food and headed off to the school store for a Pop-Tart.

