Taste is the sense that allows us to appreciate the beauty of good food.

The sensation we feel when eating a piece of cake, chewing on a hamburger or taking the first bite of a piping hot piece of pizza is triggered when chemicals in our food interact with receptors in our mouths and send signals to our brains.

Scientists already understood taste fairly well.

For hundreds of years, they believed there were four primary tastes: sweet, sour, salty and bitter.

Recently, a Japanese chemist discovered a fifth primary taste called umami.

It is triggered by monosodium glutamate, or MSG, as it is more widely known.

Umami perhaps could best be described as savory.

Foods with umami are salty and strong in flavor, but not sweet.

Umami is especially common in things like meat and anchovies.

Now scientists believe they have found a sixth primary taste that could change the way we eat.

In a new study, researchers found evidence that fat actually interacts with human taste buds in a way similar to the five primary tastes.

Scientists have known for some time that receptors in our mouths recognize fat.

Many scientists believed it could change the way we experience food in the same way that tastes such as sweet and sour do.

Now there's evidence that it does.

The findings could be great news for food lovers around the world.

Richard Mattes is a professor of nutrition science at Purdue University and the author of the new study.

He says if people learn to work with the taste of fat correctly in the kitchen, it will allow us to make tons of food taste better.

Cooks may learn to either copy the taste of fat or introduce substitutes that successfully mimic it.

There are thousands of taste buds in the human mouth.

Receptors are all over our taste buds, too.

There are as many as 100 taste receptors on each taste bud.

How we experience a mouthful of food depends on how the chemicals in the foods interact with the receptors on our tongues.

The primary tastes blend together just as primary colors do in a painting.

When different primary colors are mixed, different colors are created.

The same goes for food.

Mattes conducted two experiments to figure out that fat could be another one of the primary tastes.

In the first, more than 100 participants were given solutions that had one of six different tastes: sweet, salty, sour, bitter, umami and fatty.

They were then asked to sort them into as many groups as they believed were necessary.

The participants had little trouble identifying sweet, sour and salty as unique tastes.

However, they combined the remaining three into one general group.

"We're pretty sure that they did that because bitterness, umami-ness and fattiness, when isolated, can be pretty strange," Mattes said.

"So they put them in a 'This is bad' or 'This is strange' group."

Then the researchers pressed the issue further.

In another experiment, they gave participants solutions containing only the three "bad" or "strange" tastes.

A clear division appeared.

The participants easily divided the tastes into three groups.

"It was really very telling," Mattes said.

Scientists already knew that people had a taste receptor for fatty acids.

However, now they know that it's a distinguishable taste.

"The combination of those two things is what is important," he said.

The fat taste that he is talking about is hidden in a bite of steak or a dollop of olive oil.

It is just the same as how the taste of umami is hidden in a bite of anchovy.

Fat is called a triglyceride because it is made up of three fatty acids.

The combination of the three — which are different in size and consequently different in flavor — gives fat the mouth feel and creamy texture that we associate with it.

The kind Mattes is talking about is actually only one of those three fatty acids: the longest.

It is the one that creates the flavor that only fat has.

The effect of Mattes' research could extend well beyond the reach of his lab.

It might very well end up affecting what is on your plate, and, more specifically, how it tastes.

"Understanding this could have huge implications for the food industry," Mattes said.

"It could make a lot of food taste a lot better."

