For the poor, food is not only scarce — often, it's also rotten and germ-ridden.

Corner stores and small supermarkets that feed vast swaths, or areas, of impoverished Philadelphia offer bacteria-laced foods in unhealthy conditions, a Drexel University study shows.

Eating such foods can lead to foodborne illness.

Customers agree with the science.

"Potatoes and baby food are moldy, lettuce is rotten, and the mice are having a good time in boxes of noodles," said Rodney Jenkins, 47, an unemployed North Philadelphia man.

"I ate bad fruit from a corner store and got sick."

Jenkins worries about feeding his children with so few worthwhile food choices.

"It's horrible," he said.

"When we get food up here, it's like we get the end of all food, the last batch of it."

For years, advocates for the poor have been trying to get fruits, vegetables and other staples into so-called food deserts like North Philadelphia.

"Food desert" is a term invented for low-income areas where access to healthy produce is limited.

In a food desert, there may be fast-food restaurants or corner stores, but not often supermarkets, making it hard for families to get groceries.

There has never been an investigation of food safety risks that these desert-dwellers face — until now.

The new study is being conducted by food microbiologist Jennifer Quinlan.

Quinlan and her team visited nearly 400 corner stores and small supermarkets between 2008 and 2010.

The goal was to study microbes in milk, eggs, lunch meat, sandwiches and ready-to-eat fresh fruits and greens.

The results were alarming.

"We found milk likely to have more bacteria," Quinlan said.

"And when we could find fresh produce, it had a lot of contamination on it."

Foodborne illness is tricky to detect.

Some might not know they have it, since the symptoms — cramps, diarrhea, vomiting — can be caused by many factors.

Fortunately, foodborne illness is rarely deadly.

Recent estimates show that of 9.4 million cases of foodborne illness in the United States in a year, fewer than 1,500 resulted in death.

Much of the damage done by foods gone bad in corner stores is felt in poor people's wallets.

For example, many corner-store owners get milk from larger stores, and transport it in their own cars, scientists at Yale University found.

Milk spoils faster under conditions of "temperature abuse."

Similarly, Quinlan and her researchers found that newly delivered milk will often stand outside refrigerators for longer periods because there are too few employees to put it away.

A customer then finds the milk goes bad much sooner than on-carton expiration dates indicate.

Because the smell of spoiled milk keeps anyone from drinking it, the result for an individual is not foodborne illness but wasted dollars, Quinlan said.

In corner stores, she found high amounts of bacteria in bagged salad, strawberries and cucumbers, indicating that the food was close to spoilage.

Many times the items rot soon after purchase, which is another waste of money.

It wasn't uncommon to see mice in stores, which is why many corner stores keep cats, who carry their own germs, Quinlan said.

Additionally, Quinlan found evidence of fecal coliforms in foods, even in markets in high-end neighborhoods.

Fecal coliform is a group of bacteria that indicates possible contamination from human or animal waste.

E. coli, for example, is a fecal coliform.

People can ingest fecal coliform without consequence — but its presence may mean other disease-causing bacteria are in the food, scientists say.

Stores in low-income areas in Philadelphia demonstrated a 100 percent rate of fecal coliforms in ready-to-eat greens, the study said.

Similarly, eggs were often found to be unrefrigerated in corner stores, a salmonella risk.

Along with corner stores, Quinlan also studied food handling in private homes, many of them poor.

More than 42 percent of the refrigerators were too warm, and several homes had no refrigerators at all.

A few lacked hot water.

More than two-thirds had a pest infestation, including mice.

Poor people understand that they have few options in protecting themselves from bad food.

"If you're living on the edge and not getting enough to eat, you make riskier choices in order to eat," food microbiologist Donald Schaffner said.

Nutritionist Debra Palmer works on food-related issues with poor New Jersey residents.

When they are stuck with bad food, poor people will wash slime off lunch meats, cut mold from cheese and bread, slice off rotten parts of fruit, then simply eat what's left, Palmer's research shows.

Palmer said that people will buy warm, discounted meat from old trucks that drive through poor neighborhoods.

Many report getting food from dumpsters outside restaurants.

It's also fairly routine for people to eat roadkill in places such as Cumberland County, Palmer said.

Because many poor New Jersey residents live amid crumbling infrastructure and abandoned properties, it is not uncommon for people to report their food ruined by pests.

Palmer's research includes the story of a family that reported roaches crawling out of cereal when it was poured in a bowl.

Quinlan said she recognized the need to get impoverished people in food deserts to eat more fruits and vegetables.

However, she added, from a microbiologist's viewpoint, "if people can't store and keep food safely, you're not doing them any favors getting them that food."

She added that "there are good frozen, canned and dried food options" that may be safer.

Ultimately, in the choice between eating and food safety, it's no contest.

"This population is more concerned about access to food than food safety," said Benjamin Chapman, an expert on food safety.

"The first step is just getting food, whatever the means."

He added, "The biggest risk is not eating at all."

