It's lunchtime.

But high school junior Parrish Jackson has barely touched her turkey burger and apricots.

She's dumping them into the trash can.

The apricots are "sour," says the 16-year-old at Washington Preparatory High School in Los Angeles.

The meat is "nasty."

If it were up to her, she would just have taken the potato wedges and headed to the student store to fuel up on hot Cheetos and juice.

And so it goes on hundreds of campuses in the Los Angeles Unified School District.

The district is the nation's second-largest school system and serves 650,000 meals a day.

Students throw out at least $100,000 worth of food a day — and probably far more, according to David Binkle, the district's food services director.

That comes to $18 million a year — based on the estimate that 10 percent of the food is wasted.

The money, Binkle says, would be far better spent on higher quality food, such as strawberries or watermelons.

But under [federal school meals rules](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch), Jackson and other students must take at least three items — including one fruit or vegetable — even if they don't want them.

Otherwise, the federal government won't pay back school districts for the meals.

"What can we do about this?"

Binkle says, "We can stop forcing children to take food they don't like and throw in the garbage."

Many nutrition and health experts disagree.

They point to studies that show that kids who are repeatedly served fruits and vegetables will eventually eat more of them.

That, in turn, will help keep kids from becoming [overweight](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity), says William J. McCarthy.

He is a UCLA professor of health policy and management.

McCarthy said the extra cost is worth it to get kids to eat healthy.

These food will lengthen their lives and prevent health problems, he said.

The differing views reflect arguments over improving child nutrition without massive food waste and rising costs.

The $11.6 billion federal school lunch program feeds 31 million students daily.

The rules are part of the 2010 Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act championed by first lady Michelle Obama.

It forced a dizzying set of rules about calories, portion sizes, even the color of fruits and vegetables.

The rules increased the amount of fruits, vegetables and whole grains that must be offered.

And this costs school districts a lot of money.

For Binkle and many other school food managers, the hardest change is that schools must offer both a fruit and vegetable.

Previously schools had to offer one or the other.

The extra food costs school districts $5.4 million a day.

But about $3.8 million of that is being tossed in the trash, according to national estimates.

A study discovered that 40 percent of all the lunches served in four Boston schools are thrown out.

In the LA Unified District, many students don't want to eat fruits or vegetables, according to McCarthy, who co-wrote  the study.

Nationally, the cost of wasted food may be more than $1 billion each year.

A federal survey found that 48 states say food waste and higher costs are their top challenges.

In response, the School Nutrition Association is trying to change the child nutrition law.

The association represents 55,000 school food providers.

Among other things, the group wants to remove the requirement forcing students to take a fruit or vegetable.

"We're not opposed to healthy changes," said Julia Bauscher, the group's president-elect.

"We just want changes that don't unnecessarily increase cost and force students to take foods they have no intention of eating."

Other nutrition experts are pushing back.

Juliana Cohen is a Harvard University nutrition research fellow.

She said the rules have helped children eat healthier food.

That's particularly important for inner-city, low-income students who get up to half their daily calories from school meals.

She co-wrote a study that found that students in Boston ate more fruits and vegetables after the new rules took effect — although they still threw away much of them.

The solution to waste, Cohen and others say, isn't to end the rules but to find other ways to get children to eat their veggies.

This includes working with professional chefs to make meals tastier, planting school gardens and scheduling recess before lunch.

At LA Unified, celebrity chefs, such as Jamie Oliver, have helped develop menus.

More than 270 schools offer "harvest of the month" lessons about produce, and about 450 schools have started campus gardens.

Still the food piles up in school trash cans.

At Washington Prep, a few students said they ate their entire lunches.

Daniel Ofa, a sophomore, said he doesn't really enjoy the spaghetti or enchiladas but downs them anyway.

"Since we're football players, we eat all of it, bad or good," he said.

"If the food was good food, we'd have no problems," said senior A'lea Rendey, who pulled a hair from her turkey burger.

She then dumped her food and headed off to the school store for a Pop-Tart.

