The government shutdown has already hampered efforts to protect Americans' health and safety, from investigating accidents to tracking illnesses transmitted by food.

The latest example is an outbreak of salmonella in chicken.

The bacteria have made people in 18 states sick.

Federal agencies have had to tell some employees to stay home during the shutdown because they have not been given the budget to pay their workers.

But the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Tuesday that it was bringing back some of its staff to deal with the salmonella outbreak.

More than 270 people have been made sick by the tainted chicken.

Before Tuesday, the CDC had only a handful of scientists working on outbreak detection.

Its ability to track deadly illnesses was severely hindered.

The states have had to pick up much of the slack from federal workers.

In the case of food safety, state labs are investigating foodborne illnesses and communicating with each other to figure out whether outbreaks have spread.

In many case, they do not have any help from the federal government.

Dr. Christopher Braden heads the CDC division that investigates foodborne illness.

He said the agency will be able to better monitor the salmonella outbreak with the recalled federal staff.

But the agency is monitoring more than 30 outbreaks.

Gaps still exist as the shutdown begins its second week.

The staff will go through a backlog of cases, he said.

They could find something that was missed earlier.

"When that's the case, it's harder to start investigations later than earlier," Braden said.

Microorganisms like salmonella can cause disease.

They are so small that they can only be seen with a microscope.

The CDC stopped watching for some disease-causing microorganisms in food when staffers were sent home last week.

The CDC isn't the only agency protecting health and safety that's strained.

The shutdown has forced the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration to halt its regular mine safety inspections.

It normally conducts those at each of the nation's underground mines every three months.

Three mine workers died in separate accidents on three straight days during the past week.

The coal mining industry has not had three consecutive days of fatal accidents in more than a decade.

The MSHA said it's too soon to draw any conclusions about the link between the shutdown and the accidents.

Still, the nation's largest mine workers union has raised alarms.

"The government's watchdog isn't watching," United Mine Workers President Cecil Roberts said.

"Safety violations that would normally be caught and corrected as a result of those inspections are being missed.

Even the smallest violations, when allowed to accumulate, can lead to dangerous conditions very quickly in a coal mine."

Federal inspectors also have stopped most workplace checks.

Meanwhile, the National Transportation Safety Board is only investigating accidents if officials believe lives or property are in danger.

The Food and Drug Administration likewise has stopped routine inspections of food facilities in the United States and abroad.

Border controls could be delayed.

Food imports are still being inspected at borders, but any samples that need to be analyzed could be stalled because there are fewer scientists to analyze them.

The CDC also has had to stop monitoring flu.

That might not seem like a big deal.

But the disease spreads  and it kills about 24,000 Americans a year.

This early in the flu season there is little illness.

So there is little to test yet.

But to fill in the gap, some state health departments have been receiving and testing samples that otherwise would have gone to the CDC, said Kelly Wroblewski of the Association of Public Health Laboratories.

The CDC also is slashing its officers stationed at 20 airports and U.S. entry points.

When airline pilots or customs workers become aware of a sick traveler, they summon CDC officers.

The officers can detain, examine and isolate people who might be a health threat to the U.S. public.

Eighty percent of those CDC officers have been dismissed from duty.

There's essentially only one person working at each station, said Dr. Martin Cetron.

He leads the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine.

That could increase the possibility that some diseases could slip into the country at a time when measles is raging in Turkey and cholera is breaking out in Mexico.

Still, many federal workers who protect safety and health are still working.

Air traffic controllers, airport screeners and the majority of federal law enforcement are all on duty.

People on active military duty are working.

The USDA's agency responsible for investigating the poultry farm in California that is linked to the salmonella outbreak is also mostly staffed.

But the absence of workers matters, said Caroline Smith DeWaal.

She is director of food safety advocacy at the Washington-based Center for Science in the Public Interest.

She pointed out that it was hard for the public to get information on any outbreaks.

"These agencies are always running behind, and the idea that you can just shut them down is just foolish," said Smith DeWaal.

