The federal government shutdown has hurt efforts to protect Americans' health and safety, from probes into the cause of transportation and workplace accidents to tracking foodborne illnesses.

The latest example: an outbreak of salmonella in chicken that has sickened people in 18 states.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Tuesday that it was bringing back some of its furloughed staff to deal with the outbreak.

More than 270 people have been made sick by the tainted chicken.

Before Tuesday, the CDC had only a handful of scientists working on outbreak detection, severely hampering its ability to track potentially deadly illnesses.

With federal workers on leave, the states have had to pick up much of the slack.

In the case of food safety, state labs are investigating foodborne illnesses and communicating with each other to figure out whether outbreaks have spread.

In many case, they do not have federal authorities helping them.

Dr. Christopher Braden heads the CDC division that investigates foodborne illness.

He said the agency will be able to better monitor the salmonella outbreak with the recalled federal staff.

But the agency is monitoring more than 30 outbreaks, and gaps still exist as the federal bureaucracy limps through a shutdown beginning its second week.

"There's a backlog, and the team is going to have to work diligently and long hours to try and overcome that," Braden said.

"It's possible we may find something we've missed, and when that's the case it's harder to start investigations later than earlier."

With staff furloughed last week, the CDC stopped monitoring for some microorganisms in food that can cause diseases.

The agency is now watching for those again, but Braden said some investigations are still on the back burner.

One is an outbreak of salmonella from handling live poultry that has sickened more than 300.

CDC isn't the only agency protecting health and safety that's strained.

The shutdown has forced the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) to halt its regular mine safety inspections.

It normally conducts those at each of the nation's underground mines every three months.

The lack of inspections is coming under scrutiny after three mine workers died in separate accidents on three consecutive days during the past week.

The coal mining industry has not had three straight days of fatal accidents in more than a decade.

The agency said it's premature to draw any conclusions about the link between the shutdown and the mining accidents, but the nation's largest mine workers union has raised alarms.

"The government's watchdog isn't watching," United Mine Workers President Cecil Roberts said.

"Safety violations that would normally be caught and corrected as a result of those inspections are being missed.

Even the smallest violations, when allowed to accumulate, can lead to dangerous conditions very quickly in a coal mine."

Federal occupational safety and health inspectors also have stopped most workplace checks.

Meanwhile, the National Transportation Safety Board is only investigating accidents if officials believe lives or property are in danger.

The Food and Drug Administration also has stopped routine inspections of food facilities in the United States and abroad.

Border controls could be delayed.

Food imports are still being inspected at borders, but any samples that need to be analyzed could be stalled because there are fewer scientists to analyze them.

The CDC also has had to halt its surveillance of flu.

The infectious disease kills about 24,000 Americans in an average year.

This early in the flu season there is little illness.

So there is little to test yet.

But to fill in the gap, some state health departments have been receiving and testing samples that otherwise would have gone to the CDC, said Kelly Wroblewski of the Association of Public Health Laboratories.

The CDC also is slashing its staffing on quarantine stations at 20 airports and entry points.

When airline pilots or customs workers become aware of a sick traveler, they flag quarantine officers.

The officers can detain, examine and isolate those who might be an health threat to the U.S. public.

Quarantine station staffing has been cut by 80 percent, meaning there's essentially only one person working at each station, said Dr. Martin Cetron, who leads the CDC's division of global migration and quarantine.

That could increase the possibility that some diseases could slip into the country at a time when measles is raging in Turkey and cholera is breaking out in Mexico.

Still, many federal workers who protect safety and health are still working.

Air traffic controllers, airport screeners and the majority of federal law enforcement are all on duty.

Active duty military personnel are working.

USDA's Food Safety Inspection Service, the agency responsible for investigating the poultry farm in California that is linked to the salmonella outbreak, is also mostly staffed.

But the absence of so-called nonessential workers who are furloughed can have a dangerous ripple effect, said Caroline Smith DeWaal.

She is director of food safety advocacy at the Washington-based Center for Science in the Public Interest.

She noted that the CDC website has limited information and the USDA website is shut down.

That means that concerned members of the public can't find out more information on the salmonella outbreak and other foodborne illnesses.

The agencies aren't tweeting or disseminating health safety information except for a few releases to the media.

"These agencies are always running behind, and the idea that you can just shut them down is just foolish," said Smith DeWaal.

