People have five senses.

They are sight, sound, touch, smell and taste.

The sense of taste lets us appreciate the beauty of good food.

It gives us that sweet sensation when we eat a piece of cake.

It gives us satisfaction when we chew a hamburger.

When we take that first bite out of a piping hot piece of pizza, there is nothing like it.

The good feeling we get is taste.

Taste is something that scientists already understand fairly well.

For hundreds of years, scientists believed there were four main tastes.

They were sweet, sour, salty and bitter.

Later, a Japanese scientist discovered a fifth main taste called umami.

It is caused by monosodium glutamate, or MSG.

Umami could be described as something savory.

It is a food that is strong in flavor, but not sweet.

Umami is common in anchovies, smelly cheeses and soy sauce.

Now scientists believe they have found a sixth taste.

It could change the way we eat.

In a new study, scientists learned that fat has its own special taste.

Fat interacts with the human sense of taste just like the other main tastes do.

People have receptors on their tongues.

The receptors send signals to the brain.

The signals tell us if something tastes sweet, sour, salty, bitter, umami or fatty.

Scientists have known for some time that receptors in our mouths recognize fat.

It has led many scientists to believe we can change the way we experience food.

Richard Mattes is a professor and a scientist.

He worked on the study.

Mattes says now people will learn to work with the taste of fat differently in the kitchen.

It will allow cooks to make lots of foods taste better.

Cooks may learn to copy the taste of fat.

They might find new foods that taste like it, too.

We experience a mouthful of food through the receptors on our tongues.

The primary tastes work a little like the primary colors of red, yellow and blue.

When different primary colors are mixed, different colors are created.

The same goes for food and flavor.

Mattes wanted to see if fat could be another primary taste.

He set up two experiments.

In the first test, over 100 people were given liquids that had one of six different tastes.

The tastes were sweet, sour, salty, bitter, umami and fatty.

Then the people in the study were asked to sort them into different taste groups.

The participants knew the sweet, sour and salty tastes.

However, they combined the other three into a "strange" group.

They did not know what they were.

In another experiment, scientists gave participants liquids with only the three "bad" or "strange" tastes.

The participants easily divided the tastes into three groups.

From this, the scientists learned that fat has its own taste.

The fatty taste can be found in many foods.

It is found in a bite of steak or a drizzle of olive oil.

It is just the same as how the taste of umami is hidden in a bite of anchovy.

The study could be very important for cooking.

Mattes said it might end up affecting what is on your plate.

It may even affect how food tastes.

"It could make a lot of food taste a lot better," Mattes said.

