Chris Kemoeatu needed an operation to get a new kidney.

He got the kidney from his brother, a former Baltimore Ravens' football player, three weeks ago.

Kemoeatu, 31, played seven years for the Pittsburgh Steelers.

The Ravens and Steelers are bitter rivals.

"Everyone jokes about me having a Ravens' kidney," Kemoeatu said.

"But hey, I can live with that."

He'll have to.

On Wednesday, Kemoeatu (pronounced key-moy-AH-too) and his brother Ma'ake (ma-AH-kay) spoke at the University of Maryland Medical Center.

The hospital is where they had the surgery to transfer the kidney.

Such kidney transplants between family members are not uncommon.

However,  this was likely the first one between players linked to both sides of one of the NFL's biggest rivalries.

"I'm a Raven and Chris is a Steeler but for this procedure, we had to come together," said Ma'ake, 35.

He was a starting defensive tackle on the Ravens' 2012 Super Bowl championship team.

He has one championship ring.

Chris, an offensive guard who retired in 2011, has two Super Bowl rings – and one of his brother's kidneys.

Ma'ake has noticed the difference in what the brothers have collected.

"I figure he owes me a lot of steak dinners," Ma'ake said.

Chris had battled painful kidney problems since he was young.

He quit football three years ago to address his worsening health.

A transplant seemed to be the best bet and tests at UMMC showed his eldest brother was a 99 percent match.

Ma'ake stepped up.

"I'm the oldest of seven kids and it's my responsibility to take care of the rest," he said.

"If my siblings need blood, it will be my blood.

If they need a kidney, it will be my kidney.

We both stopped our careers for this, but I'd have done it even if I was a rookie with the Ravens.

I have to lead by example."

The operation was set for July.

However, just before the surgery, a routine test showed that Chris had heart trouble.

He had a major heart operation instead of kidney surgery.

While recovering, Chris underwent dialysis at UMMC to prepare for the kidney transplant.

Dialysis replaces the work of the kidneys to help clean a person's blood.

"There were days when I drove him to dialysis when Chris looked at me and said, 'I don't think I can do this anymore,'" Ma'ake recalled.

"I said, 'Bro, muster up all the strength you've got.

We're gonna get through this.'"

Both men checked into the hospital weighing 345 pounds.

Their weight was a challenge for surgeons.

"Chris and Ma'ake aren't your average-sized people," said Dr. David Leeser, chief of kidney and pancreas transplantation.

He said that Ma'ake would medically have been considered too heavy to be healthy.

A lot of hospitals would not have let Ma'ake give up his kidney, Leeser said.

"He has a 22-inch neck, which is the waist size for a lot of women.

But when we measured his body fat it came out average for men in the U.S." In a 2-1/2-hour operation, Leeser removed one of Ma'ake's kidneys.

The organ measured 13 centimeters, about 3 cm.

more than average.

"It was the largest normal kidney I've ever seen in my life," said Dr. Stephen Bartlett, the hospital's surgeon-in-chief who performed Chris' operation.

"I felt like somebody had thrown me a small football."

The five-hour operation went off without a problem.

Several hours later, Chris was awake in his room when Ma'ake walked in.

"I told him, 'There's no better gift you can give a brother,'" Chris said.

Both men received get-wells from their teams: Ma'ake, from the Ravens' Haloti Ngata and Torrey Smith, among others, and Chris, from Pittsburgh's Hines Ward and Heath Miller.

The brothers will remain here for several months, then return home to Hawaii.

They own a sports fitness center on the island.

Chris will not return to football, while Ma'ake isn't sure.

"It's been a tough year," said Chris, who wore a Steelers cap as he spoke to a group of reporters.

"I've experienced all I wanted to in football.

I've played in three Super Bowls and been blessed to watch my brother play in another."

Ma'ake said he would "love to play" and cited one player, linebacker Paul Kruger, who is playing with only one kidney.

But business interests and family ties come first.

He will never forget the operation.

"They told me they have the whole thing on film," Ma'ake said.

"I've watched a lot of game films, but I'm not quite ready to see this yet."

