Chris Kemoeatu needed an operation to get a new kidney.

He got the kidney from his brother.

An operation like that between brothers is not unusual.

People have two kidneys, but only need one.

Because of this, you can donate one of your kidneys and still be fine.

What is unusual is that Kemoeatu played football for seven years for the Pittsburgh Steelers.

His brother Ma'ake used to play for the Baltimore Ravens.

The two teams are bitter rivals.

"Everyone jokes about me having a Ravens' kidney," said Chris Kemoeatu.

"But hey, I can live with that."

He will have to.

On Wednesday, the brothers Kemoeatu (pronounced key-moy-AH-too) spoke at the University of Maryland Medical Center.

The hospital is where they had the surgery to transfer the kidney.

Such an operation is called a transplant.

"I'm a Raven and Chris is a Steeler," Ma'ake (pronounced (ma-AH-kay) said.

But for this operation, "we had to come together."

Ma'ake started on defense on the Ravens' 2012 Super Bowl championship team.

He has one championship ring.

Chris played on offense for the Steelers.

He retired in 2011.

Chris has two Super Bowl rings.

He also has one of his brother's kidneys.

Ma'ake has noticed the difference in what the brothers have collected.

"I figure he owes me a lot of steak dinners," Ma'ake said.

Chris had battled painful kidney problems since he was young.

He quit football three years ago as his health got worse.

A transplant seemed to be the best bet.

Tests at UMMC showed his eldest brother was a 99 percent match.

Ma'ake stepped up to help.

"I'm the oldest of seven kids and it's my responsibility to take care of the rest," he said.

"If my siblings need blood, it will be my blood.

If they need a kidney, it will be my kidney."

The operation was set for July.

However, just before the surgery, a routine test showed that Chris had heart trouble.

He had a major heart operation instead of kidney surgery.

While recovering, Chris prepared for the kidney transplant.

Both men checked into the hospital weighing 345 pounds.

Their weight was a challenge for surgeons.

"Chris and Ma'ake aren't your average-sized people," said Dr. David Leeser.

He is in charge of kidney and pancreas transplants.

Leeser said that Ma'ake would medically have been considered too heavy to be healthy.

A lot of hospitals would not have let Ma'ake give up his kidney, Leeser said.

"He has a 22-inch neck, which is the waist size for a lot of women.

But when we measured his body fat it came out average for men in the U.S." In a 2-1/2-hour operation, Leeser removed one of Ma'ake's kidneys.

The organ measured 13 centimeters, about 3 cm.

more than average.

"It was the largest normal kidney I've ever seen in my life," said Dr. Stephen Bartlett.

He is the hospital's surgeon-in-chief and performed Chris' operation.

"I felt like somebody had thrown me a small football."

There were no problems during the five-hour operation.

Several hours later, Chris was awake in his room when Ma'ake walked in.

"I told him, 'There's no better gift you can give a brother,'" Chris said.

The brothers will remain here for several months.

Then they will return home to Hawaii.

They own a sports fitness center on the island.

Chris will not return to football.

Ma'ake isn't sure.

"It's been a tough year," said Chris, who wore a Steelers cap as he spoke to a group of reporters.

"I've experienced all I wanted to in football.

I've played in three Super Bowls and been blessed to watch my brother play in another."

Ma'ake said he would "love to play."

He mentioned one player, linebacker Paul Kruger, who's playing with only one kidney.

But business interests and family ties come first.

He will never forget the operation.

"They told me they have the whole thing on film," Ma'ake said.

"I've watched a lot of game films, but I'm not quite ready to see this yet."

