Richie Incognito and Jonathan Martin were teammates on the Miami Dolphins.

That did not mean the football players got along.

Incognito sent threatening text messages to his teammate, said two people who knew about the situation.

The messages were also racist, they said.

The people agreed to speak to The Associated Press only if they would not be named.

Martin left the team a week ago because of emotional problems.

Incognito is a longtime player known for dirty play.

He was suspended indefinitely Sunday by coach Joe Philbin for his treatment of Martin.

The team and NFL are investigating whether Martin was [bullied](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=bullying).

Philbin said Dolphins owner Stephen Ross asked Commissioner Roger Goodell for help.

The players union is also looking into the matter.

Agents for the two players didn't respond to requests for comment.

Martin is with his family in Los Angeles for counseling.

He stormed out of the team's training headquarters on Oct. 28 after being the victim of a joke during a team meal, media reports said.

The 319-pound Incognito, a ninth-year pro, is white.

The 312-pound Martin, who is in his second NFL season, is black.

For much of the season, they've played side by side.

It's unclear whether the coaches had any idea of bullying between the players before Martin left the team.

Philbin did not answer a question about the locker-room culture.

The Dolphins beat Cincinnati on Thursday.

Then they had three days off while the Martin story grew.

They returned to practice Monday.

Afterward, nearly 100 reporters and cameramen were in their locker room.

Teammates praised both Incognito and Martin.

They said they were sorry both were absent from the team.

But they also said it was time to get on with business.

"The only thing affecting us is we can't even get dressed," said receiver Mike Wallace, looking at all the reporters.

Wallace said he found Incognito to be intense but a good teammate.

Newcomer Bryant McKinnie agreed.

"When I got here, he was a guy who had everybody laughing and told jokes," said McKinnie.

He is also a lineman and joined the team two weeks ago.

"I didn't really see the side being portrayed right now."

Harsh treatment of young players has a long history in sports.

Still, Incognito's treatment of Martin raised questions about whether coaches or teammates should have stopped it.

"It's not a thin line.

It's pretty obvious stuff that shouldn't be crossed," Tennessee Titans cornerback Jason McCourty said.

Arizona Cardinals defensive tackle Darnell Dockett said he was glad the Dolphins took action against Incognito.

"Especially when you try to bully a guy.

That's so classless," Dockett said.

"His whole makeup is to play dirty and hurt guys.

Everybody knows that.

I just don't understand how he got away with it for so long.

I think the NFL really needs to buckle down on it now, because it's bigger than trying to hurt other guys.

You're trying to hurt guys on your team mentally, which sometimes can actually be worse than hurting someone physically."

Incognito posted several tweets saying he wanted his name cleared before he was suspended.

Incognito has long had a reputation of being among the NFL's dirtiest players.

"There's certain people out there who are just punks, and he wants to be that kind of guy," former Seattle Seahawks and Detroit Lions defensive end Lawrence Jackson said Monday.

"But because he's a lineman, he gets away with a lot of stuff that people don't see.

Incognito is way worse than anybody I ever played against."

However, there have been fewer such complaints since Incognito joined the Dolphins in 2010.

Last year he was voted by the league's players into the Pro Bowl for the first time.

He was the co-winner of the Dolphins' Good Guy Award, given to the team's most cooperative player by the local media.

He also won frequent praise from Dolphins coaches for his leadership.

This year he was voted by teammates to serve as a member of the Dolphins' player council.

For the first six games this year, Incognito and Martin were the two players protecting quarterback Ryan Tannehill's blind side.

Their troubled relationship may help explain his NFL-high 35 sacks.

