Richie Incognito and Jonathan Martin were teammates on the Miami Dolphins, but that did not mean the football players got along.

More information about the troubled relationship between the two offensive linemen came out on Monday.

Incognito sent text messages to his teammate that were racist and threatening, said two people who knew of the situation.

The people spoke to The Associated Press on the condition that they would not be identified.

They asked for that condition because the Dolphins and NFL haven't said specifically what Incognito did that led the Dolphins to suspend him on Sunday.

Martin remained absent from practice Monday one week after he suddenly left the team because of emotional problems.

Also missing was Incognito, a longtime player known for dirty play.

He was put on an open-ended suspension by coach Joe Philbin for his treatment of Martin.

Agents for the two players didn't respond to requests for comment.

Martin is with his family in Los Angeles for counseling.

He stormed out of the team's training facility on Oct. 28 after being the victim of a prank during a team meal, media reports said.

The 319-pound Incognito, a ninth-year pro, is white.

The 312-pound Martin, who is in his second NFL season, is black.

For much of the season, they've played side by side.

The team and NFL are investigating allegations by Martin's representatives that he was [bullied](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=bullying).

Philbin said Dolphins owner Stephen Ross asked Commissioner Roger Goodell for assistance.

The players union also planned to look into the matter.

"Every decision I've made, everything we've done in this facility has been done with one thing in mind," Philbin said.

"That's to help our players and our organization reach their full potential.

Any type of conduct (or) behavior that detracts from that objective is not acceptable and is not tolerated."

It's unclear whether coaches or managers had any idea of harassment between the players before Martin left the team.

Philbin declined to answer a question about the locker-room culture.

After beating Cincinnati in overtime Thursday, the Dolphins had three days off while the Martin story grew.

They returned to practice Monday and afterward found nearly 100 reporters and cameramen in their locker room.

Teammates praised both Incognito and Martin.

They expressed regret about their absences, but said it was time to get on with business.

"The only thing affecting us is we can't even get dressed," said receiver Mike Wallace as he surveyed the throng of reporters.

Wallace said he found Incognito to be intense but a good teammate.

Newcomer Bryant McKinnie agreed.

"When I got here, he was a guy who had everybody laughing and told jokes," said McKinnie, a lineman who joined the team two weeks ago.

"I didn't really see the side being portrayed right now."

Hazing, or brutal treatment, of young players has a long history in sports.

Still, Incognito's treatment of Martin raised questions about whether coaches or teammates should have intervened.

"It's not a thin line.

It's pretty obvious stuff that shouldn't be crossed," Tennessee Titans cornerback Jason McCourty said.

"You would hope if stuff was getting out of hand, there were guys in the locker room who would step up and maybe nip it in the bud before it got out of control."

Arizona Cardinals defensive tackle Darnell Dockett said he was glad the Dolphins took action against Incognito.

"Especially when you try to bully a guy.

That's so classless," Dockett said.

"His whole makeup is to play dirty and hurt guys.

Everybody knows that.

I just don't understand how he got away with it for so long.

I think the NFL really needs to buckle down on it now, because it's bigger than trying to hurt other guys.

You're trying to hurt guys on your team mentally, which sometimes can actually be worse than hurting someone physically."

Before being suspended, Incognito posted several tweets saying he wanted his name cleared.

Incognito has long had a reputation of being among the NFL's dirtiest players.

"There's certain people out there who are just punks, and he wants to be that kind of guy," former Seattle Seahawks and Detroit Lions defensive end Lawrence Jackson said Monday.

"But because he's a lineman, he gets away with a lot of stuff that people don't see.

Incognito is way worse than anybody I ever played against."

However, there have been fewer such complaints since Incognito joined the Dolphins in 2010.

Last year he was voted by the league's players into the Pro Bowl for the first time.

He was the co-winner of the Dolphins' Good Guy Award, given to the team's most cooperative player by the local media.

He also won frequent praise from Dolphins coaches for his leadership.

This year he was voted by teammates to serve as a member of the Dolphins' player council.

Martin protected quarterback Andrew Luck's blind side at Stanford before joining Miami as a second-round draft pick in 2012.

He has been a starter since the beginning of his rookie season, but has struggled while dividing his time between left and right tackle.

For the first six games this year, Incognito and Martin were the two players protecting quarterback Ryan Tannehill's blind side.

Their troubled relationship may help explain why Tannehill was sacked 35 times, a high for the NFL.

