Aaron Maybin's job was to play football for the National Football League (NFL).

The NFL is a group of professional football teams.

At 27 years old he quit football and picked up a paintbrush.

Now his job is to paint.

Maybin is from Baltimore, Maryland.

He played for the NFL for four years and was paid very well.

In 2013, Maybin had just lost his job with an NFL team called the Cincinnati Bengals.

He had already played for two other teams.

Maybin had to find a new team to hire him and was about to get on a plane to go try out for coaches.

Maybin changed his mind about football at the last minute.

He chose art instead.

"I couldn't even bring myself to pack my bags," he says.

The sports star became an artist.

Some news articles say Maybin was not a great football player.

Maybin sees things a little differently.

Maybin says that the things he cared about had changed.

He wanted to be with his family.

Maybin also wanted to work on his art and share it with others.

Maybin tells his story from the room where he works.

His paintings cover the walls around him.

There are spots of dry paint on the floor and a set of barbells nearby.

A movie also plays in the background with no sound.

On the floor are boxes of diapers for his new baby named Aria.

Maybin has three children.

Maybin earned $14 million dollars playing football.

Now Maybin can spend time with his kids and make his art.

"As far as I'm concerned, I'm really living the true American dream," he says.

Maybin wants people to know that the NFL life is not as good as it seems.

He especially wants to get the message to young African-Americans.

Maybin helps young people with a group that he started.

It is called Project Mayhem.

Mayhem was his nickname when he played football.

Maybin started the group for students at Baltimore schools where there are no art classes.

He wants kids to make art to help them through hard times.

The artist thinks that children are judged by their skills too early.

He says it is not good for their futures.

Maybin worries about his son Arian, who is only 2 years old.

He says that people already say that he will play sports because he is a big kid.

"He's going to do whatever he wants to do," says Maybin.

Maybin grew up in Baltimore, Maryland.

His father was a fireman.

Maybin has made art since he was young.

He says that he got his talent from his mother.

She died when Maybin was just 6 years old.

Maybin says he could have given up but he did not.

Maybin's father married a new woman.

She really understood Maybin and his art.

Maybin's stepmother even taught him to love reading.

Maybin sang and played the saxophone.

He also acted in school plays.

Maybin grew to love the arts.

He says making art was not usual for a boy growing up in Baltimore.

"I was an awkward, outcast, goofy kid," says Maybin.

The artist says that he also became good at sports.

He says the same kids who used to pick on him suddenly thought that his art was cool, but only after he became good at sports.

It still bothers him.

Maybin says he wanted to play football for the NFL since he was young.

He also always wanted to be an artist, and now he has done both.

