Daniela Polencheck was just 2 years old when her life changed.

Daniela grew up in Colombia in South America.

She was out walking with her sister.

Suddenly, she darted into the street and was hit by a car.

The driver never stopped or even slowed down.

Daniela lost the use of her legs that day.

Daniela is now 15 and lives in the United States.

She is in her first year of high school near Chicago, Illinois.

Daniela's story has given her strength in her new country.

"I could feel sorry for myself for the rest of my life," Daniela said.

"Or I could accept being in a wheelchair, and try to make the best of it."

Daniela told her story as part of a class project.

She is in an "English as a learned language" class, which is also called ELL.

The students in her ELL class come from many other countries.

They all are learning English as a second language.

The students spent all fall writing stories about their hardest moments in life.

They put their stories together into a book called the "Book of Challenges."

Sarah Hoisington teaches the class.

She said she wants the students to learn from each other.

Moving to a new country and learning English gives them important skills.

Hoisington said those skills will help them in school and for the rest of their lives.

Not long ago, the teens brought their book to a middle school library and shared their stories.

The children there were from different countries around the world.

The 13 students in the ELL class are from many different countries.

There were born in India, Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand, Myanmar, Brazil, Guatemala and Colombia.

Noushin Ajmeri, 14, came to the United States from India two years ago.

She said the move was hard for her.

Girls in America behave very differently from girls in India.

In India, girls do not talk to boys or speak up much.

Girls in America wear shorts in the summer.

They also talk to boys and even hug them.

It was hard for Nousin at first.

"But after two or three months, I started to speak English and I got used to it," she said.

She learned that it is OK if people act differently.

"I don't think their way is wrong.

It's your choice to do what you want."

Bruno Borges, who is 15 years old, moved from Brazil this summer.

He told the younger children that everyone has challenges in life.

When Bruno was 7, his family moved to Sweden.

They later returned to Brazil for several years and then came to the United States.

"Here, at least I knew a little English," Bruno said.

"You need to be confident and you need to expect the best of yourself."

Bruno said that kids moving to another country need to be social.

They should talk to many people, which he said can be hard.

"I've made lots of friends here," Bruno said.

