Daniela Polencheck met her biggest hurdle when she was still a toddler growing up in Colombia.

Walking with her older siblings, 2-year-old Daniela broke away from her sister's grasp and darted into the street.

A drunk driver hit her, never slowing down or stopping.

The Glenbard West freshman, now 15, said the horrific experience in which she lost the use of her hips and legs continues to motivate her as she navigates life in the United States.

"I could feel sorry for myself for the rest of my life, or I could accept being in a wheelchair, and try to make the best of it," Daniela said.

Daniela told her story as part of months-long project with her English as a learned language classmates at the Glen Ellyn school.

The teens, led by Sarah Hoisington, spent all fall writing stories of the biggest hardships they have overcome and compiled them into a tome they call the "Book of Challenges."

Earlier, the group dedicated the book to the library at Hadley Junior High School, where several of the students had attended, and shared their short memoirs with other students from different countries.

"It was fun to tell the kids that everyone has to pass through obstacles," said Bruno Borges, 15.

Hoisington's 13 students are from India, Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand, Myanmar, Brazil, Guatemala and Colombia.

The idea for the project started after the group read "A Long Walk to Water," part of which tells the story of an 11-year-old Sudanese refugee who travels the continent looking for safe places to live.

Some students told their own stories of being in refugee camps, while others focused on the severe culture shock of being in a new country.

"I wanted them to feel empowered," Hoisington said.

"I wanted them to look at the skills they learned in the process and to be able to recognize that those techniques they've developed to survive and thrive are ones that work well not only in an academic setting, but they are lifelong skills.

Their stories are powerful not just for themselves, but for other people to hear and understand."

Noushin Ajmeri hails from eastern India and said she had to adjust to how brashly American girls behaved when her family moved to the United States two years ago.

"I felt embarrassed that the girls wore shorts in the summer, and talked and hug boys," said Noushin, 14.

"In our culture, we never talk with boys like that, we never speak up in front of people.

But after two or three months, I started to speak English and I got used to it.

I don't think their way is wrong.

It's your choice to do what you want."

Bruno has made the new-country shift twice.

Originally from Sao Paulo, he and his family moved to Sweden when he was 7, returned home for several years, then moved to the west suburbs this summer.

"Here, at least I knew a little English," Bruno said of the most recent move.

"You need to be confident and you need to expect the best of yourself, be social and try to assimilate.

I've made lots of friends here."

Ema Smith shared a similar message of persistence with the younger teens.

The 18-year-old said she felt loads of frustration when her family moved from Zacapa, Guatemala, to Glendale Heights, Illinois, in April 2013.

Slowly things got easier as she began celebrating small victories for herself, such as when she felt confident enough to ask her teacher for a bathroom break or when she made a new friend in class.

"While these events may not seem like much, they were important milestones for me," said Ema, a senior.

"I am proud that I did not give up.

It is OK to take things one day at a time."

