Daniela Polencheck was just a toddler in Colombia, where she grew up, when her life completely changed.

Just 2 years old, Daniela was walking with her older siblings when she broke away from her sister's grasp.

She darted into the street and was hit by a drunk driver, who never slowed down or stopped.

As a result of the accident, Daniela lost the use of her hips and legs.

Daniela is in her first year of Glenbard West High School just outside of Chicago, Illinois.

Now 15, she said the horrific experience gives her strength as she navigates life in her new country.

"I could feel sorry for myself for the rest of my life," Daniela said.

"Or I could accept being in a wheelchair, and try to make the best of it."

Daniela told her story as part of a class project in her English as a learned language class.

Like Daniela, most of the students were born in other countries and learned English only after coming to the United States.

Led by teacher Sarah Hoisington, the teens spent all fall writing stories about the biggest hardships they have faced.

They then compiled their experiences into a large book they called the "Book of Challenges."

Earlier, the group dedicated the book to the library at Hadley Junior High School, which several of the students attended before high school.

They recently returned to the school to share their stories with students from countries around the world.

Bruno Borges, 15, liked telling his story to the younger students, who also have faced challenges in life.

"It was fun to tell the kids that everyone has to pass through obstacles," he said.

Hoisington's 13 students are from India, Nepal, Pakistan, Thailand, Myanmar, Brazil, Guatemala and Colombia.

The idea for the project began after the group read "A Long Walk to Water" by Linda Sue Park.

Part of the story features an 11-year-old Sudanese refugee who travels the African continent looking for safe places to live.

Some students told their own stories of living in refugee camps, after their homes became too dangerous.

Others focused on the severe culture shock they experienced in a new country.

"I wanted them to feel empowered," Hoisington said.

She wants her students to recognize that the skills they have learned to survive hardships do not just help them in school, but will help them throughout their lives.

"Their stories are powerful not just for themselves, but for other people to hear and understand," Hoisington said.

Noushin Ajmeri hails from eastern India.

She said she had to adjust to how boldly American girls behaved when her family moved to the United States two years ago.

"I felt embarrassed that the girls wore shorts in the summer, and talked and hug boys," said Noushin, 14.

"In our culture, we never talk with boys like that, we never speak up in front of people.

But after two or three months, I started to speak English and I got used to it.

I don't think their way is wrong.

It's your choice to do what you want."

Bruno, who is originally from Sao Paulo, Brazil, has had to get used to a new country not once, but twice.

When he was 7, his family moved to Sweden.

They returned home to Brazil for several years before moving to Illinois this summer.

"Here, at least I knew a little English," Bruno said of the most recent move.

"You need to be confident and you need to expect the best of yourself."

He said that kids moving to a new place need to be social and talk to many people, although that can be hard.

Using these tactics, he has made lots of friends in America, he said.

Ema Smith shared a similar message of persistence with the younger teens.

The 18-year-old said she felt frustrated when her family moved from Zacapa, Guatemala, to Glendale Heights, Illinois, in April 2013.

Slowly things got easier as she began celebrating small victories, like when she felt confident enough to ask her teacher for a bathroom break or when she made a new friend in class.

She said that while these events may not seem like much, they were important moments for her.

Ema is now a senior and about to graduate from high school.

"I am proud that I did not give up.

It is OK to take things one day at a time," she said.

