Michael McKernan's parents were not there for him during his teenage years.

Now at age 18, he is getting the support he needs.

When McKernan was growing up, his father was in prison.

His mother abandoned him and his siblings, leaving them in the care of their stepfather.

Then their stepfather lost his job and could not take care of them.

He and his younger siblings ended up in different foster homes.

Children whose parents cannot provide safe homes for them live somewhere else and are called foster youth.

Foster youth like McKernan and his siblings face many challenges.

Without a stable home life, McKernan dropped out of high school.

He started working as an overnight stocker at Wal-Mart.

When he turned 18, he still had a lot to learn.

He was living with his grandmother.

He did not have parents to help guide him.

Luckily, he met a social worker named William Childress who helped push him toward a brighter future.

Social workers help people like McKernan who need support.

Childress works with a state program called YVLifeSet.

It is run by the national group called Youth Villages.

The program offers extra help to foster youth transitioning to adulthood.

Childress encouraged Mckernan to join YVLifeSet, and he gladly accepted.

Childress became McKernan's counselor.

He helped him to set goals for himself.

He nudged him, the way a father would.

He checked in with McKernan regularly and gave him steady encouragement and advice.

McKernan had his sights set on college.

He wanted to go further than the parents who abandoned him.

Because he had been in foster care, the government might help him pay for college, but he would first have to pass the GED.

The GED is a test that students can take to make up for not finishing high school.

He studied hard, staying up late with thick practice books.

The test was set to take place on Dec. 11.

His heart was pounding as he walked up to the sign-in table and gave his name.

The woman checked her list and told him that he could not take the exam because he was not registered.

McKernan's body went numb.

He was sure he had registered for the test, he thought, as he walked home feeling hopeless.

He could take the test the next year, but by then it would be too late to get help paying for college and he could not possibly pay for it on his own.

Childress happened to be in town that same day.

When he stopped by McKernan's grandmother's house just to check in, he saw the gloomy look on the teenager's face and knew something was wrong.

McKernan told him the story.

"Now wait," Childress told him, "Let's see what we can do."

Childress made some calls and learned about an exam the following week in another county.

McKernan would get to take the test after all.

He passed.

Since then, things have been going well for McKernan.

He got into Volunteer State Community College and finished his last final of the semester in May.

He now dreams of studying in another country.

Transitioning to adulthood is particularly hard for former foster kids like McKernan.

Erin Valentine studies foster youth.

She wanted to understand how to help foster youth as they get older.

Valentine designed a study to try to find out what happens when they get extra support, like McKernan did through YVLifeSet.

From 2010 to 2012, Valentine and her team studied 1,322 young adults in Tennessee, ages 18 to 24.

All of them had been foster youth growing up.

About 790 got support through YVLifeSet.

They received weekly counseling for up to nine months.

They got advice on how to find a job or help paying for college.

Valentine and her team interviewed everyone after a year.

They discovered that the men and women in YVLifeSet were less likely to be homeless than those who were not in YVLifeSet.

They also earned more money.

Valentine said that the social workers at YVLifeSet act like stand-in parents.

Her study suggests that having that support can make a big difference.

