Michael McKernan had a difficult childhood.

His father was in prison, and his mother abandoned him and his siblings, leaving them in the care of their stepfather.

He lived with several different family members over the next few years.

Children whose parents do not provide stable or safe homes for them are called foster youth.

Foster youth, like McKernan and his siblings, face challenges throughout childhood and into adulthood.

Without a stable home life, McKernan dropped out of high school.

He started working as an overnight stocker at Wal-Mart.

When he turned 18, he became a legal adult, but he was not ready for everything adulthood demanded.

McKernan was living with his grandmother, but he did not have parents to help guide him.

Luckily, he met a social worker named William Childress, who helped push him toward a brighter future.

Social workers help people like McKernan who are in need of community support.

Childress works with a program called YVLifeSet, which is run by the national non-profit group Youth Villages, and operates in nine states.

YVLifeSet offers extra help to former foster youth transitioning to adulthood.

Childress encouraged McKernan to join YVLifeSet, and he gladly accepted.

Childress became McKernan's counselor.

He helped with goal-setting and checked in regularly by text message, giving McKernan steady encouragement and advice.

McKernan set his sights on college.

Because he was a former foster youth, the government might help him pay for college, but he would first have to pass the GED.

The GED is a test students can take to make up for not finishing high school.

He studied hard, staying up late with thick practice books.

He wanted to go further than the parents who abandoned him.

On Dec. 11, he made his way to a local community college to take the test.

His heart pounded as he walked up to the sign-in table and gave his name.

The woman checked her list and told him that he was not registered and could not take the exam.

McKernan's body went numb.

He could have sworn he had registered for the test, he thought, as he made his way home feeling hopeless.

He could take the test the next year, but by then it would be too late to get help paying for college.

He could not possibly pay for it on his own.

Childress happened to be in town that December day.

When he stopped by McKernan's grandmother's house just to check in, he saw the gloomy look on the teenager's face and knew something was wrong.

McKernan told him the story.

"Now wait," Childress told him, "Let's see what we can do."

They called about 10 state employees, test runners, and social workers in the foster care community.

They learned about an exam the following week in another county.

McKernan would get to take the test after all.

He passed.

Since then, things have been going well for McKernan.

He got into Volunteer State Community College and finished his last final of the semester in early May.

He now dreams of studying in another country.

McKernan and Childress have their last weekly session next month, but they plan to keep in touch.

Transitioning to adulthood is particularly hard for former foster youth like McKernan.

Erin Valentine is a researcher who studies foster youth as they become independent adults.

She said that they face tougher odds than other young adults.

"They turn 18 and suddenly, technically they're adults," Valentine said.

"They try hard.

But when you have limited support, even the smallest slip-up can throw everything off track."

Valentine wanted to better understand how to help, so she designed a study to try to find out what happens to young adults who receive additional support.

From 2010 to 2012, Valentine's team of researchers followed 1,322 former foster youth in Tennessee, ages 18 to 24.

About 790 got support through YVLifeSet, while the others did not.

The young adults in the YVLifeSet program received weekly counseling for up to nine months.

They went over how to apply for a job or get help paying for college.

They talked about forming healthy relationships and avoiding drugs.

Researchers interviewed the young adults after a year.

They discovered those in YVLifeSet were 22 percent less likely to be homeless and earned more money on average than the young adults who were not in YVLifeSet.

Valentine said that the social workers at YVLifeSet act like stand-in parents.

Her research suggests that having that support can make a big difference for former foster youth as they find their way in the adult world.

