As a foster youth, Michael McKernan faced many challenges growing up.

His father was in prison, and his mother abandoned him and his siblings, leaving them in the care of their stepfather.

When his stepfather lost his job and got kicked out of his house, McKernan went to live with his aunt, his third guardian in three years.

That didn't last long either.

She soon ran off with her boyfriend, leaving McKernan stranded once again.

Without a stable home life, McKernan dropped out of high school and started working as an overnight stocker at Wal-Mart.

When he turned 18, he became a legal adult and aged out of the foster care system.

McKernan's life turned around when he met William Childress, a social worker with the program YVLifeSet, which is run by the national non-profit Youth Villages.

YVLifeSet operates in nine states and offers extra help to former foster kids transitioning to adulthood.

McKernan was no longer alone.

McKernan was living with his grandmother when he met Childress, and when he heard about the YVLifeSet program, he gladly accepted the social worker's offer to participate.

Childress became McKernan's counselor and helped him to set goals for himself.

He nudged him, the way a father would, checking in regularly by text message and giving McKernan steady encouragement and advice.

McKernan soon set his sights on college.

Because he was a former foster youth, the government might help him pay for college, but he would first have to pass the GED, a standardized test students can take to make up for not finishing high school.

He studied hard, staying up late with thick practice books and Monster energy drinks.

He wanted to go further than the parents who abandoned him.

McKernan decided he would take the test on Dec. 11, the last day the test was offered in his county that year.

His heart pounded as he approached the community college where the test was being given.

He walked up to the sign-in table and gave his name.

The woman checked her list and told him that he was not registered and therefore, could not take the exam.

McKernan said his body went numb and grim thoughts flooded his head.

No exam this year.

No college, ever.

He could have sworn he had signed up for the test.

He went home, feeling hopeless, wondering if overnights at Wal-Mart were all life had to offer him.

He knew that he could take the test next year, but by then it would be too late to get help paying for the cost of college.

He could not possibly pay for it on his own.

On that December day, Childress happened to be in town.

When he stopped by McKernan's grandmother's house just to check in, he saw the gloomy look on the teenager's face and knew something was wrong.

The story spilled from McKernan's mouth.

"Now wait," Childress told him.

"Let's see what we can do."

They called state employees, test runners, and social workers in the foster care community.

They learned about an exam the following week in another county and Childress found money for the fee.

McKernan would get to take the test after all.

He passed.

He got into Volunteer State Community College and finished his last final of the semester in early May, and he now dreams of studying abroad.

McKernan and Childress have their last weekly session next month, but they plan to stay in contact, like many college-age sons and fathers, by texting.

McKernan's story is not unique.

Of the thousands of children who grow up in foster care, some live with relatives, like McKernan, and some live with other families or in group homes.

Every year, roughly 23,000 teenagers nationwide like McKernan age out of the system.

Transitioning to adulthood is particularly hard for former foster youth.

Erin Valentine is a researcher who studies adult outcomes for kids who grew up in the foster care system.

She said that former foster youth face tougher odds than other young adults.

"They turn 18 and suddenly, technically they're adults," Valentine said.

"They try hard.

But when you have limited support, even the smallest slip-up can throw everything off track."

Valentine wanted to better understand how to help.

So she designed a study to try to find out what happens to young adults who receive additional support.

From 2010 to 2012, Valentine's team of researchers followed 1,322 young adults in Tennessee, ages 18 to 24, who had recently aged out of foster care or the juvenile custody system.

About 790 continued to get support through YVLifeSet, while the others did not.

The YVLifeSet group received weekly counseling from a case manager for up to nine months.

They went over how to apply for a job or get help paying for college.

They talked about forming healthy relationships and avoiding drugs.

In other words, Valentine said, the case managers act like stand-in parents.

Researchers interviewed the young adults after a year.

They discovered those in YVLifeSet were 22 percent less likely to be homeless than the young adults who weren't in YVLifeSet.

Participants in YVLifeSet also saw higher part-time annual earnings.

Valentine's findings suggest that YVLifeSet and programs like it make a big impact in the lives of former foster youth.

