Like almost half of the kids in foster care, Almeisha Robinson almost didn't graduate from high school.

Robinson became a foster kid because her parents had problems.

She lived with her aunt.

For the first few years at Garfield High School she struggled.

School was never a big part of her life, she said.

"My parents never took interest in my schooling," Robinson said.

"Junior year, it was hard to focus and pay attention at school."

But with the help of Treehouse, a group founded in 1988 by social workers dedicated to helping foster kids, she graduated.

Now Robinson, who turns 19 this month, is looking to the future.

Robinson was connected to the organization's Graduation Success program.

The program's goal is to lift the graduation rate of foster kids to the same level as their non-foster classmates (currently 75 percent) by 2017.

In her second year, Robinson started meeting weekly with Mike Schloss at Treehouse.

Schloss served as a coach, going over her goals and figuring out how she could best achieve them.

"From the get-go I could tell that Almeisha really wanted to do well," Schloss said.

"She wanted to believe what she said more than anybody, but lacked a lot of the confidence in following what she knew what she wanted to do."

Robinson wants to work in the music industry.

She wants to be an artist, or own a studio.

A fan of Lauryn Hill and Queen Latifah, she was inspired to get into music by her older brother, an aspiring rapper who was murdered when she was 7.

Robinson writes songs and poetry and plays the guitar and keyboard — using two instruments she received through Treehouse's Little Wishes program.

But those dreams weren't going to happen if she took the same path that her siblings and parents did.

Her siblings, she said, "just work.

Eight-hour jobs, you know, sometimes more, just trying to make a living.

Not like a real career."

She said, "Because they had their kids young, I see how that affected them.

They got into drugs and all types of stuff and it's just like, 'I see what I don't want to do.'

It was good role modeling."

As a foster kid, the odds have been stacked against her.

Robinson's childhood was far from ideal.

Her mother struggled with alcoholism and hoarded, refusing to throw things away.

Their house was a mess.

Robinson called it "unlivable."

When Robinson tired of the chaos in her home life, she came up with a plan: She'd stay with her aunt who lived nearby until her parents cleaned up the house.

But before her first day of high school, authorities said she could not return home.

The first day of freshman year, an exciting moment for most teenagers, was one of uncertainty for Robinson.

She had only planned to stay with her aunt for a year.

Soon, it had become five.

This is the sort of uncertainty that contributes to the high dropout rate of foster children.

"If they are not attending school or their grades are low, or if they don't have enough credits, if they are not connected to their communities or schools, the dropout rate goes through the roof," Schloss said.

Robinson said she was mostly worried about her parents, not school or her own life.

But around her junior year, she realized that she might not get to do the things she wanted.

She was short a credit to graduate, and she wasn't doing very well in subjects — like math and science — that she needed to finish school.

"We started to take the longer look, of, 'What do you think you are gonna need to be an owner of a business?'"

Schloss said.

"She was able to start connecting her high school graduation to her goals.

She really was able to start to see how some of those classes she didn't like, like math and science, were necessary for her to get what she wanted."

Schloss compared the situation to a buffet, Robinson said.

"If you get there late, all your options start to run out because the food's gone.

So if you want the good choices, you've got to get there early."

Her senior year, she increased her meetings with Schloss.

She took an online class to make up the missed credit, which was paid for by Treehouse, and concentrated on the classes she had a harder time with.

By the end of her senior year, she had done many of the same things that non-foster kids did and more.

Treehouse bought her a ticket to the prom.

She also graduated with her class and received the Governor's Scholarship, an award for foster students in Washington that grants up to $4,000 annually toward their college education.

Now, Robinson is in the midst of her first year at college, attending Seattle Central College, taking classes in math, English and — of course — music.

"I really enjoy school right now.

I'm really enjoying my classes and my teachers and just really enjoying the learning and taking advantage of what I have.

It's like I'm actually doing it, you know?

I'm actually being a student," Robinson said.

"I'm learning, I'm having fun.

This is great," she said.

