Almeisha Robinson almost didn't graduate from high school.

Robinson didn't live with her parents during high school.

She lived with her aunt, in foster care.

Almost half of the kids in foster care do not graduate.

School was never a big part of her life.

"My parents never took interest in my schooling," Robinson said.

Today, Robinson is turning 19, she's graduated high school, and she's looking to the future.

A group called Treehouse made the difference.

Treehouse was started in 1988 to help support foster kids.

Robinson connected with Treehouse's Graduation Success program.

The program's goal is to help more foster kids graduate high school.

In her sophomore year of high school, Robinson started meeting weekly with Mike Schloss at Treehouse.

Schloss became her coach, going over her goals and helping her make a plan to achieve them.

"From the get-go I could tell that Almeisha really wanted to do well," Schloss said.

Still, Robinson didn't have the confidence to follow what she really wanted to do, he pointed out.

Robinson wants to work in the music industry, either as an artist or a studio owner.

She was inspired to get into music by her older brother, a rapper who was murdered when she was 7.

Robinson writes songs and poetry.

She plays the guitar and keyboard, instruments she received from Treehouse.

But those dreams weren't going to happen if she took the same path that her siblings and parents did, she said.

Her siblings, Robinson said, "just work.

Eight-hour jobs, you know, sometimes more, just trying to make a living.

Not like a real career."

As a foster kid, the odds were against her.

Robinson's childhood was tough.

Her mother had problems with alcohol and struggled to manage the house.

It was so messy, the house was "unlivable," Robinson said.

Eventually, Robinson got tired of the chaos at home.

She came up with a plan: She'd stay with her aunt until her parents cleaned up the house.

But before her first day of high school, state officials said she could not return home.

Most teenagers are excited for their first day of high school.

Robinson was worried.

She had planned to stay with her aunt for a year.

It would turn into five years.

A stable home life is important for students.

Without it, they are much more likely to drop out of high school.

Robinson said she was mostly worried about her parents, not school or her own life.

Around her junior year, she realized that she might not be able do the things she wanted.

She didn't have enough credits to graduate.

She wasn't doing well in math or science, both subjects she would need to pass to finish school.

"We started to take the longer look of, 'What do you think you are gonna need to be an owner of a business?'"

Schloss said.

Robinson saw that "classes she didn't like, like math and science, were necessary for her to get what she wanted," he said.

Schloss compared the situation to a buffet, Robinson said.

"If you get there late, all your options start to run out because the food's gone.

So if you want the good choices, you've got to get there early."

Her senior year, she met with Schloss more often.

She took an online class to make up the missed credit, which was paid for by Treehouse, and concentrated on the classes she had a harder time with.

By the end of her senior year, she had done many of the same things that non-foster kids did and more.

She went to the prom, with a ticket from Treehouse.

She graduated with her class.

She even received the Governor's Scholarship, an award for foster students in Washington that grants up to $4,000 annually toward their college education.

Now, Robinson is in the middle of her first year at college.

She attends Seattle Central College, taking classes in math, English and — of course — music.

"I really enjoy school right now.

I'm really enjoying my classes and my teachers and just really enjoying the learning and taking advantage of what I have," she said.

"I'm learning, I'm having fun.

This is great."

