The fourth-graders on the Edina, Minnesota, competitive traveling basketball team used a full-court press.

They overwhelmed their opponents, and the aggressive strategy helped them to win easily — 27-8.

After the game was over, coach Paul Schmidt quickly gathered the 9- and 10-year-old players around him to look ahead to the next game, which was starting soon.

"When we go in the 'Diamond' down low, it's an inverted 'Diamond' that we're running, which is not what we really want," he said.

"You guys know what 'inverted' means?"

The coach was talking about the shape the players make while moving down the court.

These fourth-graders are getting a taste of the serious competition of youth sports — the intense activity that many love and others despise.

Youth hockey in Minnesota is famously competitive, but now youth basketball may be catching up.

More and more boys and girls are signing up to play ultra-competitive basketball at younger ages.

Teams with third-graders — even second-graders — are popping up.

Ten years ago, the Minnesota Youth Athletic Services (MYAS) began hosting a state tournament for boys' fourth-grade traveling teams and 20 teams took part.

Last year, 115 teams competed.

"I won't say it's hockey-like, but it's close," Todd Breyfogle said, shaking his head.

"Too many parents over here think their kid is going be the next Minnesota Gopher."

Breyfogle is a former college basketball player, but he was reluctant at first to sign up his son, Easton, to play on Edina's team.

Still, he did sign him up, and before long, Breyfogle was sitting court-side, yelling to the team, "Come on, drive it!"

Edina's traveling team is part of a larger trend in Minnesota — more teams playing fourth-grade travel basketball.

The competitive sport asks the players to travel to compete against other teams.

"We were one of just a handful" that had not yet lowered the age, said Paul Manley, Edina's boys' travel director.

We realized that "we need to do that otherwise we're going to be behind."

At the Cake Eater Classic — Edina's boys' basketball tournament for fourth- to eighth-graders — 234 teams competed from across Minnesota.

Schmidt's team, which is the highest-rated of Edina's three squads, will play at least 40 games this winter.

The fee to join one of the teams is $500, if you make the squad.

Back in the fall, 44 fourth-graders tried out and 15 were cut, thanks in part to the opinions of outside evaluators brought in to judge the players.

Schmidt's team got off to a slow start.

It had a 4-9 record early in January, but by later in the month, the team was winning regularly.

"It's just really fun, especially if you're on a really good team," Schmidt's 10-year-old son, Lleyton, said between games at a weekend tournament.

Was he tired?

"Like, sort of," he replied.

It's not the kids, like Lleyton, who are creating demand for competitive basketball at a young age, said Rich Penick, director at MYAS, but "it's the parents that are driving it."

Penick said MYAS only added a fourth-grade state tournament because so many youth basketball groups wanted it.

The groups had "so many parents pushing it," he said.

Deborah Edwards, the executive director of the Positive Coaching Alliance in Minnesota, said she shakes her head over what is happening.

"Youth sports is so scheduled — it's over-scheduled.

I think these traveling basketball teams just add to the over-scheduling of the kids."

Both parents and young players can be surprised by the commitments of youth basketball.

There are huge time commitments, travel, expenses.

Some of the players, just 9 years old, may not be ready for the tough realities of competitive sports — like getting cut from a team, said Derek Sharrer of the East Ridge Athletic Association.

"We try to limit (cuts from the team) as much as possible.

(We) focus less on it being a 'cut,' and more on it being a transition to playing at a lower level," he said.

In Edina, the passionate parents have different ways of supporting their young athletes.

Giovanna Ingram is paying $75 an hour to have her son, Vinnie, get extra training from a former professional basketball player.

She jokingly called herself an "over-the-top" parent.

She pointed to her son as he practiced on the court.

"He is number 23 — Michael Jordan," she said.

She was also direct about her goals for her son.

"An athletic scholarship would be nice," she said, Division I or II ideally, referring to the top levels of college sports.

But she quickly added: "The end all is to keep him out of trouble, (keep) him healthy — maybe get a scholarship in the end."

Another parent, Mike Munson, sits on the bench with a tablet and uses an app to track and analyze the team's shots.

"It shows shot selection, where we make shots, where we don't," he said.

He emails the results to an assistant coach after each game and "it's something they can use when they have practice."

His son, 9-year-old Tyler, wears number 3.

"He loves it," Munson said.

"I ask him, (after) every practice or game, is he having fun?

He always says he has a blast."

For parents, there are heavy commitments — financial and emotional.

Doug Lundahl, whose son, Jake, wears number 21, talked of paying $110 for basketball shoes, $125 for a uniform and $120 for an Under Armour gym bag with Jake's name on it.

And then there is the stress of the games themselves.

"They've had so many close games," Lundahl said, standing and watching a practice.

"As a parent, you age real fast."

Twice in the previous two years, the police have been called to Edina's Cake Eater Classic to calm down rowdy parents.

At one point, in a fifth-grade finals game, one team refused to take the court until police arrived to keep an eye on the crowd of parents.

