In Minnesota, younger and younger boys are playing on competitive basketball teams.

These teams play to win.

The parents and players must make big commitments to play on these teams.

The newest trend is fourth-grade teams with 9- and 10-year-old players.

Paul Schmidt coaches one of these teams in Edina, Minnesota.

He gives his players complicated strategies.

In one game, they came up with a plan.

They ran around the players on the other team.

They were able to beat them by 19 points.

After the game, Schmidt quickly gathered his team.

He only had a couple minutes to coach them before the next game started.

Youth competitive basketball in Minnesota is tough.

The players grow up fast.

They are playing sports a lot for such a young age.

Some people like competitive sports for kids.

Others think it is a bad thing.

Minnesota is famous for competitive youth hockey.

Now basketball may become popular, too.

More and more boys and girls are playing competitive basketball at younger ages.

Some teams have third-graders, even second-graders.

Ten years ago, 20 teams played in a tournament for fourth-grade traveling teams.

Last year, 115 teams played.

Todd Breyfogle used to play college basketball.

Still, he was not sure if he should sign up his son, Easton, to play traveling basketball.

In the end, he did.

Soon, Breyfogle was sitting court-side, yelling to the team.

"Come on!"

Schmidt's team will play at least 40 games this winter.

It costs $500 to join the team, if you make it.

Out of the 44 fourth-graders who tried out, 15 were not good enough.

People who did not live in the area were brought in to help judge the players.

"It's just really fun, especially if you're on a really good team," said Lleyton, Schmidt's 10-year-old son.

It is not the kids who are asking to play competitive basketball, but the parents.

According to Rich Penick, director of a state basketball group, "the parents are driving it."

Deborah Edwards works for the Positive Coaching Alliance in Minnesota.

The group tries to focus on how sports can help young people to grow.

The group wants young athletes to focus less on just winning and losing.

Edwards says she shakes her head when she sees what's happening.

"Youth sports is so scheduled — it's over-scheduled," she said. "

I think these traveling basketball teams just add to the over-scheduling of the kids."

It's not easy for parents or young players who participate in a traveling team.

It takes time, travel, money.

Some players, just 9 years old, may not be ready for tough experiences, like getting cut.

In Edina, passionate parents have different ways of supporting their young athletes.

Giovanna Ingram has a son named Vinnie.

She pays $75 per hour to have Vinnie get extra training.

He is trained by a former professional basketball player.

She hopes her son will become good enough at basketball to earn a scholarship to a good college.

He could go to college for free in exchange for playing for the school team.

She quickly added that the main thing is "to keep him out of trouble, (keep) him healthy — maybe get a scholarship in the end."

Basketball parent Mike Munson sits on the bench with a tablet, like an iPad.

He uses an app to track the team's shots.

"It shows shot selection, where we make shots, where we don't," he said.

He emails the results to an assistant coach after each game.

"It's something they can use when they have practice."

