When the fourth-graders on the Edina, Minnesota, traveling basketball team were allowed to use a full-court press, the aggressive strategy helped them to demolish their opponents 27-8.

As the game ended, coach Paul Schmidt quickly gathered the 9- and 10-year-old players around him and looked ahead to the next game, which was about to start.

"When we go in the 'Diamond' down low, it's an inverted 'Diamond' that we're running, which is not what we really want," he said.

"You guys know what 'inverted' means?"

The coach talks to the young players about what shape they are forming as a team while they are running down the court.

These fourth-graders are getting a taste of the extreme competition of youth sports — the intensity that many love and others despise.

In Minnesota, youth hockey has long had a reputation for competitiveness, but now, youth basketball might be catching up.

More and more boys and girls are registering to play ultra-competitive basketball at younger ages: teams with third-graders — and even second-graders — are popping up.

Ten years ago, the Minnesota Youth Athletic Services (MYAS) began hosting a state tournament for boys' fourth-grade traveling teams and 20 teams took part.

Last year, 115 teams competed.

"I won't say it's hockey-like, but it's close," Todd Breyfogle said, shaking his head.

"Too many parents over here think their kid is going be the next Minnesota Gopher."

Breyfogle, a former college basketball player, was reluctant at first, but he signed up his son, Easton, to play on Edina's team.

At first he was torn, but soon he was sitting court-side, yelling encouragement to the team, "Come on, drive it!"

Edina's traveling team is part of a larger trend developing in Minnesota — more teams playing fourth-grade travel basketball.

"We were one of just a handful" that had not yet lowered the age, said Paul Manley, Edina's boys' travel director.

(We thought), 'We need to do that otherwise we're going to be behind.'"

At the Cake Eater Classic — Edina's fourth- to eighth-grade boys' travel basketball tournament — 234 teams from across Minnesota competed.

Schmidt's team — the highest-rated of Edina's three squads — will play at least 40 games this winter.

The fee to join one of the teams is $500, if you make the squad.

Back in early fall, 44 fourth-graders tried out and 15 were cut, thanks in part to the opinions of outside evaluators brought in to assess the players.

Schmidt's team got off to a slow start, with a 4-9 record in January.

But by late January, the team was winning regularly.

"It's just really fun, especially if you're on a really good team," Schmidt's 10-year-old son, Lleyton, said between games at a weekend tournament.

Was he tired?

"Like, sort of," he replied.

It's not the kids, like Lleyton, who are creating demand for competitive basketball at a young age, said Rich Penick, director at MYAS, but "it's the parents that are driving it."

Penick said MYAS only added a fourth-grade state tournament after so many youth basketball groups wanted it, and "they had so many parents pushing it."

Deborah Edwards, the executive director of the Positive Coaching Alliance in Minnesota, said she can only shake her head over what is happening.

"Youth sports is so scheduled — it's over-scheduled.

I think these traveling basketball teams just adds to the over-scheduling of the kids."

Both parents and young players can be taken aback by the commitments of youth basketball.

There are huge time commitments, travel, expenses.

Some of the players, at just 9 years old, may not be ready for the harsh realities of competitive sports — like getting cut from a team, said Derek Sharrer of the East Ridge Athletic Association.

"We try to limit (cuts from the team) as much as possible.

(We) focus less on it being a 'cut,' and more on it being a transition to playing at a lower level," he said.

In Edina, the passionate parents have different ways of supporting, and pushing, their young athletes.

Giovanna Ingram is paying $75 an hour to have her son, Vinnie, get extra training from a former pro basketball player.

She jokingly called herself an "over-the-top" parent.

She pointed to her son as he practiced on the court.

"He is number 23 — Michael Jordan," she said.

She was also direct about her goals and aspirations for her son.

"An athletic scholarship would be nice," she said, Division I or II ideally.

But she quickly added, "The end all is to keep him out of trouble, (keep) him healthy — maybe get a scholarship in the end."

Another parent, Mike Munson, sits on the bench with an electronic tablet and uses an app to track and analyze the team's shots.

"It shows shot selection, where we make shots, where we don't," he said.

He emails the results to an assistant coach after each game and "it's something they can use when they have practice."

His son, 9-year-old Tyler, wears number 3.

"He loves it," Munson said.

"I ask him, (after) every practice or game, is he having fun?

He always says he has a blast."

For parents, there are heavy commitments — financial and emotional.

Doug Lundahl, whose son Jake wears number 21, talked of paying $110 for basketball shoes, $125 for a uniform and $120 for an Under Armour gym bag with Jake's name on it.

And then there are the games themselves.

"They've had so many close games," Lundahl said, standing and watching a practice.

"As a parent, you age real fast."

Twice in the previous two years, the police have been called to Edina's Cake Eater Classic to calm down unruly parents.

At one point, in a fifth-grade finals game, one team refused to take the court until police arrived to keep an eye on the crowd of parents.

