After French-born Islamic radicals shocked the country with three days of terror attacks in January, the French government launched a new effort.

It is aimed at healing social and religious fractures by better teaching children about French values and steering them away from violent religious propaganda.

Prime Minister Manuel Valls shocked many by referring to a "territorial, social, ethnic" divide that especially affects the"banlieues," the troubled suburbs where some of France's poorest people live.

Many of them are minorities with immigrant roots, and include many Muslims from countries that were once French colonies.

These areas are seen as time bombs of discontent where values that bind the nation are often absent.

Valls held a special government meeting to tackle this divide in society.

The proposals that emerged focus on schools, which Valls calls an "essential link" in transmitting French values of tolerance and freedom.

Concern about schools jumped to the forefront of national debate after some children refused to observe a minute of silence for victims of the Jan. 7-9 attacks.

Twenty people, including the three gunmen, were killed in the attacks on a kosher market and satirical paper Charlie Hebdo.

The three gunmen had lived in neighborhoods in Paris and its suburbs.

Many in the suburbs of Paris understood why some children did not observe the moment of silence, even if they condemn the terror attacks.

"People were killed in the housing projects by police, and there was no minute of silence" for them, said Aly Sacko, a 28-year-old working in Clichy-sous-Bois.

Two teenagers from immigrant backgrounds were killed in Clichy-sous-Bois in 2005 while fleeing police, after they hid in a train station and were electrocuted.

The deaths sparked weeks of riots in suburbs across the country.

Similar incidents have prompted smaller riots in other cities in the decade since.

Sacko, a French-born Muslim of Malian origin, said the prime minister's plans to fix poverty and social tensions are a "dream."

''Nothing will change, I promise you," he said.

The plans include special training and testing for school teachers about French and European citizenship and more hours of civics classes for students.

Teachers will also be trained in teaching a secular attitude.

Secularism believes in values that have no religious basis.

Money spent to help the poorest families with schooling costs will increase 20 percent to 45 million euros ($52 million).

Another idea is to teach children to better navigate online media and distinguish between extremist propaganda and facts.

Schools will be requested to develop their own radio stations, newspapers, or blogs.

The ideas are not France's first effort to tackle troubles in the suburbs.

Unrest first broke out in 1990.

Then-President Francois Mitterrand said the projects "provoke rejection, despair" and called it a "problem which will weigh for years on our society."

Violence continued to simmer.

The big wake-up call came in 2005 with fiery nationwide riots.

France seemed to discover only then that many in the suburbs were living in a different world.

Soaring unemployment, a high crime rate and even a lack of access to public transportation to get to jobs fed a deep sense of inequality.

The situation in the suburban housing projects defies France's model for integration.

The model assumes that all colors, races and creeds will blend into a single people.

It is illegal to count people in France by ethnic or religious background, and diverse populations are expected to blend in — not live separately with just their own race.

Yet it is the French government that pushed immigrants into suburban projects, where today dozens of nationalities mostly cling to their roots and culture.

When he was president, Nicolas Sarkozy made fixing the suburbs a priority.

He created a Ministry of Immigration, Integration and National Identity — since dismantled — and in 2008 unveiled a master plan.

It included $728 million to create new trains and tramways, an expansion of "second-chance schools" for dropouts, and professional guidance for thousands of youths wanting to start a company or get on a job track.

It also included more police.

The plan grew and changed along the way.

The global financial crisis hit, and France had less money to pay for projects, so attention turned elsewhere.

There is no clear record of how well the plan worked.

For example, take the housing project that was home to Amedy Coulibaly, one of the gunmen in the Paris attacks in January.

It remains a different universe from the government palaces of the capital, just a few miles away.

Some doctors and postal workers refuse to venture inside, and even police enter with caution to a zone where drug dealers and teenage thugs hold sway.

Some improvements are visible in suburbs that received attention after the 2005 riots.

One of the toughest projects in the Paris region, has seen its high-rises scarred with graffiti demolished, and replaced with scaled-down townhouses.

However, in Clichy-Sous-Bois, where the 2005 riots started, a long-promised train to reduce the 90-minute journey by bus and train to nearby Paris, where jobs are easier to find, may not be finished before 2019.

Samir Ouahfi, a 29-year-old father of three working in a cafe in one suburb, had little hope that the current government would do better than past ones.

"They say there is equality and fraternity," he said, referring to the French national motto.

But here on the gray concrete of the projects, he added, "there isn't any."

