An international study ranked France as having one of the developed world's most unequal school systems.

How well students perform in school is highly dependent on how wealthy their families are, the study found.

In response, France has announced plans to shake up its educational system.

It is cutting back an elite language program and also giving schools more say in how students spend their time.

Inequality in education threatens the country's future, the French government says.

The changes set to start in 2016 are relatively modest.

France will reduce the amount of Latin and ancient Greek in schools, and reschedule and expand classroom time devoted to modern languages.

It will also let schools — rather than the government — decide how to spend 20 percent of students' time.

But the plan prompted a strike by teachers on Tuesday, drawing criticism from both left-leaning teachers unions and French conservatives.

It's a debate that is similar to discussions about underperforming students in the United States.

French teachers unions, which routinely protest any changes, complained the reforms do not address the real problem and were pushed through without consultation.

Conservatives fear an attack on France's intellectual tradition of rigorous education and classical languages.

The government wants to add classes that cover several subjects at once.

It also wants to cut a well-respected bilingual program, in which students learn in two languages, that enrolls about 15 percent of France's top students.

In exchange it will expand foreign language classes to a broader range of younger children.

Students will start learning their first foreign language — usually English — in the equivalent of first grade and their second foreign language around age 12.

But French conservatives are upset about a new required theme for middle school history classes, titled "A world dominated by Europe: Colonial empires, commercial exchanges and slave trades."

Meanwhile, a seemingly more positive take on the period, titled "Society and culture in the Enlightenment," is an elective, which students don't have to take to graduate.

There won't be as much emphasis on Latin and Greek — currently 20 percent of middle schoolers learn those ancient languages.

But they will still be optional.

The government went out of its way to reassure worried German officials that German and English will still be the first foreign languages taught.

The number of hours in class, 26 per week, will not change.

Peter Gumbel is a British journalist who lives in Paris and is about to publish a second book about French schooling.

He said the plan is a timid approach to an urgent problem.

He said the government cannot make extreme changes "because they know if they try anything radical the whole country would erupt.

As it is, they're trying something that is not radical and the country is not quite erupting but people are going out in the streets and there's a lot of indignation."

The unions claimed more than 50 percent of teachers participated in the strike, although the crowd that took part in a protest march was smaller than in previous strikes.

The government said fewer than one in four middle school teachers participated.

In a letter to the education minister, opponents said the changes will not make a difference in children's education.

France's government is under pressure to fix the system.

The 2012 study from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) found that France's education system showed large differences between rich and poor children, especially in math.

Among all the 39 countries that participated in the study, only Taipei, the capital of Taiwan, showed more inequality in math results, according to the OECD.

"How can we accept that our educational system can't promote all talents, that so many middle schoolers do not master basics, do not master foreign languages?"

Prime Minister Manuel Valls wrote Monday, May 19 in a French newspaper.

"In the current world — a globalized world, a world of exchanges — this is sending our children, and therefore our country, toward an impasse."

France's last education reform added a half-day to the four-day school week in elementary schools.

The move set off protests for a year.

The education minister at the time ultimately resigned after pushing the reform through.

The latest education minister, Najat Vallaud-Belkacem, has staked her job on the latest changes.

She said the critics are full of lies and nonsense.

Gumbel said the changes will do little to address the fundamental problems in French education.

"Yes, they are making the program more interesting, more relevant, more fun," Gumbel said.

"And that of course is shocking to the French purists who want you to be cramming things that are useless for your life."

He said there is a vision of French schools as being a marvelous place where the students are rewarded for hard word and where great things are learned.

"And the reality is that actually 20 percent of the kids are not learning anything at all," he said.

