RIS – Parents like Eric and Isabelle Nizard are angry.

The French government is trying out a new program on their 9-year-old son, Sacha.

It's the latest change in French public education.

Sacha must now attend school on Wednesdays.

Beginning in September, Wednesday was no longer an official day off in France.

It was a traditional break in the middle of the week for elementary school students.

But now, French children have to show up for class Monday through Friday.

The Nizards complain that Sacha feels a bit lost.

Their Tuesday evenings have been ruined.

The family used to go out to dinner or watch TV without worrying about class the next morning.

Sacha's guitar lessons used to be on Wednesdays.

Now they are sandwiched into his Friday lunch period.

"We weren't asked for our opinion.

This was imposed upon us," said Isabelle, 41.

"They changed the course of our life without asking us for our opinion!"

The new school week has sparked protests from teachers and letters from parents.

The unpopular government of President Francois Hollande is struggling to defend it.

Officials say it is because of a serious problem.

French students had Wednesdays off, as well as a relatively short school year.

So educators were forced to pack more hours into each remaining school day.

In other words, fewer school days mean much longer ones.

Children as young as 6 stay in class late in the afternoon, until skies go dark and parents get off work.

Adding Wednesday to the mix is supposed to lighten that burden.

The declining scores of French students is becoming a real concern.

About a quarter of the country's elementary schools have already changed their calendars.

The rest are expected to do so next year.

The reason French schoolchildren have had Wednesdays off is an accident of history.

France created its public education system in the late 19th century.

The government gave one day a week to the Catholic Church for children to attend bible classes.

Many schools stayed open on Saturday mornings.

But in 2008, then-President Nicolas Sarkozy decided that a four-day school week was enough.

Vincent Peillon is France's education minister.

He says he feels comfortable with the change.

He believes that it is in the best interest of the nation's young.

But he has been challenged by the public.

Parents claim the shift has been made poorly.

Even those who admit that the old system had problems say so.

In Paris, parents are mad.

Instead of school days of equal length, the city's new school week is a crazy quilt.

No two days in a row end at the same time.

And moms and dads feel cheated.

Many have arranged their workweeks to spend Wednesdays with their kids.

"We have this midweek day off which helps the kids relax, to establish their own rhythm, to stay up a little longer (on Tuesdays) with us," said Eric, Sacha's father.

It helps make the next morning easier, he added.

Some children do attend church school.

But today's parents aren't as religious.

Many have found Wednesdays useful for their kids' music lessons, sports practice and other non-school activities.

These get little attention in the French education system.

Businesses have sprung up to serve the Wednesday desires of middle-class families, offering programs for extra help for kids in things like English.

Isabelle helped put together a letter from people in her rich neighborhood demanding that the mayor of Paris stop the new school week.

It hasn't succeeded.

The parents group she leads is now urging members to pull their kids out of school next Wednesday in protest.

Others across France are doing the same.

Teachers and other school workers have called for a national strike the following day.

A strike is when people stay home from work to protest something they don't like.

Rearranging the school calendar is one way officials are trying to fix French education.

France's level of education compared with other countries has been declining over the last 10 years.

By the time they turn 15, nearly two-fifths of French students have had to repeat a grade.

That's three times the average of most well-off countries.

About one-sixth drop out or finish school without a degree.

