Gunmen belonging to a terror group shocked France with three days of  attacks in January.

In response, the government began a new effort to heal the country.

It hopes to steer children away from extremist messages online.

It thinks teaching them values shared by all French people will help.

The gunmen were French, but they were from immigrant families.

They said they were Muslims and were angry that a paper drew cartoons of the Muslim Prophet Muhammad.

After the attacks, Prime Minister Manuel Valls shocked many by saying that geography, society and race divided some French people from the rest.

He felt that this division especially affects the"banlieues."

Banlieues are the suburbs outside Paris, where some of France's poorest people live in housing projects.

Many are immigrants or have parents who were.

The banlieues are seen as places where values that hold a nation together are often absent.

The gunmen in the shootings were from the banlieues and other poor neighborhoods in Paris.

Valls called for a special government meeting to come up with ways to deal with this divide in French society.

The new plans focus on schools.

Valls sees them as an important way to spread French values of freedom and being open to people who have different ideas and beliefs.

Concern about schools grew after some children refused to observe a minute of silence for victims of the attacks.

Some children did not go along with the moment of silence, even though they were against the terror attacks.

Many living outside Paris said they understood why.

"People were killed in the housing projects by police, and there was no minute of silence for them," said Aly Sacko, a 28-year-old from a Paris neighborhood.

Two teenagers from immigrant families were killed there in 2005 while running from police.

They were electrocuted by accident in the train station.

Their deaths set off weeks of riots across the country.

Sacko, a Muslim born in France, said the prime minister's plans to fix poverty are a "dream."

''Nothing will change, I promise you," he said.

School teachers will be trained to teach students how to be better citizens and develop common values that go beyond any one religion.

Another idea is to teach children to see the difference between facts and the messages sent out by extremist Muslims online.

Grade schools will be asked to start their own radio stations and newspapers.

These ideas are not France's first effort to deal with troubles in the suburbs.

Protests first broke out in 1990.

The anger continued.

The big wake-up call came in 2005 with fiery riots.

The number of people without jobs kept growing.

The crime rate was high and many could not get to trains or buses to find jobs.

The situation in the projects goes against French belief that all colors and races will blend into a single people.

It is a crime to count people in France by their race or customs.

Very different people are expected to blend in and work together.

The last president put out a plan to fix the suburbs in 2008.

It included creating more public transport.

There were to be "second-chance schools" for dropouts.

Youths wanting to start a company or find jobs were to be given help.

The plan changed after France ran low on money.

No one really knows how carefully it was carried out.

The projects outside Paris are a different world from the government palaces of the capital, just a few miles away.

Some doctors and postal workers refuse to go into certain projects.

Even police are careful because of the drug dealers and criminals.

Some improvements can be seen in the suburbs.

The huge apartment buildings in one of the toughest projects in the Paris region have been torn down and nice townhouses built in their place.

But a new train that would reduce the 90-minute journey to nearby Paris and the jobs there has not been finished, and may not be before 2019.

Samir Ouahfi works in a cafe in one of the suburbs.

The 29-year-old had little hope that the current government would do better than the one before.

"They say there is equality and fraternity," he said, referring to the French national motto.

But here in the projects, he added, "there isn't any."

