RIS – Parents like Eric and Isabelle Nizard are angry over a social experiment being conducted on their 9-year-old son, Sacha.

It's the latest change in French public education: Their child must now attend school on Wednesdays.

Beginning in September, Wednesday was no longer an official day off.

It was a traditional oasis in the middle of the week for elementary school students.

Instead, French children — who, like their parents, already enjoy longer lunch breaks and summer vacations than their counterparts in many other countries — have to show up for class Monday through Friday.

The Nizards complain that Sacha feels a bit lost.

Their Tuesday evenings have been sabotaged.

The family used to go out to dinner or watch TV without worrying about class the next morning.

Sacha's guitar lessons, once on Wednesdays, are now sandwiched into his Friday lunch period.

"We weren't asked for our opinion.

This was imposed upon us," said Isabelle, 41.

"They changed the course of our life without asking us for our opinion!"

The new schedule has sparked protests from teachers and letters from parents.

The deeply unpopular government of President Francois Hollande, who pledged the change during his election campaign last year, is struggling to defend it.

The outcry may seem to outsiders like a case of French whine.

But officials say it centers on a serious problem.

Because French students had Wednesdays off, as well as a relatively short school year, educators were forced to pack more hours into each remaining school day.

In other words, fewer school days mean much longer ones.

Children as young as 6 often remain in class until late in the afternoon, as skies darken and parents get off work.

Adding Wednesday to the mix is supposed to lighten that burden, at a time when the declining scores of French students is becoming a real concern.

About a quarter of the country's elementary schools have already adjusted their calendars.

The rest are expected to follow suit next year.

That French schoolchildren have had Wednesdays off is a quirk of history.

When France created public education in the late 19th century, the government gave a weekly day off for children to attend classes held by the Roman Catholic Church.

Many schools threw open their doors on Saturday mornings to make up for the lost teaching time.

But in 2008, then-President Nicolas Sarkozy decided that a four-day school week was enough.

Vincent Peillon, France's education minister, says he feels at peace with the change.

He thinks it is clearly in the best interest of the nation's young.

But that personal calm has been challenged by public attack.

Parents claim the shift has been implemented chaotically, even those who admit that the old system was flawed.

Everyone agrees "that kids are overloaded" and that the school days are too filled up, said Peter Gumbel, a professor at Sciences Po university here.

Gumbel is the author of a bestselling book on problems in the French education system.

"However, as soon as you start to change anything, everybody starts screaming."

In Paris, parents are fuming that instead of five days of equal length, the city's new school schedule is a crazy quilt.

No two days in a row end at the same time.

And moms and dads who have arranged their workweeks to spend Wednesdays with their tots feel cheated.

"We have this midweek day off which helps the kids relax, to establish their own rhythm, to stay up a little longer (on Tuesdays) with us," said Eric, Sacha's father.

The day after, there is "no push in the morning to wake up to go to school."

Some children do attend church school.

But today's non-practicing parents have found Wednesdays useful for their kids' music lessons, sports practice and other non-school activities.

These get little attention in the highly controlled French education system.

Businesses have sprung up to serve the Wednesday desires of middle-class families, offering get-ahead programs for kids like English classes.

Isabelle helped put together a letter signed by the people in her rich neighborhood demanding that the mayor of Paris stop the new schedule.

It hasn't succeeded.

Instead, the parents group she leads and others across France are now urging members to pull their kids out of school next Wednesday in protest.

Teachers and other school workers have called for a national strike the following day.

Restructuring the school calendar has become one of the many topics that officials are looking at.

They are trying to stop France's slide in global education rankings over the last 10 years.

By the time they turn 15, nearly 40 percent of French students have had to repeat a grade.

That's three times the average rate of most industrialized countries.

More than 15 percent drop out or finish school without a degree.

