Lynda Walsh wants kids to look fashionable no matter how tight their budget is.

To provide young people with clothing of all sizes and accessories to match, Walsh recently opened the Cool Clothes Closet of South Palm Beach County.

Kids can shop at the nonprofit boutique without worrying about how much money is in their wallet.

The 69-year-old retiree's main goal is to provide both everyday and professional clothing — at no cost.

Her boutique provides clothes to children in foster care, older kids looking for their first jobs and children of returning veterans who have not found work yet, she said.

"We are here to give clothes away to kids who need them," said Walsh, a court-appointed advocate for children from Delray Beach, Florida.

An advocate watches out for the rights and interests of kids in the foster care system.

Children who cannot live with their families or who do not have families are placed by the state with foster parents until they can find permanent homes.

Even though the clothes are free, Cool Clothes Closet is set up like a fancy store.

There are clothes hanging on racks and folded in dressers for both males and females in sizes extra small to triple extra large.

Walsh's effort started in 2012, when she became a legal guardian for children in the foster care system.

Walsh isn't a stranger to working with kids in rough situations.

Before she moved to Florida in 2000, she worked in Chicago as a court reporter in the juvenile court system.

Once she started helping at the West Palm Beach Courthouse, she saw how shabbily dressed the kids were when they showed up to court.

"I saw teens coming to court in dirty, ragged clothes," she said.

Even though the courthouse has a closet of clothes for kids to change into when they appear in court, she said she wanted to help kids outside of the court.

To open the Cool Clothes Closet, Walsh said she asked friends and family to donate clothes and help organize the space.

She said her 93-year-old mother helps wash and iron donated clothes.

Since no outfit would be complete without the right accessories, there are also shoes, purses and hats for the taking.

The Clothes Closet opened its doors about four months ago, drawing its young customers through word-of-mouth recommendations.

The handful of children who have been assisted so far have been grateful, Walsh said.

"Everybody has found something," she said.

"Nobody has gone empty-handed."

Roberta Mizrahi, who volunteers at the boutique, said the kids are often shy about trying on the clothes.

They perk up with excitement when they try on something they like.

"I think it's wonderful," she said.

There is no limit on how little or how much kids can take, but Walsh said the average is about two shopping bags per person.

To get the full boutique experience, Walsh had custom shopping bags made.

"I didn't want people walking out of here with Publix bags," she said, referring to the grocery-store chain.

Now her focus is on finding shoppers and working around their schedules.

The shop isn't open during regular business hours, since that is when kids are in school.

Instead, Walsh schedules one-on-one appointments on weekends or after school.

Walsh said she has a special place in her heart for the older kids, who are gearing up to start new chapters of their lives as adults.

She makes sure the Closet is stocked with professional clothing available for job interviews.

"I can remember being their age," she said.

To let people know the boutique is open, she spends time reaching out to local schools, churches and after-school care programs.

"We need to connect with children and let them know we are here," she said.

