Sarah Dupuis plays violin with the Northbrook Symphony Orchestra.

Families in the suburbs pay her to teach lessons to their children.

Dupuis has also volunteered to teach students in the city who face poverty and hardship.

But they are determined to overcome these obstacles one string at a time.

"These kids are so brave, so strong and they work so hard," said Dupuis.

"If I had to deal with half the things they do at that age, I'd have given up long ago," she said.

Dupuis has spent the past three years teaching young musicians at KIPP Ascend Primary School in Chicago.

She and a KIPP school counselor, Joi Truman, began a free program to teach the kids there to play the violin.

The program is called MUSIC Inc, which stands for "Music in Urban Schools Inspiring Change."

The program began with little money and no violins.

At first, the students learned on fake violins made from empty Lean Cuisine boxes.

Soon, local violin-maker Michael Reuter donated 25 instruments.

Dozens more used violins have been donated to the program in recent years.

Today, the MUSIC program at KIPP has 12 families on a waiting list, Dupuis said.

Officials also are trying to raise money to bring the program to more poor Chicago neighborhoods.

The program currently has more than 70 KIPP students, ages 7 to 10.

To participate, Dupuis said students must meet leadership goals.

They must display responsible behavior in the classroom and complete homework assignments.

The children are given a violin and a song book so they can practice at home.

Dupuis teaches them violin through the Suzuki method.

In the Suzuki method, parental involvement is important.

Parents attend all the lessons and become "home teachers" for their children.

MUSIC holds family classes on Saturdays at KIPP to teach parents how to help their children practice outside of the classroom.

Ashley Wiggins has a fourth-grade daughter in the program.

She said her daughter has developed far more than just musical ability.

"Madison used to be really shy, but she just played her violin before a few hundred people at a youth pageant at our church," Wiggins said.

"This is something that never occurred to me, because I don't play an instrument, but playing the violin has helped Madison develop into a person who is responsible.

She takes such good care of her instrument.

She's much more confident and has the ability now to speak in front of a group."

Wiggins is a mother of two with a full-time job.

She said she enjoys attending the program's Saturday violin classes for parents.

Melissa Cowell is a third-grade teacher at KIPP.

She helps with the program.

She said she learned to play the viola with private lessons as a child growing up in a wealthy suburb of Chicago.

"String education can be very expensive, even if it just means providing the instrument," Cowell said.

The free MUSIC program levels the playing field, she said.

It enables kids from poor families an equal chance to learn an instrument like kids from wealthier families.

