Families in the suburbs pay violinist Sarah Dupuis to teach violin to their children.

She also wanted to teach students on Chicago's West Side.

These kids live in a poor neighborhood.

Many have difficult lives at home.

They cannot afford instruments or lessons.

"These kids are so brave, so strong," said Dupuis.

"They work so hard."

Dupuis said if she was in their situation, she would have given up long ago.

For the last three years, Dupuis has taught violin to students at KIPP Ascend Primary School.

KIPP is in Chicago's West Lawndale neighborhood.

Their families cannot afford to give them music lessons, which can be very expensive.

So Dupuis and a KIPP school counselor began a free program to teach students to play the violin.

They called the program MUSIC Inc.

It stands for "Music in Urban Schools Inspiring Change."

At first, the program did not have real violins for the kids to play on.

They learned with fake violins made from empty frozen dinner boxes.

A local violin-maker named Michael Reuter gave the program 25 violins.

After that, people gave dozens more used instruments to the program.

Today, the MUSIC program at KIPP has 12 families on a waiting list, Dupuis said.

Officials are trying to raise money.

They want to bring the program to more poor Chicago neighborhoods.

More than 70 KIPP students are learning to play the violin through the free MUSIC program.

They are 7 to 10 years old.

To participate, Dupuis said students must behave well in the classroom.

They must also finish their homework.

The children get a violin and a song book so they can practice at home.

Parents also receive a handbook so they can help their kids.

The program teach the violin through the Suzuki method.

It is a way of teaching musical instruments.

Parents are a key part of the Suzuki method.

Parents go to all the lessons.

They become "home teachers" for their children.

MUSIC holds family classes on Saturdays at KIPP.

The classes teach parents how to help their child practice outside of the classroom.

Ashley Wiggins has a fourth-grade daughter in the program.

Her daughter is named Madison.

Wiggins said that Madison has learned far more than just playing the violin.

Madison used to be really shy, Wiggins said.

Not long ago, Madison played her violin before a few hundred people at a youth program at their church.

"Playing the violin has helped Madison develop into a person who is responsible," Wiggins said.

"She takes such good care of her instrument.

She's much more confident and has the ability now to speak in front of a group."

Wiggins likes attending the Saturday violin classes for parents.

Melissa Cowell is a third-grade teacher at KIPP.

She helps with the program.

Cowell grew up in a rich town just north of Chicago.

She learned to play the viola with private lessons as a child.

A viola is a stringed instrument, like the violin.

Learning to play the violin can be very expensive, Cowell said.

Violins are expensive.

Private lessons cost a lot of money.

The free MUSIC program gives kids from poor families an equal chance to learn to play an instrument.

