Everywhere Kevin Hunt looks, he sees ice and people.

Hunt stands at his Star North gas station in this eye-blink of a town on mighty Lake Superior.

He marvels at Mother Nature and his own dumb luck.

Months ago, people warned him not to invest his time and money in a place where tourists flee in the fall.

The big lake's waters turn cold and storm-tossed, forcing the 100 or so hardy full-time residents of Cornucopia into hibernation for the winter.

He'd be out of business by March, they said.

Then Lake Superior did something it hadn't done to this degree in decades: It froze.

Freakish cold weather has caused record-setting levels of ice in four of the five Great Lakes.

Last week, the lakes were 92.2 percent frozen, just under the record of 94.7 percent set in 1979.

The ice has created both winners and losers.

Ships can't get through the ice, and so this winter could prove costly for shippers if passages through the ice aren't opened fast enough.

"Mother Nature isn't ready to give up the ice," said Mark Gill, director of vessel traffic for the Coast Guard.

"In no uncertain terms, it's been the worst winter on the lakes in 35 years.

The ice is thick, the coverage is vast and the weather has been brutally cold over a long period of time.

That means it's going to be a long, difficult spring for many of these shippers."

Still, ice fishermen are ecstatic.

So, too, are the scientists who say say the ice buildup will help fill low water levels in all the lakes.

Combined, the Great Lakes hold one-fifth of the planet's fresh water.

In Cornucopia, the popular sea caves at nearby Apostle Islands National Lakeshore are normally out of reach in the winter.

The ice has made them suddenly very accessible.

Visitors can trudge across the bright white landscape to explore the icy strands that hang like stalactites in the sandstone caves.

On a recent day, one husband even pushed his wife in a wheelchair -- on skis.

In late January, when the freeze set in, business suddenly exploded in the isolated town locals lovingly call "Corny."

On weekends, 20,000 tourists flood the community, packing the only restaurant and bar.

Miles of cars clog local Route 13, forcing visitors to wait hours to be taken to the lake.

Inns have been booked for weeks.

And, of course, everyone needs gas.

"We were so busy, we had guys directing traffic outside the station," said a beaming Hunt.

"Doormen let only the number of people in who came out.

There was a 40-foot line to the toilets.

I'm considering a revolving door for the ladies' room."

The freeze of 2014 has been good to others as well, including a private pilot who pulled off an emergency landing on Lake Huron.

The ice buildup has reduced snowfall for the winter-weary cities along the Great Lakes.

It also promises to keep the waters cooler well into summer.

The cooler water will delay evaporation that has sent lakes Huron and Michigan to their lowest water levels since 1918.

The icy lakes also help wildlife.

Eggs of cold-water fish species are better protected in icy waters.

And biologists hope a pack of [endangered](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species) wolves trapped on an island in Lake Superior will be able to safely cross the ice.

But not everyone is warming to the deep freeze.

Great Lakes shipping lanes are clogged with ice up to 4 feet thick.

The Coast Guard is scrambling to ram passages through the ice in time for the start of shipping season later this month.

"It's been a brutal winter — it arrived early and in full force," said Glen Nekvasil, vice president of the Lake Carriers' Association.

The association represents 17 Great Lakes shipping firms.

But whether the ice has peaked this year — or will get worse — is anyone's guess.

Shipping on individual lakes has nearly stopped.

"We've had trips that normally take two days take seven or more," Nekvasil said.

"Ports are frozen solid.

Ships can't get in without being damaged."

Meanwhile, East Coast factories await delivery of iron ore, coal and limestone, much of it shipped through the Great Lakes.

The Army Corps of Engineers estimates that a delay in freeing up the shipping channels could mean a loss of $160 million.

At Apostle Islands National Lakeshore, rangers sell T-shirts with a saying made famous by a fisherman who made his living on Superior: "The lake is the boss."

In a normal year, the Apostles Islands park sees perhaps 150,000 visitors.

In 2014, that many came in January and February alone, pumping $10 million into the economy.

Not everyone in Corny is happy with the invasion.

"Do you have a favorite beach you go to where no one else goes?"

asked one woman at the post office.

"Well, I had one too.

Until recently."

Apostle Islands park ranger Chris Smith said officials were making sure the ice didn't give way beneath the weight of thousands of tourists.

For now, normally fierce Lake Superior is being obedient, lying down under her blanket of ice, but visitors know it cannot last.

Because the lake, as they say, will always be the boss.

