Everywhere Kevin Hunt looks, he sees ice and people.

Hunt stands at his Star North gas station in this ant of a town on Lake Superior.

He marvels at Mother Nature and his own luck.

People warned Hunt not to open a gas station in a place where tourists leave in the fall.

He wanted to make money from tourists.

But in the winter, the big lake's waters turn cold and stormy, and the town's 100 or so residents stay inside.

People said he'd be out of business by March.

Then Lake Superior did something unusual: It froze.

Four of the five Great Lakes have record-setting ice levels.

The ice has created both winners and losers.

"It's been the worst winter on the lakes in 35 years," said Mark Gill.

He directs ship traffic for the Coast Guard.

"The ice is thick, the coverage is vast and the weather has been brutally cold over a long period of time.

That means it's going to be a long, difficult spring for many of these shippers."

Still, ice fishermen are thrilled.

Scientists are also happy with the weather.

They say say the ice buildup will fill low water levels in all the lakes.

The Great Lakes hold one-fifth of the planet's fresh water.

The sea caves at Apostle Islands National Lakeshore are normally out of reach in the winter.

This year, visitors walk across the frozen lake to explore the ice-filled caves.

One husband even pushed his wife across in a wheelchair -- on skis.

In late January, when the freeze set in, business took off.

On weekends, 20,000 tourists flood the community.

They pack the only restaurant.

Miles of cars block the local road.

Visitors wait hours to get to the lake.

Hotels are full.

And, of course, everyone needs gas.

"We were so busy, we had guys directing traffic outside the station," said a beaming Hunt.

"Doormen let only the number of people in who came out.

There was a 40-foot line to the toilets.

I'm considering a revolving door for the ladies' room."

The freeze of 2014 has been good to others as well.

A private pilot pulled off an emergency landing on Lake Huron.

The ice buildup has reduced snowfall.

It also will keep the waters cooler in summer.

The icy lakes also help wildlife.

Eggs of cold-water fish species are better protected in icy waters.

A pack of [endangered](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species) wolves trapped on an island may safely cross the ice.

But not everyone is warming to the deep freeze.

Great Lakes shipping lanes are blocked with four feet of ice.

The Coast Guard is trying to clear the ice so ships can get through.

"It's been a brutal winter," said Glen Nekvasil.

He is vice president of the Lake Carriers' Association.

The association represents 17 Great Lakes shipping companies.

Shipping has nearly stopped.

"We've had trips that normally take two days take seven or more," Nekvasil said.

"Ports are frozen solid.

Ships can't get in without being damaged."

The ice could cost shippers $160 million.

And no one knows if the ice will get worse.

At Apostle Islands National Lakeshore, rangers sell T-shirts.

On them is a saying made famous by a local fisherman: "The lake is the boss."

In a normal year, the Apostles Islands sees perhaps 150,000 visitors.

In 2014, that many came in January and February alone.

They have spent about $10 million.

Not everyone in Cornucopia is happy with the ice tourists.

"Do you have a favorite beach you go to where no one else goes?"

asked one woman at the post office.

"Well, I had one too.

Until recently."

For now, normally fierce Lake Superior is quiet.

But it cannot last.

The lake, as they say, will always be the boss.

