The 12-year-old girl didn't want to leave her younger brother.

Her grandparents didn't want her to go away either.

The family had other things to consider, though.

They live near the 12-mile "no-go zone" that surrounds Japan's destroyed Fukushima nuclear plant.

Dangerous radiation has been leaking out of the plant ever since giant tsunami waves hit it in 2011.

Radiation may be invisible, but it can cause serious diseases, particularly cancer.

The family decided that the girl's safety must come first.

Yukie Hashimoto and her husband sent their daughter 200 miles away, to the pretty ski town of Matsumoto.

The mayor there had made an offer: Matsumoto would take in and educate young people living near the Fukushima nuclear plant.

The Japanese government claims that people outside of the no-go zone are safe.

Radiation levels are too low to be dangerous, it says.

Still, many people near Fukushima don't trust that the government is telling the truth.

The Hashimoto family decided to accept the mayor's offer.

So too did the parents of seven other children from the area.

"I didn't really believe things are as safe as the government is telling us," said Hashimoto.

Her family lives in Koriyama, about 20 miles west of the no-go zone.

"We made our decision with her future, 10 years and 20 years later, in mind."

The eight students began their new lives this month, with the beginning of Japan's school year.

Seven are in junior high, while the youngest is in elementary school.

They live in a rented house with bunk beds.

The project is the idea of Matsumoto's mayor, Akira Sugenoya, who is also a doctor.

For those just outside the 12-mile no-go zone, taking such a big step is rare.

It took some time for the Hashimoto family to make its decision.

Like many near the Fukushima plant, Hashimoto routinely measured the radioactivity in her neighborhood.

Some spots were a bit high.

Their radiation levels fell into a gray area, meaning scientists aren't sure if such levels are safe.

One thing made Hashimoto decide not to take any chances: Children are far more likely to be harmed by radiation than grownups.

The girl's grandparents and her college-age brother think worrying about radiation is ridiculous.

But for the 12-year-old herself, the worry was her 5-year-old younger brother.

He cannot be part of the program, which starts at third grade.

Then the girl started getting nosebleeds and growing pale.

What's more, she seemed tired all the time.

That may have had nothing to do with radiation, but it made Hashimoto decide to get her out.

"The low-dose radiation is continuing," Hashimoto said.

"We don't know what effect that will have on our children."

In the last three years, 33 Fukushima children have been found to have thyroid cancer.

The number of cases seems unusually high.

Still, some experts say the higher number of cases is nothing to worry about: They believe they are showing up only because doctors are checking children more carefully.

"The bottom line is: No one knows for sure.

What we do know is that the cases of cancer are up, and so naturally we are worried," said Hiroshi Ueki, who runs the Matsumoto project.

Families aren't only worried about their children's health, however.

They are also worried about their state of mind.

The Japanese government says that one in four children from the area around Fukushima suffer emotional problems.

Thirteen-year-old Kokoro Kamiyama was the first child to move to Matsumoto.

She often skipped school when she was in Fukushima.

Her mother thinks that behavior resulted from her daughter's worries about radiation.

Now Kokoro is feeling much less worried.

She is happy she can run around outdoors in Matsumoto without wearing a mask.

"The air feels so clean here," Kokoro said.

"I love playing badminton.

And tag."

Last Friday, she looked very much at home as she sat in the gymnasium at Aida Junior High School.

The room was decorated with flowers for a school opening ceremony.

Hashimoto's daughter also looked happy, though she had a rough start in Matsumoto.

She cried all the time for the first few days, but by Friday she said she had made lots of great friends.

Those friends are mostly other students from Fukushima.

They're sticking together.

