The 12-year-old girl didn't want to leave her younger brother, and her grandparents didn't want her to go away.

But the family lives near the 12-mile "no-go zone" surrounding Japan's Fukushima nuclear plant, which was destroyed by a tsunami in 2011.

But her family had other things to consider.

Her safety, they decided, must come first.

Yukie Hashimoto and her husband sent their daughter 200 miles away, to the pretty ski town of Matsumoto.

The mayor there had offered to take in and educate young people living near the Fukushima nuclear plant.

Research has not shown that the kids are in danger from being exposed to low-dose radiation.

Still, many people near Fukushima do not trust the government to tell the truth about how severe the radiation levels really are.

The Hashimoto family, and the parents of seven other children, decided to accept the mayor's offer.

"I didn't really believe things are as safe as the government is telling us," said Hashimoto, whose family lives in Koriyama, about 20 miles west of the no-go zone.

"We made our decision with her future, 10 years and 20 years later, in mind."

The eight students began their new lives this month, with the beginning of Japan's school year.

Seven are in junior high, while one is in elementary school.

They live in a rented house with bunk beds and live-in caretakers.

The project is the brainchild of Matsumoto's mayor, Akira Sugenoya.

A medical doctor, Sugenoya performed more than 100 thyroid-cancer operations in neighboring Belarus after the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster in Ukraine.

For those outside the largely off-limits 12-mile zone, taking such an extreme step is relatively rare.

The Hashimoto family took some time to reach its decision.

Like many near the Fukushima plant, Hashimoto routinely measured the radioactivity in her neighborhood.

Some spots were a bit high.

Their levels fell into a gray area where science is divided about the long-term effects.

One thing made her decide not to take any chances: Children are far more likely to be harmed by radiation than adults.

The girl's grandparents and her college-age brother find the fretting about radiation ridiculous.

But for the 12-year-old herself, the sticking point was her 5-year-old younger brother.

He cannot be part of the program, which starts at third grade.

The girl said she was worried she wouldn't be there to watch over the boy — she had been making sure he wore masks and didn't eat local food.

Then she started getting nosebleeds and growing pale, and she suddenly seemed to have no energy.

That may have had nothing to do with radiation, but it made Hashimoto decide to get her out.

"The low-dose radiation is continuing," Hashimoto said.

"There is no precedent" — meaning, nothing like this has ever happened before.

"We don't know what effect that will have on our children."

So far, 33 children have been diagnosed with thyroid cancer in Fukushima in the last three years, among 270,000 checked.

Thyroid cancer among children is very rare: Out of a million children, no more than a handful of cases would normally be expected.

Still, some experts say the higher cases are merely a result of more thorough checking.

"The bottom line is: No one knows for sure.

What we do know is that the cases of cancer are up, and so naturally we are worried," said Hiroshi Ueki.

Originally from Fukushima himself, Ueki moved away with his wife and two children and now oversees the Matsumoto project.

A recent government study found that one in four children from the area around Fukushima suffers emotional problems.

Kokoro Kamiyama, 13, the first child to sign on to the Matsumoto project, often skipped school when she was in Fukushima.

Her mother believes that behavior resulted from her daughter's worries about radiation.

Living through the 2011 disaster made her decide to be a doctor when she grows up, she says in a soft voice.

She is happy she can run around outdoors in Matsumoto without wearing a mask.

"The air feels so clean here," Kamiyama said.

"I love playing badminton.

And tag."

Last Friday, she looked very much at home as she sat in the gymnasium at Aida Junior High School.

The room was decorated with flowers for a school opening ceremony.

Hashimoto's daughter also seemed at home, though she had a rough start in Matsumoto.

She was in constant tears for the first few days, but by Friday she said she had made lots of great friends.

Those friends are mostly other students from Fukushima.

They're sticking together.

