The 12-year-old girl didn't want to leave her younger brother.

Her grandparents didn't want her to go away either.

The family had other things to consider, though.

They live near a 12-mile "no-go zone" that is too dangerous to enter.

This zone surrounds Japan's destroyed Fukushima nuclear plant.

It was destroyed when giant waves hit it in 2011.

Dangerous radiation has been leaking out of the plant since then.

Radiation can cause serious diseases.

In particular, it is known to cause cancer.

With that in mind, the family reached a decision: The girl would move.

Her safety must come first.

Yukie Hashimoto and her husband sent their daughter 200 miles away.

The girl's new home is the pretty ski town of Matsumoto.

The mayor of Matsumoto had made an offer: His town would take in and educate young people living near the Fukushima nuclear plant.

The Japanese government claims that people outside of the "no-go zone" are safe.

Radiation levels are too low to be dangerous, it says.

Still, many people near Fukushima aren't sure that's really true.

The Hashimoto family decided to accept the mayor's offer.

So too did the parents of seven other children.

"I didn't really believe things are as safe as the government is telling us," said Hashimoto.

Her family lives in the small city of Koriyama.

It is located about 20 miles west of the no-go zone.

The eight students began their new lives this month.

Seven are in junior high, while the youngest is in elementary school.

They live in a rented house with bunk beds.

For those outside the 12-mile no-go zone, taking such a big step is rare.

It took some time for the Hashimoto family to make its decision.

Yukie Hashimoto routinely measured the radiation in her neighborhood.

Some spots were a bit high.

But, scientists aren't sure about the levels of radiation there.

It isn't known if they are safe, or not safe.

One thing made Hashimoto decide not to take any chances: Children are far more likely to be harmed by radiation than grownups.

The girl's grandparents and her college-age brother thought worrying about radiation was ridiculous.

But for the 12-year-old herself, the reason not to go was her 5-year-old brother.

He cannot be part of the program, which starts at third grade.

The girl said she worried she wouldn't be there to watch over the boy.

She had been making sure he wore masks and didn't eat food grown in the area.

Then the girl started getting nosebleeds and growing pale.

What's more, she seemed tired all the time.

That may have had nothing to do with radiation, but it made Hashimoto decide to get her out.

Families aren't only worried about their children's health, however.

They are also worried about their state of mind.

Take 13-year-old Kokoro Kamiyama, the first child to move to Matsumoto.

Back in Fukushima, she often skipped school.

Her mother thinks that behavior resulted from her daughter's worries about radiation.

Now Kokoro is feeling much less worried.

She is happy she can run around outdoors in Matsumoto without wearing a mask.

"The air feels so clean here," Kokoro said.

"I love playing badminton.

And tag."

Last Friday, she looked happy as she sat in the gym at Aida Junior High School.

The room was decorated with flowers.

They had been put there for a school opening ceremony.

Hashimoto's daughter also looked happy, though she had a rough start in Matsumoto.

She cried all the time for the first few days.

By Friday, however, she said she had made lots of great friends.

Those friends are mostly other students from Fukushima.

They're sticking together.

