The next time you receive some cash, inspect it carefully.

Fake bills are circulating in the United States and you don't want to get stuck holding funny money.

Criminals are learning to use new technology to print phony bills.

Copying money is a crime called counterfeiting.

Police and law enforcement say some counterfeit money looks so real, it can fool most people.

In November, a man from Georgia was arrested.

He was accused of printing more than $1 million in counterfeit bills.

Investigators say the man, Heath J. Kellogg, sold the fake money to get real money.

He also paid for expensive items with the counterfeit bills.

Days later, he would then return the items back to the store.

That's how he tricked the stores into giving him back real money, investigators say.

It is the Treasury Department's job to print the U.S. money supply.

The Treasury makes it nearly impossible to copy our currency.

For example, the $10, $20, $50 and $100 bills all include watermark portraits.

A watermark is an image that can be seen in the paper when you hold it up to the light.

Investigators say Kellogg tried to copy the watermark.

Here's how they say he did it.

First he printed the front side of the money on one piece of paper.

He printed the back of the bill on a separate sheet.

Next, he flipped the second paper over and printed a watermark.

Then he glued the sheets together.

The forgery was good, but not good enough to fool the Secret Service.

You have probably heard of the Secret Service.

It is the agency that provides bodyguards for the president.

Did you know they also fight counterfeiting?

In fact, the Secret Service began almost 150 years ago, right after the Civil War.

Back then, one out of every three dollars was counterfeit.

Today's bills look very different from those made years ago.

There are more high-tech details.

For example, new bills have color-shifting ink, which turns from copper to green when you tilt them.

This helps prevent counterfeiting.

But technology is also helping the counterfeiters.

High-quality scanners, printers and ink make it easier to make real-looking fakes.

Criminals can also use the Internet to teach themselves counterfeiting.

Investigators say that is how a man from Rhode Island learned how to make $100 out of five bucks.

He read about a chemical soap on the Internet.

He used the soap to rub the number five off of $5 bills.

He then reprinted them as $100s.

The man was arrested in November.

The Secret Service told The New York Times newspaper it recovered about $81 million in counterfeit money last year.

The $20 bill is the one most often counterfeited.

The second most-counterfeited is the $100.

Counterfeiting money is a serious crime.

The penalty can be up to 20 years in prison.

Counterfeiting hurts innocent people.

You cannot replace your money if you receive a fake bill.

Don't be a victim of counterfeiting.

The Secret Service and the Treasury Department want everyone to learn how to detect a false bill.

Look for watermarks and color-shifting ink.

Look at the person pictured on the bill, such as Abraham Lincoln on the $5, or Andrew Jackson on the $20.

Does he appear lifelike?

If so, it's real.

On counterfeit bills, the picture looks flat and lifeless.

Look closely for skinny red and blue fibers in the paper.

Counterfeiters sometimes try to draw them using colored pens.

Sometimes you don't even have to look at a bill.

Just feel it.

Fake bills usually feel slippery.

Real money feels a bit like cloth.

Only one company is allowed to make the paper for U.S. money.

The papermaking process is top secret.

Stealing it is impossible.

An armored truck brings the paper to the Treasury's printers.

It is against the law for anyone else to make the paper.

Think twice before you accept any $500, $1,000, $5,000 or $10,000 bills.

The Treasury stopped printing them in 1945.

Nowadays, we use cash less and less.

More people are using credit cards and bank cards.

But the Secret Service is still very busy.

It also investigates credit card fraud and other types of electronic crimes involving money.

The Secret Service will always need more agents and investigators to fight counterfeiting.

If you want to be a Secret Service agent, the agency says you should attend a four-year college, stay in good shape and always obey the law.

