Students at Laton High School in Northern California are learning about farming.

In fact, the school does not teach the usual science classes anymore.

It teaches science for farming.

The classes are called ag science.

The school has 175 students.

Almost all of them belong to a group called Future Farmers of America.

FFA is a well-known group.

It helps students learn about farming.

It also shows them how to become leaders.

About half of Laton's students are still learning English.

Most have little money.

The students sign up for contests in FFA.

They compete against schools much bigger than they are.

Still, they win.

Kassie Dewey teaches agriculture science.

She also is in charge of Laton's FFA group.

The students are tough.

They work hard, she said.

"They will do whatever it takes to get things done."

The change in Laton's classes is unusual.

Larry Audet runs the Laton school district.

He said that a few parents did not want their children in FFA.

Some people think FFA is only about raising farm animals.

Audet said it is about much more.

Students learn to speak in public in FFA, he said.

They also become better leaders.

They learn about farm machines.

Audet said the classes help prepare the students for life after high school.

Twins Julisa and Melisa Velarde are students.

They run the school's farm.

They happily feed the pigs and cows.

They say they enjoy the work, even if it is tough and messy.

"It feels good to be able to come out here and do this," Julisa said.

Isabel Garcia is a first-year student.

She likes the FFA's public speaking team.

"It really has helped me learn how to be more comfortable speaking in public," Isabel said.

"And it has helped me be more confident."

The FFA teams spend lots of time together.

Students say this makes them feel like they belong.

"It becomes like part of your family," said student Shad Menezes.

"And for some kids that is really important."

The students also get to travel.

They visit colleges, too.

Dewey is not just their teacher.

Sometimes she gives them a ride home or a meal.

"We do what we have to do for these kids," she said.

