Laton High School isn't large or wealthy.

It has 175 students.

About half are English learners.

Nearly three-quarters come from families that have little money.

But the school in rural west Fresno County has achieved something remarkable among its San Joaquin Valley peers.

Of the 175 students, 165 have joined Future Farmers of America (FFA), the respected agriculture group that also teaches kids about leadership.

The students compete against schools five times their size and still come home with first-place ribbons and trophies.

"Our students have grit," said Kassie Dewey, an agriculture science teacher.

She also runs Laton's FFA program.

"They will do whatever it takes to get things done."

Dewey is in her first year at Laton High.

She is one of three agriculture teachers at the school and part of the change happening to make agriculture the main subject that the school teaches.

Already, Laton has replaced its regular science classes with farm science and has encouraged participation in FFA.

Larry Audet is Laton Unified School District superintendent.

He acknowledges that a few parents did not want their children involved in FFA because it is often viewed as just raising farm animals.

"But it is so much more than that," he said.

"The agriculture education program gives students an opportunity to develop their leadership and public speaking skills — they can learn about ag mechanics or record keeping.

It goes well beyond showing an animal."

Audet estimates that the high school is about three to four years away from becoming a complete agricultural school.

Still, the students seem to like the idea.

FFA participation is among the highest of any school in the Valley, and the ag science classes provide much more hands-on learning.

"We want to be able to give our students the skills they need for life after high school," Audet said.

"We need to prepare them for life as much as we prepare them to take tests."

Twins Julisa and Melisa Velarde are seniors and managers of the school farm.

They happily feed the pigs, cows and any other animals that are being raised.

The work may be tough and sometimes messy, they say, but it's something they enjoy.

"It feels good to be able to come out here and do this," Julisa said.

Junior Jesus Garcia said he has taken an ag mechanics class.

"I knew very little about welding, but it has turned out to be a really great class," Jesus said.

"You really do learn a lot."

Freshman Isabel Garcia said the FFA's public speaking team pushed her beyond her comfort zone.

"It really has helped me learn how to be more comfortable speaking in public," Isabel said.

"And it has helped me be more confident."

Along with teaching skills, students say FFA has also provided them with a sense of belonging.

The competitive teams spend lots of time together, practicing and at competitions.

"It becomes like part of your family," said Shad Menezes, a sophomore.

"And for some kids that is really important."

The students say they have also been given the chance to travel and visit college campuses.

Dewey took several students to a Fresno State basketball game.

"Some of our kids wouldn't be able to travel outside of Laton if it weren't for us, " Dewey said.

Not only is Dewey their teacher, she is also occasionally their ride home or the source of a meal.

"We do what we have to do for these kids," she said.

Veteran teacher Tammy Pilcher, who has taught at Laton for 14 years, said FFA has given some of her students the confidence they need to do well in school and in life.

She remembers one girl who was entering her first pig showmanship competition at the Big Fresno Fair.

Although she was a natural, she was competing against 130 other FFA students from much bigger schools who had competed before.

Even though she had less experience, the student won.

"She was in tears," Pilcher said.

"She never thought she was going to win, but she did and she earned people's respect."

