The gaga pit is packed full of kids today at Madison school.

Other students crowd around the game.

They cheer on their friends and wait for a turn.

Gaga ball is a big hit at this school in Wheaton, Illinois.

Gaga is not a new game, but now it is getting popular.

Some say it is like dodgeball but played with just one ball.

Players do not need to be good at sports to do well.

"It's kinda like dodgeball.

I like gaga ball a lot better," says Madison fifth-grade student Rian Klabunde.

Gaga ball has been played for many years.

It is believed to have come from Israel.

The country of Israel is on the continent of Asia.

It is next to Egypt and other countries in the Middle East area.

About 8 million people live in Israel.

Gaga means "touch, touch" in Hebrew.

The language comes from Israel.

Gaga ball has been played in the United States for about 40 years but is much more popular now.

Gaga is played inside a pit shaped like a hexagon or octagon.

The pit is very wide with short walls.

The number of players does not matter.

Everybody starts with one hand touching a wall.

Then, a soft ball is dropped in the center.

Players slap the ball and try to hit the other players below the knee to get them out.

The last player left in the pit wins.

There are more rules.

Players cannot hold or throw the ball.

The ball cannot leave the pit without first touching a player.

The person who threw it is out if the ball does not touch anyone.

A player who is already out can get back in if he or she catches that ball.

Illinois dad Cliff Silverman played gaga at a father-daughter camp in 2010.

He saw how much the girls and dads liked it.

He decided to start a gaga business.

Silverman makes and sells the things used in the game.

Not many people knew the game when Silverman started his business.

He says, "I had to get people in the pit and teach them."

He says most people know what gaga is now.

Madison teacher Joe Cortesi saw students playing gaga ball at another school.

He noticed how much they liked it.

He raised money to get Madison a gaga pit too.

Parents and students helped him build the first pit.

The game became so popular at Madison that students waited in long lines to play.

Cortesi built a second pit.

"It puts everybody on an even playing field.

Your jocks, your Lego kids, your readers," he said.

"Everybody's even in gaga ball."

Illinois dad Dan Israelite says his sons can play for hours.

"It's amazing how popular it is and how it stays this way."

