team of astronomers looking deep into the heavens has discovered the earliest, most distant galaxy yet.

A galaxy is a system of millions or billions of stars and gas or dust, held together by gravity.

This one was spotted a record-breaking 670 million years from the Big Bang, the massive explosion that many scientists say created the universe.

Since objects in space are so far away, distance is measured in light years.

The findings show a surprisingly active, bright galaxy near the very beginning of the cosmos.

It could shed light on what the universe, now 13.8 billion years old, was really like in its young, formative years.

"We're actually looking back through 95 percent of all time to see this galaxy," said study coauthor Garth Illingworth, an astronomer at the University of California in Santa Cruz.

"It's really a galaxy in its infancy ... when the universe was in its infancy."

Capturing an image from a far-off light source is like looking back in time.

When we look at the sun, we are seeing what it looked like eight minutes ago.

The same applies for the light coming from the galaxy known as EGS-zs8-1.

However, our snapshot of this distant galaxy is extremely old — roughly 13.1 billion years old.

EGS-zs8-1 is so far away that the light coming from it is extremely faint.

And yet, compared with other distant galaxies, it is surprisingly active and bright at the time we see it.

It was forming stars at roughly 80 times the rate the Milky Way does today.

It had built up about 8 billion suns' worth of mass.

That is more than 15 percent of the mass of the Milky Way Galaxy.

And at the time we were seeing it, it was no more than a few hundred million years old.

That is just a fraction of the Milky Way's more than 13 billion years.

If it were a galaxy near the Milky Way today, it would be a vivid blue color, Illingworth said.

This is because it was forming so many stars.

There are many challenges when looking for such faint galaxies.

It's hard to tell if they are bright and far, or dim and near.

Astronomers can usually figure out which one it is.

They measure it by how much the light from distant stars gets stretched, or "redshifted."

They measure how far it goes from higher-energy light such as ultraviolet down to infrared wavelengths.

The universe is expanding faster and faster right now.

The farther away a galaxy is, the faster it is moving away from us, so the more stretched, or "redder," those wavelengths of light will be.

The astronomers studied the faint light from this galaxy using NASA's Hubble and Spitzer space telescopes.

These are two telescopes in space.

But EGS-zs8-1 seemed to be too bright to be coming from as far away as the Hubble information suggested.

To get another look, they used the Keck I telescope in Hawaii.

They searched for hydrogen in the starlight known as the Lyman-alpha line.

It lies in the ultraviolet part of the light spectrum, the light not visible to the human eye.

It has been shifted to redder, longer wavelengths over the huge distance between the galaxy and Earth.

It is a dependable line on which to base redshift, and distance, estimates, Illingworth said.

It helped them decide how far away the galaxy was.

With that settled, the team could estimate the star mass, star formation rate and formation period of this galaxy.

The Lyman-alpha line is used for identifying galaxies.

It also reveals the process through which the universe's haze of hydrogen cleared up, a period called the epoch, or period, of reionization.

As stars formed and galaxies grew, their ultraviolet radiation eventually ionized the hydrogen.

This ended the "dark ages" of the cosmos.

When something is ionized, it is converted to ions.

Ions are atoms or groups of atoms with a net electric charge.

Early galaxies — such as EGS-zs8-1 — are   "probably the source of ultraviolet radiation that ionized the whole universe," Illingworth said.

Astronomers are doing more research.

Many are waiting for NASA's James Webb Space Telescope to be finished in 2018.

Scientists may soon find galaxies even closer to the birth of the universe than this new record breaker.

"You don't get to be record holder very long in this business," Illingworth said, "which is good because ultimately we are trying to learn about the universe.

So more is better."

