When she was 4, Doris Pilkington Garimara was taken away by the Australian government.

She believed her mother had left her and forgotten her.

Years passed before she learned the full story.

It answered questions about her past.

It also helped Australians understand one of the most difficult parts of their own history.

Pilkington Garimara and her mother belonged to "the stolen generations."

In the 20th century, about 100,000 children of mixed aboriginal and white parents were stolen from their homes.

The aboriginals are the original people of Australia.

They are a lot like the Native Americans in the United States.

They were on the land long before white people came to the Australian continent.

The white Australian government wrongly thought that aboriginals were not as good as whites.

They took the lighter-skinned aboriginal children from their darker-skinned family members.

The idea was to erase the aboriginal part of them.

The children were raised as white in lonely government-run camps.

This ended only in the 1970s.

But for years, the children hid what happened to them.

This was in part because they accepted what the government said.

Over and over they were told that aboriginal people were dirty and evil.

I hated "my own traditional culture because we were taught to," Pilkington Garimara once said.

"I was taught to deny my own people."

But Pilkington Garimara came to accept the aboriginal part of herself.

In 1996, she wrote a book called "Follow the Rabbit-Proof Fence."

It tells the story of her own mother's escape from a government camp and her 1,000-mile walk home.

On April 10, Pilkington Garimara died in Perth, Australia.

She was believed to have been 76.

Before she died, she worked for many years as a nurse.

Later, she studied journalism.

She had six children, 31 grandchildren and 80 great-grandchildren.

Pilkington Garimara helped Australians understand and accept their hidden history, said Phillip Noyce.

He is an Australian filmmaker.

In 2002, Noyce made a movie based on Pilkington Garimara's book, called "Rabbit-Proof Fence."

Partly because of the movie, the Australian government apologized to the aboriginals in 2008.

The book tells the story of Pilkington Garimara's mother, Molly.

In 1931, government agents took Molly, her sister and a cousin from home.

They were sent to a camp called Moore River Settlement.

It was 1,000 miles away.

At the camp, there were bars on the windows, locks on the doors and buckets for toilets.

Anyone who tried to run away was beaten.

After one night, the three girls escaped.

They headed toward a fence built to protect farmland from rabbits.

This "rabbit-proof fence" ran the length of the Australian continent.

They greeted this fence, Pilkington Garimara wrote, "like a long-lost friend."

For nine weeks they followed the fence to home.

Molly later married.

She had two children.

Doris was born in 1937.

But because the government did not record aboriginal births, her birth date is not known.

A.O.

Neville was a government official.

He said the government had the power "to take any child from its mother at any stage of its life."

He wanted everyone to forget that there ever were any natives in Australia.

In 1941, Neville ordered agents to grab Doris and her sister.

They were sent to the Moore River Settlement.

There she was beaten for speaking her aboriginal language.

Pilkington Garimara grew up thinking, "my mother didn't want me and gave me away."

But she gradually learned the truth.

In 2002, she helped lead an effort to make peace between aboriginal and white Australians.

The effort is called Journey of Healing.

Pilkington Garimara had taken her own healing journey many years earlier.

When she was in her 20s, she traveled back to her hometown to find her mother.

"I asked her, 'Why did you give me away?'"

Pilkington Garimara recalled.

"She just broke down and said, 'I never did, the government came and took you away.'

She had no rights as a mother or an aboriginal woman."

