Its top speed is 35 miles per hour and it has less power than a lawn mower.

Nevertheless, the bright-red contraption in a Swarthmore College basement is very much a race car.

Only thing is, the race it will enter won't be won by the fastest car.

The goal, instead, is to use as little energy as possible.

In other words, the less gas or electricity it uses to complete the race, the better.

Cars that get a lot of miles out of not much gas or electricity are called energy efficient.

They are cheaper to run and pollute less than regular cars.

The slim, three-wheeled vehicle is headed to Houston this week.

It will be facing off against 125 other cars in the Shell Eco-marathon Americas.

Proud of how many miles to the gallon your family's hybrid gets?

Maybe you shouldn't be — your car's not so special after all.

Some of the cars entered in the race can achieve thousands — yes, thousands — of miles per gallon of gasoline.

In the 2013 contest, Laval University in Quebec took top honors with 3,587 miles per gallon.

Swarthmore's machine doesn't quite reach that level: It gets what translates into a little less than 1,300 miles per gallon.

A direct comparison with gasoline engines is tricky, however, since the car is powered by a hydrogen fuel cell.

And don't get the idea that these curiosities will be showing up on an expressway near you.

The Swarthmore car weighs just 137 pounds and is only 8 1/2 feet long.

"It's a demonstration," said engineering professor Nelson Macken, who has been guiding the project.

It is "totally unrealistic."

The Eco-marathon cars are divided into two main types.

"Urban concept" vehicles are required to look like modern passenger cars, with four wheels and a roof over the driver's head.

Experimental vehicles, such as Swarthmore's, can look like pretty much anything.

Entrants must complete 10 laps of a 0.6-mile course laid out on the streets of Houston, for a total of six miles.

Shell first held the "Americas" edition of the race in 2007; a sister event in Europe dates back to 1985.

Swarthmore graduate Eric Verhasselt started building the school's car in 2012.

He welded its aluminum frame in the summer before his senior year.

The most expensive part of the car is the $10,000 fuel cell, which the college already owned.

Verhasselt took the car to Houston last year for its first Shell race.

He placed third among six hydrogen-powered vehicles.

Junior Neil Macfarland is continuing the effort this year.

He helped Verhasselt with the design, and now is tweaking and testing the car to maximize its performance.

As it turns out, it runs best at just 15 miles per hour.

Also helping are junior Andrew Grasberger and freshman Persis Ratouis, among others.

And don't forget secret weapon Winnie Ngo, a junior from Oakland, Calif., who will be behind the wheel.

The computer science major weighs just 95 pounds and stands 4 feet, 10 1/2 inches, allowing her to fit into the small car with room to spare.

The rules require the driver to be at least 110 pounds, so Macfarland will have to add some weight to the vehicle to compensate.

It's much better than having the 6-foot-1 Macfarland drive.

Since his long limbs do not fit inside the cockpit, he had to remove the car's body panels to take it for a brief spin.

"People were turning and staring," Ngo said.

The hydrogen for Swarthmore's car is stored in a tank behind the driver's seat.

It generates electricity in the fuel cell, a black box mounted nearby.

Inside the fuel cell, hydrogen and oxygen are combined.

The result is water and electricity.

Fuel cell cars are non-polluting, as they don't give off any smoke or gasses.

Their true level of greenness, however, depends on the type of energy used to produce the hydrogen.

One day last week, Macfarland had a more immediate concern: The car wouldn't start.

The problem turned out to be an emergency shut-off switch that had jammed, and Macfarland had it working again in short order.

The three-day race opened on Friday.

Start your engines!

Or fuel cells.

