After two years of arguments, protests and environmental studies, hunters will arrive Friday at the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge in Florida.

The refuge, a vast sweep of swamp and forest, runs west of U.S. Route 441 from Boca Raton to Wellington.

The hunters are coming with one purpose in mind: to kill some of the refuge's alligators.

Eleven hunters selected in a drawing were given permits to take down two alligators each.

A total of 1,203 people had applied for permits.

Working primarily at night, they will be allowed to use various methods of killing the reptiles: large sticks with spears on the end called harpoons, spear guns, crossbows or a "bang stick."

The bang stick is a pole that shoots a bullet into the alligator's brain.

The hunt will run through October.

When the first hunters arrive Friday, they will be greeted by protesters from the Animal Rights Foundation of Florida, one of several groups opposed to the hunt.

"It's not a refuge if there's state-sponsored animal killing going on there," said Don Anthony, spokesman for the group.

"These animals are harpooned, stabbed or hooked and never die a quick or painless death.

It's a bloody, violent and unnecessary activity in what should be a park that all Florida taxpayers can enjoy."

Rolf Olson, project leader at Loxahatchee, defended the hunt.

He pointed out that hunting has been a traditional activity at wildlife refuges since the time of President Theodore Roosevelt.

The president, who was a hunter himself, established the nation's first national wildlife refuge in 1903.

Furthermore, Olson said, hunting is not new to Loxahatchee, as the refuge has long allowed duck hunting.

Olson said the alligator population at Loxahatchee is abundant.

A recent survey at one canal in the hunt area, he added, found 134 of them.

"We've done a lot of surveying and monitoring of the alligator population," he said.

"We have enough alligators that we can have a harvest without affecting the total alligator population."

He said the protesters were welcome to express their opinions at the refuge, so long as they didn't interfere with the hunt.

"They have a First Amendment right to do that," he said.

"We will have a First Amendment area and they will be able to protest and speak their minds — as long as they don't" break the law, "they're allowed to be in the area."

He said the First Amendment area will not be hidden away and that any hunters arriving will see the protesters.

The protest is planned at the refuge's south entrance on Loxahatchee Road, not at the visitor's entrance.

The U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service announced the final decision on the hunt in March.

Although there are only a few permits being given out at first, the refuge has said the hunt may be expanded if all goes smoothly and it has little effect on the alligator population.

The refuge will have law enforcement officers from both the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service and the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission to supervise the hunt.

Although only 11 people were issued permits, Olson said they are free to bring people with them to assist in the hunt.

The hunt is timed so that few if any visitors to the refuge will see any hunters, Olson said.

It will take place only on Friday and Saturday nights.

Hunters will be allowed in from an hour before sunset until an hour after sunrise.

"The majority of the hunters will be there when no one else is out there," he said.

