Gay people are allowed to serve on federal juries.

A federal appeals court in San Francisco became the first in the country to decide this Tuesday.

People cannot be kept off of federal juries because of their sex or race.

But until now, they could be kept off of one if they were gay.

The decision by the three judges was unanimous, meaning that all three judges agreed.

They sit on the 9th U.S.

Circuit Court of Appeals.

Their decision came out of a dispute between two drug companies.

During the trial, a lawyer for one of the companies prevented a gay man from sitting on the jury.

The lawyer had no good reason, and this was unfair, the judges said.

The judge's ruling covers federal courts in California and in eight other Western states.

The decision will also make it harder for laws to treat gays and lesbians differently.

This includes laws against same-sex marriage, lawyers said.

Same-sex marriage is when a man marries a man or a woman marries a woman.

Gays are fighting laws in four Western states that prevent same-sex marriage.

In those states, only men and women may marry each other.

Judge Stephen Reinhardt wrote that it's important to keep on eye on laws that don't treat people equally.

Courts should not create or strengthen anything that creates bias.

Courts should also not treat people unfairly, he said.

Reinhardt was one of the judges who made the decision.

Gay rights supporters applauded the ruling.

They predicted it would help them win the right to same-sex marriage in other Western states.

In California, same-sex marriage is legal.

"This is really a very big deal," said Jon W. Davidson.

He is an official with a gay rights advocacy group.

"It is likely to have a significant (effect) on other cases."

David Codell is with another gay rights advocacy group.

He said the decision will make it extremely difficult for states to treat gays unfairly.

During the 2011 case, a lawyer for one of the drug companies, Abbot, did not want a man to be on the jury after he said he had a male partner.

The lawyer said he had "no idea" whether the man was gay.

But he did not give a reason for keeping him off the jury.

Before a jury trial, the lawyers for both sides pick the men and women of the jury.

After the trial, the jury decided in favor of Abbott.

Eventually, the other drug company said it wanted a new trial.

The company claimed that Abbott didn't want the man on the jury because he was gay.

Abbott gave several reasons for excluding the man.

But the appeal judges said they were just excuses.

"Jury service is one of the most important responsibilities of an American citizen," Reinhardt wrote.

It gives gay men and women a way of expressing what's important to them and a voice in important issues that affect their lives.

The judges said people don't have to tell anyone if they're gay.

But if they do, they can't be kept off a jury because of it.

Keeping gay people off juries sends a false message, Reinhardt wrote.

It makes it seem as if gays can't be trusted to make good and fair decisions on important issues.

Davidson, the gay rights activist, said he did not know how often gays were kept off of juries.

Lawyers do not need to give a reason if they don't select a particular juror.

But if asked, they must give a good reason.

"People have stereotypes," the gay rights lawyer said.

They think gay people will vote a certain away or will be against the police.

"Or a lawyer might think, 'I just don't think I will relate well to a gay person on a jury.'"

But the point is, he said, the legal system should treat people as individuals, not stereotypes.

Davidson said that all jurors need to be treated the same.

This may not be the last word in the matter.

Abbott could challenge Tuesday's decision.

It can ask a larger group of judges to take another look at the case.

It also can appeal to the Supreme Court.

