After four weeks of fierce fighting, all was silent in Gaza Tuesday.

Israel and the Palestinian group Hamas that rules Gaza agreed to a 72-hour truce.

Talks are being planned that will take place in Egypt.

They'll be aimed at forging a lasting agreement between the two sides.

The Palestinians are seeking their own country.

They and the Israelis have been negotiating — and fighting — over land for decades.

The recent fighting was touched off after the kidnapping and killing of three Israeli teenagers in a Palestinian area.

Israel blamed Hamas, arrested Hamas fighters and clamped down on the group.

Hamas responded by launching rockets from Gaza.

The rocket attacks led to Israel entering Gaza.

With the cease-fire in place, Gazans ventured out for supplies.

Others made their way toward ruined neighborhoods cut off by earlier fighting.

Several previous cease-fires broke down after fighting.

Yet, some people expressed cautious hopes that this might be the beginning of the end of the war.

"It's not just bread to eat," said Abdullah Mustafa, a father of seven.

Mustafa was buying hot loaves at a bakery in Gaza City surrounded by damaged buildings.

"Finally, God willing, some air to breathe."

Before the halt in fighting, Israel pulled the last of its ground troops out of Gaza Tuesday morning.

Israel moved its troops to positions on Israel's side of the border fence.

Overnight, Israeli forces finished blowing up 32 tunnels its forces had located, said military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner.

Israel says fighters in Gaza use the tunnels to enter Israel and attack Israelis.

By midafternoon, the truce appeared to be holding.

In Gaza City, families on foot, in rusty automobiles and in donkey-drawn carts began leaving shelters.

They started the trek back to bombarded neighborhoods.

Firing continued up until almost the moment the truce took effect.

Militants in Gaza sent a volley of 20 rockets toward Israel.

Most of the rockets were destroyed by the Iron Dome antimissile shield or fell harmlessly.

Peace talks are to be held Egypt.

They are expected to be heated.

Hamas seeks a lifting of the Israeli and Egyptian blockade of Gaza, which has made it difficult for the people of Gaza to leave or do business.

Gaza is surrounded by a fence controlled by Egypt and Israel.

Israel currently has no plans to lift the blockade.

Removing the blockade would be rewarding Hamas, Israel believes.

Israel considers the group responsible for violence leading up to the war.

Egypt controls the border crossing to southern Gaza and its government doesn't have good relations with Hamas.

The fighting has had a heavy toll: nearly 1,900 Palestinians are reported dead.

Israel says as many as 900 of the dead are fighters, not civilians.

On the Israeli side, 64 soldiers and three civilians were killed.

Israel began its air strikes on July 8.

On July 17, it entered Gaza by ground.

Once operating inside Gaza, Israeli forces uncovered a network of "attack" tunnels.

Many lie directly under densely populated areas.

Israel has come under heavy international criticism for failing to take sufficient steps to protect civilians.

The Israeli government in turn blames Hamas for civilian deaths.

Israel charges that Hamas positions rocket launchers and tunnels in densely populated areas on purpose.

Israel says Hamas does so as to put civilians in harm's way.

Both sides remained cautious as the calm extended into midmorning.

Israel "will respond if it is attacked, and if there are strikes against us," Lerner said.

On the Israeli side of the fence, people living in border towns that have suffered the bulk of rocket fire said they still did not feel safe.

"We live in constant fear and anxiety," said Yankale Argentaro, an Israeli living near the Gaza boundary.

The Gaza conflict's ripple effect continued to be felt in the West Bank and Jerusalem.

A security guard was stabbed Tuesday at the entrance to an Israeli West Bank settlement.

The attacker fled in the direction of a nearby Palestinian village, officials said.

Israeli authorities have blamed other scattered attacks in Jerusalem this week on anger stemming from Palestinian deaths in Gaza.

