After four weeks of fighting, it was quiet in Gaza Tuesday.

Israel and Palestinian fighters in Gaza agreed to stop fighting for three days.

Peace talks are being planned next.

They'll be aimed at getting a peace deal between the two sides.

The Palestinians are seeking their own country.

They and the Israelis have been negotiating — and fighting — over the land for years.

This time, the fighting started after the killing of three Israelis in a Palestinian area.

Israel blamed Hamas.

Hamas is the Palestinian military group that rules Gaza.

After the killings, Israel cracked down on Hamas.

The group responded by launching rockets from Gaza into Israel.

The rocket attacks led to Israel entering Gaza.

Israel began its air strikes on July 8.

On July 17, it entered Gaza by ground.

Once inside Gaza, Israeli forces found tunnels.

Israel's government says they were used to enter Israel and attack Israelis.

Israel says it had to stop rocket fire into Israel and destroy the tunnels.

Many are directly under areas where people live.

Before the halt in fighting, Israel pulled its troops out of Gaza.

Israel moved its troops to Israel's side of the border fence.

Firing continued up until almost the moment the cease-fire took effect.

Hamas sent 20 rockets toward Israel.

Most of the rockets were destroyed by Israel's antimissile shield.

Others fell without hurting anyone.

With the cease-fire in place, Gazans left shelters.

Some went in search of supplies.

They made their way home to ruined neighborhoods.

Several cease-fires in the past broke down after fighting.

Yet, some people hope this time might be different.

"It's not just bread to eat," said Abdullah Mustafa, a father of seven.

Mustafa was buying hot loaves at a bakery in Gaza City surrounded by damaged buildings.

"Finally, God willing, some air to breathe."

Peace talks are to be held in Egypt.

Arguments are expected.

Since 2007, Hamas has controlled Gaza.

Gaza is surrounded by a fence and borders both Israel and Egypt.

Israel controls the fence on its border.

Egypt controls the fence on its border.

The people of Gaza have a hard time leaving or doing business.

The controls they face are called a blockade.

Hamas wants it lifted.

Israel currently has no plans to lift the blockade.

Removing the blockade would reward Hamas, Israel says.

Israel holds Hamas responsible for violence leading up to the war.

The fighting has been destructive: nearly 1,900 Palestinians have died.

Israel says as many as 900 of the dead are fighters, not civilians.

On the Israeli side, 64 soldiers and three civilians were killed.

Many countries think Israel hasn't been careful to protect civilians.

The Israeli government says civilian deaths aren't its fault.

It blames Hamas for them.

Israel says Hamas puts rocket launchers and tunnels in areas where people live.

Both sides remained cautious about the cease-fire.

Israel "will respond if it is attacked," military spokesman Peter Lerner said.

On the Israeli side of the fence, people in towns near the border said they still did not feel safe.

They have suffered the most from the Hamas rockets.

Yankale Argentaro is an Israeli living near the Gaza border.

"We live in constant fear," he told Israeli TV.

