After four weeks of ferocious fighting, the guns of Gaza fell silent Tuesday with a 72-hour truce in place.

Talks are set to follow in Egypt aimed at forging a stable accord between Israel and Palestinian militants who rule Gaza.

The Palestinians are seeking their own country and have been fighting — and negotiating — with the Israelis over land for decades.

The recent round of fighting was touched off after the kidnapping and killing of three Israeli teenagers in the West Bank.

Israel blamed Hamas, arrested Hamas fighters and clamped down on the organization's activities.

Hamas responded by launching rockets from Gaza, triggering Israel's air offensive and ground incursion into Gaza.

With the cease-fire in effect, Gazans ventured out for supplies or made their way toward ruined districts cut off by earlier fighting.

Though several previous cease-fires broke down in violence, some expressed cautious hopes that this might be the beginning of the end of the war.

"It's not just bread to eat," said Abdullah Mustafa, a father of seven who was buying hot loaves at a bakery in Gaza City flanked by damaged buildings.

"Finally, God willing, some air to breathe."

Before the halt in hostilities began at 8 a.m. local time, Israel pulled the last of its ground troops out of the narrow seaside strip.

Israel deployed its troops in what it described as "defensive positions" on Israel's side of the border fence.

Overnight, Israeli forces finished blowing up 32 militant-dug tunnels its forces had located, said military spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner.

By midafternoon, the truce appeared to be holding.

In Gaza City, families on foot, in rusty automobiles and in donkey-drawn carts began the trek from temporary shelters back to bombarded neighborhoods in the northern and eastern part of the territory.

Firing continued up until almost the moment the truce took effect.

Militants in Gaza sent a volley of 20 rockets toward Israel, with most of the rockets intercepted by the Iron Dome antimissile system or falling harmlessly.

One of the last of them struck a Palestinian home in Beit Sahour, near biblical Bethlehem in the West Bank.

It caused damage but no injuries, according to Israeli media reports.

Talks to be held in the Egyptian capital looked to be contentious.

Hamas has previously demanded a lifting of the Israeli and Egyptian blockade of Gaza, the territory Hamas has controlled since 2007.

The blockade, and the fence surrounding Gaza, has restricted Gazans' freedom of movement and their ability to conduct business.

Israel is reluctant to lift the blockade.

It sees a removal of the blockade as rewarding the Islamist movement it considers responsible for violence in the run-up to the war.

Egypt, which controls access to southern Gaza through a crossing at Rafah, has a government hostile to Hamas.

The fighting has exacted a heavy toll: nearly 1,900 Palestinians reported dead, with the toll likely to rise when bodies are recovered from previously unreachable areas.

Israel says as many as 900 of those are fighters from Hamas or allied militant groups such as Islamic Jihad.

On the Israeli side, 64 soldiers and three civilians were killed.

Israel launched an air offensive on July 8.

On July 17, it widened to a ground incursion in response to weeks of heavy rocket fire.

Once operating inside Gaza, Israeli forces uncovered a network of "attack" tunnels, many lying directly under densely populated areas.

Israel has come under heavy international criticism for failing to take sufficient steps to protect the civilian population.

The government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in turn has repeatedly blamed Hamas for civilian loss of life.

Israel charges that Hamas deliberately positions rocket launchers and tunnels in densely populated areas so as to put civilians in harm's way.

Both sides remained wary as the calm extended into midmorning.

The Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) "will respond if it is attacked, and if there are strikes against us," Lerner said.

On the Israeli side of the fence, residents of southern communities that have borne the brunt of rocket and mortar fire said they still did not feel safe.

"We live in constant fear and anxiety," Yankale Argentaro told Israeli TV.

Argentaro lives in a kibbutz community near the Gaza boundary.

He spoke while watching the military disarm a mortar bomb fired from Gaza just before the truce took effect.

The Gaza conflict's ripple effect continued to be felt in the West Bank and Jerusalem.

A security guard was stabbed Tuesday at the entrance to an Israeli settlement in the West Bank, and an attacker fled in the direction of a nearby Palestinian village, officials said.

Israeli authorities have blamed other scattered attacks in Jerusalem this week on angry sentiment stemming from Palestinian deaths in Gaza.

