For years, women have been paid less than men.

But, they have been doing the same work.

A new report says that things have gotten better.

Young women are very close to earning as much as men their age.

But, no one knows if motherhood will slow their progress.

It did for women before them.

The report was from the Pew Research Center.

Pew found that last year, young women workers made $93 for every $100 that men their age earned.

This was much better than things used to be.

Between 1980 and 2012, the gap in pay between U.S. men and women got smaller.

Pay rose for women.

At the same time, it dropped for young men.

Only 1 out of every 6 young women said they had been treated unfairly at work.

They had been treated badly just because they were women.

And young women have made another kind of progress.

They are now as likely as men to ask their bosses for a raise or a better job.

This was not true for generations of women before them.

Yet 3 out of 4 young women think problems remain.

They believe men and women still aren't equal.

Almost 3 out of 5 say that it is easier for men to get top jobs.

Nearly two-thirds fear having children will hurt them at work.

"I don't think I've been held back" because of womanhood, said 25-year-old Alexandria Manson.

But, she said, there are many more male bosses than female bosses.

And this is not because they are smarter.

Young women have reason to worry: Pay went up for earlier generations of young women too.

But then things started to slip.

As they got older, many women began juggling motherhood with jobs.

And when that happened, their pay went down.

In 1995, for instance, young women earned $85 for every $100 that men did.

By 2012 those same women were doing worse: They were only making $76 for every $100 that men their age did.

Kim Parker works at Pew.

She wonders what will happen to today's young women.

Once they've been working for 10 or 15 years, will things change?

Will they start to "slide behind?"

There are big differences between mothers and fathers of all ages.

Mothers are almost three times as likely to quit their jobs to care for a child.

Mothers with children are also more likely to work part time.

Or to take time off.

"Nowadays, a childless woman may be able to work every bit as much as" a man, Professor Barbara Risman said.

"What's holding people back is when they become parents."

This is true not only for mothers, she said.

It's also true of fathers who spend a lot of time raising children.

Still, things are different for women.

Mothers are three times as likely as fathers to have their parenthood hurt them at work.

Kylie Anderson noticed other women struggling to balance work and children.

None seemed to find it easy, said Anderson.

The 22-year-old decided that being a parent while working would be difficult.

"Having a child," she said, "would be game over, at least for a while."

There is another big difference among younger workers: Women are still less likely than men to dream of becoming the boss.

"I get frustrated" with some women friends, said 30-year-old Jordan Boldt.

"It's like we grow up thinking that we can't go far."

