Women have long been paid less than men for doing the same work.

But now, according to a new report, young women are very close to earning as much as men their age.

What remains to be seen is whether motherhood will slow their progress.

It did for women before them.

The report was issued by the Pew Research Center.

Pew found that last year, women workers ages 25 to 34 made $93 for every $100 that men their age earned.

This was much better than what was seen in earlier generations.

Between 1980 and 2012, the pay gap between U.S. men and women has slowly narrowed.

Pay for young women has gone up.

At the same time, pay has dropped for young men.

Only about one out of every six of young women said they had been treated badly just because they are women.

And female millennials — women ages 18 to 32 — have made another kind of progress.

They are now as likely as men to have asked their bosses for a raise or a promotion to a better job.

This was not true for generations of women before them.

Yet 3 out of 4 young women believe that men and women still aren't equal at work.

Almost 3 out of 5 say that it is easier for men to get top jobs.

Nearly two-thirds fear that having children will hold them back in the workplace.

"I don't think I've been held back" because of womanhood, said 25-year-old Alexandria Manson.

But, she said, there are many more male than female bosses out there.

And this, she said, is "not because of their ability."

Millennials have reason to worry: Earlier generations of young women also seemed to be narrowing the gap in pay.

But then they started to slip as they got older.

Many started juggling motherhood with jobs and didn't make as much money.

In 1995, for instance, women in their late 20s and early 30s earned $85 for every $100 that men did.

And they were doing the same jobs.

By 2012, those same women were in their 40s and 50s.

At that age, things had changed.

By then they were only making $76 for every $100 that men their age made.

"What will happen to millennials 10 or 15 years into their career?"

asked Kim Parker of Pew.

"Will they slide behind?"

There are big differences between mothers and fathers of all ages.

Mothers are almost three times as likely to quit their jobs to care for a child.

Mothers are also more likely to work part time or take time off for family.

"Nowadays, a childless woman may be able to work every bit as much as" a man, Professor Barbara Risman said.

"What's holding people back is when they become parents."

This is true not only for mothers, she said.

It's also true of fathers who spend a lot of time on raising children.

Still, things are different for women.

Working mothers are three times as likely as fathers to have their careers hurt by parenthood.

When Kylie Anderson worked in the entertainment business, she noticed other women struggling to balance work and children.

None seemed to breeze through it, said Anderson.

The 22-year-old decided that working as a parent would be difficult for her career.

"Having a child," she said, "would be game over, at least for a while."

There is also another big difference among millennials: Women are still less likely than men to dream of becoming the boss.

And this is true even though most millennial women are as into their careers as men.

Some care even more about their careers than men.

"I get frustrated with my friends because they don't aspire," said 30-year-old Jordan Boldt.

"It's like we grow up thinking that we can't go far."

