Josiah Zayner is a 34-year-old scientist. He has colored hair and pierced ears. Zayner wears a ninja T-shirt and has a drawing on his arm.

It says "Build Something Beautiful."

Zayner is changing and mixing genes together at his kitchen table in California. Genes are made of DNA. DNA is the basic building blocks of life.

It tells your body how to grow and work.

In people, it is passed from parents to their children.

It works the same in other living things.  Zayner is mixing in tiny glass bottles.

When he is done, he puts the bottles into the refrigerator. Zayner works with the window shades pulled down so neighbors cannot see him.

Zayner makes science sets that teach how to change genes.

Then he sells them.

He wants everyone to work with genes.

His sets have tools that do not cost much.

They come with directions, too.  Moving genes from one living thing to another is very new.

For awhile, only big labs could do it.

Then, scientists invented a gene-changing tool.

Only schools and workplaces can get it.

Zayner is the first to sell a gene-changing tool to regular people.

His set is safe.

Zayner works with germs that cannot do much. A germ is a tiny living thing that can make people sick. Zayner's can change only their color or smell.

They live for only a short time.

Zayner thinks that people doing science at home can help everyone.

He says that they can change the world.

Zayner says science at home is just like the early days of home computers.

People like Steve Jobs worked at home.

They met with other people who had new ideas, too.

Some of them went on to do big things.

Steve Jobs and a friend invented Apple computers.  Jacob Corn is a scientist.

He likes Zayner's idea.

Corn says that it could never be used on people.

Scientists like Corn think working with genes at home is a great idea.

They want everyone to make things to help people, plants and animals, he says.

Some people worry that there are no laws about changing genes at home.

They think people working at home might make bad germs.

The germs could hurt people, plants and animals if they got out. The worried people have asked leaders to make better rules.

