An important meeting happened in Washington, D.C., last week.

Top scientists gathered together.

They came to talk about gene editing.

Genes make us who we are.

One gene gives us red hair.

Another makes us tall.

Genes can also make us likely to get sick.

To edit something is to change it. Gene editing involves changing the genes in a person's body.

Genes can be added, removed or fixed.

Gene editing is very new.

Scientists have not really used it on people yet.

It could do a lot to help people who are sick.

It could also have hidden dangers.

At the meeting scientists talked about the good things gene editing could do.

They also talked about problems it could cause.

They are trying to decide when and how it should be used.

The three-day meeting was led by scientist David Baltimore.

Baltimore said it is time to decide when gene editing should be used.

Some possible changes might not be worth making, he said.  For example, gene editing could make a healthy person stronger.

It could make someone only need a few hours of sleep a day.

Are such changes worth making?

Baltimore asked.

Or should gene editing only be used to make a sick person healthier?

Baltimore thinks it should only be used to help sick people.  Others say people will want to make all sorts of changes.

They will want to do it even if they do not need to.

Why not help them make the changes they want?

It could make them happier.

Scientist Fyodor Urnov says such gene editing will "definitely" happen.

The only question is when.

Some kinds of gene editing would change more than one person.

The changes in a person's body would be passed on.

His or her children and grandchildren would have the new gene as well.  Many feel this kind of gene editing is risky.

They say it could lead to problems.  Other scientists say it could do a lot of good.

It could stop diseases from being passed down from parent to child.

It will take time for such questions to be settled.

There are no laws on gene editing yet.

For now, it is up to scientists to decide what should be done, or not done.

Many people will be carefully watching what comes next.

