In the rings of ancient and gnarled trees, a team of scientists has found evidence of a period of consistent warmth and wetness in Mongolia between 1211 and 1225.

This was the exact time that Genghis Khan rose to power, on his way to building the Mongol Empire.

Coincidence?

They think not.

Mongolia is an area traditionally known for its cold and dry climate.

This unusual stretch of mild temperatures and heavy rain would have increased the productivity of grasslands in the Mongolian steppe, the researchers say.

The abundant grass would in turn increase the number of grazing animals that could live off it.

Members of Genghis Khan's army reportedly had five horses apiece.

This huge cavalry allowed them to swiftly conquer an enormous area that stretched from eastern Asia to eastern Europe, as well as parts of northern India and the Mideast.

As one horse got tired they could switch to another horse, allowing them to travel at high speed for days without stopping.

They also traveled with a herd of livestock that provided them with food.

"I think of it as nature set the table, and Genghis Khan came to eat," said Amy Hessl, a tree-ring scientist at West Virginia University.

"He didn't have to come eat, and he didn't have to eat the way he did, but the table was set and it was a matter of whether or not the culture and the people capitalized on that."

Hessl's co-researcher Neil Pederson of Columbia University's Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory put it this way: "Grass was the power of the day."

The story of the unusual wet period in Mongolian history was written in scores of ancient Siberian pine trees that Pederson and Hessl first sampled on a whim during a research trip in 2010.

The trees were growing on a nearly soil-less lava field in central Mongolia, dotted with horse skeletons.

The researchers said that because the trees are severely water stressed, they are especially sensitive to changes in the weather.

On that first trip, the two scientists took core samples from about a dozen trees.

When they got them back to the lab, they discovered by looking at the rings inside the trees that some of those samples dated back more than 1,000 years.

They also found evidence of a climate narrative that they couldn't ignore.

For a small stretch of time, some of the rings were visibly thicker.

"I was just excited that we had wood from the time of (Genghis) Khan," Pederson said.

"And it was really the trees saying 'look how wide our rings are right here.'"

Pederson and Hessl returned to the site two years later to sample more trees.

Those samples confirmed the initial findings: The spread of the Mongol Empire corresponded with what the trees recorded as a warmer and wetter climate than usual.

In interviews, Pederson and Hessl said there was still more work to be done to absolutely link the trees' narrative with human events.

They are working with experts from fields of study including ecology, biology, and history.

They're hoping to find more evidence of how the lucky change in climate may have contributed to the making of the largest empire in history.

"There are still a lot of unknowns out there," Pederson said.

"The climate information in the trees is just one little piece of the puzzle."

