One of the most famous paintings of George Washington is getting sent to the cleaners.

The painting, known as the "Lansdowne" portrait, shows Washington when he was serving as America's first president.

Because it is so old, layers of dirt have built up on its surface over the years.

Now, experts are planning on using high-tech tools to carefully clean the picture.

They hope to make it look like it did when it was originally painted.

The 8-foot-by-5-foot picture was painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796.

It has since become one of the most famous pictures of Washington as president.

It is currently on display at the Smithsonian, a museum of American art and history in Washington, D.C.

The project to clean the Lansdowne painting will take some time.

Work will begin in 2016 and is expected to take 18 months.

While the painting is in overall good condition, it does have problems, said CindyLou Molnar, the museum's head of conservation.

Some of the paint in Washington's black coat has chipped away, but the biggest problem is the thin yellow layer that has built up on the surface.

Experts will delicately try to remove this layer without damaging the painting underneath.

This will make it easier to see the colors and details that the artist intended.

In addition to cleaning the painting, the Smithsonian also hopes to use technology to learn more about it.

As painters work, they continually paint over what they have already done.

This creates several layers of paint.

Each layer is like a different "draft" of the painting.

Normally, we can only see the outer layer - the "final draft."

With the use of technology, however, it is possible to see hidden layers of the painting as well.

The Smithsonian will use X-rays and other scientific tools to learn more about how the painting changed as Stuart worked on it.

In 2001, film X-rays of the Lansdowne revealed some changes Stuart made.

For example, he moved a quill ink pen on the table beside Washington.

Apparently, he was having trouble finding the right place for it.

Now, experts are planning another examination.

They hope that improved technology will provide even clearer images of the painting's hidden layers and lead to new discoveries.

Why is the Smithsonian spending so much time and energy on the Lansdowne?

The reason may have to do with the painting's historical importance.

The Lansdowne was originally painted for the Marquis of Lansdowne, a wealthy Englishman who had been a supporter of the colonies during the Revolutionary War.

This is why the painting is commonly known as the "Lansdowne."

The president posed for the painting in Philadelphia and helped Stuart plan its design.

Earlier pictures of Washington also show him in a military uniform, but the Lansdowne shows Washington's whole body, and he is wearing a black velvet suit.

This small difference actually has a lot of meaning.

George Washington was originally known as a military man, the general who led the colonists to victory in the Revolutionary War.

This picture, however, shows him as a government leader, the first president in America's history.

After completing the original in 1796, Stuart later created three copies.

One copy ended up at the White House and its presence there helped make the Lansdowne famous.

In 1812, war broke out between the United States and Great Britain.

The two countries were still on unfriendly terms since the United States won independence from Britain.

The war became known as the War of 1812.

In 1814, British troops took control of Washington, D.C.

They set fire to much of the city, including the White House.

The president at the time was James Madison and his wife, Dolley Madison, famously rescued the Lansdowne from the fire.

This event helped make the painting well-known.

With its rich history, the Lansdowne is an important part of the Smithsonian's collection.

About 1 million visitors see the painting each year.

In 2016, it will have to come down off display and will be sent to the laboratory.

Once it is expertly examined and cleaned, visitors will be able to see the Lansdowne in full color and detail, looking as it did when it was first painted in 1796.

