One of the most famous paintings of George Washington is getting sent out for a cleaning.

The painting is known as the "Lansdowne" portrait.

It shows Washington when he was serving as America's first president.

Because it is so old, dirt has built up on its surface over the years.

Now, experts are planning on using high-tech tools to carefully clean it.

They hope to make the painting look like it did when it was originally done.

In Washington's time, photography had not yet been invented.

Instead of posing for photos, Washington had a painting done of himself so future generations would know what he looked like.

This kind of painting is called a portrait.

The Lansdowne is one of the most famous portraits of George Washington.

The 8-foot-by-5-foot picture was painted by Gilbert Stuart in 1796.

The Lansdowne hangs on the wall of the Smithsonian museum, a museum of American art and history in Washington, D.C. Over time, paintings can get dirty or damaged, which is what slowly happened to the Lansdowne.

The Smithsonian has decided that it is time to clean it.

The project to clean the Lansdowne will not be quick.

Work will begin in 2016 and is expected to take 18 months.

CindyLou Molnar is in charge of keeping the artwork at the Smithsonian in good condition.

She says that the biggest problem with the Lansdowne is that over time, a thin yellow coating has has built up on the surface of the painting.

Experts will delicately try to remove this coating without damaging the painting underneath.

This will make it easier to see the colors and details that the artist intended.

Why does the Smithsonian want to make sure that the Lansdowne is in good condition?

One reason is that the painting is an important part of American history.

The Lansdowne was originally painted for the Marquis of Lansdowne.

This is why the painting is called the "Lansdowne."

The marquis was an Englishman who supported the colonies during the Revolutionary War.

George Washington was the top American general during the revolution.

The war started because the American colonies did not want to be part of Great Britain anymore.

The revolution succeeded in 1783 and the colonies became the United States of America.

George Washington became the first American president in 1789.

The president posed for the full-body Lansdowne painting in Philadelphia.

He even helped the artist plan the painting's design.

It shows Washington standing in a black velvet suit.

This was how he dressed as president.

Other pictures show him in a military uniform.

After completing the original, the artist later created three copies of the Lansdowne.

One copy was for the White House.

The portrait at the White House soon became part of the story of America's next war with Britain - the War of 1812.

In 1812, war broke out between the United States and Great Britain.

The two countries were still unfriendly toward each other since the Revolutionary War.

In 1814, British troops took control of Washington, D.C.

They set fire to much of the city, including the White House.

The president at the time was James Madison.

His wife, Dolley Madison, famously rescued the Lansdowne painting from the fire.

This event helped make the Lansdowne well-known.

With its rich history, the Lansdowne is an important part of the Smithsonian's collection.

About 1 million visitors see the painting each year.

In 2016, it will have to come down off the wall to be cleaned.

Once the cleaning is finished, visitors will be able to see President Washington in full color and detail.

If all goes according to plan, the painting will look much like it did when it was completed in 1796.

