No guns, say school teachers in Georgia.

After some school attacks, the state wants to start arming teachers with guns.

School leaders are turning the offer down.

They argue that it doesn't make kids any safer and creates more problems than it solves.

Learning how to shoot a gun is one thing.

But knowing when to shoot is a major problem, said Steve Smith.

He is in charge of the Bibb County School District.

The offer was part of a new law.

It allows Georgians to legally carry guns in more places.

Guns are now allowed in bars and churches.

The law took effect July 1.

The law gives every school district a choice.

The districts could start arming teachers or staff.

But so far, no districts in Georgia want to do it, education officials said.

School officials support people who legally carry guns.

But they were uncomfortable at the idea of weapons inside school buildings.

They weren't convinced by recent gun violence at schools.

Two Georgia district boards have made their decision.

They decided against a gun program.

Nobody asked for the power to arm teachers, said Mark Scott.

He is the head of the Houston County School District.

Board members in the district didn't want to.

They were more comfortable relying on police officers.

"The risk far outweighed the benefit," Scott said.

Fannin County is proud of its hunting and gun culture.

But even there, school officials don't like the plan.

School Superintendent Mark Henson said officials haven't had any talks about arming teachers.

They will listen to what the community wants, he said.

Georgia isn't the first state to allow teachers to carry guns.

People were frightened after some school shootings.

At least nine states passed laws allowing armed school workers.

By 2014, at least 14 more states introduced bills like it.

Alan Powell, a lawmaker in the legislature, said the state left the decision to school boards.

He argued that weapon-free zones are targets.

"You can't control what bad people do," Powell said.

He wants to make sure people have the right to protect themselves.

The idea isn't bad, said Mike Dorn.

But it's only useful for schools that are far away from a police station.

Dorn runs a school safety center.

Dorn said schools face smaller dangers.

They aren't likely to have to deal with gunmen.

Georgia's school districts don't have to do anything.

Arming teachers is optional.

Paul Battles also is a lawmaker.

He has supported the idea since 2012.

He said he's not disappointed that districts aren't taking guns, but he said school officials should consider the option.

Some might not be able to afford to put police officers in schools.

State officials have been talking to local districts.

They said it's unlikely that any board will start.

No one wants to volunteer as a test case.

Phillip Hartley talked to a room of board members.

Hartley said he felt people wouldn't support it.

There is no serious push from parents.

There just hasn't been that much support for giving guns to teachers and school staff, Hartley said.

