A snowstorm this week in Atlanta brought the city to a complete stop.

People were stuck overnight at school, in cars on clogged roads, and at work.

Blamed for the disaster, officials said they were following lessons learned from the last big storm.

The problem was that storm wasn't this storm.

After the snowstorm of 2011, officials wrote an 11-page snow and ice plan.

They built up new salt piles, bought new tools and began using privately owned snowplows to clear the roads.

With this snowstorm, though, the problem was not too few snowplows and salt trucks.

The problem was too many people.

There was a big difference between the 2011 storm and the one that hit this week.

The 2011 snowstorm struck on a Sunday night.

People woke up the next morning to discover they were snowed in.

This one hit at in the middle of the day on Tuesday.

As a result, it left thousands of people stuck at work or at school, and caused enormous traffic jams when people tried to drive home.

There was only one way to prevent the mess.

That would have been to warm people ahead of time to just stay home.

But no one did that.

Nothing in the 2011 storm plan told officials when to warn the public or tell them to stay where they are.

Steven Picou is a professor at the University of South Alabama who researches how people respond to disasters.

He said Atlanta's snow disaster was caused by bad decisions.

After the storm, officials from Governor Nathan Deal on down said they learned new lessons and promised to act differently next time around.

But no one admitted to making any mistakes.

Instead, the officials blamed the National Weather Service (NWS).

They all claimed the weather service didn't give them clear information.

The NWS rejected that claim.

It pointed out that it had issued a winter storm warning for the whole Atlanta area at 3:38 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) Tuesday.

Keith Stellman is the meteorologist in charge at the NWS office for the Atlanta area.

As the storm approached, the weather service changed its prediction of the amount of snow that would fall, he said.

But its predictions on when and where the snow would hit never changed.

"That's a fact.

That's an absolute fact," Stellman said.

Mike Smith is an AccuWeather senior vice president and meteorologist.

He also denied that meteorologists were responsible for the chaos.

"It's just simply not true that this couldn't have been anticipated," Smith said.

Georgia Emergency Management Agency (GEMA) Director Charley English said the state followed the 2011 plan.

The GEMA director is in charge of coordinating the plan.

English said GEMA did everything it was supposed to do, including getting extra plows and pre-treating the streets with salt and sand.

Earlier and stronger warnings wouldn't have made a difference, English said.

Under the same conditions, he said he would make the same decisions again.

As the snowstorm got worse, GEMA's website gave no instructions to drivers.

A link on its site to "winter weather" led to a week-old tip sheet on keeping homes and cars warm.

Georgia Department of Transportation head Keith Golden said he and English never spoke about telling people to stay home.

Deal said he should have told people to stay home sooner.

But he said that the timing of the NWS storm warning was a problem.

"Yes, I would have acted sooner.

And I think we learned from that and we will act sooner next time," Deal said.

But, he said, they didn't want to tell people to stay home unless it was really necessary.

"Because if we'd been wrong, you all would have been in here saying, 'Do you know how many millions of dollars you've cost ... the city of Atlanta?'"

At the local level, some officials also struggled with the storm response.

Gwinnett County Chairwoman Charlotte Nash defended the state Department of Transportation.

She said it did as well as it could under difficult conditions.

Nash said it took her three hours to get home in the snow from downtown Atlanta Tuesday.

But others saw big room for improvement, especially in the area of public warnings.

Fulton County Transportation Director David Ricks said that sometimes you just have to be more careful.

"For all of us, that's a lesson learned."

Kay Love, administrator of Roswell, was even more blunt.

"This was man-made," she said.

Love thought there should be a way to communicate better when a storm is coming.

About 3,500 students spent the night at their schools because buses could not get them safely home.

