The proposed law's official name is the Safe Carry Protection Act.

Its opponents call it the "guns everywhere bill."

That's because the Georgia law would allow guns in bars, churches, airports and schools.

Just waiting for governor's signature, the law has drawn national attention because of where it would let people carry guns.

The National Rifle Association, the national pro-gun group, called the bill's passage a "historic victory for the Second Amendment."

The U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment protects the right to own and carry guns.

Americans for Responsible Solutions called it the most extreme gun bill in the nation.

The group was founded by Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman who was wounded in a 2011 shooting.

Recently, a number of states have loosened up on gun control laws.

The states are responding to tragic shootings.

But instead of making guns less available, their solution is to make guns more available.

But perhaps none has gone as far as Georgia, at least in a single bill.

The proposed law would allow licensed gun owners to take weapons into churches, synagogues and mosques, if its leaders allow it.

People can carry guns into bars unless the owner says no.

They can also carry guns into airports and government buildings.

However, guns couldn't be taken past security checkpoints.

The law would also let schools give guns to staff members.

And it would lower the age of gun licenses for members of the military from 21 to 18.

If the law is signed, firearms could not be taken away during an emergency.

This is what happened in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.

"You're not going to stop crime by disarming good people," said Jerry Henry.

He is the executive director of GeorgiaCarry.org, a group that pushed for the bill's passage.

Pro-gun groups say that "good" people need to carry guns.

They say this stops "bad" people from committing crimes.

The Georgia law has drawn national attention.

Gun control groups think if they could stop Georgia from passing the law, they can keep other states from expanding gun rights, Henry said.

Georgia Governor Nathan Deal hasn't said whether he will sign the bill.

But many think the Republican governor, who has an A rating from the NRA and is up for re-election, will sign it.

The bill is popular in Georgia.

If passed, the law would go into effect July 1.

And the bill was supported by Deal's Democratic opponent, state Sen. Jason Carter, former President Jimmy Carter's grandson.

Opponents say they are worried about armed people attending city council meetings.

City council meetings sometimes become emotional and fights can break out.

Leaders of Georgia's churches disagree about the bill.

Francis J. Mulcahy is the executive director of the Georgia Catholic Conference.

He expressed concern that more people would be shot if there guns could be carried more places.

Don Plummer, a spokesman for the Episcopal Diocese of Atlanta, said that allowing guns in churches is "dangerous."

Georgia's Episcopal bishops, Rob Wright and Scott Benhase, said it's hard to make sure that only the "good" guys get guns, because it's not always possible to know who the good guys are.

"People who had no criminal record and had a legal right to their weapons have (carried out) almost all of the recent tragic shootings in houses of worship and schools," the bishops said in a statement.

"They were 'good guys' until they weren't."

But Mike Griffin, public affairs representative of the Georgia Baptist Convention, supports the legislation.

He said that churches should set the rules for themselves.

"Georgia Baptists are not saying that they're for or against weapons being in churches," he said.

"What they're saying is churches should have the right to determine if they choose to have weapons."

Chris W. Cox is the executive director of the NRA's Institute for Legislative Action.

He said the bill would make Georgia the 27th state to allow licensed gun owners to bring weapons into bars.

The legislation comes as a Gallup poll in January found more support for ending gun restrictions.

The poll found that 16 percent supported making making guns more available.

Just 5 percent supported this a year earlier.

Last year's survey was conducted shortly after the Newtown, Conn., school shooting.

Just 31 percent supported stricter gun laws, according to the January poll, down from 38 percent a year earlier.

Adam Winkler is a University of California, Los Angeles law professor.

He writes about the politics surrounding guns.

He said the Georgia legislation "shows how strong the NRA is in some parts of the country.

They've defeated so many gun laws that ending bans on guns in bars and churches is all that's left."

Emory University political scientist Alan Abramowitz noted that promoting gun rights is a way for some Republican politicians to make their supporters happy.

Their supporters are in favor of laws that let people carry guns.

The Georgia bill is a way of rewarding the people who vote for them, Abramowitz said.

