new Georgia law would allow guns in bars, churches, airports and schools.

Its official name is the Safe Carry Protection Act.

But anti-gun groups call it the "guns everywhere bill."

In March, Georgia lawmakers passed the gun bill.

It is waiting for the governor's signature to become a law.

In the meantime, the bill has attracted national attention.

The National Rifle Association, the national pro-gun group, called the bill a "historic victory for the Second Amendment."

The U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment protects the right to own and carry guns.

Americans for Responsible Solutions, an anti-gun group, called it the most extreme gun bill in the nation.

The group was founded by Gabrielle Giffords.

She is the former Arizona congresswoman who was wounded in a 2011 shooting.

Recently, a number of states have loosened up on gun control laws.

The states are responding to well-publicized shootings.

But instead of making guns less available, their solution is to make guns more available.

But perhaps no state is making guns as available as Georgia.

The proposed law would allow licensed gun owners to take weapons into churches, synagogues and mosques, if its leaders allow it.

People need licenses to own guns.

People could carry guns into bars unless the owner says no.

They could carry guns into airports and government buildings.

However, guns can't be carried past security checkpoints.

It would let schools to give guns to staff members.

Also, firearms could not be taken away during an emergency.

This is what happened in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina.

"You're not going to stop crime by (taking guns away from) good people," said Jerry Henry.

He is with GeorgiaCarry.org, a group that supports the bill.

Pro-gun groups say that "good" people need to carry guns to stop "bad" people from committing crimes.

Gun control groups are trying to prevent the Georgia law.

If they can stop Georgia, they think they can stop pro-gun laws in other states, Henry said.

Georgia Governor Nathan Deal hasn't said whether he will sign the bill.

But many think the Republican governor will sign it.

He has a good rating from the pro-gun NRA.

He is also up for re-election and the bill is popular in Georgia.

The law would go into effect July 1.

The bill was supported by Democrat state Senator Jason Carter.

Carter is former President Jimmy Carter's grandson.

He is also running for governor.

Police are preparing for a big change.

They are concerned about gunfights breaking out in restaurants and city council meetings.

"We're going to go to Hooters now expecting that everybody in there has a gun," Police Chief David Lyons said.

Hooters is a restaurant with a reputation for wildness.

Leaders of Georgia's churches don't agree about the bill.

Francis J. Mulcahy is with the Georgia Catholic Conference.

He is concerned that more people would get shot.

Don Plummer, a spokesman for the Episcopal Diocese of Atlanta, said that allowing guns in churches is "dangerous."

Georgia's Episcopal bishops say it's hard to make sure that only "good" guys get guns, because it's not always possible to know who the good guys are, they said.

People without criminal records were responsible for almost all the recent shootings in churches and schools.

"They were 'good guys' until they weren't," said Rob Wright and Scott Benhase.

Mike Griffin is with the Georgia Baptist Convention.

He supports the legislation.

He said that churches should set the rules for themselves.

The NRA pointed out that many states had similar laws.

Chris W. Cox is with the NRA.

He said the bill would make Georgia the 27th state to allow licensed gun owners to bring weapons into bars.

A Gallup poll in January found less support for gun control laws.

Just 31 percent supported stricter gun laws, down from 38 percent a year earlier.

Last year's poll was done soon after the Newton, Conn., school shooting.

Adam Winkler is a University of California, Los Angeles law professor.

He writes about the politics surrounding guns.

He said the Georgia bill "shows how strong the NRA is in some parts of the country."

Emory University political scientist Alan Abramowitz noted that Republican elected officials are rewarding their supporters.

The supporters want guns to be more available.

