The state of Georgia is offering to arm school teachers with guns.

School leaders, however, are turning the offer down.

They argue that it doesn't make students any safer and it would create more problems.

A string of attacks at schools and colleges in California, Oregon and Washington state hasn't convinced education officials.

Their position is that guns don't belong in schools.

Teachers could get "all the training in the world as to how to a shoot a gun, but knowing when to shoot (is) a major problem," said Steve Smith.

He is superintendent of the Bibb County School District.

"The folks we work with day in and day out don't have that."

The offer was part of a sweeping law that expands where all Georgians can legally carry guns.

It took effect July 1.

Guns are now allowed in bars and churches.

GOP lawmakers pushed the bill through during an election year.

They gave each school district the option of arming teachers or staff, but required them to set training standards.

The provisions were similar to a program that drew no interest from South Dakota school districts.

Education officials said no districts in Georgia are pursuing it so far either.

The new law pulled Georgia education leaders into an argument about the Second Amendment.

But they say they never wanted it.

School officials were quick to express their support for people who legally carry guns.

But they were uncomfortable at the idea of weapons inside school buildings.

They weren't convinced by recent gun violence at schools in other states, either.

At least two Georgia district boards have pledged not to create a program.

Nobody asked for the power to arm staff, said Mark Scott.

He is the superintendent of the Houston County School District.

Board members in the district were more comfortable relying on police officers and upgrading building security, he said.

"The risk far outweighed the benefit," Scott said.

Rural Fannin County is proud of its hunting and gun culture.

But even there, school officials haven't embraced the plan.

School Superintendent Mark Henson said officials haven't had any conversations about arming teachers.

The will listen to what the community wants, he said.

"This is one we will wring our hands over," Henson said.

Georgia isn't the first state to respond to school shootings by allowing staff to carry guns.

After the 2012 elementary school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut, at least nine states passed bills authorizing armed school workers.

Other states had similar programs in place beforehand.

In 2014, at least 14 more states including Georgia introduced similar bills.

Representative Alan Powell said lawmakers intentionally left the decision to school boards.

He argued that weapon-free zones are targets.

"You can't control what bad people do," Powell said.

"You can only guarantee people their constitutional right to protect themselves."

The idea isn't irrational, but it's only appropriate for schools that are located far away from a responding law enforcement agency, said Mike Dorn.

He is the executive director of the school safety center Safe Havens International.

Dorn said far more often schools face smaller threats.

They aren't likely to face a lone shooter intent on killing many.

For example, a student with disabilities who gets hold of a screwdriver or a desperate parent caught in a messy battle for custody of his or her child could pose more problems.

"Everyone's so focused on the last event, picturing a 30- or 40-year-old brandishing an AK-47," Dorn said.

Georgia districts don't have to do anything.

Creating a program is optional under the new law.

Representative Paul Battles, a Cartersville Republican who has backed the idea since 2012, said he's not disappointed that districts aren't using it, but local officials should consider the option if they can't afford police officers in schools.

The Georgia governor's spokesman took a positive view.

He said the districts' reluctance to choose the offer of guns was "a great example of how the law maintained local control."

He said the state was still "expanding choices for how best to keep students safe."

State officials have been talking to local districts.

They said it's unlikely that any board will volunteer as a test case.

Phillip Hartley is a lawyer who works with the Georgia Schools Boards Association.

He talked a room of board members through the issue at a recent conference.

Hartley said he felt a "reluctance to be the first" without a serious push from parents.

"There just hasn't been that kind of groundswell," Hartley said.

