To hear their Syrian parents tell it, it has all been for the sake of Yasser and Taha, ages 6 and 9.

The family undertook their grueling overland trek across half of Europe to secure a good future for the boys, their father, Zaid Taha, said.

After enduring difficult times along the way, the family has finally reached safety in Germany.

"School for them, a good education — that is the most important thing there could ever be for me," said Zaid Taha, a businessman from the Syrian city of Aleppo.

He led his family's departure after a barrel bomb fell near their home, killing next-door neighbors.

"Education, that's their life," he said, laying one hand on each boy's head.

"That's my goal — that's my heart."

An enormous stream of migrants and refugees — 20,000 people last weekend alone — has come pouring into Germany only days before the Sept. 15 start of the school year.

Educators say it will be a struggle to accommodate the young arrivals.

Many are disoriented and bewildered after a dangerous journey, and by the shocks of wartime life preceding it.

Syria's ferocious four-year conflict has disrupted schooling for millions of children.

Parents who are among the current wave of asylum seekers from there are determined to make up for lost ground and lost time.

As the tide of migrants and refugees has moved north and west one thing has been heard over and over: Education is the single most prized thing that a new life in Europe has to offer.

Parents on jam-packed trains and buses, at chaotic border crossings, in run-down hostels and in refugee-reception centers have all expressed their drive to ensure their children get a good education.

Germany's public schools now face the difficult task of suddenly taking in a huge number of new students who do not speak German and who have been traumatized by war and other harsh experiences.

Some question whether the schools will be nimble and fast-acting enough to adjust.

The German state of Bavaria is the entry point for most of the recent flood of arrivals.

The law there requires that children of asylum seekers be enrolled in school.

Because most newly arrived pupils are not ready for regular classes, public schools and private groups offer preparatory "transition" courses ranging from a few months to two years.

During such classes, students not only learn the German language but are also taught social customs that may be different from those with which they were raised.

For example, boys and girls are taught to look one another directly in the eye when speaking to one another.

Schools in Munich, Bavaria's capital, will increase the number of transition courses by about 20 percent over last year's, officials said.

However, no one knows whether that will be enough, and if it turns out more are needed, more teachers will have to be hired, a sometimes time-consuming process.

The recent arrivals poured in so fast that officials are not even sure how many school-age children are among those who will be settled in the city.

They hope to have a rough count by next week, before school starts.

Some refugee advocates say German authorities turned a blind eye to months of clear signs that a migrant crisis was coming soon.

They say authorities squandered opportunities to prepare not only schools but also a range of social services.

"Politicians ignored it," said Monika Steinhauser, head of the local branch of the Refugee Council, which works closely with city authorities.

"We wondered: Don't they watch the news?

Read newspapers?"

Germany has absorbed waves of migrants before, from the Balkan wars and from its large-scale importation of Turkish labor.

Once at school, the youngest pupils — whether their native tongue is Arabic or Somali or Dari, the Persian variant spoken in much of Afghanistan — tend to pick up the German language very quickly, educators say.

Some newly arrived first-graders can be placed in "mainstream" classes after only a brief adjustment period.

However, that swift proficiency can carry a pitfall of its own, familiar to immigrant families everywhere: Sometimes even very small children find themselves the "managers" of their family, helping to navigate tasks such as doctors' visits or filling out paperwork.

The stress of that responsibility can ultimately cause children to struggle in school.

Many teachers have not been trained to deal with the problems that war-traumatized children face, said Michael Stenger, who heads a group that teaches job skills to migrant and refugee youth.

"A teacher might not understand why a child who was doing so well initially suddenly begins to struggle," he said.

"Their situation is very complicated."

Success or failure in integrating school-age children into the social fabric will have profound repercussions for years to come, educators say.

Although refugees' day-to-day needs are overwhelming — food, shelter, medical care — refugee advocates said that if children thrive in school, it betters the family's longer-term chances of finding its footing.

"The children first have to calm down and start feeling safe," said Steinhauser, of the Refugee Council.

"They need normality, and going to school is something that helps them feel that things are normal."

Zaid Taha, the businessman from Aleppo, said that while his family was temporarily sheltering in Turkey, he began studying German using YouTube tutorials.

He said his children, listening along, quickly surpassed him.

"Their minds are so fresh, so lively, so receptive," he said.

"They are like plants that must be watered with knowledge — but watered now."

