Zaid Taha and his family are from Syria.

His country has been at war for the last four years.

Many people have been killed.

Life is very dangerous there.

One day the house next door to Zaid Taha's house was blown up.

He decided it was time to leave.

His family set out for Germany.

They wanted to make a new life for themselves.

They wanted to find a new country to live in where they would be safe.

The trip across half of Europe was not easy.

Now at last they have reached Germany.

Zaid Taha says he did it all for his two boys, Yasser and Taha.

Yasser is 6 and Taha is 9.

He wants his boys to be safe.

He also wants them to be able to go to school.

School is "the most important thing," he said.

Zaid Taha and his family are not the only people escaping war and other problems.

Hundreds of thousands of people from many different countries have come pouring into Europe.

All are hoping to find a new home.

Germany is the country where most want to live.

Germany is rich.

It has offered to take in a large number of people.

Many of those pouring into Germany are children.

They will need to go to school.

Teachers are rushing to get ready for all the new students.

School in Germany starts on Sept. 15.

Teaching the new students will not be easy.

Most do not speak German.

Most of the new students are not ready for regular classes.

They will first take special courses.

These courses will prepare them for regular classes.

The new students will learn to speak German.

They will also learn something about how people behave in Germany.

Every country has different ways of behaving.

It is very important that the new students do well in school.

It is also important that they feel like they fit in.

If the students are happy, their parents will be happy too.

The families will have a better chance of doing well in their new country.

Zaid Taha said he and his family began studying German as they made their way here.

His children learned much faster than he did, he said.

"Their minds are so fresh, so lively," he said.

They need to learn, he added.

Their minds are "like plants that must be watered."

