NDON –The elderly gentleman was carrying about $12,000 in cash on a train heading from Switzerland to Germany.

That amount of money is just below the legal limit of how much you can bring into the European Union, which Germany is a part of.

He appeared nervous when authorities questioned him as he crossed into Germany.

The guards at the border felt that something was not quite right.

This led to a raid at the apartment in Munich where the man lived as a shut-in.

What they found was astonishing: paintings by Pablo [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso), Marc Chagall, Henri Matisse and Paul Klee.

The 1,406 works of art in all were surrounded by piles of canned food.

Some or all of the art, estimated to be worth $1.3 billion or more, was thought to have been looted by the Germans more than 70 years ago.

That would make it one of the largest such troves recovered since World War II.

The stunning find was reported Sunday by the German newsmagazine Focus.

The collection included pieces that were thought to have been lost or destroyed during the war.

It was found in the possession of Cornelius Gurlitt, 80.

His father was an art dealer during World War II.

"It is the largest cache held by a private individual illegally — by miles," says Julian Radcliffe.

He tracks vanished works of art for a group in London.

"Two years ago we found a dealer who had two stolen pictures in his safe when he died, and we thought that was pretty shocking.

To find one on this scale is exceptional."

Overall, the Germans are suspected of stealing 650,000 works of art during the war.

Though the discovery in Gurlitt's home is huge, it is just a small amount of the art still lost.

Robert Edsel wrote a book which describes the search for art looted during World War II.

He said the discovery supported the view that what had been discovered so far was just the tip of the iceberg.

Gurlitt's home was raided in early 2012.

German investigators have kept quiet as they moved the items into safe storage and started the search for the artworks' origins and rightful ownership.

The German government told reporters Monday that it was notified of the haul several months ago by officials in southern Germany.

It says it is assisting with the investigation.

Many of the original collectors could turn out to be Jewish families.

During the war, Jews often saw their belongings taken by the Germans.

Others sold them at cheap prices in their desperation to flee Europe and save their own lives.

The investigators in Bavaria, in southern Germany, took a long while to go public with their astounding discovery.

And they have yet to publish a full list of the works of art found.

That disturbs people who are working to return stolen art to their proper owners.

"There's a complete lack of transparency about this," said Anne Webber, who helps run the Commission for Looted Art in Europe, a nonprofit organization.

"Families have been looking for (their) art for 75 years."

Focus magazine said that Gurlitt sold art when he needed money.

In one instance, he put a painting by German Expressionist Max Beckmann up for sale.

Expressionism was a style where painters would show the world in ways that weren't realistic, to illustrate different ideas or moods.

Heirs of the original owner of the Beckmann painting heard about the auction.

They claimed the painting as theirs, and reached a settlement with the auction house, which went on with the sale, Webber said.

The work fetched nearly $1.2 million.

"What would have happened if the family had not identified it?"

Webber asked.

Gurlitt's father, Hildebrand, was a knowledgeable art dealer whom the Germans tapped to help them collect and dispose of artworks.

Some of the art he dealt in was taken by force from Jews.

Many of the pieces Gurlitt's father acquired or handled were believed to be destroyed during bombings.

At the end of the war he was asked what art he had.

"He was reputed to have a truckload of art, and he said, 'It's all rumors, all of it was destroyed, I just have a few paintings from my dead father and my sister,'" Webber said.

Many dealers who helped the German government handle looted art were able to build big collections for themselves, he said.

When police removed pieces of art from Gurlitt's apartment, Focus magazine said, he told officers that they shouldn't have bothered, since he was going to die soon.

He is now under suspicion of not paying taxes.

One police source told the magazine that Gurlitt was a man "who didn't exist."

His name could not be found on any government lists, such as for taxes or social services.

If the rightful owners of some of the artworks cannot be determined, it's possible that Gurlitt will keep them.

That would no doubt trouble Jews who survived World War II and their descendants who have fought to have their family treasures returned to them.

