Students of German at Belleville East High School have a tough job.

They read articles from an old Belleville newspaper that was written in German.

Then they translate them into English.

The articles are notices about someone's death.

They are called obituaries.

The students want to help people learn about their ancestors.

It was not easy.

The obituaries were written in the 1800s in old German.

A different alphabet was used back then, which makes it hard to read.

The students tried different ways of translating the obituaries.

Students Colin Creedon and Daniel Jackson translated the old German into modern German first.

Then they translated modern German into English.

"We have to translate it and then rearrange it so it makes sense in English," Creedon explained.

Other students chose to translate the old German directly into English.

Peyton Kaercher was one of them.

"Once you know what the words say, it's really easy," Kaercher said.

Andrew Gaa is the teacher who helps them with the work.

The translation work isn't just for a grade.

It serves a larger purpose.

It helps families learn more about their ancestry.

After the students translate the obituaries, the death notices are posted online.

That's where Craig Eberhard of San Diego, California, found the obituary of his great-great grandfather.

Eberhard sent an email to Gaa and his students, thanking them.

He appreciated the work they did.

"Without that, I never would have known that history of my great-great grandfather," he said.

Eberhard said the translation let him find out more about his family's history.

"There was so much information in there," he said.

"It gave a little bit of color to my great-great grandfather."

Eberhard's great-great grandfather, Friedrich Pannier, was born in 1832.

He died in 1893.

He was a farmer who came to Belleville in 1866.

He brought his wife and five children.

Eberhard's great grandfather, William, was 6 years old at the time.

William moved from Belleville to California.

Gaa said the work is difficult for the fourth-year German students.

"Old German script is hard to read," he said.

The students don't have to figure it out alone.

They work with partners, and Gaa is there to help as well.

Senior Madelyne Knipp said it's "really cool" to translate the old German obituaries into English.

"I like translating this stuff knowing it's going to help people."

After the students translate the obituaries, they type them up and send them to Gaa.

The teacher must make sure there are no mistakes.

People will use these notices to look into their family history.

The students also have to make the obituaries sound good in English, he said.

Gaa learned about his own family history through this class work, which started in 2012.

So far, the students are almost through the notices published in 1898.

They will move on to 1899 next.

Diane Walsh studies genealogy.

It is the study of family history.

She appreciates the work Gaa and his students do.

The most important thing about the German notices is they mention the town the person came from, Walsh said.

The work the students do helps bring ancestors to life, she said.

