Werner Klemke was a much loved children's book illustrator.

He was known for his drawings of "Grimm's Fairy Tales."

The books were on every East German child's bookshelf.

Before he illustrated those children's books, he did something important.

Klemke saved hundreds of Jews from being killed by German Nazis during World War II.

He did this while serving in the German army.

Klemke died 20 years ago.

He never told his story.

Dutch filmmaker Annet Betsalel found out about it when she looked in the records of a Jewish community in the Netherlands.

What she found was the story of a rescue plan set up by a Jewish businessman, Sam van Perlstein.

He knew in 1942 that Jews could be killed by the German Nazis.

The Nazis had already destroyed cities and killed many people.

They controlled the Netherlands and wanted to take over Europe.

The Jews needed help if they were going to live.

Betsalel is turning the story into a movie.

The story began in Amsterdam in a bookstore.

The store carried books filled with ideas the Nazis feared and hated.

One day, a young German soldier named Johannes Gerhardt came to the store.

He was so thrilled by the books that when he left the store, he forgot his rifle.

A young man named Mels de Jong chased him down.

Soon they became friends.

De Jong was married to Sam van Perlstein's daughter.

Van Perlstein needed certain papers to escape the Nazis.

He needed to say that he was only part Jewish.

He asked Gerhardt for help.

Gerhardt was a photographer.

Gerhardt needed another friend to make the papers.

He turned to another another German soldier named Klemke.

He was an artist who also loved books and hated Nazis.

The documents they created were perfect.

They fooled everyone who needed to be fooled.

They allowed van Perlstein to get back his business and his money.

He gave the money to people who fought the Nazis.

It also paid for hiding spots from the Nazis.

Klemke made up a story so his Nazi bosses didn't know what he was doing.

He told them that he could make books for them.

He just needed to set up a small printing office.

He got the office and made the books.

He also produced fake papers.

He knew that his bosses would have killed him if they discovered it.

He was never caught.

Over the next few years, he produced papers that helped some people escape from the Netherlands.

They allowed others to stay in hiding.

In all, he helped save about 500 Jews.

Other people also were saved.

The Nazis never found the hiding places because they were built into walls and attics and cellars in the village.

Klemke never talked about that part of his life.

When he was dying, Klemke told his children they could find "important" papers in his office.

They were letters from Jews he had helped save.

The letters told about his efforts in case he ever was put on trial for having been a Nazi soldier.

He had never shown them to anyone.

Betsalel said that when a friend asked Klemke about the rescues, he responded: "What was so special about it?

I only did what any man should have done."

She said Klemke and van Perlstein had reminded each other that they had saved so few, and so many were not saved.

