Werner Klemke was a deeply beloved children's book illustrator.

He was known for his drawings of "Grimm's Fairy Tales," which made their way to every East German child's bookshelf.

Yet before he drew the pictures in children's books, Klemke saved hundreds of Jews from being killed by Adolf Hitler's Nazis.

He managed to do this while serving in the German army.

It's a story that the artist, who died 20 years ago, never told.

It surfaced only when Dutch documentary filmmaker Annet Betsalel asked whether she could poke around in the records of the Jewish community of Bussum, the Netherlands.

What she found was the story of a rescue network set up by a Jewish businessman, Sam van Perlstein.

He knew in 1942 that Jews could be killed by the Nazis who controlled the Netherlands.

The Nazis had already destroyed many cities, killed countless people and were aiming to take over Europe.

The Jews of the Netherlands needed help if they were going to survive.

Betsalel is turning the story into a documentary titled "Rendezvous at Erasmus."

The tale is every bit as spellbinding as the fairy tales Klemke illustrated.

It began once upon a time, in a city called Amsterdam, in a magical bookstore called Erasmus.

The store was famed for carrying books filled with ideas the Nazis feared.

One day, a love of books brought a young German soldier named Johannes Gerhardt into the store.

He was so enchanted by the books that when he left the store, he forgot his rifle.

A young man named Mels de Jong chased him down and reminded him of the weapon.

Soon they became friends.

De Jong was married to Sam van Perlstein's daughter.

To survive the Nazis, van Perlstein needed certain documents.

He needed to show that he was only part Jewish.

He asked Gerhardt for help.

Gerhardt was a photographer and knew he could help, but he'd need another friend to produce the documents.

He turned to another another German soldier, Klemke, an artist who also loved books and hated Nazis.

The documents they created were perfect, and fooled everyone who needed to be fooled.

They allowed van Perlstein to get back his business and money that was being held.

The money paid for people who worked against the Nazis, and a hideaway network.

Klemke made up a story to hide his work from his Nazi superiors.

He told them that he could make nice booklets of cocktail recipes for them if he could only get a small printing office set up.

Once this was provided, he made the cocktail books.

At the same time, he produced fake birth certificates, food ration coupons, baptismal records and ID cards.

He did this work while knowing that had his bosses, or any unfriendly person, discovered what he was up to, he almost certainly would have been executed.

He wasn't caught.

Over the next few years, he produced documents that helped some people escape from the country, and allowed others to survive while they remained in hiding.

As Betsalel mentioned, the notion of Jews hidden in the Netherlands is hardly news.

Yet, unlike Anne Frank, the young girl whose family's hideaway in Amsterdam was revealed, no one was ever betrayed in the villages where Klemke worked.

Nationwide, fewer than 20 percent of Dutch Jews survived.

Where Klemke's documents were used, more than 50 percent lived.

"I do wonder what if Anne Frank had lived here," Betsalel said of Bussum.

"Would she have survived?"

In all, the rescue network saved about 500 Jews.

Others, including members of the resistance and British pilots, also were saved.

The hiding places built into walls and attics and cellars in the village were not discovered, and today are used as storage rooms.

The search for a network of underground tunnels continues.

Yet Klemke, whose artwork made him a perfect storyteller, never talked about that stage of his life.

On his deathbed, Klemke told his children they could find "important documents" in his office.

The documents were letters from Jews he had helped save, testifying to his efforts in case he ever faced prosecution for having been a Nazi soldier.

He'd never shown them to anyone.

Betsalel noted that when an acquaintance once asked Klemke about the rescue effort, he responded: "What was so special about it?

I only did what any man should have done."

She said Klemke and van Perlstein had reminded each other that they had saved so few, and so many were not saved.

Whatever the motivation, the German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung recently noted the strange twist to his story.

"Many a German kept silent about their S.S. membership," it wrote, referring to the evil Nazi troops.

"Klemke kept quiet about being in the resistance."

