Werner Klemke was a beloved children's book illustrator.

He was known for his drawings of "Grimm's Fairy Tales," which were on every East German child's bookshelf.

Before he ever drew pictures in children's books, Klemke saved hundreds of Jews from being killed by Nazis during world War II.

He managed to do this while serving in the German army.

Klemke died 20 years ago.

He never told his story.

Dutch documentary filmmaker Annet Betsalel found out about it when she looked in the records of a Jewish community in the Netherlands.

What she found was the story of a rescue network set up by a Jewish businessman, Sam van Perlstein.

He knew in 1942 that Jews could be killed by the Nazis.

The Nazis had already destroyed cities and killed many people.

They controlled the Netherlands and wanted to take over Europe.

The Jews needed help if they were going to survive.

Betsalel is turning the story into a documentary.

The story began in Amsterdam in a bookstore.

The store was famed for carrying books filled with ideas the Nazis feared and hated.

One day, a young German soldier named Johannes Gerhardt came to the store.

He was so thrilled by the books that when he left the store, he forgot his rifle.

A young man named Mels de Jong chased him down.

Soon they became friends.

De Jong was married to Sam van Perlstein's daughter.

Van Perlstein needed certain documents to escape the Nazis.

He needed to show that he was only part Jewish.

He asked Gerhardt for help.

Gerhardt was a photographer.

He knew he could help, but he'd need another friend to produce the documents.

He turned to another another German soldier, Klemke, an artist who also loved books and hated Nazis.

The documents they created were perfect, and fooled everyone who needed to be fooled.

They allowed van Perlstein to get back his business and money that was being held.

The money paid for people who worked against the Nazis, and a hideaway network.

Klemke made up a story to hide his work from his Nazi bosses.

He told them that he could make nice booklets of cocktail recipes for them.

He just needed to set up a small printing office.

He got the office and made the cocktail books.

At the same time, he produced fake papers like birth certificates and ID cards.

He did this work even knowing that had his bosses, or any unfriendly person, discovered what he was doing, he almost certainly would have been killed.

He was never caught.

Over the next few years, he produced documents that helped some people escape from the country, and allowed others to live in hiding.

In all, they saved about 500 Jews.

Others, including British pilots, also were saved.

Hiding places built into walls and attics and cellars in the village were not discovered.

Klemke never talked about that part of his life.

When he was dying, Klemke told his children they could find "important documents" in his office.

They were letters from Jews he had helped save.

The letters told about his efforts in case he ever went to court for having been a Nazi soldier.

He'd never shown them to anyone.

Betsalel noted that when someone once asked Klemke about the rescue effort, he responded: "What was so special about it?

I only did what any man should have done."

She said Klemke and van Perlstein had reminded each other that they had saved so few, and so many were not saved.

Whatever the reason, the German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung recently noted the strange twist in Klemke's story.

"Many a German kept silent about their S.S. membership," it wrote, referring to the evil Nazi troops.

"Klemke kept quiet about being in the resistance."

