A few weeks ago, Barbie appeared in a sexy bathing suit in Sports Illustrated's swimsuit issue.

Now, America's top doll is in hot water again.

This time it is over a business partnership between her manufacturer, Mattel, and the Girl Scouts.

The partnership includes a Barbie-themed activity book and a website.

Girl Scouts will also be able to earn a Barbie participation patch.

It is the first Girl Scout uniform patch that is sponsored by a corporation.

On Thursday, two consumer advocacy groups launched a petition drive urging the Girl Scouts of the USA to end the partnership.

The two groups are Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood and the Center for a New American Dream.

They said Barbie is a bad role model for little girls and the Girl Scouts shouldn't promote the doll.

The Girls Scouts said they would not end the partnership.

Susan Linn is director of the Boston-based Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood.

Barbie is the classic fashion doll, she said.

Using Barbie with her skinny figure as a role model for Girl Scouts promotes a body type that doesn't exist.

She also said it also hurts the Girl Scouts' vital mission to build "girls of courage, confidence and character."

Critics say that Barbie's curvy figure and tiny waist makes girls feel bad about their own more-normal proportions and can lead to anorexia.

She said the Barbie patch would turn these girls into "walking advertisements."

The patch is aimed for 5-to-8-year-old Daisies and Brownies.

"This is product placement at its worst," said New American Dream's executive director, Wendy Philleo.

Both groups are often critical of corporate advertising tactics.

Product placement is a subtle form of advertising in which a product is featured in a television show or movie.

Viewers are usually not aware that the placement is paid for.

Philleo described herself as a longtime admirer of the Girl Scouts.

"Our children are already being bombarded by (advertising) pitches at stores, at home, online, on TV, and in school," said Philleo.

Her group opposes the commercialization of American culture.

The Girl Scouts' national headquarters in New York rejected the groups' appeal.

"Our partnership with Mattel focuses on career exploration and teaches girls about inspiring women in a fun way," said spokeswoman Kelly Parisi.

"We stand behind this partnership."

Parisi added, "It helps us bring to over 2 million Girl Scouts the message that they can do anything."

The Barbie uniform patch is a bright pink oval with a gold-letter slogan stitched on it.

The patch reads, "Be anything, Do everything."

Fifty-five years after she was created, Barbie is still slim-waisted and long-legged.

She has pursued about 150 different careers.

In February, she gained a new one -- swimsuit model.

She posed in a bathing suit along with real-life supermodels in Sports Illustrated's 50th anniversary swimsuit issue.

Mattel was widely criticized for the placement, although it received some praise.

Mattel had anticipated the criticism, though.

It promoted the campaign with the slogan "unapologetic."

Girl Scouts CEO Anna Maria Chavez announced the partnership last year.

She described both her own organization and Barbie as "American icons."

"Together, we are teaching girls that their futures are wide open with possibilities," Chavez said.

Parisi said Mattel gave the Girl Scouts $2 million to carry out the Barbie-themed programs.

At the time the partnership was announced, the Girl Scouts were struggling financially.

The national headquarters was losing money and had to let go about one-fourth of its staff.

The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood said the Girl Scouts' Barbie-themed website included a Barbie game.

The game would encourage girls to identify careers based on costume.

The costumes range "from a veterinarian in a frilly miniskirt, to a pink-suited U.S. president, to a race car driver in" high heels.

Linn, the group's director, said the website is little more than an ad for Barbie.

It promotes "the brand's ... message that women really are what they wear."

She said she spoke privately with the Girl Scouts last year.

She had hoped they would end the Mattel partnership without the need for a public advocacy campaign.

But those efforts failed.

Linn is a psychologist who teaches at Harvard Medical School.

She founded the organization in 2000.

It now has a membership of 54,000, many of them parents.

The group's advocacy campaigns have won many victories.

Notably, it forced several companies to halt or modify advertising claiming that some videos and other products could help infants learn.

It also has helped stop proposed state laws that would have allowed advertising on school buses.

The Center for a New American Dream is a nonprofit founded in 1997.

Its mission is to help Americans reduce their spend on things they don't really need.

It says this would "improve quality of life, protect the environment, and promote social justice."

Because it is large and well-known, the Girl Scouts have been a frequent target of criticism over the years.

