The Girl Scouts of America has always been very popular.

However, not as many girls want to be join nowadays.

Membership has been vanishing faster than a box of Thin Mints.

Girl Scout leaders want to change that.

They hope technology can help.

Last year they started a new program called Digital Cookie.

It lets Girl Scouts sell cookies through apps on their cellphones and on their websites.

Now they have made the program bigger and better.

The new Digital Cookie upgrade was announced in early December.

It comes at a challenging time for the 103-year-old group.

This year 1.88 million girls are members.

Adult members number 784,120.

The total membership is 2.66 million.

Membership has dropped by almost one-third since 2003, when there were 3.8 million members.

The Girl Scouts are also having money troubles. The Girl Scouts are a charity.

They need people to give them money to keep running. A newspaper said that the organization was given $103 million in 2014.

That was much lower than the $195 million given in 2006.

Back then, the Girl Scouts were 83rd among U.S. charity groups in raising money.

Now it is ranked 257th.

Some other big childrens' groups are also losing money and members.

People's habits have changed.

Anna Maria Chavez is the head of Girl Scouts of the United States of America (GSUSA).

Technology can make the Girl Scouts strong again, she said.

For example, a girl now can join online.

Troop leaders can also plan meetings and activities online.

"Our volunteers need more tools to serve more girls," Chavez said.

"So we're really doubling down on technology."

In the past Girl Scouts sold cookies door to door.

They also sold cookies in front of stores.

Now they can use Digital Cookie to sell cookies online, too.  About 160,000 Girl Scouts used Digital Cookie last year.

They sold almost 2.5 million boxes of cookies online.

This year almost all of the GSUSA's councils around the country will use Digital Cookie.

The upgraded Digital Cookie is more educational and fun.

An online game called Cookie Booth Bounce helps girls make good choices.

They can learn money saving tips.

"Learning to Run a Business" is another feature.

Girls can post videos about themselves.

They can discuss how they will give away money they raise, too.

Claire Houston is a fan of Digital Cookie.

Now 18, she was a Girl Scout for 13 years.

Claire goes to college and coaches a Girl Scout robotics team.

Digital Cookie "is a great way to connect with how the world is changing right now," she said.

"Technology is such a big part of our lives."

The Girls Scouts experienced some problems while adjusting to their new technology.

In some areas, membership dropped.  There will always be challenges, Chavez said.

"But here's our secret power: We're a family with a clear purpose — creating girls of courage, confidence and character.

The girls are going to lead the way for us."

