Toy companies used to think girls mostly wanted to play princess.

They thought that only boys wanted to build things.

But women are now leading huge companies.

More women are also becoming engineers and mathematicians.

Toymakers found out that girls like to build things just as much as boys.

Now they are making more construction toys for girls.

The toys are made by companies like Lego and Mattel.

Parents also want toys that get their daughters interested in science and math.

They worry that girls do not want jobs in science, technology and math.

Lego has made new building kits for girls.

Lego added a splash of purple.

It has also offered sets that have a pet salon and beauty shop.

New toys for girls combine fun with science.

Jaime Katz is an expert on the toy business.

She said it is surprising that it took toy companies so long.

After all, half of all toys are bought for girls, she said.

Girls did not want to play with Lego toys as much as boys did, said Michael McNally of Lego.

The company spent four years finding out why.

Then Lego started selling its Friends toys in 2012.

They are designed for girls.

The sets have bright colors and figures that look very human.

It worked.

Only 1 out of 10 Lego sets used to be bought for girls.

Eight months after Friends turned up in stores, that went up.

The number became 1 in every 4.

Toymakers have to be smart about how they make building toys for girls.

They do not want to just take a boy's toy and make it pink and smaller.

They also have to make it entertaining.

Experts say that girls want construction toys that tell a story.

Boys are happy to just build something cool.

Bettina Chen and Alice Brooks started a company that makes toys.

They named it Roominate.

Their first toy was a car.

It did not work out well because it was just too educational, and not much fun, Chen said.

Then they made a dollhouse.

But it is not just any dollhouse.

Electronics make the lights work.

There is also a fan that spins.

Newer sets let kids build spinning windmills and elevators.

Dulce Aguilar said she would consider buying a girl's construction set for her goddaughter.

She said the little girl is not interested in "princess gifts."

Aguilar teaches elementary school.

She said that building blocks are a hit with both her male and female students.

She is glad more toys are being designed for girls.

Some of the people changing the toy business are women scientists.

Chen and Brooks of Roominate met at Stanford University.

They were studying engineering.

They were learning to use math and science to design and build things.

Another Stanford graduate with an engineering degree, Debbie Sterling, started the company GoldieBlox.

Sterling said there were not a lot of women studying engineering in school.

She wanted to make toys that got girls interested in science and math.

Building sets already did that for boys.

People in the toy business told her it would not work.

They said girls' toys need to be "sparkly with ponies," Sterling said.

Then GoldieBlox designed a construction set with colors like pink and purple.

It came with a book telling the adventures of Goldie, a girl inventor.

It sold well last year.

Sterling said she expects to sell three times as many toys this year.

