Toy companies are making new toys for girls.

They are not dolls.

They teach girls how to build things.

Toy companies used to think girls just wanted to play princess.

They thought that only boys wanted to build things.

More women are doing jobs in science and math.

And more women are becoming engineers.

They use science and math to build things.

Parents asked for the new toys.

They want toys that make science and math fun for girls.

Lego has changed its building kits.

It has added purple and pink.

It also sells sets with a pet salon and beauty shop.

Lego started selling its Friends sets in 2012.

The sets are made for girls.

They have bright colors.

They also have pieces that look more human.

It worked.

Now people are buying a lot more Lego sets for girls.

Experts say that girls want building toys that tell a story.

Boys are happy to just build something cool.

Bettina Chen and Alice Brooks are friends who started a company.

It makes Roominate brand toys.

Their first toy was a car.

They did not sell many of them.

The car was not much fun, Chen said.

Then they made a dollhouse.

It was not like other dollhouses.

Kids can make the lights work.

It has a fan that spins.

Other sets let kids build spinning windmills and elevators.

Dulce Aguilar is a teacher.

She said that both boys and girls in her class like building blocks.

She is glad more toys are being built for girls.

Women scientists are helping to change the way toys are made.

Debbie Sterling studied engineering in school.

Then she started a company called GoldieBlox.

She wanted to make toys that got girls interested in science and math.

People told her it would not work.

They said girls' toys need to be "sparkly with ponies."

GoldieBlox made a construction set.

It had colors like pink and purple.

It came with a book.

The book tells the adventures of Goldie.

She is a girl inventor.

The idea worked.

People are buying a lot of GoldieBlox play sets.

Girls really like them.

