Just weeks after Barbie appeared in the Sports Illustrated swimsuit issue, America's top doll is in hot water again.

This time it is over over a business partnership between her manufacturer, Mattel, and the Girl Scouts.

The Girl Scouts' partnership with Mattel includes a Barbie-themed activity book and a website.

Girl Scouts will also be able to earn a Barbie participation patch — the first Girl Scout uniform patch with corporate sponsorship.

On Thursday, two consumer advocacy groups often critical of corporate advertising tactics launched a petition drive urging the Girl Scouts of the USA to end the partnership.

The two groups, Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood and the Center for a New American Dream, criticized Barbie as a bad role model for little girls.

The Girls Scouts said they would not end the partnership.

Susan Linn is director of the Boston-based Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood.

Barbie is the classic fashion doll, she said.

Using Barbie as a role model for Girl Scouts both sexualizes young girls and idealizes an impossible body type, she said.

It also undermines the Girl Scouts' vital mission to build 'girls of courage, confidence and character.'"

Critics say that Barbie's curvy figure and tiny waist makes girls feel bad about their own more-normal proportions.

Some have become anorexic.

Linn said the Barbie patches, which are aimed for 5-to-8-year-old Daisies and Brownies, would transform these girls into "walking advertisements."

"This is product placement at its worst," said New American Dream's executive director, Wendy Philleo.

Product placement is a subtle form of advertising in which a product is featured in a television show or movie.

The viewers are usually not aware that the manufacturer is paying money for the placement.

Philleo described herself as a longtime admirer of the Girl Scouts.

"Our children are already being bombarded by (advertising) at stores, at home, online, on TV, and in school," said Philleo.

Her Charlottesville, Va.-based group opposes the commercialization of American culture.

The Girl Scouts' national headquarters in New York rejected the groups' appeal.

"Our partnership with Mattel focuses on career exploration and teaches girls about inspiring women in a fun way," said spokeswoman Kelly Parisi.

"We stand behind this partnership."

Parisi added, "It helps us bring to over 2 million Girl Scouts the message that they can do anything."

The Barbie uniform patch is a bright pink oval with a gold-letter slogan stitched on it, which states, "Be anything, Do everything."

Fifty-five years after she was created, Barbie, still slim-waisted and long-legged, has pursued roughly 150 different careers.

She stretched her boundaries again in February by posing in a bathing suit with a plunging back along with real-life supermodels in Sports Illustrated's 50th anniversary swimsuit issue.

The toy company was widely criticized for the placement, although it received some praise.

Anticipating the criticism, Mattel promoted the campaign with the slogan "unapologetic."

Girl Scouts CEO Anna Maria Chavez announced the partnership last year, describing both her own organization and Barbie as "American icons."

"Together, we are teaching girls that their futures are wide open with possibilities," Chavez said at the time.

Parisi said Mattel gave the Girl Scouts $2 million to carry out the Barbie-themed programs.

At the time the partnership was announced, the Girl Scouts were struggling financially and the national headquarters let go about one-fourth of its staff.

The Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood said the Girl Scouts' Barbie-themed website included a game that would encourage girls to identify careers based on costume.

This ranges "from a veterinarian in a frilly miniskirt, to a pink-suited U.S. president, to a race car driver in" high heels.

Said Linn, the campaign director: "The website is little more than an interactive ad for Barbie promoting the brand's ...  message that women really are what they wear."

Linn said she communicated privately with the Girl Scouts last year, hoping they would end the Mattel partnership without the need for a public advocacy campaign.

But those efforts failed.

A psychologist who teaches at Harvard Medical School, Linn founded the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood in 2000.

It now reports a membership of 54,000, many of them parents.

The group's advocacy campaigns have achieved numerous victories.

Notably, it forced several companies to halt or modify advertising claiming that certain videos and other products could help infants learn.

It also has helped block proposed state laws that would have allowed ads on school buses.

The Center for a New American Dream, a nonprofit founded in 1997, says its mission is to help Americans reduce and modify the level of consumer spending on nonessential goods.

This would "improve quality of life, protect the environment, and promote social justice."

Due to its size and high profile, the Girl Scouts have been a frequent target of criticism over the years.

