For many years, toymakers believed that boys wanted to build things and girls wanted to play princess.

But women are now leading huge companies and more women are becoming engineers and mathematicians.

Meanwhile, toy companies are realizing that girls want to build bridges and wire circuits.

Parents, too, are demanding playthings that inspire a love of science and math in their daughters.

This is driven in part by concern that kids are not interested enough in science, technology, engineering and math careers.

As a result, construction toys have become a bright spot in the toy business.

Each year, $22 billion worth of toys are sold.

In April, Mattel bought the company Mega Brands, known for its construction sets, to get more into construction toys.

Lego has remade its building kits so girls will like them.

It has added a splash of purple and themes such as pet salon and beauty shop.

New toy companies are designing girl-friendly toys that combine fun with science.

It is surprising that it took this long for toymakers to "get on board," said Jaime Katz of Morningstar, a company that follows changes in businesses.

She said half of all toys are bought for girls.

If toy companies do not make building toys for them, they are ignoring half of all shoppers, she said.

Toymakers sold $2 billion in building sets in 2013, according to NPD Group, a company that researches businesses.

That is up 22 percent from the number of sets sold in 2011.

For years, toy companies ignored building toys for girls.

They have finally been paying attention to how girls like to build.

Lego realized that girls did not want its toys as much as boys, said the company's Michael McNally.

So the company spent four years researching how to make construction toys for girls.

Lego released its Friends sets of toys for girls in 2012.

The sets have bright colors and come with more human-like figures than boys' toys.

Lego's new changes have paid off.

Before Friends, only about 10 percent of Lego sets were bought for girls.

Within eight months of the line's launch, that grew to 25 percent, McNally said.

To win over girls, toymakers say they have to walk a careful line.

They cannot just make a girl's toy by taking a boy's toy and making it pink and smaller.

They also have to design a product that is entertaining enough to attract customers.

While boys are often satisfied just by building something cool-looking, girls want more of a story with their construction toys, experts say.

Bettina Chen and Alice Brooks started a girls' toy company called Maykah Inc. Their Roominate line of toys started with a car.

It did not sell well, so they scrapped that idea in favor of a dollhouse.

"The car kit was an educational toy first," Chen said.

They realized the toys needed to be just as fun as they were educational to get girls interested.

Their new dollhouse is not just any dollhouse.

Circuits power lights and a working fan.

Newer sets let kids build miniature spinning windmills and working elevators.

The growing popularity of construction toys for girls also reflects a shift in what is going on in families.

Parents are more open now to ideas of what boys and girls should be allowed to do.

Dulce Aguilar said she would buy a construction set designed for girls to give to her goddaughter.

She said the little girl is not interested in "princess gifts."

The elementary school teacher said she has noticed that building blocks are a hit with both her male and female students.

She is glad more toys are designed with girls in mind.

"It's a great opportunity for girls to learn skills in terms of building and how to support a structure," she said.

Women with careers in science have started some of the newest toy companies for girls.

Chen and Brooks of Roominate met as engineering students at Stanford University.

Another Stanford graduate with an engineering degree, Debbie Sterling, started GoldieBlox.

Sterling said she got into construction toys after seeing the lack of female engineering students in college.

Her goal: to create toys that lead to an early interest in science and math in girls, the way that building sets have done for boys.

People in the toy business told her the idea would not work.

They said "in order to appeal to girls, it had to be sparkly with ponies," Sterling said.

GoldieBlox raised money online to start its business, then rolled out a pastel-colored construction set.

It came with a book featuring the adventures of Goldie, a girl inventor.

The sets ask girls to build belt drives and work with levers and hinges.

GoldieBlox has grown quickly.

Sterling expects that the company will sell three times as many toys as it did last year.

