SHINGTON – Barack Obama promised to close Guantanamo Bay when he ran for president.

Easier said than done.

As president, Obama called the offshore prison wasteful and expensive.

He has said it just helps create more terrorists.

Still, Obama has failed to keep his promise and close it down.

On April 30, Obama said that he will try again.

His promise raises many questions, some easier to answer than others.

A: The first 20 people captured in Afghanistan arrived at the U.S.

Naval Station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, on Jan. 11, 2002.

The military calls them "detainees," not prisoners.

A: The military considered many faraway locations for holding men after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

Officials eventually turned to Guantanamo.

Officials thought that Guantanamo would calm worries about security.

That's because Guantanamo is on the island country of Cuba.

They also thought that the men held there would not be able to take their cases to U.S. courts.

The Supreme Court later said that was not fair.

A: Currently, 166 men are imprisoned there, more than half of them from Yemen.

Three of the 166 have been found guilty of crimes.

Seven have been charged with crimes - including the five accused of planning in the 9/11 attacks.

Twenty-four may face criminal charges.

Another 86 have been cleared for release or transfer to other countries.

Also, 46 face no criminal charges.

However, they are thought to be too dangerous to release.

A: The military says it uses the term for most of the men because they have not been found guilty of crimes.

A: When the first detainees arrived, they were housed in wire pens that looked like a backyard dog kennel.

Now most are in air-conditioned buildings.

The buildings are called camps.

Until recently, most of the detainees were in Camp 6.

They could move freely out of their cells and watch television and eat together.

But in April, detainees covered cameras used to watch over them.

So guards forced all the prisoners back into their 6.8-foot-by-12-foot cells.

The most secret area of Guantanamo, Camp 7, holds about 15 of the detainees, including those accused of planning the 9/11 attacks.

As of Monday, 100 detainees were refusing food, with some being force-fed.

A: Detainees are supposed to be treated like human beings, based on the Geneva Conventions.

This international agreement outlines the treatment of prisoners of war.

Congress also made a law against "cruel, inhuman or degrading" treatment.

A: Somewhat.

The Supreme Court ruled in a 2008 decision that the detainees could take their case to court, just like prisoners in the United States.

A: The White House said it spends about $150 million per year to run Guantanamo.

That works out to $800,000 per prisoner.

The United States has spent hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade the prison since George W. Bush was president.

A: Since 2009, Congress has made it difficult for the White House to transfer men out of Guantanamo.

One law forbids using military funds to move detainees to the United States.

It also forbids transfers to risky foreign countries where it might be hard to keep track of them.

A: In January, the top U.S. spy reported on what had happened to the 603 men who had been transferred out of Guantanamo.

The report found that 97 went back to fighting against U.S. forces.

Another 72 were suspected of fighting against U.S. forces.

