On Nov. 22, 1952, an Air Force plane slammed straight into Alaska's Mount Gannett.

There were 52 people on board.

Not a single person survived.

The unlucky plane was a C-124 transport.

It was flying from Tacoma, Wash., to Elmendorf Air Force Base in south central Alaska.

Winds were strong and the weather was rough.

The pilot had been blown off course and couldn't tell where he was going.

"The plane basically flew into a mountain.

It was in the clouds.

They couldn't see and it flew into the side of Mount Gannett," said Air Force historian Doug Beckstead.

At the time, the U.S. government thought about trying to collect what was left over from the crash.

Two men  — Air Force 1st Lt. Thomas Sullivan and Terris Moore, a pilot in the Civil Air Patrol — were sent to see what conditions were like.

They soon decided it would be too difficult to find anything.

Everything was covered over with snow and ice.

The bodies of the 52 men killed remained hidden for the next 60 years.

They were trapped inside a glacier — a giant block of ice miles long.

Even the plane was completely hidden.

Then, the glacier, called Colony Glacier, began to melt.

In June 2012, an Army Guard helicopter crew spotted the place where the plane had crashed.

Last year, crews visited the glacier.

So much ice had melted, they could see all kinds of things on the surface.

They removed almost everything they found.

Now, more ice has melted and there are whole new areas to search.

On June 19, searchers returned to look again.

The found a huge amount of material that had been hidden deep inside the glacier.

It was spread over an area about two-thirds of a mile long and one-third-mile wide.

Last Tuesday, about 1,800 pounds of material was hauled off the glacier.

And there will be more.

The plan is to remove it all.

Searchers are not only looking for parts of the plane and its cargo.

They are also trying to find the bodies of the people who died.

Whatever they find, like a skeleton, will be sent to a laboratory.

There, experts will closely study the body parts to figure out who that person was.

If they do find out, his family will be told.

The man in charge of the search for bodies is Gregory Berg.

He is with the U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command.

The command is in charge of finding missing and dead military members.

POW stands for "prisoner of war" and MIA stands for "missing in action."

Berg says that searchers also look for things that belonged to the men on the aircraft.

For example, they would collect "a journal or dog tags (military ID) or clothing items that may have the name in it."

Things like that help them to figure out who people were.

Beckstead showed items found last year: navigation tables and a small stove.

A tiny fishing kit with fishing instructions.

Small packs of Camel and Philip Morris cigarettes.

A torn mail bag with the lock still on it.

A hockey puck.

A key.

"The key.

Where's that key go to?"

he said.

"I haven't got a clue.

But it's somebody's key."

The items represent the lost men.

A memorial including some of what's been found may be made, Beckstead said.

Berg expected the team collecting human remains to finish this week.

The crews clearing out parts of the plane and its cargo may continue to work.

And they may start the effort again next year, if the glacier keeps on melting.

Who knows what long-hidden things they might find.

