For 60 years, rough glacial terrain east of Anchorage hid the remains of 52 men killed on Nov. 22, 1952, when their Air Force plane slammed into Mount Gannett.

Now, for the second summer in a row, plane wreckage and human remains are being given up by Colony Glacier, more than a dozen miles from the crash site.

The mission to recover and, eventually, identify the human remains is being led by the Hawaii-based U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command and its recovery leader, Gregory Berg.

The command operates what it calls the world's largest skeletal identification lab.

The ill-fated plane was a C-124 transport with an 11-man crew and 41 passengers.

It was flying from Tacoma, Wash., to Elmendorf Air Force Base in south central Alaska.

In rough weather, battling strong winds, the plane blew 30 miles off course sometime after passing Middleton Island in the Gulf of Alaska, according to accident reports from the time.

"The plane basically flew into a mountain.

It was in the clouds.

They couldn't see and it flew into the side of Mount Gannett," said Air Force historian Doug Beckstead.

The C-124 Globemaster, which was used to transport heavy loads, was nicknamed "Old Shaky" because of the racket from its big piston engines.

Crews last year removed all that they found, except one tire, Berg said.

Now they have whole new areas from which to extract the pieces of lives and the plane itself.

"As the glacier melts and as the glacier moves, more materials come up to the surface," Berg told reporters last week.

"So this year, what we've seen is a dramatic shift down glacier, which has then brought new materials to light."

Among other items, one man's ID tag has been found this year.

"The things that we keep are things that are directly related to an individual on that aircraft, something that we can tie straight back to them," Berg said.

"A journal or dog tags or clothing items that may have the name in it.

This year we're finding many of those same types of items again, out on the ice."

No lost airmen or soldiers have yet been positively identified, but the POW/MIA Command expects that to happen soon.

The glacier-preserved remains are in better condition than those found in areas like Vietnam and include tissue as well as bones, Berg said.

They are collected, labeled by precise location, kept in a morgue cooler, then shipped to the command laboratory.

Experts try to match the remains with DNA from relatives.

If a positive identification is made, officials notify the family.

Back in the 1950s, officials considered trying to recover the wreckage and remains.

But two men who got to the site six days after the crash, and found no survivors, pointed out how challenging that would be.

Fresh snow 8 feet deep was already covering the glacier, and drifted snow near the wreckage had piled up to hundreds of feet, according to a statement by Air Force 1st Lt. Thomas Sullivan and Terris Moore, a pilot in the Civil Air Patrol.

The impact of the crash also appeared to have triggered avalanches that further buried the debris.

The two men found a parka, a blanket covered with frozen blood, and the plane's tail, but not the engines or any other major parts.

The wreckage was strewn over a few acres.

Moore estimated the wreckage was at the 8,000-foot level of Mount Gannett, and speculated that the pilot must have barely missed other peaks as he came in over the Chugach Range.

"From this I conclude he was on instrument, flying blind, and probably crashed without any warning whatsoever to him directly into the southerly face of Mt.

Gannett," Moore wrote in his report.

The site was completely buried within 10 days of the crash by new snow and avalanches, Beckstead said.

Decades passed and the glacier slowly surged, giving up what it had buried in snow and ice and rubble.

In June 2012, an Army Guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the wreck site.

Crews worked into the fall to recover remains and debris.

Then this spring, an Army Guard crew monitoring the area spotted a big yellow canister.

"You could see this thing from 100 feet in the air.

It was obvious it was debris from the wreckage," said Lt. Col. Matthew Schell of the Alaska Army National Guard.

It's probably an oxygen canister, Berg said.

The team from Hawaii returned on June 19.

A marker left last year had moved 300 yards down the glacier.

The newly emerged debris is spread over a stretch of glacier about two-thirds of a mile long and one-third-mile wide.

It is concentrated in five main areas.

Last Tuesday, about 1,800 pounds of material was hauled off the glacier, the first batch removed this year.

And there will be more.

The plan is to remove it all.

Beckstead displayed items found last year: navigation tables and a small stove.

A miniature fishing kit with fishing instructions.

Tiny packs of Camel and Philip Morris cigarettes that used to come in food rations.

A shredded mail bag with the lock still on it.

A hockey puck.

A key.

"The key.

Where's that key go to?"

he said.

"I haven't got a clue.

But it's somebody's key."

The items represent the lost men.

A memorial may be made to them that could include some of what's been found, Beckstead said.

Berg expected the team recovering human remains to finish this week.

The crews clearing out debris may continue to work.

And they may resume the effort next year, if the glacier continues to reveal what it has held for decades.

