For 60 years, icy mountains east of Anchorage hid the remains of 52 men killed on Nov. 22, 1952.

On that windy and stormy day, their Air Force plane slammed into Alaska's Mount Gannett.

Then, years later, Colony Glacier began to shift and melt.

Plane wreckage and human remains are now being discovered, for the second summer in a row.

The U.S. Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command and its leader, Gregory Berg, are on a mission to find as many bodies from the crash as they can.

They then hope to figure out who they are.

The unlucky plane was a C-124 transport with an 11-man crew and 41 passengers.

It was flying from Tacoma, Wash., to Elmendorf Air Force Base in south central Alaska.

Winds were strong and the weather was rough.

Sometime after passing Middleton Island in the Gulf of Alaska, the plane blew 30 miles off course.

"The plane basically flew into a mountain.

It was in the clouds.

They couldn't see and it flew into the side of Mount Gannett," said Air Force historian Doug Beckstead.

There were no survivors.

Last year crews removed almost everything they found.

Now they have whole new areas to search.

"As the glacier melts and as the glacier moves, more materials come up to the surface," Berg told reporters last week.

Among other items, one man's ID tag has been found this year.

"The things that we keep are things that are directly related to an individual on that aircraft," Berg said.

"A journal or dog tags [military ID] or clothing items that may have the name in it.

This year we're finding many of those same types of items again, out on the ice."

No lost airmen or soldiers have been identified yet.

But the POW/MIA Command expects that to happen soon.

The long-frozen remains are in better condition than those found in areas like Vietnam and include tissue as well as bones.

They are collected, labeled, then shipped to the command laboratory.

Experts study the remains.

If they figure out who someone is, officials get in touch with the person's family.

Back in the 1950s, officials considered trying to collect the wreckage and human remains.

They soon decided it would be too difficult to find anything.

Fresh snow eight feet deep was already covering the glacier.

Plus, snow drifts near the wreckage had piled up to hundreds of feet.

The force of the crash had caused avalanches that further buried debris — that is, bits and pieces — from the plane.

The place where the plane had crashed was completely buried within 10 days.

Decades passed and the glacier slowly shifted, giving up what it had buried in snow and ice.

In June 2012, an Army Guard helicopter crew on a training mission discovered the spot where the plane had gone down.

Crews worked into the fall to collect remains and debris.

Then this spring, an Army Guard crew spotted a big yellow can.

"You could see this thing from 100 feet in the air.

It was obvious it was debris from the wreckage," said Lt. Col. Matthew Schell of the Alaska Army National Guard.

The POW/MIA command returned on June 19.

A marker left last year had moved 300 yards down the glacier.

The newly visible debris is spread over a stretch of glacier about two-thirds of a mile long and one-third-mile wide.

Last Tuesday, about 1,800 pounds of material was hauled off the glacier.

And there will be more.

The plan is to remove it all.

Beckstead showed items found last year: navigation tables and a small stove.

A tiny fishing kit with fishing instructions.

Small packs of Camel and Philip Morris cigarettes.

A shredded mail bag with the lock still on it.

A hockey puck.

A key.

"The key.

Where's that key go to?"

he said.

"I haven't got a clue.

But it's somebody's key."

The items represent the lost men.

A memorial may be made to them that could include some of what's been found, Beckstead said.

Berg expected the team collecting human remains to finish this week.

The crews clearing out debris may continue to work.

And they may start the effort again next year, if the glacier keeps on releasing what it has hidden for decades.

