Twelve actors.

Seven continents.

Shakespeare's unhappy Prince Hamlet is seeing  the world.

Actors from Shakespeare's Globe, a theater in London, hope to perform "Hamlet" in every country and territory in the world.

By last count, that's more than 200 in all.

This week the production found itself in New York City, at the headquarters of the United Nations.

The show received a standing ovation from top diplomats.

The drama onstage gave the diplomats a couple hours break from real drama going on around the world like the crises in Ukraine and Gaza.

"It's an absolute delight to be here.

It's extraordinary.

It feels very, very odd.

But very pleasurably odd," said Dominic Dromgoole, artistic director of Shakespeare's Globe.

"We like bold ideas.

We like bold, simple — some would say stupid — ideas."

So far, the tour has already visited 28 countries and traveled 19,295 miles (31,053 kilometers).

The tour began this spring in London.

The production's home is a reconstructed 16th-century theater on the River Thames.

On the road for two years, the production must travel light.

The scenery for "Hamlet" is simple: just a few trunks, sheets, wood beams and rope.

Each actor plays more than one character.

They also play instruments such as drums, violins and mandolins.

The U.N. is not the first unexpected place these actors have performed.

They have put on the play in opera halls, market places and beaches.

The troupe hopes to visit all the world's countries, including Iraq, North Korea and Syria.

They also hope to perform in the Palestinian territory of the West Bank.

It's important to include every country and territory, Dromgoole said.

"If you do start excluding anyone, you do have to ask the question 'Where do you start and where do you stop?'"

The show has already played in some conflict zones.

Russia and Ukraine are currently in a violent dispute.

"Hamlet" was performed in both Moscow and Kiev, Ukraine's capital.

The production next moves on to Central America and the Caribbean.

It will stop in the Bahamas on Wednesday and then move on to Mexico, Cuba, Haiti and Jamaica.

Later this summer it will head to Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica.

The tour features a portable set.

The 12-person cast includes actors from many cultures.

Hong Kong-born actress Jennifer Leong and Maori actor Rawiri Paratene are among them.

Two actors share the part of Prince Hamlet.

London actor Naeem Hayat, and Nigeria-born Ladi Emeruwa trade off on the role.

An international audience is sure to have different views on the play, Emeruwa said.

"I think it'll mean different things to different people depending on what sort of situation they're in or what sort of situation their country is in as well," he said.

The show's journey began on April 23 — Shakespeare's 450th birthday.

It will end back in London on April 23, 2016, the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's death.

The actor Paratene hopes the play influenced the diplomats in some small way.

"It would be foolish of us to go in thinking that we could get the diplomats to operate better," he said.

"All we can do is tell the story."

Paratene says that if the play causes "the Israeli representative go to the other side of the room and sit next to the Palestinian representative and maybe kiss each other on the cheek and talk and listen, that would be very nice.

But that's not what we're here to do.

We're here to tell a story."

"Hamlet" is the story of Prince Hamlet of Denmark.

Hamlet is son of the king and heir to the throne.

He is off studying in Germany.

When he returns home to Denmark, he finds out from a ghost that his uncle has murdered his father, married his mother, and named himself king.

Hamlet must decide what to do about this.

