"To be, or not to be, that is the question."

The famous speech from Shakespeare's "Hamlet" will soon be heard all over the world.

A group of actors from London hope to perform the play in every country and territory in the world.

By last count, that's more than 200 in all.

This week, the actors performed at the United Nations in New York City.

Top diplomats gave the show a standing ovation.

"It's an absolute delight to be here.

It feels very, very odd," said Dominic Dromgoole, the show's director.

"We like bold ideas.

We like bold, simple — some would say stupid — ideas."

So far, the tour has visited 28 countries and traveled 19,295 miles (31,053 kilometers).

The actors are from Shakespeare's Globe, a theater in London.

The show's global journey began on April 23, Shakespeare's 450th birthday.

It will end back in London on April 23, 2016, the 400th anniversary of his death.

This new "Hamlet" must be ready to travel.

The set onstage is just a few trunks, sheets, wood beams and rope.

Each actor plays more than one part.

Actors also play musical instruments such as drums, violins and mandolins.

The journey has already taken the actors to many unusual places.

They have performed in opera houses, market places and beaches.

The group hopes to visit all the world's countries.

They even hope to reach Iraq, North Korea and Syria.

It's important to include every country and territory, Dromgoole said.

It's better to include everyone than decide who to leave out, he added.

The show next moves on to Central America and the Caribbean.

It will stop in the Bahamas on Wednesday.

Then it will move on to Mexico, Cuba, Haiti and Jamaica.

Later this summer it will head to Belize, Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Costa Rica.

The tour includes a 12-person cast.

The actors come from several countries.

Two actors play Hamlet — London actor Naeem Hayat, and Nigeria-born Ladi Emeruwa — at different times.

Emeruwa says that different audiences may have very different feelings about the play.

"I think it'll mean different things to different people," Emeruwa said.

It depends on "what sort of situation they're in or what sort of situation their country is in," he said.

"Hamlet" is the story of Prince Hamlet of Denmark.

Hamlet is son of the king and heir to the throne.

He is off studying in Germany.

When Hamlet returns home to Denmark, he finds out from a ghost that his uncle has murdered his father, married his mother, and named himself king.

Hamlet must decide what to do about this.

