 Before too long there may be a very odd thing on Americans' dinner plates.

It looks exactly like salmon, and it is, but it is salmon that has been genetically modified.

The salmon is the first altered animal cleared for humans to eat in the United States.

Scientists are altering the genes of salmon to make them grow faster. Genes are passed down by parents.

Genes decide what someone looks like and how their body works.

They make a person have wavy or straight hair, or blue or brown eyes, or even smile a certain way.

Plants, animals and people all have genes.

With new genes, now the salmon can grow faster.  Critics call it "Frankenfish," after the Frankenstein monster, but the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) granted its approval on Thursday, saying the faster-growing salmon is safe to eat.

It could be available in grocery stores in a couple of years.

The new fish is called AquAdvantage Salmon.

Nutritionally speaking, it is no different than other farm-raised Atlantic salmon, the FDA said.

The FDA hesitated in approving the salmon for more than five years because of concerns about genetically modified foods.

The fish grows twice as fast as regular salmon, reaching the size it needs to be when sold more quickly than regular salmon.  A company named AquaBounty makes the engineered salmon.

The fish is a "game changer" said Ron Stotish, the company's CEO.

It "brings healthy and nutritious food to consumers in an environmentally responsible manner without damaging the ocean," he said.

It takes the salmon about two years to grow.

It should be available in grocery stores in that time, AquaBounty said.

Once the salmon reaches stores, consumers may not even know they are eating it.

AquaBounty says that genetically modified salmon has the same flavor, feel, color and smell as typical salmon. The FDA says the law does not require the fish to be labeled as engineered.  If stores that sell the fish want customers to know it has been genetically modified, the stores can label it using a description recommended by the FDA.  Some stores have said they will not sell the modified fish at all.

So far, those retailers include Whole Foods, Trader Joe's, Target and Kroger.

Critics of genetically altered fish have put pressure on retailers to not sell the salmon.

They worry it could cause allergies.

They also fear that if the salmon escapes into the wild, and mixes with natural salmon, it could wipe them out.  "There's no place on our dinner plates for genetically engineered fish," Lisa Archer said.

She works for Friends of the Earth, a group that supports the environment.

She said that "the majority of consumers" don't want to eat "this poorly studied, unlabeled genetically engineered fish."

The Center for Food Safety is another group that disagrees with allowing the new fish.

Just hours after the announcement, it announced that it would sue the FDA to block the approval.

Alaska Senator Lisa Murkowski has said the engineered salmon could harm her state's wild salmon fishing industry.

She went to the Senate floor to criticize the FDA shortly after the announcement, saying she was "spitting mad."

She and other Alaska and Pacific Northwest lawmakers said they will swiftly push for a law to require labeling of the modified fish.

The FDA said there are only two places in Canada and Panama where the salmon can be raised in large aquariums, called hatchery tanks.

There are plans in place to keep the fish from escaping, the agency said.

First, there would be barriers to block the fish from escaping.

Also, the fish would be raised to be female and would not have the ability to have babies, so if any did escape, they should not be able to multiply.

Scientists have added growth hormone to the salmon from the Pacific Chinook salmon, because that type of salmon can make growth hormone all year long.

Engineers have been able to keep the hormone active by using another gene from a fish similar to an eel.

The gene acts like an "on" switch.

Typical Atlantic salmon make growth hormone for only part of the year.

The FDA said it examined the information AquaBounty submitted about the new salmon thoroughly.

When deciding whether an engineered animal is safe for people to eat, the FDA reviews the company's information and checks that the engineering is safe for the fish.

The FDA also must make sure that anything the company claims is accurate.

Stotish from AquaBounty said he is hopeful that as people learn more, they will accept the fish.

"We think time and education and information may allow many of these folks to change their mind," he said of critics.

