The bleating sounds didn't disturb the residents of Congressional Cemetery, where hundreds of senators, congressmen, and a couple of vice presidents are buried.

For a week, 70 goats will eat the vines, poison ivy, dense vegetation and anything else that's green they can reach.

Their feasting will clean up a parcel on the cemetery grounds that is overrun with plants.

Fast-growing vines and other plants can hurt the surrounding trees and make them fall down, destroying historic headstones.

Paul Williams, the president of the association that cares for the cemetery, explained why it chose goats to clear the weeds.

"We don't want to utilize chemicals, due to our riverside location and because of our membership-only, off-leash dog-walking program."

About 25 percent of the cemetery's funding comes from people who pay to walk their dogs in its 35 acres.

It's not just politicians who are buried in the cemetery.

Other historic Americans, including Civil War photographer Mathew Brady, FBI chief J. Edgar Hoover and composer John Philip Sousa also sleep for eternity beneath its grounds.

The floppy-eared brown-and-white goats, including ones called Yoda, Buckaroo and Mimi, were camera-shy at first.

They wouldn't leave their trailer.

Then they did, only to run back in to avoid a crowd of news crews.

After officials of the cemetery and the humane society moved out the herd of reporters, the goats ran into the fenced area and started doing what they do best: chomping everything green and leafy in sight.

Watching them chewing vines and hearing their bleating delighted about a half-dozen children.

"It's actually an ancient custom," said Williams, who's trying to bring new life and activities to the cemetery.

"I kind of hope it opens people's minds to alternatives."

Hiring the 70 goats saves money, too.

They can reach vines as high as 7 feet, and only cost $4,000 for six days of work, or $9.52 per day per goat.

Williams said that worked out to be a bargain.

It's an exciting opportunity to show how goats can be used to control overgrown vegetation, said Brian Knox, the owner of Eco-Goats in Annapolis, Md.

The city of Paris began using sheep this past spring as eco-mowers.

They keep the lawns trim outside the French capital's city archives.

Aside from some dense vegetation, Congressional Cemetery is quite tidy, with small trees and monuments among the headstones.

A quaint chapel sits in the middle of the grounds.

There's also a public vault from 1832, where the bodies of many famous people, including First Lady Dolley Madison, were stored temporarily.

Two hundred members of Congress and their families are buried at the cemetery.

It is owned by Christ Church and gets the name "congressional" because of who's buried there.

It's not connected to the U.S. Congress.

Williams is trying to bring back the way people once thought of cemeteries.

He explained they were the early parks.

In the Victorian era, people would have picnics in cemeteries.

And the eco-goats were certainly doing that.

Chris Kennedy, a board member of the cemetery's association, lives nearby and likes to bring his dogs there.

He called it a "unique and a beautiful thing."

The goats, he added, are "a cool thing.

It's historical.

It's ecological."

Might goats or sheep on the National Mall, to eco-mow the grass, be not too far off?

"I would not expect that," said Carol Johnson, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service.

There could be damage and other results that might not be expected.

But, she added, "It's certainly an interesting idea."

