The noise from the goats didn't bother the residents of the Congressional Cemetery.

The senators, congressmen and vice presidents there are all dead and buried.

The 70 goats are cleaning up part of the graveyard for a week.

They're called "eco-goats" and will eat all the overgrown weeds, vines and other plants they can reach.

Clearing the fast-growing plants will protect the trees in the graveyard from getting choked.

And that keeps them from falling down and breaking the historic headstones.

The cemetery is not just for politicians.

It's also the final resting place of FBI chief J. Edgar Hoover and music composer John Philip Sousa.

The group that cares for the graveyard chose goats instead of chemicals to kill the weeds and vines.

It wants to protect the river next to the cemetery, and the dogs who are allowed there.

About a quarter of the cemetery's money comes from people who pay to walk their dogs there.

The brown-and-white goats with floppy ears had names like Yoda, Buckaroo and Mimi.

They were shy at first.

They wouldn't leave their trailer.

They came out, and ran back in to avoid a herd of reporters.

When the reporters were moved away, the goats ran into the fenced area and started doing what they do best: eating everything around that was green and leafy.

A half-dozen kids had fun watching them chew vines and bleat, an awful lot.

Paul Williams is president of the cemetery's association.

He's trying to bring new life and activities to the graveyard.

Using goats to clear away dense plants is an old custom, he explained.

"I kind of hope it opens people's minds to alternatives."

Williams said hiring the 70 goats was a bargain.

They cost $4,000 for six days of work.

That's just $9.52 per goat per day.

It's exciting to show how goats can control plants, said Brian Knox, the owner of the eco-goat herd.

The city of Paris began using sheep this past spring as eco-mowers.

They mow the lawn outside the city's record-keeping building by nibbling at the grass.

Except for the overgrown area, Congressional Cemetery is quite neat, with small trees among the headstones.

It also has a small chapel.

Two hundred members of Congress and their families are buried there.

It's owned by Christ Church.

It gets the name "congressional" because of who's buried there, but it's not connected to the U.S. Congress.

Williams is trying to bring back the way people once thought of cemeteries.

He explained they were used as parks and people used to picnic there.

Chris Kennedy, a board member of the cemetery's association, lives close by.

He likes to bring his dogs there.

He called the cemetery "unique and a beautiful."

The goats are "a cool thing.

It's historical.

It's ecological."

Could there goats or sheep on the National Mall some day to mow the grass there?

Probably not, said Carol Johnson, who works for the National Park Service.

There could be damage and other problems, she explained.

But, she said, "It's certainly an interesting idea."

