If you have bought Cheddar Goldfish snacks in the past four years, one fed-up Florida mom wants to help you get your money back.

And she has put South Florida at the center of a national debate over genetically modified foods.

Those are foods that have been changed in a lab.

Palm Beach County schoolteacher Lisa Leo has taken Pepperidge Farm to court for false advertising.

The huge food company calls its popular fish-shaped crackers "natural" on the package.

She says the crackers contain genetically modified soybeans.

Her lawsuit was filed June 11 in federal court.

She wants new labels placed on the product.

She also seeks at least $5 million in damages.

The money would go to pay back Floridians who purchased the snacks since June 2009.

Shoppers "have a right to know what they're putting in their bodies," said Joshua Eggnatz.

He is Leo's lawyer.

"You may not think GMOs are bad for you, but others may."

Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are plant or animal products.

But, they have been created in a lab.

The process uses the DNA of bacteria, viruses or other plants and animals.

The purpose is to make a seed produce more crops or to make the crops heartier.

They can be made to be more resistant to insects, drought and chemicals.

About 90 percent of the corn, cotton, soybeans and sugar beets grown in the United States are genetically altered.

They are most often used in foods like crackers and cereals.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not defined what "natural" means on food labels.

But its website says the agency "has not objected to the use of the term" if a food does not have added color, fake flavors or main-made ingredients.

According to the lawsuit, Leo purchased the snacks monthly from three stores.

She paid a higher price for them.

And she believed that the "natural" label meant they contained no GMO ingredients.

Leo would have chosen cheaper snacks without GMOs for her family had she known about the Goldfish's modified soybeans.

That's according to the complaint.

The suit does not say that anyone in Leo's family was sickened by the product.

Pepperidge Farm officials did not return calls for a comment.

The complaint targets one product.

However, it shows a growing concern over how America's changing food supply can affect people's health over the long term.

Recent studies have suggested that re-engineered foods can create new unintended poisons.

They can also increase the risk of allergies.

But the evidence is limited and not clear-cut.

Still, more than 60 countries limit the sale of GMO ingredients or outlaw them altogether.

And the companies that make them have felt the heat in recent years.

One of the largest protests erupted in May.

More than 2 million people worldwide rallied against Monsanto.

The company is the world's largest manufacturer of genetically modified seeds.

It is based in St. Louis.

There has been public pressure to require food labels in the United States.

Congress is considering a bill.

It would direct the FDA to "clearly label" genetically modified foods.

Florida and 14 other states are considering their own labels.

The food manufacturing industry has successfully fought labeling.

It argues that people will assume that products containing GMOs are worse or not as safe.

"It's a hugely controversial topic, and when you look at both sides, they seem to make a lot of sense," said Lillian Craggs-Dino.

She is a dietitian with the Cleveland Clinic in Florida.

Part of the concern over GMOs, she said, is that many are modified with DNA from other species.

Genes from an animal or shellfish, for example, can be added to a seed.

That creates a problem for allergy sufferers.

People following a vegan or Kosher diet would have to make tough choices.

"People want to be educated by what they see on a food label and make an educated decision," Craggs-Dino said.

Public pressure has persuaded Whole Foods to require suppliers to add GMO labels to their products.

It's the first major supermarket chain to do so.

The company set 2018 as its deadline.

Shoppers can take steps to avoid GMOs without having to rely on labels, Craggs-Dino said.

They can buy products certified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as "organic."

There's another method, endorsed by Carol Sherman, a dietitian.

"Just use your common sense," she said.

Processed foods, like goldfish, are the most likely candidates to have genetically altered ingredients.

