If you have bought Cheddar Goldfish crackers recently, one Florida mom wants to help you get your money back.

Her timing could not be better.

People across the country are talking about GMO foods.

GMO foods include ingredients that have been changed in a lab.

Palm Beach County schoolteacher Lisa Leo has taken Pepperidge Farm to court.

She claims false advertising.

The food company calls its popular fish-shaped crackers "natural."

She says they contain GMO soybeans.

Her lawsuit was filed June 11.

It wants new labels placed on the product.

It also seeks at least $5 million in damages.

The money would pay back Floridians who have bought the snack since June 2009.

Thought "Natural" Meant No GMOs People "have a right to know what they're putting in their bodies," said Joshua Eggnatz.

He is Leo's lawyer.

"You may not think GMOs are bad for you, but others may."

Genetically modified organisms, or GMOs, are plant or animal products.

They have been created by scientists in a lab.

They use DNA from bacteria, viruses or other plants and animals.

The purpose is to make seeds produce more or stronger crops.

The crops can be more resistant to insects and low rainfall.

About 90 percent of the corn, cotton, soybeans and sugar beets grown in the United States are genetically changed.

They are often used in foods like crackers and cereals.

Those types of foods are mostly manufactured.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will not say what "natural" should mean on food labels.

But its website says the agency allows the word as long as the food does not have added color, fake flavor or man-made ingredients.

According to the lawsuit, Leo paid extra money for the Goldfish snacks.

And she believed that the "natural" label meant they had no GMOs.

Bad Health Effects?

Leo would have chosen cheaper snacks without GMOs.

The lawsuit does not say that the Goldfish made her family sick.

Pepperidge Farm did not return calls for a comment.

The lawsuit just targets the Goldfish.

But it shows the concern over the health effects of America's changing food supply.

Recent studies have suggested that these foods can create new poisons.

They can also increase the risk of allergies.

But the evidence is limited.

Still, more than 60 countries regulate the ingredients, or ban GMOs.

And the companies that make them have come under fire from many consumers.

A large protest erupted in May.

More than 2 million people worldwide rallied against Monsanto.

It is the world's largest maker of GMO seeds.

Congress Considers Food Label Bill There has been pressure to require food labels in the United States.

Congress is considering a bill.

It would direct the FDA to "clearly label" genetically modified foods.

Florida and 14 other states are considering their own labels.

Food manufacturers have fought labeling.

They say that people will think that products containing GMOs are not as safe.

Or that they might be lower quality.

"It's a hugely controversial topic, and when you look at both sides, they seem to make a lot of sense," said Lillian Craggs-Dino.

She is a dietitian in Florida.

One worry, Craggs-Dino said, is that many GMOs use DNA from other species.

Genes from an animal or shellfish, for example, can be added to a seed.

That could be a problem for people with allergies or certain diets.

"I think, ultimately, this is about education, consumer choice," she said.

Whole Foods will require its suppliers to add GMO labels to their products.

It's the first major supermarket chain to do so.

The company set 2018 as its deadline.

People can avoid GMOs without relying on labels, Craggs-Dino said.

They can buy products that are labeled "organic."

