Low-income teens may gain more than an academic boost by attending top-notch high schools.

Good schools may also make them healthier, a study suggests.

The study found that kids who went to high-performing schools were less likely to participate in risky health behaviors than teens who attended schools that weren't as good.

The teens were otherwise similar.

They all came from low-income Los Angeles neighborhoods and applied to top public charter schools that admit students at random, not based on their grades.

The researchers looked at 1,000 students in grades 10 through 12.

They compared the behaviors of students in high-performing schools to those who attended schools that weren't as good.

Overall, 36 percent of the kids in high-performing schools engaged in at least one of 11 very risky behaviors, such as drinking large amounts of alcohol, having unsafe sex and using hard drugs.

In comparison, 42 percent of the teens who attended lower-performing schools took part in the unsafe behaviors.

The study doesn't prove that the schools made the difference.

The study results are not completely reliable, because a large number of students refused to participate.

Still, lead author Dr. Michael Wong said the results echo findings in other research studies and seem to confirm the assumption that "better education will lead to better health."

Wong is a medical doctor and researcher at the University of California, Los Angeles.

The study involved mostly Latino students who applied to one of three top-performing public charter schools between 2007 and 2010.

A charter school is an independently run school that receives public funding.

About half of the kids had parents who did not graduate from high school and most of their families didn't own their own homes.

Results were published online Monday in Pediatrics, the journal of the American Academy of Pediatricians.

Teens were given computerized questionnaires to answer in private to improve the chances they would be honest.

The California Department of Education provided their academic test scores.

Kelli Komro, a professor of  health outcomes and policy at the University of Florida in Gainesville, said despite the limitations, the study "is a beautifully conducted natural experiment."

She said the study could be done because there's more demand for high-performing schools than there is space available.

Komro was not involved in the research.

The Los Angeles schools' lottery system selects students randomly, not on grades or other factors.

The study "mimics a randomized controlled trial, the gold standard in health research," Komro said.

In a randomized controlled trial, people are put in different groups at random and then studied to see the difference between the groups.

In this case, students with similar backgrounds attended very different types of schools.

This gave researchers the chance to study what effect the schools had on the students.

Most of the kids who got into the charter schools chose to attend them.

About 83 percent of those who applied did not get in.

Most of them went to schools with worse test scores.

After one year, researchers discovered that math and English scores were higher in kids who went to better schools.

Moreover, just 9 percent of the kids at the better schools dropped out, versus almost 25 percent of the kids at the low-performing schools.

Professor Harold Pollack, a University of Chicago public health researcher, said the study is important.

It highlights the challenge — and need to — create "a much larger number of schools that serve kids well," he said.

Pollack said that doing better is likely more important for their long-term health than their risky behaviors.

"Educational outcomes are just so critical for people's well-being," he said.

