lot of what we know about chimpanzees is because of the scientist Jane Goodall.

Goodall spent many years studying chimpanzees in Tanzania.

It is a country in East Africa.

There is a new children's book about her called, "Untamed: The Wild Life of Jane Goodall."

This book tells all about Goodall's life and her important discoveries about chimpanzees.

There have been other children's books about Goodall.

They mostly talked about her work in primatology.

Primatology is the study of animals like monkeys and chimpanzees.

"Untamed" is different than other children's books about Goodall.

Anita Silvey is the book's author.

She thought it was important to talk about all 81 years of Goodall's life, not just her work on chimpanzees.

Silvey hopes her book will help young people change the world.

"Untamed" begins with stories about Goodall's growing up in England.

Silvey writes that Goodall loved watching her family pets as a child.

Goodall also liked being in nature and reading.

One book she really liked was "The Story of Doctor Dolittle."

It is a story about a man who travels to Africa and learns to speak to animals.

Silvey is also an expert on children's books.

She thinks that when children read, they often think about their own lives.

She says that children ask questions while reading.

For example, they might  ask, "How can this story be helpful in my own life?"

Goodall might have asked this question when reading her childhood books about animals and Africa.

When she was 22 years old, Goodall was asked by a friend to visit Africa.

She wanted to go and worked very hard to get enough money for the trip.

Once she was in Africa, Goodall got a job with a man named Louis Leakey.

He was a famous scientist who researched early humans in Africa.

Leakey helped Goodall study chimpanzees in the wild.

Goodall then went to the Gombe Stream Game Reserve in Tanzania.

The Gombe Stream Game Reserve is a national park.

A national park is an area of land that is protected by the country's government.

The government wants to protect the land to help save the many wild animals.

Goodall's work at this national park changed how scientists work with animals forever.

Goodall believed that every chimpanzee was special.

She always treated them like humans.

Other scientists kept track of these animals with numbers.

Goodall did not believe in that approach, so she gave the chimps names instead of numbers.

Silvey also writes about how Goodall faced many problems.

"It wasn't easy for her, but she always pushed through hard times.

Whatever the problem, she found a way to solve it," she wrote.

Silvey's book sends a clear message to children.

If you love something and work hard at it, you can use it to help the world.

Goodall used her love for animals to change the world.

Silvey thinks that if children follow their dreams, they might be able to change the world for the better.

Goodall is now traveling the world.

She is working to help chimpanzees and other endangered animals.

Silvey's book offers children some ideas for helping these animals.

As Goodall writes in the beginning of Silvey's book, "You can make a difference every single day."

