General Motors.

Toyota.

Google?

One of the world's largest technology companies is getting into the car business and is hoping to turn drivers into passengers.

Tech giant Google said on Tuesday that it plans to test about 200 of its own two-seat self-driving cars.

"We've been working toward the goal of vehicles that can shoulder the entire burden of driving," the company wrote on its blog.

"They will take you where you want to go at the push of a button."

The main goal of the tidy, gumdrop-shaped cars isn't to push Google into the business of building cars.

Instead, the company wants to develop self-driving software that will "improve road safety and help people who can't drive."

The testing program will start later this summer, with a handful of early-stage self-driving cars hitting the roads around Google's headquarters.

These early builds will have manual controls for the test drivers to override the cars' self-driving systems as required by current California law.

But Google plans to build the bulk of the cars as fully self-driving.

That means no steering wheel, no gas or brake pedal.

Inside will be a pair of seats with seat belts, space for your belongings, buttons to start and stop, and a screen showing where the car is going.

California law is expected to allow the operation of such vehicles on public roads by the end of this year.

The cars were built with safety in mind.

They have sensors that get rid of blind spots and look in every direction for more than 200 yards.

The top speed of the first vehicles will be limited to 25 miles per hour (mph).

"We're going to learn a lot from this experience, and if the technology develops as we hope, we'll work with partners to bring this technology into the world safely," Google said on its blog.

The small electric cars were built in Michigan using parts from suppliers to mainstream brands.

The electronics and software to control them were assembled in Silicon Valley.

But don't expect Google to take on the automakers directly.

"The chances of them getting into manufacturing are slim," said Bill Hampton, publisher of AutoBeat Group.

"I don't think they want to do that.

They want to control the information that will allow driverless cars to operate ...

Figuring that out is worth a lot of money."

Other analysts agreed.

"I can't imagine Google would want to be in the low-margin manufacturing business," said Egil Juliussen, the director of research and advanced driver assistance systems at IHS Automotive.

"They would be the software provider, which can be the most profitable part of such a car."

Google's cars are also notable because their fully self-driving setup, which completely eliminates the driver, leapfrogs the step-by-step approach mainstream automakers have taken to self-driving cars.

Tuesday's news probably will speed up development of self-driving cars at many of the largest automakers.

These companies are most likely working on their own software.

But smaller brands such as Subaru or Jaguar/Land Rover could look to license Google's software for their vehicles.

Google's plan to work on purely self-driving vehicles also turns the car from a product to a service.

Self-driving cars could mean transportation for potentially billions of people who are unable to drive because of age, disability or income, Juliussen said.

This change in thinking, from a company of Google's stature, could ripple through the auto industry, he said.

In addition to possible partnerships with automakers, Google's self-driving cars could spark micro-loan programs in cities similar to bike-share programs.

Users could subscribe for a monthly fee, and take the cars when they needed them for short trips around town.

That change may happen faster than people think.

Many automakers predict they will have fully self-driving cars on the road by 2020.

By 2025, as many as 230,000 of these self-drivers could be sold each year around the world.

And that number could swell to 11.8 million 10 years later, according to a study by Juliussen and IHS Automotive.

As self-driving cars become more common, accident rates are expected to plunge to near zero, since a vast majority of today's crashes are caused by human error, the study predicted.

Yet two key obstacles stand in the way of self-driving cars: cost and legislation.

Truly self-driving cars could cost $7,000 to $10,000 more than their manual counterparts when they hit the market in 2020.

In addition, they probably will be available only as luxury models to begin with.

And U.S. laws have a lot of catching up to do.

Currently only four states allow self-driving vehicles on public roads: California, Nevada, Michigan and Florida.

Those that do require that a licensed, sober driver be in the driver's seat at all times, ready and willing to assume control of the vehicle.

Google's own car hopes to help the laws catch up to the technology.

"Just imagine: You can take a trip downtown at lunchtime without a 20-minute buffer to find parking," Google's blog said.

"Seniors can keep their freedom even if they can't keep their car keys.

And drunk and distracted driving?

History."

