Google has made a car that drives itself.

The technology company hopes drivers will soon just be passengers.

On Tuesday, Google said it plans to test about 200 of its self-driving cars.

The testing will start later this summer.

The cars "will take you where you want to go at the push of a button," Google wrote on its blog.

Google's main goal is not to be a carmaker like General Motors or Toyota.

Instead, it wants to make the technology that lets cars drive themselves.

Google said its software will "improve road safety and help people who can't drive."

This summer, the cars will drive around Google's offices in California.

The test cars will have manual controls.

That way human drivers can take over if something goes wrong.

But Google plans to build most of the cars as fully self-driving.

That means no steering wheel, no gas or brake pedal.

Inside the car will be two seats with seat belts and space for belongings.

There will also be a screen showing where the car is going.

It will have a simple button to start and stop.

The cars were built to be safe.

They have sensors that get rid of blind spots.

The sensors look in every direction for more than 200 yards.

The top speed of the test cars will be only 25 miles per hour (mph).

"We're going to learn a lot from this experience," Google said.

"If the technology develops as we hope, we'll work with partners to bring this technology into the world safely."

The small electric cars were built in Michigan.

Google used the same parts that big car brands use.

The electronics and software to control them were assembled in Silicon Valley.

Change may happen faster than people think.

Many automakers expect fully self-driving cars to be on the road by 2020.

By 2025, as many as 230,000 self-driving cars could be sold each year.

That number could rise to 11.8 million 10 years later.

There could be fewer accidents as self-driving cars become more common.

That's because most of today's accidents are caused by people making mistakes.

In addition, self-driving cars could help people who can't drive.

They could help people who are too young or old to drive.

They could also help people who can't drive because they are disabled.

But there are two key hurdles for self-driving cars.

They are cost and U.S. laws.

The first self-driving cars could be very expensive.

They could cost thousands of dollars more than other cars.

And laws have a lot of catching up to do.

Currently only four states allow self-driving vehicles on public roads.

Those states are California, Nevada, Michigan and Florida.

But a licensed driver must be in the driver's seat at all times.

That driver has to be ready to take control of the car.

Google hopes that its own car will help change those laws.

"Just imagine: You can take a trip downtown at lunchtime without a 20-minute buffer to find parking," Google's blog said.

"Seniors can keep their freedom even if they can't keep their car keys.

And drunk and distracted driving?

History."

