Google recently sent a giant, plastic helium balloon into the air.

It looked like a flying jellyfish.

It shot into the sky and soared thousands of feet.

Its cargo was high-tech radio gear, computer equipment and solar panels.

The launch on July 26 was part a strange experiment by Google.

You probably know the company for its Internet search engine.

But it is also searching for ways to get the Internet to parts of the world without service.

"This is a great, big, hard problem," said Richard DeVaul.

He is a Google engineer in charge of the design for the company's Project Loon.

The company gave it that name because even Google knows the idea sounds a little crazy.

But Google did a test in New Zealand earlier this year.

Now DeVaul says a network of low-cost, high-flying balloons could work.

The balloons could carry enough wireless equipment to beam Internet connections to countrysides in parts of Africa, Asia and other poor areas.

Now come more tests in California's Central Valley.

The goal is to work out the answers to a bunch of questions to make the project work.

Friday's launch was at an airfield that's mainly used by crop-dusting planes.

More tests are planned this summer in the same area.

"Our main challenge right now is power," said Sameera Ponda.

She is an aerospace engineer on the project.

Ponda explained that the Loon team needs more information to decide how to place the solar panels and batteries.

They have to keep a balloon's radio equipment and computers running for weeks at a time, even at night.

And the equipment has to work 12 miles or more above the Earth, where it is ice cold.

Project Loon is part of Google's secretive X division.

It works on ideas that seem off the wall but could have a lot of success.

Other projects include Google's self-driving car and the wearable computing device called Google Glass.

The division is overseen by company co-founder Sergey Brin.

Google has been working on Loon for nearly two years.

It only recently went public with the idea.

"Our goal is to provide Internet service to people in areas that can't afford" usual Internet lines or towers,  Ponda explained.

The company hopes to get it done "in a few years" she said.

The idea calls for hundreds or even thousands of balloons that will float twice as high as most jetliners fly, in a circle around the Earth.

It may sound simple.

But it is more difficult than it seems.

The balloons drift with the wind.

So Google engineers came up with a system to raise or lower them in order to catch the air currents needed to keep them floating just the right distance from each other.

They also need to stay in line so if one floats out of range from Internet users, another will come along and take its place.

Controlling the balloons is a huge math challenge, DeVaul said.

Fortunately, "at Google we've got a bunch of really clever computer scientists and a lot of computing power."

Of course, it makes sense for Google to get more people on the Internet.

The multibillion-dollar tech giant makes most of its money by showing ads to people who use Google's online services.

But Project Loon is addressing "a very real problem," said Richard Bennett.

He is an expert on broadband networking and society.

Two-thirds of the world cannot get to the Internet regularly, he said.

They are considered below "the digital divide."

The idea could work, Bennett said.

But who will pay for the balloon network?

Google has been vague about its plans.

Bennett said Google may be hoping that cellphone providers and other companies will adopt the idea if Google can show it is a money-maker.

Back in the Central Valley, the Google team got the balloon up in the air.

Project launch commander Bill Rogers and other members of his crew loaded their trucks to track its radio signal.

This balloon was designed to travel only about 150 miles before returning to the ground.

Rogers planned to recover it.

But in case someone else found it first, the plastic foam box holding its electronic gear carried a label that read: "Harmless Science Experiment."

Another provided a phone number to call.

