The U.S. government's year ends on Monday.

Congress has to approve money to keep the government running past then.

Congress does that by passing laws called spending bills.

But Republicans and Democrats are fighting over the spending bills.

There is the threat that the government could shut down next week.

But the government would not actually stop working.

Agents would still patrol the nation's borders.

Prisoners would still be held in U.S. jails.

Letter carriers would still deliver mail.

And soldiers would still remain at their posts.

They just might not get paid for their service right away.

A big part of the fight is about the new health care law.

Some people call it Obamacare.

A lot of Republicans do not like Obamacare.

They are trying to use the deadline for the spending bills to stop money from going to the health care law.

What happens if Congress does not approve the spending bills by Monday?

Payments to retired people could be delayed.

So could travel papers.

National parks and museums could close.

"Hundreds of thousands of government workers will not be working," said Brian Deese of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).

"Even those who are will not be receiving paychecks."

The OMB manages government agencies and helps the White House with the budget.

There have been other shutdowns.

Congress has failed to meet the deadline for approving spending bills 17 times since the 1970s.

The shutdowns lasted from one day to three weeks.

The last time was for a 21-day stretch in December 1995 and January 1996.

Maya MacGuineas is president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

The group wants lower government debt.

She said a shutdown would not be as bad as people think.

But, she said, "the fact that this is how we govern is so shameful."

The White House sent a message to federal agencies last week.

It said to begin planning for a partial shutdown.

Managers have to decide which employees are essential.

They would have to come to work.

The others would be sent home.

The president and people he appointed would still report to work.

Lawmakers would do the same.

They would decide who on their staffs was essential.

It is hard to say how much of the government would shut down.

The president has a lot of room to decide what is essential, Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf said.

History would also play a part.

There was a similar shutdown threat in 2011.

The government estimated that more than half of the 2 million federal employees would stay home.

This year's estimates are similar.

The law requires that some agencies have to be staffed.

That means disaster aid to the Colorado flood victims would proceed.

But the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would stop monitoring diseases.

Mail delivery would continue.

But loan programs to small businesses, farmers and homeowners would stop.

The list goes on.

Barry Anderson worked for the White House budget office during the 1995-96 shutdown.

He said figuring out which employees are essential is difficult and keeps changing.

For example, Anderson said, the OMB could say that the National Zoo must close.

But the workers who feed the animals must work.

Later, as a shutdown goes on, employees in charge of buying food for the animals may have to come in.

Chris Edwards is a budget expert at the Cato Institute.

The group wants smaller government.

He said something good could come from a shutdown.

People may start thinking about which services the government provides are necessary and which should be permanently dropped.

"You can ask why do we do certain things in the first place," he said.

