The U.S. government's year ends on Monday.

Congress has to approve money to keep the government running past then.

Republicans and Democrats are fighting over the spending bills that would approve the money.

There is the threat that the government could shut down next week.

But the government would not actually shut down.

Agents would still patrol the nation's borders.

Prisoners would still be held in federal jails.

Letter carriers would still deliver mail.

And soldiers would still remain at their posts.

They just might not get paid for their service right away.

Some Republicans in the House want to stop the new health care law.

People know it as Obamacare.

Major parts of the law go into effect on Tuesday.

Those Republicans are trying to use the funding battle to stop money from going to Obamacare.

That has made it harder to pass the spending bills.

What happens if Congress does not approve the bills by Monday?

Payments to retired people could be delayed.

So could travel papers.

The National Institutes of Health could stop accepting patients for research.

National parks and museums could close.

"Hundreds of thousands of government workers will not be working," said Brian Deese of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).

"Even those who are will not be receiving paychecks."

The OMB manages government agencies and helps the White House with the budget.

Congress has failed to meet the deadline for approving spending bills 17 times since the 1970s.

Parts of the government have shut down.

The shutdowns lasted from one day to three weeks.

The last time was for a 21-day stretch in December 1995 and January 1996.

Maya MacGuineas is president of the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.

The group wants lower government debt.

She said a shutdown would not be as bad as people think.

But, she said, "the fact that this is how we govern is so shameful."

The White House told federal agencies last week to begin planning for a partial shutdown.

Managers have to decide which employees are essential and would be required to come to work.

The others would be sent home.

The president and people he appointed would still report to work.

Lawmakers would do the same.

They would decide who on their staffs was essential.

The president has flexibility in deciding what is essential, Congressional Budget Office Director Douglas Elmendorf told reporters.

That makes it hard to predict how much of the government will shut down.

The administration would rely on a variety of documents.

It would get Department of Justice legal opinions and OMB planning memos.

History would also play a part.

In 2011, during a similar shutdown threat, the government estimated that about all but 800,000 of the more than 2 million federal employees would go to work.

This year's estimates are similar.

The law requires that some agencies have to be staffed.

That means disaster aid to the Colorado flood victims would proceed but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention would stop monitoring diseases.

Mail delivery would continue but loan programs to small businesses, farmers and homeowners would cease.

Inspectors would still regulate food and drugs but research programs would be halted.

Taxes would be collected but judges would have to go home when the courts run out of money.

Even the health care law that is the point of the dispute between Republicans and Democrats would continue to be put in place.

New taxes and fees help pay for that program.

So do cuts from other programs.

Barry Anderson worked for the White House budget office during the 1995-96 shutdown.

He said the task of determining which employees are essential is difficult and keeps changing.

For example, Anderson said, the OMB could determine that  the National Zoo must close.

But the workers who feed the animals must work.

Later, as a shutdown goes on, employees in charge of buying food for the animals may have to come in.

After the government reopens, lawmakers must decide whether employees — both those who worked and those who didn't — should get paid.

In the 1990s shutdowns the workers were paid, but it was not guaranteed.

Chris Edwards is a budget expert at the Cato Institute.

The group wants smaller government.

He said that if there is a positive outcome of a shutdown it could be that people may start thinking about which services the government provides are necessary and which should be permanently dropped.

"You can ask why do we do certain things in the first place," he said.

