Parents at Lincoln Elementary School in St. Charles, Mo., thought their children were a shining example of academic achievement.

Then they got state test results.

Most of the students failed, casting doubt on the school's success as well as many of its students' glowing report cards.

Administrators knew they had a problem.

What they did next changed everything parents, teachers and students thought they knew about grading.

The school joined a national movement that is rebuilding how a child's performance in a class is measured.

This new way of looking at schoolwork moves away from rewarding students just for completing work.

No longer are there points for finishing homework assignments, or for good behavior and class participation.

Instead, grades are based on exam results and the quality of work.

"There are kids that are good at playing the game of school," said Julie Williams, principal of Lincoln Elementary.

"If you don't ever do well on tests, but you raise your hand every time, those kids can score well in the traditional system.

But when they are tested on a state tests, it exposes the weaknesses."

Critics say the approach may sound good on paper.

Who doesn't think grades should be based on what kids are actually learning?

But what that means in the classroom is another matter, they say.

Take, for example, not counting homework in a student's final grade.

Under standards-based grading, students face no penalty for failing to turn in homework.

Instead, homework is given to help them master a subject, and students can redo assignments multiple times and even retake tests.

The changes go against how schools have worked for generations, triggering fears from parents who worry their kids would simply slack off if they don't have to turn in their homework.

When new grading policies were explained to middle school parents this year, their jaws dropped.

"It was 45 minutes of gnashing of teeth," said Paul Bozdech, one of the parents.

"The general mood of the room was, 'This isn't how I had it growing up.'"

Over the last 15 years, schools have been focusing on growth in student learning and adopted a new set of standards to measure that growth.

In the last few years, nearly all states have adopted the [Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core), a more rigorous outline of what a child should know and be able to do in each grade.

These new standards have uncovered gaps like the one at Lincoln Elementary, leading educators to question what grades were really saying about students.

"High school is free; if you fail in college, you have to pay," says Ken O'Connor, a former teacher turned author and consultant known as "The Grade Doctor."

He added, "We don't do kids any favors when we inflate their grades because at some point, they are going to fall on their face."

At the heart of standards-based grading is the idea that students should be graded on how well they know a subject, not the work they did.

Advocates of the idea say traditional grading can mask academic failure.

A student might earn a D grade in math, but because the student got points for handing in math homework, that student may earn a C or better in the class.

Likewise, straight-A students in high school may not perform as well on the ACT, or be forced to take remedial courses in college.

"The learning is what's important, it's not just the 'check off' of getting the grade in the grade book," said Karen Hargadine, executive director of pre-K and elementary education for the Rockwood School District in the St. Louis area.

But some parents and teachers are critical, because there are no real penalties or immediate consequences for not doing homework.

When Ethan Dobbs heard his Algebra I teacher say they would be able to retake portions of tests, he almost couldn't believe what he was hearing.

"I realized immediately it was going to be a little bit different," he said.

Although some students "abused" the homework policy, most students eventually got the idea that if they didn't do the work, they probably wouldn't do well on the test, he said.

For teachers, the shift away from traditional classroom grading can be scary.

Even teachers who like standards-based ideas say they stress the importance of doing homework.

They notify parents if work is not complete or they don't let students retake tests until they complete the assignments.

A few schools even make students stay in during recess until missing homework is finished.

In a St. Louis Post-Dispatch letter to editor, a high school teacher said the new grading conflicted with future employers' expectations of timely work that is well done.

Also, she said, due dates were impossible to enforce.

"Parents trust that schools are preparing their children for life after high school," the teacher wrote.

"We are letting them down."

Becky Stevenson, an English teacher, though, says her students have shifted from focusing on getting a good grade to a desire to learn.

"They can practice without penalty," she said.

"We're seeing a change and it's pretty powerful."

Tom Guskey, an education professor at the University of Kentucky, has no data if standards-based grading helps students learn more.

But that doesn't matter, he said, since grade reform is about letting parents and teachers really know how students actually are doing.

Since the change, Lincoln has moved from the bottom of the district in its performance on state tests to the top.

In 2013, 71 percent passed reading and 80 percent passed math — double the percentage from 2010.

Williams says standards-based grading played a big role in the leap.

"It's just been very powerful," she said.

"It's clear to us this is what's best for kids."

