Andre Saraiva owns nightclubs in Paris and New York, and he works as the top editor of a men's fashion magazine.

He also is a graffiti artist known around the world.

Saraiva became famous for painting a cartoon figure called Mr. A. all over Paris.

Two months ago, a photo of a boulder he painted in California's Joshua Tree National Park showed up on the website of Modern Hiker magazine.

It was marked with his signature, OX.

Since then, American nature lovers have flooded the Internet with outrage about what he did.

Saraiva is of a new generation of graffiti artists who regard nature as their canvas.

They tag in national parks, then post photos of their work on the Internet.

Those acts infuriate lovers of the outdoors.

Many of them are otherwise fans of graffiti art.

"This is a very complex issue," said Casey Schreiner, editor of Modern Hiker.

"How different is graffiti in national parks than street art?

If street art is OK, is this OK?"

Schreiner asked if there is a connection between the two.

"National parks are special places for most Americans," he said.

"Seeing them marked up is like getting punched in the gut."

Federal officials say graffiti is surging in some parks, even as it has been declining in most others.

Hardest hit are parks near big cities.

Two of them that have experienced a rise in graffiti include Golden Gate National Recreation Area near San Francisco and Joshua Tree, not far from Los Angeles.

In 2013, graffiti artists vandalized the popular Rattlesnake Canyon in Joshua Tree.

Workers just finished removing graffitti from the face of Barker Dam in the park, and in February, someone painted a large, bright blue giraffe on a boulder in another area.

About the same time, someone painted a huge skull on the wall of a historical structure.

"That makes me sick," muttered backpacker Steve Axthelm, of Portland, Oregon, as he looked at the skull.

Humans have been leaving marks in nature since prehistoric tribes put outlines of handprints on cave walls.

These days, on the Internet, there is growing acceptance for tagging private property, like buildings.

Google recently launched a website featuring street art around the world.

But taggers in national parks have a different kind of purpose.

"If provoking outrage is not part of your intention as a graffiti artist, why do it?"

said Jeremy Cross, an artist in California.

In the modern art world, tagging a wall is seen as old fashioned, Cross said.

Tagging in a national park is edgier, although graffiti artists are setting themselves up for criticism.

Not long ago, graffiti in national parks throughout the Western United States led to an online petition at whitehouse.gov.

It urges the Obama administration to take action against the artist.

She is believed to be Casey Nocket, 22, of New York, said a spokesman for the National Park Service.

Evidence collected so far includes selfies of a young woman painting colorful faces on rocks and boulders.

Federal authorities suspect Nocket is responsible for graffiti in eight national parks, including Joshua Tree.

The snapshots, signed with the phrase "Creepytings 2014," were posted on California hiking websites.

Park officials are fighting back with hidden video cameras and a new computer database, said David Smith, superintendent of Joshua Tree.

The database allows park officials to compare photos of graffiti done in different parks.

A year ago, the park service brought a case against three youths after they posted on Twitter and Instagram.

The hiking community is also increasing its own policing.

Schreiner said Modern Hiker never intended to investigate graffiti, but the issue has caught fire.

"So it's one of the things we do now, full time," he said.

Schreiner added that passions run high, with some readers asking for the addresses of the taggers.

Saraiva is the best-known artist who has tagged in a national park.

He then denied that the boulder he tagged was even in the park, posting on Instagram that the work was done in a friend's backyard.

Readers then decided to investigate and found the boulder's exact location.

Their conclusion?

It was definitely on national park grounds.

His lawyer said Saraiva had scrawled what he called an unimportant artistic expression on  the rock, using erasable paint.

On April 1, Saraiva paid a fine of $275, officials said.

Meanwhile, some private businesses said too much attention is focused on graffiti in national parks.

People need to care more about graffiti on buildings and trains, say the businesses, which must paint over the graffiti all the time.

"I wish they were just as outraged over graffiti on other people's private property," said Lena Kent, a spokeswoman for Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway.

Its freight cars and engines are tagged every day.

