At the rim of the Grand Canyon on a recent day, a crowd of visitors jostled for a prime viewing spot.

They gazed out on a dizzying sight of receding canyons and sheer rock walls.

A mile down, the Colorado River cuts through the canyon floor.

Generations of park managers have tried to preserve that natural vista, but officials here say a proposed development would alter the view.

Looking eastward from the canyon's popular South Rim, visitors could soon see a hive of construction.

Workers may shortly begin building restaurants, hotels and shops on a distant mesa on the Navajo Indian reservation.

The developers also plan a gondola — an aerial lift — that would whisk tourists to the canyon floor.

There they would stroll along an elevated riverside walkway to a restaurant at the confluence of the Colorado and Little Colorado rivers.

That project and a second, unrelated development proposed for just south of the canyon have set off alarms at the National Park Service.

Together they are seen as the most serious threat the park has faced in its 95-year history.

The first would alter the natural beauty of the canyon and push across park borders.

The second, a major housing and commercial development, jeopardizes the fragile ecology and water supply on the dry South Rim plateau.

The Tusayan development would add 2,200 homes and 3 million square feet of commercial space to a town two blocks long.

Park officials say existing development around the park and the scarcity of water have already stressed the park's ability to handle visitors.

The new projects would only make matters worse.

"They are serious threats to the future of the park," said park Superintendent Dave Uberuaga.

A development of that size that close to the park, he said, would seriously "impact our visitor experience."

The Grand Canyon affords once-in-a-lifetime views, but it has always been difficult for anyone except seasoned hikers to reach the canyon floor.

Most of the 5 million annual visitors stop at the rim, look out and move on without ever venturing into the canyon.

[Native American tribes](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) are changing that.

Grand Canyon West, on Hualapai land, operates the Skywalk attraction, a popular glass walkway that juts out over the canyon.

Since 2007, the tribe has offered helicopter tours that land on tribal property next to the river.

The proposed Grand Canyon Escalade gondola would afford an opportunity for tourists to reach the canyon floor.

The Park Service offers nothing more than "a drive-by wilderness experience," said developer R. Lamar Whitmer, who is working with the Navajo.

"The average person can't ride a mule to the bottom of the canyon — we want them to feel the canyon from the bottom."

It's at the bottom that the conflict lies, as the Navajo claim that they have rights to property above the high-water mark of the rivers.

Park officials say the Navajo are mistaken.

Federal control extends a quarter-mile on either side of the Colorado, they say, and no development can occur any closer to the water.

For now, the park is waiting for the tribe to complete its planning process.

The project requires approval of the Navajo tribal government — and some within the tribe have voiced objections.

In particular, there has been concern about the gondola's terminus near the confluence of the rivers.

Tribal opponents believe the two rivers represent male and female, and where they meet is where life begins.

"That's where our spirits go back to," said Renae Yellowhorse of the group Save the Confluence.

"My father passed away last March.

That's where he resides — if there is a development there, where are our prayers going to go?"

Two miles from the Grand Canyon's front entrance is a project that park officials say is a more fundamental threat.

They expect it to diminish the small amount of water found naturally on the dry Colorado Plateau.

The nearby community of Tusayan has approved plans for a development that would increase the town's demand for water fourfold.

But the plans do not say where the water will come from.

With Arizona suffering through its worst drought in 110 years of records, the Park Service says there isn't enough water to sustain both wildlife and the new development.

"That kind of water just isn't around there," Uberuaga said.

Yet the city continues "to pursue a full buildout and full development at whatever pace the developer wants."

Water is already so precious that the park's wildlife has a hard time getting enough.

Recently, the resident elk herd figured out how to operate the Grand Canyon's new water faucets and began serving themselves.

At first, the situation provided an amusing photo opportunity.

Then a young elk pair began to defend the water fountain by chasing away tourists.

Park officials are trying to persuade Tusayan to downsize its plans.

To Dave Nimkin of the National Parks Conservation Association, the developments represent "profound and enormous threats to the park — it's a grim forecast."

As it is, there is already hardly enough water.

The park has a stash of 13 million gallons in storage tanks, about an 18-day supply.

Half of that must be kept in reserve for fire protection.

When water in the tanks drops to half of capacity, said Tim Jarrell, the park's chief of maintenance, "we start to think about cutting back on the number of people we let in the park."

