At the rim of the Grand Canyon, a crowd of national park visitors looks for a good viewing spot.

They gaze at the colorful canyons and steep rock walls below.

A mile down, the Colorado River cuts through the canyon floor.

For generations, that beautiful view has been preserved.

Now, however, two new projects may change things forever.

Looking to the east, visitors could soon see a lot of construction.

Workers might start building restaurants, hotels, shops and even a gondola ride at a nearby Navajo Indian reservation.

That project, and a second project planned for just south of the canyon, have many worried.

The first would alter the natural beauty of the canyon.

The second project would greatly increase the size of the nearby town of Tusayan.

Current plans are to add 2,200 homes and many large stores to a town that is now only two blocks long.

Many fear that the sudden growth would threaten the Grand Canyon's limited water supply.

The Grand Canyon provides once-in-a-lifetime views.

However, it has always been difficult to reach the canyon floor.

Most of the 5 million yearly visitors stop at the rim, look out and move on without ever venturing into the canyon.

[Native American tribes](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american), who control some of the area's land, are changing that.

Skywalk, a popular glass walkway, now juts out over the canyon.

Since 2007, helicopter tours have landed on Hualapai property next to the river.

The workers are now planning to build a gondola, a small, enclosed ride that travels on a wire.

The gondola would allow tourists to get to the canyon floor.

For now, the park is waiting for the tribe to complete its planning.

The project must first be approved by the Navajo tribal government.

Some tribal members are strongly against it.

In particular, people are worried building a restaurant at the spot where the two rivers meet.

Many Navajos believe that the two rivers represent male and female.

Where they meet is where life begins.

"That's where our spirits go back to," said Renae Yellowhorse, who is against the project.

"My father passed away last March.

That's where he" is now.

If the area is built up, "Where are our prayers going to go?"

Park officials say the other project is an even bigger danger.

They expect it to decrease the small amount of water found naturally on the dry Colorado Plateau.

The town of Tusayan is located 2 miles from the park's entrance.

It has approved building plans that would increase the town's demand for water by four times what it is now.

Those plans do not say where the water will come from.

Arizona is now suffering through its worst drought in 110 years of records.

The Park Service says there simply isn't enough water to support both wildlife and a much bigger town nearby.

"That kind of water just isn't around," said park Superintendent Dave Uberuaga.

Water is already so scarce that the park's wildlife has a hard time getting enough.

Recently, an elk herd figured out how to operate the park's new water faucets.

Soon, they began serving themselves.

At first, the situation provided an amusing photo opportunity.

But then two elk began to defend the water fountain by chasing away tourists.

Park officials are trying to persuade Tusayan to downsize its plans.

As it is, there is already not enough water.

When water levels drop, said park official Tim Jarrell, it's bad news for tourists.

"We start to think about cutting back on the number of people we let in the park."

