At the rim of the Grand Canyon, a crowd of visitors looks for a good spot to gaze at the beauty of the national park.

They look down at the colorful canyons and steep rock walls below.

A mile down, the Colorado River cuts through the canyon floor.

Visitors to Grand Canyon National Park have seen that beautiful view for generations.

Soon, though, that natural beauty may be lost.

Looking to the east, visitors might soon see a lot of construction.

Workers could begin building at a nearby Navajo Indian reservation.

Restaurants, hotels and shops are all planned.

They are also planning a lift ride that would carry tourists to the bottom of the canyon.

They could stroll along a riverside walkway and go to a restaurant at the end of the walkway.

The restaurant would be where the Colorado and Little Colorado rivers meet.

That project is just one of two that have many worried.

The other project would happen just south of the Grand Canyon.

The second project would greatly increase the size of the nearby town of Tusayan.

Right now, the town is only two blocks long.

Builders hope to add 2,200 homes and many large stores.

Such sudden growth would hurt the Grand Canyon's already small water supply.

The Grand Canyon provides once-in-a-lifetime views, but it has always been difficult to reach the canyon floor.

Most of the 5 million yearly visitors stop at the top.

They look out and move on.

Most never go inside the canyon.

The new lift would allow tourists to reach the bottom without hiking.

For now, the park is waiting for the tribe to complete its planning.

The project must first be approved by the [Navajo tribal government](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american).

Some tribal members are strongly against it.

Many of them don't want to build a restaurant where the two rivers meet.

Many Navajos believe that the two rivers represent male and female.

Where they meet is where life begins.

"That's where our spirits go back to," said Renae Yellowhorse, who is against the project.

"My father passed away last March.

That's where he" is now.

If the area is built up, "Where are our prayers going to go?"

Park officials say the second project is an even bigger danger.

They expect it to decrease the small amount of water found in the area.

The town of Tusayan is located 2 miles from the park's entrance.

Its building plans would increase the town's demand for water by four times what it is now.

Those plans do not say where the water will come from.

Arizona is now suffering a terrible water shortage.

Park officials say there simply isn't enough water to support both wildlife and a much bigger town.

"That kind of water just isn't around," said Dave Uberuaga, who works at the park.

Water is already so scarce that the park's wildlife has a hard time getting enough.

Recently, a herd of elk figured out how to use the park's new water faucets.

Soon, they began serving themselves water.

At first, the situation seemed funny.

But then two elk began to defend the water fountain by chasing away tourists.

Park officials are trying to convince the city of Tusayan to build less.

As it is, there is already hardly enough water.

When water levels drop, it is bad news for tourists.

Less water would mean that fewer visitors would be allowed in, park official Tim Jarrell said.

