California's Central Valley produces crops that feed the nation.

It may also be producing an increase in earthquakes, scientists say, because of irrigation.

Scientists found that the mountains closest to the Central Valley were rising much faster than other nearby mountain ranges.

They were rising by about 1 to 3 millimeters a year.

That was enough to lift them by half a foot over the last 150 years.

A group of scientists have an idea why.

They think it's because groundwater is being pumped out.

Groundwater is very heavy and pushes down on the Earth's upper crust like a weight.

Remove that weight, and the Earth springs upward.

That change in pressure can cause more small earthquakes, the researchers said.

That means humans may be causing a gradual increase in the number of earthquakes, the study found.

Other scientists studying an area of southern Monterey County noticed that there are often more earthquakes during dry months than during wet months.

The number of earthquakes there every year roughly doubled between 1984 and 2005.

But the reason why earthquakes have been increasing in Parkfield over time remains a mystery.

The groundwater theory gives one possible answer.

Groundwater has been slowly drained in the Central Valley to get water to thirsty farms and cities since the mid-1800s.

That irrigation has already caused big changes.

In the 1930s, changing where the water pipes went caused the disappearance of Tulare Lake.

That lake was once the largest body of fresh water west of the Mississippi River.

It was 60 miles wide from end to end.

Over the last 150 years, the Central Valley's groundwater reserve has lost a lot of water.

The amount of water it has lost would fill Lake Tahoe.

About one-fifth of the nation's groundwater comes from Central Valley aquifers.

It's the second-most-pumped aquifer system in the United States.

In addition, the Central Valley produces one-quarter of the nation's food, including almost half of fruits, nuts and other food.

The study does not suggest the next Big One to hit Los Angeles or San Francisco will be caused by humans, said Colin B. Amos.

He is the leader of the scientists who wrote the study.

"Large earthquakes are going to occur on the San Andreas fault no matter what we do," Amos said.

But what is important is that human actions could cause more earthquakes.

The San Andreas fault runs from San Diego to San Francisco.

A fault is a break in the Earth's crust.

Sometimes, the rocks on either side of a fault move suddenly.

That causes an earthquake.

Susan Hough studies earthquakes.

She said the idea that less groundwater can lead to earthquakes is very possible.

Hough went a step further than the researchers.

She said it's possible that smaller earthquakes in the Parkfield area could eventually cause larger earthquakes that head south toward Los Angeles.

Parkfield was the starting point of a magnitude 7.9 earthquake that hit the San Andreas fault in 1857.

That fault was so big that shaking lasted from 1 to 3 minutes.

Trees were uprooted and buildings were destroyed.

"As near as we can tell, the foreshocks were in the Parkfield area," Hough said.

"It won't necessarily happen that way" again in our lifetime, she said.

"But the fact that it did happen once means that it could happen."

Hough said further study was needed to figure out whether less groundwater in other areas could lead to earthquakes elsewhere.

The part of the San Andreas fault around Parkfield is fairly weak.

That means not much change in pressure is needed to cause earthquakes.

The sections of the San Andreas fault closer to San Francisco and Los Angeles are much stronger and more locked.

Steve Ingebritsen, a scientist, called the theory interesting.

But he said that more study was needed.

He called the suggestion that less groundwater could lead to more earthquakes "somewhat controversial."

