The hens on Chris and Annie Newman's farm run free and have a habit of laying their eggs anywhere they please.

So the Newmans have no choice but to play a kind of farmer hide-and-go-seek.

They squat and squint, reach and grab for those hidden brown eggs.

That beats their poultry processing duties, though, which are messy and bloody and not for the faint of heart.

A little more than a year ago, Chris, 32, and Annie, 28, threw $27,000 of their life savings and Kickstarter.com proceeds into a beyond-organic approach to farming — also known as "guerrilla farming."

Their approach relies on imitating nature to create agriculture that looks out for the environment, animal welfare and public health.

Newbies like the Newmans face a number of challenges.

For first-generation farmers who didn't grow up on the family farm, access to affordable land is a big deal.

The days of being able to purchase some cheap land in the country are gone.

Young farmers often find themselves competing with rich land developers for scarce farmland.

Access to loans to buy land and farming equipment pose other problems.

Getting a loan is not easy, particularly for young college graduates saddled with heavy student loans.

Some states recognize these obstacles and have created programs to provide the next generation of farmers with the skills and land needed to be competitive.

Missouri, Maryland and Virginia are among the states that help prospective farmers access available land.

Massachusetts, Minnesota and Delaware provide financial help to independent farmers who are just starting out.

The future of young farmers has great significance for states, according to Holly Rippon-Butler, a campaign manager for the National Young Farmers' Coalition (NYFC).

They range from protecting the local food supply to strengthening communities to reducing climate change and drought.

"If we don't help the young generation of farmers get on the land, retiring farmers will quickly run out of people to sell the land to, individuals who will continue to grow food on it and treat it as farmland," Rippon-Butler said.

"We will lose the ability to produce our own food and to ensure that our food supply is controlled and safe," she said.

According to Rippon-Butler, there are two big needs to keep farming viable for the next generation.

"You need farmers who are willing to work every day on the farm," she said.

"And you need farmers who are willing to go out and advocate for the structural changes we need to make that work possible."

For years, the small family farm has been slowly dying out.

Large corporations, such as Monsanto and Perdue, are increasingly dominating the industry.

Every week, about 330 farmers leave their farms for good, according to Farm Aid.

Today, fewer than 1 percent of Americans claim farming as an occupation.

The fastest growing group of farmers and ranchers is 65 and older.

But the second-fastest growing group is young farmers and ranchers who are under 35.

There are only about 110,000 nationwide but they are the only age group younger than 55 whose numbers are increasing.

Most of them are first-generation, new to the industry and trying to earn a living on independent farms.

According to a National Young Farmers' Coalition report, the vast majority of young farmers — 78 percent — did not grow up on a farm.

For most first-generation farmers, securing land is a daunting obstacle.

Seventy percent of farmers under 30 rent farmland, compared with 37 percent of farmers older than 30.

Farmers who were raised on a farm were much more likely to own land — 65 percent — compared with 50 percent of farmers who did not grow up farming.

More than two-thirds of American farmland is currently being farmed by individuals who are 55 and older, according to Rippon-Butler.

These farmers will be nearing retirement over the next 20 years.

"In the next 20, 25 years, there's a lot of land transfer that's going to be happening," Rippon-Butler said.

"There's lots of potential for people who own land to think creatively and create opportunities for young farmers."

But real estate changes hands quickly and most young farmers don't have the wherewithal to quickly secure loans, she said.

Between 2000 and 2010, national land prices doubled; an average-sized farm can cost upward of $1 million.

As Chris Newman sees it, he and his wife "hit the lottery" when it came to securing land.

A member of a band of Piscataway Indians, Chris was eager to farm as his ancestors once did, avoiding loans, pesticides, fertilizers, expensive equipment and paperwork.

His in-laws happened to have a house on 26 acres of land here just outside Charlottesville — land that was zoned agricultural.

Annie's parents were going to sell their property, which was mostly covered by trees, but agreed to let the young couple "squat" on the land for a year or so.

Eventually, the Newmans hope to find another property and move once they have established themselves in the business.

"It's not easy when you're trying to learn a new career on the fly," said Chris, who quit his job as a software engineer to launch Sylvanaqua Farms.

Annie used to be an art gallery director.

"Farming's not simple.

You've got to be smart to do it.

But people are really attached to us being here," he said.

"When the pigs escape or you're killing a chicken and you get poop in your mustache, you say, 'Well, people really appreciate what we're doing.'"

