Toys that talk back are the hot holiday gift this year.

But they may be risky for children.

Hackers who use computers to steal information may be able to target these toys.

Hello Barbie is one new talking toy.

The doll connects to the Internet so it can speak.

Internet safety experts reviewed the toy to see if it was safe for kids.

They put out a report on Friday.

Their report said its possible for hackers to break into the doll's system.

They would be able to listen to the child as it played with the doll.

A company called ToyTalk makes the doll's system.

Martin Reddy works for ToyTalk.

He said that ToyTalk had already fixed a lot of the safety problems the experts found.

The experts agreed that ToyTalk was fixing safety problems.

One expert said that any toy that connects to the Internet could let other people listen to children or steal information.

He said that it is important to be careful about what the toy hears.

Once something is on the Internet, it cannot be taken back.

Hackers already hit a toy maker in Hong Kong.

They broke into VTech's system.

Hackers took information from more than 6 million kids who played with VTech toys.

To make Hello Barbie talk, a child can press a button on the doll.

The child then speaks to it.

The child's voice is sent over the Internet to ToyTalk.

Then, a computer sends a message back to the doll, and the doll talks back to the child.

A parent has to set up Hello Barbie first.

While a parent is setting up the toy, a hacker can steal information.

If it is set up safely, a hacker cannot steal information after that. Hackers cannot change what the doll says.

ToyTalk wants to let customers know it takes privacy seriously.

The company even gives rewards to outsiders who find privacy problems.

It pays them to work with the company to fix them.

But the company also said that it is not possible to make sure nobody ever gets kids' information.

There is no such thing as perfect security, the company warns.

