One of the hottest holiday gifts this year is toys that talk back.

Soon, they may become a hot item for hackers, too.

Cybersecurity researchers found several major security weaknesses in systems that support Hello Barbie, a talking doll.

Hello Barbie connects to the Internet, which allows it to talk back when children speak to it.

A company called Bluebox Security worked with Andrew Hay, an independent security researcher who wrote a report about Hello Barbie's security.

Their report showed that the technology used by the doll might make it easy for hackers to listen to children while they play.

Mattel makes Hello Barbie, and did not want to comment on the report.

Martin Reddy is an executive at ToyTalk, which is the company behind Hello Barbie's voice features.

He told The Washington Post that the company has been working with BlueBox and has "already fixed many of the issues they raised."

The researchers say they told ToyTalk about the issues in mid-November and the company was eager to listen to BlueBox.

This news comes right after a toy maker in Hong Kong was hacked.

Information was taken from more than 6 million kids who played with VTech toys.

It is another sign that Internet-connected devices could put children's privacy at risk.

Andrew Bleich works in security at Bluebox.

He said, "It's really important that if you want to use connected toys, no matter if it's a doll or a tablet, (to) be really careful about what information (is) sent to and from the servers, and how it's secured."

Once information is out of the toy owner's control, it cannot be taken back.

People were worried about Hello Barbie before the security flaws were uncovered.

Watchdogs who seek to protect customers' rights agreed that the doll was creepy.

Parents must agree with the doll's terms of use and set it up through a mobile app before a child can use it.

When a child presses a button on the doll and talks, an audio recording is sent over the Internet to a server.

The server processes the information, and the doll responds with a prerecorded message.

However, the researchers say they discovered that the app had several security problems.

Digital certificates make sure that the app and the doll are safely connected.

The digital certificates for Hello Barbie used a "hardcoded" password, which meant that every app started with the same password.

If an attacker figured out that password while the parent set up the doll, it could be risky.

The attacker might be able to steal information, like audio recordings, that were sent between the doll and ToyTalk's servers.

While setting up the app, researchers say the phone could connect to any unlocked Wi-Fi network with "Barbie" in its name.

A hacker could easily create a Barbie Wi-Fi network to steal information.

Reddy, from ToyTalk, said that this is still not easy to do.

The only time a hacker could do this is during the few minutes it takes a parent to set up the app with the doll.

After they are connected, the attacker cannot get information like passwords or audio recordings, or change what the doll says.

Mattel and ToyTalk want customers to know that they take protecting personal information seriously.

ToyTalk even started a program that rewards researchers who tell them about problems they find and work with the company to fix them.

The doll's privacy policy says that the companies take "reasonable measures" to protect the information it collects, but cannot promise to keep it safe.

It says that there is no perfect security, no matter how hard they try.

It also says that there is no completely secure way to share information.

The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) goes after companies that do not live up to promises like privacy policies.

Experts say that if Hello Barbie has big safety problems, the FTC may take action.

The FTC also has certain legal powers.

It can punish companies that do not protect children's personal information, especially those 12 and younger.

This power comes from a law called The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act.

The FTC would not comment on the Hello Barbie incident, and would not say if investigations were real.

David Vladeck, a law professor at Georgetown University who used to work at the FTC, said that the issue is likely on the FTC's radar.

"It has always taken its responsibility to protect children very seriously," he said.

"This is very much in the core of what the FTC is concerned about, and I assume they are taking a very hard look this."

