A few years ago, a group of Haitian high school students made up a project for the final exam on their physics class: They would fix the broken traffic light down the street.

They studied how traffic lights work, created a battery-operated machine and ran a cable from their classroom to the intersection.

Weeks later, the traffic light at the corner of John Brown and Martin Luther King came alive.

Difficulties help make things better, said Guy Etienne, the school's chemistry teacher and headmaster.

"What we are developing in students' minds is that when you are confronted with a challenge, go find a solution; don't just cross your arms and say you can't because it's difficult," he said.

That approach has made the modest private school, College Catts Pressoir, one of Haiti's most famous schools.

It also has given Etienne the biggest honor yet of his 34-year teaching career: He is one of 10 finalists for a $1 million award.

He beat more than 5,000 nominees from 127 countries for a chance to be named the world's most exceptional teacher.

The prize, awarded by the Varkey Foundation, was started by Indian businessman Sunny Varkey.

Etienne said a lot of parents haven't agreed with him over the years, but today, the world does, and that encourages him to keep going.

"This is a great honor, not just for me but for the country," said Etienne, 61.

"What makes me proud is that every Haitian is identifying him or herself with this honor."

The education minister, Nesmy Manigat, isn't surprised by Etienne's nomination.

Manigat named Etienne to his reform commission when he began pushing to fix Haiti's schools.

Manigat called Etienne a role model.

He wished other teachers would follow his example and improve Haiti's schools, where last year half of the graduating students failed their final exams.

For Etienne, the Global Teacher Prize nomination is the latest in a string of honors.

In 2014, he was named a senior fellow of Ashoka, a group that pays tribute to social entrepreneurs, who start organizations to solve problems or change the world.

Soon he may travel to Denmark to collect another prize.

The LEGO Foundation named Catts Pressoir among 10 champions in its Re-imagine Learning Challenge.

The prize honors the school for helping students build skills and improve their community.

Catts Pressoir has a reputation among Haiti's middle class as a good school.

It is known for the students' clever science and technology projects and its tough teacher training.

Last year, students made a street security camera and offered it to Haiti's National Police.

They did not get an answer, but the government adopted a system like it months later.

When he isn't teaching, Etienne is in his office on the second floor, overlooking the concrete basketball court that doubles as a running track.

His walls are decorated with awards and students' photos.

Jeanine Vaval, 92, sits in a rocking chair near the door, keeping an eye on the students.

She founded the school with her husband, Ernest Vaval, in 1955.

They named it Catts Pressoir after a friend who was a doctor and science professor.

Etienne was also a student there.

He took over the school in 1981, when Ernest Vaval retired.

Etienne said it has always been his dream to make Haiti famous with his teaching.

He could have made more money working as a civil engineer, but he said teaching is his life.

It hasn't always been easy.

After taking over the school, Etienne picked a curriculum based on science and technology.

Everything students learned could be used to help Haiti.

A lot of parents didn't agree, Etienne said.

The good schools back then were teaching children grammar and the history of Haiti.

Students memorized facts.

Etienne said he did not want to teach kids things they couldn't use.

The only way a country can make progress is with schools that serve its needs, he said.

Today, parents are embracing the school's modern way of thinking as well as its small class sizes of 20 to 39 students.

Enrollment is capped at 700.

The quality is as good as an American or French school, said Haitian playwright and author Gary Victor, as he dropped off his children at school.

In a country where most schools don't have qualified teachers and quality education, Catts Pressoir is unusual, Victor said.

It lets students express themselves and develop their talents, he said.

"It's extremely difficult for a parent to pay for a school like this," said Victor, noting that even he struggles to make tuition payments.

"The children who come here are from the middle class.

You won't see the children of the economic elite here.

It's the middle class who are here, parents who are struggling to make an effort."

It's hard to keep the school open; it has to keep borrowing money, Etienne said.

Students in chemistry class share books, and the shelves are full of worn books with pages that are falling apart.

The school's third floor has been missing since 2010, when the country was hit by an earthquake.

If he wins the prize, Etienne wants to use the money to help students take online classes.

He would like to buy every student a tablet or a personal computer.

But the money is not what is important, Etienne said.

"The money comes in and it must go out so that we can improve the education we are giving the students," he said.

