It's the end of October.

Time to get dressed up to celebrate Halloween, right?

But the U.S. economy is not doing as well as people would like, and that has some shoppers spooked.

Anna Harris of St. Paul, Minn., is among those cutting back this Halloween.

"Because I have less money," she explained.

Still, Harris plans on celebrating by dressing up as Catwoman for two parties.

At the St. Paul Wal-Mart store last week, she debated between a black-satin sequined cat mask and a leopard-festooned mask with matching kitty tail.

Both cost about $5.

She plans on spending another $5 on makeup to complete her cat-like party look.

The economy measures the amount of business activity in the country.

A recession, or drop in the economy, ended a few years ago.

But things have not gotten better as quickly as expected.

For retailers, Halloween is an important bridge between the two biggest events of the year: back-to-school and Christmas buying seasons.

There have been early signs of shopper gloominess.

Still, 158 million shoppers plan to celebrate Halloween in some manner this year.

Giving out candy to trick-or-treaters will be the most popular thing to do, of course.

"Halloween is one of the most popular holidays of the year, and while we are expecting people to cut back on their spending a bit this Halloween, there's no sense it will be a bust," said Kathy Grannis of the National Retail Federation.

The NRF is a group that represents retailers.

"It's a muddy picture," said George John.

He teaches at the University of Minnesota's Carlson School of Management.

His subject is how to sell things.

In terms of retail sales, "We're trucking along.

We're not falling off a cliff, but we're not surging upward, either," John added.

The NRF sent out a survey recently.

It said that nearly nine in 10 people plan to spend less on candy, costumes and decorations this Halloween season compared with last year.

Total spending on the holiday is expected to reach the $6.9 billion mark nationwide this year.

That's about $75.03 a person, on average.

Last year, each person spent almost $5 more.

About a quarter of the 5,200 shoppers surveyed said the economy is the main reason for spending less.

Some Halloween enthusiasts plan on cutting back by buying "a la carte."

That means they will buy a piece or two, such as fake hair or just a mask, instead of a full-fledged costume.

Target Corp. took advantage of that idea.

It teamed up with fashion and costume designer Chris March for a series of striking wigs.

They serve as the centerpiece of the retailer's Halloween collection.

March who was on television's, "Project Runway," designed eight styles: Geisha, Greaser, Starlet, Witch, Medusa, Monster Bride, Mohawk and Afro.

Each sells for $20 or less.

Not all retailers are reporting Halloween-spending jitters.

Shoppers nationwide are expected to spend a little over $1 billion on children's costumes.

They will also spend $1.2 billion on adult costumes, according to the NRF-sponsored survey.

"We're definitely not seeing people spending less," said Roberta Bonoff.

She runs the Minneapolis-based children's store Creative Kidstuff.

"People are still buying.

Kids are kids, and they celebrate Halloween.

No matter what goes on in the world, people will spend on their kids."

Top sellers at the six-store chain include police, firefighter, vampire and magician costumes.

Plus, smaller items are hot this season.

These are things like spider-web earrings and people paints.

Another area where shoppers are less likely to cut back: pet costumes.

About 13.8 percent of those surveyed for NRF say they will take extra time to find the "perfect costume" for their pet.

Shoppers are expected to spend $330 million on pet costumes.

Popular doggy costumes trending on Google Shopping include hot dog, Wonder Woman, Ewok and matador get-ups.

