It's the end of October, but a sputtering economy means many Americans aren't exactly in the mood to get their ghoul on for Halloween.

Anna Harris of St. Paul, Minn., is among those cutting back this Halloween.

"Because I have less money," she explained.

Still, Harris plans on celebrating by dressing up as Catwoman for two parties.

At the St. Paul Wal-Mart store last week, she debated between a black-satin sequined cat mask and a leopard-festooned mask with matching kitty tail.

Both cost about $5.

She plans on spending another $5 on makeup to complete her feline party look.

For retailers, Halloween is an important revenue bridge between the two biggest events of the year: back-to-school and Christmas buying seasons.

And, despite early indications of shopper gloominess, 158 million consumers plan to celebrate Halloween in some manner this year.

Giving out candy to trick-or-treaters will be the most popular activity, of course.

"Halloween is one of the most popular holidays of the year, and while we are expecting people to cut back on their spending a bit this Halloween, there's no sense it will be a bust," said Kathy Grannis of the National Retail Federation (NRF).

"It's a muddy picture," said George John.

He teaches marketing at the University of Minnesota's Carlson School of Management.

In terms of retail sales, "We're trucking along.

We're not falling off a cliff, but we're not surging upward, either," John added.

A survey distributed recently by the NRF indicates that nearly nine in 10 people plan to spend less on candy, costumes and decorations this Halloween season compared with last year.

Total spending on the holiday is expected to reach the $6.9 billion mark nationwide this year.

That's about $75.03 a person, on average, down from $79.82 last year.

About a quarter of the 5,200 consumers surveyed cited the economy as the main reason for the decline.

The recession, or falling U.S. economy, ended a few years ago.

But the recovery has been slow.

"Unemployment has improved, but not at a solid rate that we would normally see when a recession ends.

Consumer confidence has trended downward, so it's a slow improvement," John said.

"Sales for big retailers year-over-year are negative or marginally positive."

Some Halloween enthusiasts plan on cutting back by buying "a la carte."

They will invest in a piece or two, such as fake facial hair or just a mask, instead of a full-fledged costume.

Target Corp. capitalized on that trend by partnering with fashion and costume designer Chris March for a series of striking wigs.

They serve as the centerpiece of the retailer's Halloween collection.

March, a former "Project Runway" contestant, designed eight styles: Geisha, Greaser, Starlet, Witch, Medusa, Monster Bride, Mohawk and Afro.

Each sells for $20 or less.

Not all retailers are reporting Halloween-spending skittishness.

Consumers nationwide are expected to spend a little over $1 billion on children's costumes and $1.2 billion on adult costumes, according to the NRF-sponsored survey.

"We're definitely not seeing people spending less," said Roberta Bonoff, CEO and president of the Minneapolis-based children's store Creative Kidstuff.

"People are still buying.

Kids are kids, and they celebrate Halloween.

No matter what goes on in the world, people will spend on their kids."

Top sellers at the six-store chain include police, firefighter, vampire and magician costumes.

Plus, smaller items are hot this season.

These are things like spider-web earrings and people paints.

Another area where consumers are less likely to cut back: pet costumes.

About 13.8 percent of those surveyed for NRF say they will take extra time to find the "perfect costume" for their pet.

Consumers are expected to spend $330 million on pet costumes.

Popular doggy costumes trending on Google Shopping include hot dog, Wonder Woman, Ewok and matador get-ups.

