A Batman bib-and-booties costume for $14.99 caught the eye of Joanna Robles as she searched for something for her baby son to wear while she hands out candy on Halloween.

"His dad is really obsessed with superheroes," Robles said while strolling through a Spirit Halloween store near Los Angeles.

In the next aisle, 35-year-old Joe Lige said he was browsing for an outfit "on the darker, spookier side" for a Halloween party.

"My wife gives me a budget for Halloween and I always exceed it," he said.

They are among the 157 million Americans expected to celebrate Halloween this year.

Those people may be walking their kids around the block to get free candy, carving a pumpkin for the front window or wearing a costume for a neighborhood party.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20151016_HALLOWEEN.png) Halloween was once mostly for children.

It has grown into a major consumer holiday that now includes 18- to 34-year-old millennials and older adults who seize the opportunity for a night to escape reality.

"It's not just for kids trick-or-treating anymore," said Trisha Lombardo, a spokeswoman for Spirit Halloween, which has 1,150 temporary stores that are open just for the Halloween season.

Consumers altogether will spend $6.9 billion on Halloween this year, an average of $74.34 each, the National Retail Federation estimates.

The figures are based on an annual survey conducted by a research firm.

The estimated spending is down from a peak of $8 billion, or $79.82 a person, in 2012.

Still, it is more than double the Halloween spending of a decade ago.

The spending is done across the retail and entertainment industries, and to some extent the farming industry, where pumpkins are a big item during the season.

Businesses cannot point to a single reason for the jump in interest in Halloween over the past decade, but they note several factors for the holiday's current popularity.

For instance, "the millennials are really into group costumes and activities," Lombardo said.

"They love to do things in groups, whether they're going as characters in 'The Walking Dead' or 'Orange Is the New Black,'" and that drives added costume sales and theme-park attendance, she said.

Social media also has fueled the rise in Halloween's broader appeal.

People love sharing information, photos and videos of their Halloween costumes, decorations and night-on-the-town escapades, analysts said.

When people were asked where they look for inspiration for costumes, the websites Facebook and Pinterest each drew 13 percent of the responses, the National Retail Federation said.

Nearly one-third of consumers said they looked online overall for Halloween costumes.

"I post stuff after I pick out my outfit," especially on Facebook and Instagram, Jessica Medina, 33, said as she shopped at the Spirit Halloween store.

"I also search online to see what's out there and my friends post things."

The impact of social media "has been exponential," said Jeff Green, who advises retailers.

"The growth that's occurred in Halloween spending over the last 10 years has almost mirrored that of the growth in social media."

Consumer spending on Halloween still pales next to the winter holiday season, which includes Thanksgiving and Christmas and generates about $616 billion in sales.

Halloween spending also trails spending for Mother's Day, Valentine's Day and Father's Day.

That is mainly because "Halloween is not a gift-giving holiday" much beyond candy for the kids, National Retail Federation spokeswoman Kathy Grannis Allen said.

Nonetheless, "it's still a huge business for a retailer," she said.

However, Halloween retail sales are expected to dip this year compared with 2014 as many consumers plan to re-use Halloween props and decorations they bought in recent years.

Other items are perishable, of course, such as candy and pumpkins.

Nine out of 10 Americans are expected to buy candy this year, spending about $2.1 billion, slightly less than the $2.2 billion spent last year.

About 41 percent of Americans also will carve a fresh pumpkin.

In fact, most pumpkins grown in California are for Halloween sales, which last year totaled $31 million in the state, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Another trend is the continued growth of temporary, or "pop-up," Halloween stores that lease space in vacant store-fronts or other buildings for the six weeks leading up to Halloween.

One big Halloween retailer is Party City.

Halloween is very important to the company, accounting for 25 percent of Party City's $1.6 billion in annual retail sales.

Then there are the haunted theme-park attractions, such as Knott's "Scary Farm" and "Fright Fest" at Six Flags Entertainment Corp.'s Magic Mountain.

Both are in the Los Angeles area.

Knott's does not break out its Halloween-related sales, but Knott's has said the Scary Farm generates about 15 percent of its annual attendance.

"It's a very profitable and valuable part" of the year, Knott's spokesman Jason Soyster said.

"Parks like Knott's have capitalized on this overwhelming consumer interest in the Halloween season."

Others prefer to stay near home, handing out candy or joining parties.

They include Medina, who said she and her husband try to keep their family's Halloween spending under $200, but find it tough.

"I try to," Medina said as she prepared to try on a $60 pirate costume.

"But it never happens because my husband and I are huge Halloween fans."

