McDonald's workers are getting ready to take a test in a fake kitchen.

There are two boxes of french fries piled on the floor.

They should really be in the freezer.

The salt shaker at the fry station is empty.

The cheeseburger buns are too hard and dry.

The teacher is watching to see if they notice all the problems.

The challenge is part of McDonald's very own school, Hamburger University.

It is a training program for the managers who run each of their restaurants.

It tests managers on everything from handling customers' problems to hiring the best workers.

Each year, hundreds of new managers become students at Hamburger University.

They spend five days studying "Hamburger-ology."

They have meetings with a professor who pretends to be their boss.

They work together to figure out what they need to change about the real McDonald's restaurants they run.

McDonald's makes sure all of its managers go through the Hamburger University program.

Jason Hamm is one of the trainers at the special school.

He pushes students to make decisions quickly, just like they would in real life.

"We try to throw a lot of different things at them," Hamm said.

The 130,000-square-foot Hamburger University just outside of Chicago is known as the Fred L. Turner Training Center.

Fred Turner started the Hamburger University program in 1961.

He started working on the grill at McDonald's and worked his way up to leading the company.

Turner held the first Hamburger University classes in the basement of a McDonald's restaurant near Chicago.

He had just 15 students.

Now there are seven Hamburger Universities around the world.

They have helped 330,000 people become better managers.

During their week at the center, students learn about teamwork, being a good leader and making smart decisions.

They are graded on how they handle problems in the pretend restaurant.

They also have to give a group presentation.

Students with the highest scores get special gold seals on their graduation papers.

For many, the training is the first time they have been in a classroom in many years.

Rob Lauber is in charge of all of the training programs at McDonald's.

He says almost one-third of their managers dropped out of high school.

Lauber connects them with classes they can take to finish high school, learn to speak English or even go to college.

Stephen Jones started working at McDonald's when he was in the ninth grade.

Now he is in charge of more than 100 people at a busy 24-hour McDonald's.

Jones just finished his stay at Hamburger University.

He called it "a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity."

It gave him the chance to step back and think about how he does things at his own restaurant.

McDonald's says the need for this type of training is more important than ever.

Business has not been as good lately.

McDonald's has not been selling as much food as they usually do.

People are going to other restaurants instead.

The head of the company, Steve Easterbrook, says McDonald's needs to take better care of the people who work in its restaurants.

He says that will help workers take better care of McDonald's customers.

Easterbrook has promised to pay McDonald's workers more money and give them more help with school.

Support like that has made a big difference for Jones.

He never planned on going to college, but one day, someone from McDonald's training team came to the restaurant where he worked.

They helped him get signed up for school.

Now Jones takes online classes at Strayer University.

He is studying to get his degree in science and plans to work in human relations.

Jones says he has seen McDonald's go through difficult times before and thinks the company can still succeed.

He says they just have to do what they learned at Hamburger University.

"Focus on the customer," Jones said.

