Two boxes of french fries stacked on the kitchen floor, rather than stored in a freezer.

An empty salt shaker at the fry station.

A dry, unseasoned cheeseburger served on a hardened bun.

Those are just a few of the problems a McDonald's manager is expected to spot in this fake kitchen.

The exercise is part of a typical day at McDonald's very own school for managers.

The training program is called Hamburger University and it grades managers on everything from handling customer complaints to hiring the best workers.

Each year, hundreds of new managers visit McDonald's corporate campus to become students at Hamburger University.

They spend five days working toward an unofficial degree in "Hamburger-ology."

During their visits, they role play and have meetings with a professor who pretends to be their boss.

They also plan the improvements they need to make at the real restaurants they run.

"If you think about it, each of them is running a multimillion-dollar business," said Rob Lauber, vice president and chief learning officer of McDonald's Restaurant Solutions Group.

"So we want to make sure they have good business grounding."

McDonald's says all managers must graduate from Hamburger University.

To make the grade, they will need to pass courses like shift management and guest services.

"We put a little bit of pressure on them to quickly make their decisions, just like they do back home," said Jason Hamm, McDonald's national training manager for the United States.

"We try to throw a lot of different things at them."

Hamburger University opened in 1961 and has hosted some 330,000 students at campuses around the world.

With sales and customer visits falling in the United States, McDonald's says the need for this type of training is more important than ever.

According to McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook, focusing on people is the key to a turnaround.

"A motivated workforce leads to better customer service," he said.

Easterbrook has pledged to increase wages and improve educational opportunities for U.S. workers, including covering costs for certain high school and college courses.

Fred Turner, who rose from working as a grill man to McDonald's senior chairman, started Hamburger University in the basement of a McDonald's restaurant in suburban Chicago.

Its first class had just 15 students.

Now there are seven Hamburger Universities around the world, including the newest in Shanghai, China, which opened in 2010.

Today, the 130,000-square-foot Oak Brook learning lab is known as the Fred L. Turner Training Center.

Inside its classrooms and restaurant settings, managers learn leadership, teamwork and decision-making skills.

Ninety to 120 managers graduate from each week-long session.

The course is offered about 20 times a year.

Students at Hamburger University are evaluated based on the points they earn in simulations and on a final group presentation.

Students who finish with a final score of 90 percent or higher earn spots on the honors list.

About 10 percent of Hamburger University students wind up in that special group and graduate with gold seals on their certificates.

For many, the training is their first time in a classroom in years.

"We estimate between 20 and 30 percent of our restaurant managers haven't finished high school," Lauber said.

In addition to overseeing Hamburger University, Lauber also makes English, high school and college courses available for McDonald's employees.

Stephen Jones was supposed to go to Hamburger University in January.

In the months leading up to his trip, Jones went through the online meetings and classes McDonald's uses to prepare students for the Hamburger University experience.

He and his coach decided he was not ready, so his trip was delayed until April.

Jones started out at McDonald's when he was in the ninth grade, taking orders at a restaurant in Philadelphia.

He's now the 29-year-old head manager of a 24-hour McDonald's, just blocks from Yankee Stadium in New York.

Jones oversees a crew of more than 100 people and 14 managers.

Hamburger University is not the only school that has been testing Jones lately.

He also takes online classes at Strayer University.

Jones said he was not planning on going to college, but someone from McDonald's training team came to the restaurant where he worked and got him signed up for school.

Now he is earning a degree in science and plans to work in human relations.

McDonald's is not the only large company that runs a corporate training center like this, but a research group called the Learning Consortium says Hamburger University has a reputation for being one of the toughest programs of its kind.

Students at HU do not just hit the books.

They also face challenging interpersonal situations.

The Learning Consortium says McDonald's is looking for more than just strong skills; they need managers with good judgment, too.

For Jones, Hamburger University was a "a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity."

He says he appreciated having a chance to step back and re-evaluate the way he operates his own McDonald's location.

Jones has seen McDonald's go through difficult times before and believes the company can still succeed.

"We have to do what we're supposed to do and that's focus on the customer," Jones said.

