McDonald's workers walk into a pretend kitchen.

They are getting ready to take a test.

There are two boxes of french fries piled on the floor.

They should be in the freezer.

The salt shaker is empty.

The cheeseburger buns are too hard and dry.

The teacher is watching to see if all the workers notice the problems.

This test is part of McDonald's very own school.

It is called Hamburger University.

McDonald's sends workers there to teach them how to run every McDonald's the same way.

Students learn about things like helping customers and training new workers.

Hundreds of McDonald's workers go to Hamburger University every year.

They spend five days learning everything about McDonald's.

They make lists of all the things they need to change at the real McDonald's restaurants they run.

The main Hamburger University building is named after Fred Turner.

He started the Hamburger University program in 1961.

The first classes were in the basement of a McDonald's.

Back then, he only had 15 students.

Now there are seven Hamburger Universities around the world.

They have helped 330,000 people learn how to run a McDonald's restaurant.

At Hamburger University, students learn about teamwork and being a good leader.

They learn how to make smart decisions.

They have to solve problems in the make-believe restaurant.

Stephen Jones started working at McDonald's when he was in the ninth grade.

Now he runs his own 24-hour McDonald's.

It is in New York.

It is very busy.

He is in charge of more than 100 people.

Jones just finished his week at Hamburger University.

He called it "a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity."

He liked having time to think about how to do his job better.

Now he wants to make changes at his own McDonald's.

Jones says McDonald's has made a big difference in his life.

He never planned on going to college.

Then one day, a McDonald's teacher came to the restaurant where he worked.

They helped him get signed up for school.

Now Jones is going to college online.

He is studying to get his degree in science.

