Two boxes of french fries stacked on the kitchen floor, rather than stored in a freezer.

An empty salt shaker at the fry station.

A dry, unseasoned cheeseburger served on a hardened bun.

Those are just a few of the problems a McDonald's manager is expected to spot in this mock kitchen.

The exercise is part of a typical day at Hamburger University, a McDonald's program that grades managers on everything from handling customer complaints to hiring the best workers.

Each year, hundreds of new McDonald's U.S. general managers visit the burger giant's corporate campus to become students at Hamburger University.

They spend five days working toward an honorary bachelor's degree in "Hamburger-ology."

During their visits, they role play, have meetings with their boss — in this case, a professor — and plan out the improvements they need to make at the real restaurants they run.

"If you think about it, each of them is running a multimillion-dollar business," said Rob Lauber, vice president and chief learning officer of McDonald's Restaurant Solutions Group.

"So we want to make sure they have good business grounding."

Every McDonald's general manager must graduate from Hamburger University, which means they need to pass courses like shift management and guest services.

"We put a little bit of pressure on them to quickly make their decisions, just like they do back home," said Jason Hamm, McDonald's national training manager for the United States.

"We try to throw a lot of different things at them."

Hamburger University opened in 1961 and has hosted some 330,000 students at campuses around the world.

With sales and customer visits falling in the United States, McDonald's says the need for this type of training is especially urgent.

According to McDonald's CEO Steve Easterbrook, focusing on people is the key to a turnaround.

"A motivated workforce leads to better customer service," he said.

Easterbrook has pledged to increase wages and improve educational opportunities for U.S. workers, including covering costs for certain high school and college courses.

Fred Turner, who rose from working as a grill man to McDonald's senior chairman, started Hamburger University in the basement of a McDonald's restaurant in suburban Chicago.

Its first class had just 15 students.

Now there are seven Hamburger Universities around the world, including the newest in Shanghai, China, which opened in 2010.

Today, the Oak Brook learning lab is known as the Fred L. Turner Training Center.

Inside the 130,000-square-foot facility's classrooms and restaurant settings, general managers learn leadership, teamwork and decision-making skills.

Ninety to 120 general managers graduate from each week-long session, which is offered about 20 times a year.

The training includes intense tests like racing the clock to design a staffing schedule that meets sales, labor and profit goals.

It also includes oral and written presentations.

Students are evaluated based on the points they earn in simulations and on a final group presentation.

About 10 percent of the students at Hamburger University finish with a final score of 90 percent or higher, earning them spots on the honors list and gold seals on their diplomas.

For many, the training is their first time in a classroom in years.

"We estimate between 20 and 30 percent of our restaurant managers haven't finished high school," Lauber said.

In addition to overseeing Hamburger University, Lauber leads McDonald's efforts to provide wider access to English, high school and college courses for its employees.

Stephen Jones was supposed to go to Hamburger University in January.

In the months leading up to his trip, Jones went through the online meetings and classes McDonald's uses to prepare students for the Hamburger University experience.

He and his coach decided he was not ready, so his trip was delayed until April.

Jones started out at McDonald's when he was in the ninth grade, taking orders at a restaurant in Philadelphia.

He is now the 29-year-old general manager of a 24-hour McDonald's, just blocks from Yankee Stadium in New York.

Jones oversees a crew of more than 100 people and 14 managers, all while taking online classes at Strayer University.

Jones said he was not planning on going to college when someone from McDonald's training team came to the restaurant where he worked to help him get signed up for school.

He is pursuing a bachelor's degree in science and aspires to work in human relations.

Some of his work at Hamburger University may help him reach that degree.

Completing McDonald's full general manager program results in six credits that are accepted at 1,800 U.S. colleges and universities.

McDonald's is not the only large company that runs a comprehensive corporate training center.

However, according to Elliott Masie, McDonald's has one of the toughest.

Masie is the chairman of the Learning Consortium, a group of 230 companies that work together to research how people learn in the workplace.

Masie says that McDonald's realized that each of their stores needs somebody who has both good judgment and strong skills; as a result, McDonald's makes sure that Hamburger University has tough interpersonal challenges as well as high academic standards.

"They bust them there," he said.

For Jones, Hamburger University was a "a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity" that gave him the chance to step back and re-evaluate the way he operates his own McDonald's location.

Jones has seen McDonald's go through difficult times before and believes the company can still succeed.

"We have to do what we're supposed to do and that's focus on the customer," Jones said.

