An Internet video of six young Iranian men and women dancing to the hit pop song "Happy" by Pharrell Williams appeared on YouTube.

They were arrested shortly after the video appeared.

Iran's president doesn't seem to support the arrests.

Yet, there are members of Iran's government who do.

The arrests show how far they will go to halt Western influences on Iran's culture.

People outside [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) quickly criticized the arrests.

Calls for freedom for the jailed youths zipped around social media Wednesday.

Williams tweeted: "It's beyond sad these kids were arrested for trying to spread happiness."

A tweet posted Wednesday evening on President Hassan Rouhani's Twitter account seemed to address the arrests.

Yet, it didn't mention them directly.

"#Happiness is our people's right," it said.

"We shouldn't be too hard on behaviors caused by joy."

There is some debate if Rouhani actually is the one posting on Twitter.

The case was a reminder of the power struggle in Iran's government.

The country's hard-liners are determined to keep things as they are.

Iran's moderates, however, are trying to push through change.

Some are seeking improved relations with Western Europe and the U.S. Others just want fewer crackdowns, like the video arrests.

Hard-liners are increasingly challenging Rouhani.

The president was elected last year.

He succeeded Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a more hard-line president.

The challenges come as the country is working out a deal with other nations that will allow it to keep using nuclear energy.

There is fear Iran could use nuclear energy to make powerful weapons.

As recently as Saturday, Rouhani voiced support for open use of the Internet.

At the moment, Iran tightly regulates Internet use.

Sites such as YouTube and Facebook are blocked by the government.

However, many young Iranians find ways around the controls.

Some use tools that make it seem as if they are surfing the Internet from another country.

"We should see the cyber world as an opportunity," Rouhani told the official Iranian news agency.

"Why are we so shaky?

Why don't we trust our youth?"

Hard-liners accuse Rouhani of failing to stop the spread of what they consider "decadent" Western culture in Iran.

Last week, hard-liners marched against women dressing in modern fashions and not wearing the "hijab."

Many muslim women wear the hijab, a veil covering the hair.

Rouhani seeks greater social and cultural openness.

Yet, hard-liners say the government should be tough on those who challenge their traditional views of Islamic practices.

They accuse Rouhani of being too tolerant.

The dancing Iranians would seem right at home in the West.

Fans have posted similar videos from around the world, showing people dancing down streets.

But in Iran, some believe videos like these help spread Western culture.

Iranian law bans women from dancing in public or appearing outside without covering their hair with the hijab.

The government also blocks some websites.

The video that got them in trouble shows hip twentysomethings hamming it up for the camera in sunglasses and silly clothes on Tehran rooftops and in alleyways.

One of the bearded men goofily dips his female dancing partner.

None of the three women in the video wears a hijab.

The video was posted online several weeks ago.

It includes the participants' first names in the credits.

They describe themselves as Williams fans, adding: "'Happy' was an excuse to be happy.

We enjoyed every second of making it."

Tehran Police Chief Hossein Sajedinia confirmed the arrests on state TV last Tuesday.

The TV report blurred images from the video and then showed the six with their backs turned toward the camera.

"They were identified and arrested within six hours," Sajedinia said.

On the TV broadcast, Sajedinia gave a warning to Iranian young people.

He said police will approach those who go against Islamic practices.

The last time there was a crackdown on music was on Dec. 2, 2013, when Iran's Morality Police temporarily arrested popular rapper Amir Tataloo, whose songs authorities consider inappropriate.

He was released two days later.

