Six young men and women in Iran made a video dancing to the hit pop song "Happy" by Pharrell Williams.

Shortly after the video appeared on YouTube, the young people were arrested.

In [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) it is illegal for women to dance in public.

Women are also not allowed to appear outside without covering their hair.

Iran's president doesn't seem to support the arrests.

Yet, some members of Iran's government do.

The arrests show how far they will go to halt culture from the United States and other countries.

They see such culture as a bad influence.

People around the world spoke out against the arrests.

Calls for freedom for the jailed youths zipped around social media Wednesday.

Williams tweeted: "It's beyond sad these kids were arrested for trying to spread happiness."

A tweet on President Hassan Rouhani's account seemed to address the arrests.

Yet, it didn't mention them directly.

"#Happiness is our people's right," it said.

"We shouldn't be too hard on behaviors caused by joy."

Some people question if Rouhani actually is the one posting on Twitter.

The case shows the power struggle happening in Iran's government.

The country's hard-liners believe in a very traditional version of Islam.

They want to keep things as they are.

Iran's moderates, however, are pushing for change.

Some are seeking closer ties to Western Europe and the U.S. Others just want fewer crackdowns, like the video arrests.

Hard-liners are increasingly challenging Rouhani.

He was just elected last year.

Rouhani succeeded Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a more hard-line president.

Today, Iran tightly controls Internet use.

Sites like YouTube and Facebook are blocked by the government.

However, young Iranians find ways around the controls.

Many use tools that make it seem like they are surfing the Internet from another country.

"We should see the cyber world as an opportunity," Rouhani said about the Internet.

"Why are we so shaky?

Why don't we trust our youth?"

Hard-liners accuse Rouhani of failing to stop the spread of Western culture in Iran.

Last week, hard-liners marched over women not wearing the "hijab."

It's a veil worn to cover the hair.

The hard-liners say the government should be tough on those who challenge their views of Islamic practices.

They accuse Rouhani of being too tolerant.

The dancing Iranians would seem normal in other countries.

Fans have posted similar videos from around the world, showing people dancing down streets.

The video that got them in trouble shows hip twentysomethings hamming it up for the camera in sunglasses and silly clothes.

They're seen dancing on rooftops and in alleyways.

One bearded man goofily dips his female dancing partner.

None of the three women in the video wears a hijab.

The video was posted online several weeks ago.

It includes the dancers' first names.

They call themselves Williams fans, adding: "'Happy' was an excuse to be happy.

We enjoyed every second of making it."

Tehran Police Chief Hossein Sajedinia announced the arrests on Iranian TV.

The TV report blurred images from the video.

Then it showed the six with their backs turned.

It wasn't immediately clear what charges the six faced, or if they had lawyers.

Reports on social media said some had already been released.

It's not known if this is true.

On the broadcast, Sajedinia warned Iranian young people.

He said police will go after anyone challenging Islamic practices.

The last time there was a crackdown on music was on Dec. 2, 2013.

Iran's police temporarily arrested popular rapper Amir Tataloo, whose songs authorities consider inappropriate.

He was released two days later.

