Motorcycle thefts are falling nationwide, but one make is still the target of thieves.

Of five major brands, Harley-Davidson was the only one that had a jump in the number of bikes stolen in 2013.

It's hard to say why more Harleys continue to be stolen.

One theory is that Harley riders are too trusting.

Many leave their bikes unlocked and unattended because most fellow riders won't mess with them.

There were 3,907 Harley-Davidsons stolen in the United States last year, up 4 percent from 2012.

On the other hand, fewer Honda, Yamaha, Kawasaki and Suzuki motorcycles were stolen.

The drop in thefts of those bikes ranged from 2.1 percent for Kawasaki, to 9.1 percent for Suzuki.

The theft numbers came from the National Insurance Crime Bureau.

Overall, thefts have fallen even as the number of bikes sold increased.

There were 45,367 motorcycle thefts reported in the United States in 2013, down 1.5 percent compared with the previous year.

The thefts were highest in California, followed by Florida, Texas, North Carolina and Indiana.

At least one motorcycle theft ring targets motels along the routes of rallies, where bikers gather to show off their bikes to one another.

The ring steals the motorcycles straight out of motel parking lots.

Harley rider Jim Bidwell had a 2007 Ultra Glide, which he customized with special parts to his own liking.

The bike was stolen this spring.

It was taken from the parking lot of a bar in Wisconsin.

The bike, which Bidwell valued at $45,000, was stolen on a Sunday afternoon in May.

The bar was packed with people, Bidwell said, and he had just shown the bike to some of them three minutes earlier.

"We parked right in front of the bar — I was 15 feet" away from the bike, he said.

No one reported seeing the theft take place, Bidwell said.

The bike was unlocked and could be started without a key.

Bidwell has since published a plea on Facebook seeking information about the theft.

"We are not going to give up until she is home," the plea says.

Thousands of people have viewed the posting, and some swore they saw the bike in various places.

"Someone said they thought they saw it near Nashville (Tennessee)," Bidwell said.

The bike had $29,340 in add-ons and had won nine custom motorcycle contests.

"My word to everybody is 'lock up your bike,' I cannot repeat that enough," he said.

There have been similar bold thefts of motorcycles in Wisconsin's Fox Valley this spring.

In one case, a bike was stolen from the parking lot of a movie theater.

Generally, there aren't many motorcycle thefts at biker rallies.

"People are very trusting.

It's a Harley brotherhood," Bidwell said.

Riders never "touch somebody else's bike without their permission."

There's an unwritten honor code among riders, but unfortunately it's not enough to stop thieves, said police officer Aaron Zemlock.

Zemlock recently investigated the theft of a Harley-Davidson from a parking lot in the middle of the day.

The bike was parked in plain view.

The thief, still not caught, can be seen on video driving away and nearly causing an accident.

"It looked like he was dropped off by another vehicle," Zemlock said.

The thief "walked up to the bike, and was there for less than two minutes."

He added, "It was bold, absolutely."

Thirty-seven percent of the motorcycles reported stolen in the United States in 2013 were recovered.

"In some cases, fairly rare bikes have been recovered, including a 1953 Triumph," said insurer Roger Morris.

That bike was "returned to its rightful owner 53 years later.

He is 73 years old now."

Often, bikes are cut up and sold for parts.

The parts, or whole motorcycles, are sometimes shipped overseas where they are worth much more and can't easily be traced.

"We have found barrels of motorcycle parts being shipped out of the country," Morris said.

Locks, alarms and parking your motorcycle in a secure location are still the best ways to prevent theft.

A bike can be stolen in seconds.

To protect against it, Morris recommends buying insurance coverage.

Insurance costs a fraction of an item's value.

If the item is stolen or destroyed, the insurance company pays to replace the item.

"You would be surprised at how many people don't have theft coverage," Morris said.

