Motorcycle thefts are down across the country.

Still, one brand is popular with thieves: Harley-Davidson.

Out of five major brands, thefts of Harleys rose in 2013.

It's hard to say why more Harleys continue to be stolen.

One theory is that Harley riders are too trusting.

Many leave their bikes unlocked because most fellow riders won't mess with them.

There were 3,907 Harley-Davidsons stolen in the United States in 2013.

Compared with the year before, that was an increase of 4 percent.

Other brands saw fewer bikes stolen.

Thefts were down a whopping 9.1 percent for Suzuki.

Thefts were also down for Honda, Yamaha and Kawasaki.

Overall, there were 45,367 motorcycle thefts reported in the United States in 2013.

That was down 1.5 percent compared with the year before.

The drop came even as bike sales rose.

Thefts were highest in California.

Florida, Texas, North Carolina and Indiana followed in the rankings of stolen bikes.

Harley rider Jim Bidwell's 2007 Ultra Glide was stolen this spring.

The bike was taken from the parking lot of a bar on a Sunday afternoon.

Bidwell's one-of-a-kind bike was fitted with special parts.

He said the bike is worth $45,000.

The bar was packed with people, Bidwell said.

He had just shown the motorcycle to some of them three minutes earlier.

"We parked right in front of the bar.

I was 15 feet" away from the bike, he said.

No one reported seeing the theft take place, Bidwell said.

The bike was unlocked and could be started without a key.

Bidwell has since posted about the bike on Facebook.

He announced he is seeking information about the theft.

"We are not going to give up until she is home," the post says.

Thousands of people have viewed the post.

Some were sure they'd seen the bike.

"Someone said they thought they saw it near Nashville (Tennessee)," Bidwell said.

The bike had $29,340 in custom parts.

It had won nine custom motorcycle contests.

"My word to everybody is 'lock up your bike.'

I cannot repeat that enough," he said.

There have been other bold thefts of motorcycles in Wisconsin this spring.

In one case, a bike was stolen from the parking lot of a movie theater.

Generally, though, one rule holds true: There aren't many thefts at motorcycle rallies.

At such events bikers gather to ride together and show off their bikes.

"People are very trusting.

It's a Harley brotherhood," Bidwell said.

Riders never "touch somebody else's bike without their permission."

There is an unwritten honor code among riders, said police officer Aaron Zemlock.

Unfortunately, that's not enough to stop thieves.

Zemlock recently investigated the theft of a Harley-Davidson.

It was taken from a parking lot in the middle of the day.

The bike was parked in plain view.

The thief can be seen on video driving away and nearly causing an accident.

He has yet to be caught.

"It looked like he was dropped off by another vehicle," Zemlock said.

The thief "walked up to the bike, and was there for less than two minutes."

He added, "It was bold."

Thirty-seven percent of motorcycles stolen in the United States in 2013 were recovered.

Even some very rare bikes have been recovered.

Among them was a 1953 Triumph, which was returned 53 years after it was stolen.

Its owner is now 73 years old.

Often, stolen bikes are cut up and sold for parts.

The parts, or whole motorcycles, are sometimes shipped overseas.

They are worth much more there and can't be easily traced.

There are good ways to prevent theft, though: locks, alarms, and parking your motorcycle in a secure place.

It pays to be careful — a bike can be stolen in seconds.

