From time to time, parents yell at their children or grab them roughly.

That goes for rich parents as well as poor ones.

But poor parents do this more often, researchers say.

And their kids suffer from it in ways science is just beginning to understand.

This is called harsh parenting.

And it causes a huge amount of fear and worry in their children.

It can change the way their brains work.

It increases the chance that they will behave badly, for instance.

They also may develop serious health problems.

"This is an incredibly important public health issue," said Joan Luby.

She is a professor in St. Louis.

She recently wrote an article about how poverty affects children's brains.

A loving relationship with parents helps to shield children.

But when parents are too harsh, the kids' brains release chemicals.

This is called a toxic stress response.

The brain releases these chemicals when it sees danger.

But these chemicals are toxic, or poisonous, to children's brains as they grow.

Toxic stress can hurt the part of the brain that deals with feelings.

The child may get into fights.

He also may have trouble paying attention and calming down his body, said Daniel Taylor.

He is a doctor in North Philadelphia.

The chemicals may also damage the part of the brain involved in memory, he said.

These children may have trouble remembering things.

It is harder for them to read and do well on tests.

If toxic chemicals are released all the time, children can develop health problems, said Marcy Witherspoon.

She studies how children's brains develop.

People, no matter if they are rich or poor, can be bad parents.

But poor parents often struggle with problems like hunger, no jobs and unsafe housing.

These pressures can make them less patient with their children and more angry.

In poor neighborhoods, many children suffer from harsh parenting, Taylor said.

Harsh parenting poisons children, he said.

A man named Dave recently participated in a parenting workshop.

Growing up, his family was very poor.

His mother yelled at him all the time.

She told him he was worthless.

Now he is a single father with two young children.

"There are only two ways you come out of a situation like mine," Dave said.

"You're either a victim and let the bad experiences control you.

Or you become better in spite of it."

He has tried to protect his own kids from toxic stress.

Dave said he is proud that even if he is angry with his children, he does not embarrass them.

"I don't say they're bad, only that they're doing something bad.

I control myself," Dave said.

Not all poor children suffer from toxic stress.

Some low-income parents protect their children's brains, said Maria McColgan.

She is the director of a child protection program.

These parents pay attention to their children.

They are involved in their children's lives.

Harsh parenting is not the only thing that can cause toxic stress.

A poor mother distracted because there is not enough food may not be able to connect with her children.

This lack of connection can also cause toxic stress, said Bruce McEwen.

He is a scientist in New York.

There is some good news about toxic stress.

"You can heal from it," Witherspoon said.

All it takes is for one adult to watch out for a child and believe in him.

That gives the child hope for the future.

Witherspoon helps parents understand how they cause toxic stress in their children.

They cause it when they treat their children the way their parents treated them.

Knowing this can help them stop doing it.

Parents need caring and support, Witherspoon said.

They need someone to listen to them.

Then they stop taking their worries out on their kids.

"To help, I say to parents, 'Life sounds really hard.

Tell me about it.'

"

