Harvard University is one of the best universities in the world.

Its debate team is one of the best in the world.

A debate is when two people - or two teams - talk politely about opposing, or different views.

Each side wants to prove it is right.

Not long ago, Harvard's debate team lost to a group of New York prisoners.

The contest took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility.

It is a prison with many locks and guards.

People who have committed crimes, who are called inmates, live here.

The inmates can take classes.

They can even get a college degree.

Professors from nearby Bard College teach the classes.

The inmates formed a debate club two years ago.

This year, they invited the Harvard students over for a friendly contest.

In 2014, the Harvard debate team won a world championship.

The inmates are also very good.

They have beaten debate teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point in New York and the University of Vermont.

The Bard professors who teach the inmates are not surprised.

They knew their students could win.

Students in the prison are graded the same as students at Bard, Max Kenner said.

He runs the Bard Prison Initiative.

This program helps educate men and women in prison.

The students are serious, he said.

The teachers do not look down on them.

The Harvard team put up a Facebook post after they lost to the inmates.

They said they were very proud to have lost to such a smart team.

They also thanked the teachers and prison for having the event.

The debate was about one problem.

The inmates were asked to stick up for something they did not believe in.

They had to argue that public schools should turn away students whose parents came to the United States without permission.

The inmates' reasons surprised the Harvard team.

Three students from Harvard's team responded with the opposing view.

They argued that these students should be permitted to attend U.S. schools.

The judges said the inmates won.

Winning is not the most important thing, Kenner said.

The debate club is meant to help students express what they have learned.

Inmates can earn college degrees through the program.

It is taught mostly by Bard teachers.

Only one out of every six of the male inmates at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility take classes.

Some inmates who finish the program have continued their studies at Yale and Columbia universities, Kenner said.

Inmates learn without the help of the Internet.

Instead they read books given by the college.

They make the most of every chance they have, Kenner said.

