Abigail Fisher was a high school student in 2008.

She wanted to go to college.

She applied to a school called the University of Texas at Austin.

She did not get in.

Fisher then brought a lawsuit against the school.

She thought the school rejected her because she is white.

Some schools think about race when deciding who to let in.

They want to let in students with different backgrounds.

For example, they want to have both white students and African-American students.

Fisher thinks this is wrong.

She thinks schools should not think about race at all when deciding who to let in.

That is why she brought her lawsuit.

Fisher's case has been heard by several courts.

Last week, it went to the highest court in the country, the Supreme Court of the United States.  Some people say Fisher is right.

Schools should not worry about race, they say.

Other people say schools should worry about race.

They say there is still a great deal of racism in the United States.

Racism makes life harder for people of color.

It can make it harder to do well in school.

Because of this, it might be unfair for schools not to worry about race.  People have been talking about the case on the internet.

They have been using websites like Twitter. Twitter lets people post short messages online.  Twitter also lets people add hashtags to their messages.

Hashtags are a way of tying messages together.

People writing about the same things end their messages with the same hashtags.

Some African-American students on Twitter came up with a new hashtag for the Fisher case.

It jokingly calls Fisher "Abby."

The new hashtag is "#StayMadAbby."

For example, one woman posted a photo of a group of African-American students.

The students in the photo were celebrating.

They had just finished college.

Below the photo are the words: "Simply amazing, beautiful, intelligent BLACK WOMEN.

'#StayMadAbby.'"

Another message reads, "How you gon' hate from outside the school?

You can't even get in!

'#StayMadAbby.'"

Why are people telling Fisher to stay mad?

What does the hashtag mean?

It seems to be a way for African-American students to say they are not sorry for getting into good schools.

They say Fisher is just angry because she did not get her way.

