Lava from a volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii has been flowing very slowly toward the ocean since June.

Lava, the melted rock spewed by a volcano, is incredibly hot.

Now, the small town of Pahoa is in the way of the lava.

People in Pahoa are very worried.

They say the lava will change their town and make them much more cut off from the rest of the world.

Locals say the lava is from the Hawaiian volcano goddess, Pele.

A retired woman named Jamila Dandini said Pele is gentle, but she just doesn't stop.

"She is just slow and steady," Dandini said.

Dandini had stopped in a coffee shop down the road from where scientists say the lava will likely cross.

Last month, scientists said the lava flow was two weeks away from hitting the main road in Pahoa.

People are worried it will be tough to get out of the small town when it does.

The lava has moved slower and slower but has continued to move in the same direction toward Pahoa.

Late on Wednesday, it was about 225 yards away from Pahoa Village Road.

It was traveling about 5 to 10 yards an hour.

The slow pace has given people time to get out of the way.

Still, people are unsure.

Many who are not in the lava's path worry it will change direction and head for them.

Others are trying to figure out how they'll make do once the lava blocks the town's only roads.

The waiting is hard to take for some.

"It speeds up, it slows down.

It speeds up, it slows down," said Paul Utes, who owns the Black Rock Cafe.

"It's not like any other event where it comes and goes and it gets over with and you can move on."

Utes' restaurant sits just a few hundred yards south of where the lava will likely cross the main road.

So far, it's not in the flow's predicted path.

However, Utes worries this could change.

Even if the cafe is spared, he doesn't know how supplies will reach his restaurant and if customers will still come.

For the time being, business is up.

More people have been streaming into town, hoping to get a glimpse of the lava.

Still, the worrying is getting hard to deal with, Utes said.

The lava is already changing daily life in Pahoa.

For example, the county bus no longer passes through the main street.

Dandini has to walk into town from where the bus drops her off.

Once the lava crosses the main roads many people in Pahoa will be cut off.

They won't be able to get to the area's only supermarket.

Some businesses are closing or moving.

Others are vowing to stay.

Dandini fears that Pahoa will become like "an island on an island."

She predicted people will work together to solve their problems.

She said some people have been talking about joining together to make big supply runs to Hilo.

Though Hilo is the nearest city, it could take hours to get to once Pahoa's main roads are cut off.

So far, the lava has burned only a few things: a garden shed, tires and some metal materials.

However, dozens of homes and business are near the lava.

The number of buildings in danger could increase as the flow front widens.

Erbin Gamurot, a 48-year-old handyman, said he knows why the lava is coming.

Pele just wants to visit her sister, Namakaokahai, the sea goddess.

"She's doing what she gotta do.

That's her way, that's her nature.

Who can stop her?"

he asked.

