Lava flowing from the Hawaiian volcano Kilauea destroyed many buildings in Kalapana 25 years ago.

Aku Hauanio's father's house was one of them.

The volcano is threatening homes once again, including the one he now lives in.

A red trail of fiery cinders from the lava cuts a path to the ocean through a rock-hard kind of lava.

The hard lava is called "pahoehoe."

Fern plants grow in deep cracks in the lava.

Coconuts brought by visitors have sprouted, but they struggle to grow in the hard ground.

Waves crash against the sand.

Hauanio said that before the volcano erupted, this beach town on the east end of Hawaii's Big Island was one of the most beautiful places on the island.

"So beautiful it's hard to explain," he says.

"Everything was like plentiful down here.

Fish, fruits, everything."

In 1991, he watched the lava burn and destroy the house where he was born and raised.

His father owned the home when the lava flowed slowly to the coast.

The lava flow entered the house through the back.

It took down the water tank and set the small house on fire.

The U.S. Geological Survey documented the eruption of Kilauea.

It tracked the lava's fierce path through 180 homes in Kalapana: "Slow-moving pahoehoe lava gradually spread through the community," the agency reported, "burning homes and covering parks, roads and gardens."

A generation later and 12 miles up the road lies Pahoa, the latest target of the lava from Kilauea.

An oozing, burning flow has been making its way from the volcano toward the small town since June.

The lava claimed its first home on Nov. 10 and has threatened to cut the community in two pieces.

The lava moves forward for a few days, then stays put for weeks.

Many wonder what to do.

Hauanio and others still living down the road in Kalapana already know the answer.

They wait, watch, then move.

When his father's house was burned by the lava that night in 1991, Hauanio, 62, a former Hawaii Volcanoes National Park employee, remembers being amazed and shocked.

"We just was like, 'Wow.'

And then we went home," he said.

Much of the town already was covered with hardened lava, black and looking like the surface of the moon.

Still, Hauanio was determined to stay.

His own house was safe for a time.

But Hauanio knew that it would be next to go.

His children didn't agree.

They begged him to move the house to a safer area.

Months earlier, church-goers moved a nearby Catholic church.

Hauanio hired a crew with a trailer.

A week after his childhood home burned, he rolled his current house 2 miles up the road.

The lava came the next day.

Lava, he said, "flows like water, but it's not.

Everything's burning.

There's a lot of crackling."

You do not hear lava bubbles popping, he said.

"But you can see 'em.

It's just like a big pond."

Kalapana was once home to a famous black sand beach and a historic Hawaiian village.

It is now a perfect example of pahoehoe.

There are two main kinds of lava.

One is called pahoehoe and the other is called aa.

Janet Babb studies the rocks, liquid and other things that make up the Earth.

She said aa is spiky and crumbly.

It can be found high on the slope above Kalapana.

The pahoehoe that covers the beach here could be shown in a natural history museum.

There are many types, Babb said — "ropy, wrinkled, billowy, slabby, sticky, glassy."

Most types of lava are found on the Big Island of Hawaii.

Today, Kapalana is lovely in its own way, Hauaino said.

He thinks about the on-again, off-again threat to Pahoa.

If you live in Pahoa, he said, you always have to be ready to move.

"The whole island is made out of lava, yeah?"

he said.

"You cannot do anything.

You cannot cry.

When the lava comes, you just gotta take what's important to you and just move out of the way."

