On a cloudy Monday afternoon, Aku Hauanio sits on a picnic table in front of his Uncle Robert's house.

It is one of the few structures in town spared 25 years ago by Kilauea, one of the most active volcanoes in the world.

A red trail of cinder leads from the heart of this small community through a plain of billowing, rock-hard pahoehoe lava to the ocean.

Ferns grow in deep crevasses while coconuts brought by visitors have sprouted and struggle to grow in the inhospitable ground.

Waves crash against the shore.

Hauaino remembers his green, pre-volcano beach town on the east end of the Island of Hawaii as "just one of the beautifulest places on the island.

So beautiful it's hard to explain.

Everything was like plentiful down here.

Fish, fruits, everything.

Not much people, just a couple Hawaiian families lived down here."

He often refers to the lava flow as "da ting," like when he says, "Da ting just came down all over here."

He watched the lava in 1991 as it devoured the house where he was born and raised and where his father still lived when the lava made its gradual way to the coast.

He remembers watching at 2 o'clock in the morning as the molten flow entered the house through the back, took down the water tank and set the modest structure ablaze.

The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) documented the eruption of Kilauea and the lava's fierce path through 180 homes in Kalapana, saying "Slow-moving pahoehoe lava gradually spread through the community" and "burning homes and covering parks, roads and gardens."

A generation later and 12 miles up the road lies Pahoa, in whose general direction Kilauea has now directed its molten wrath.

An oozing, burning cloud of smoke has been advancing toward the town from the volcano since June, claiming its first home on Nov. 10 and threatening to cut the unique community of 950 residents into two pieces.

The lava moves in fits and starts, advancing for a few days, then stalling for weeks.

Pahoa's supermarket and drugstore shut down in December when it seemed the flow was nearing, though the lava then stopped, the drugstore reopened and other retailers are preparing to do the same.

While many wonder what the Hawaiians should do, Hauanio and others still living down the road in Kalapana already know the answer.

They'll wait, watch, then move.

When his father's house was burned by the lava that night in 1991, 62-year-old Hauanio, a former Hawaii Volcanoes National Park employee, remembers watching in stunned amazement with his former wife.

"We just was like, 'Wow.'

And then we went home," he said.

Much of the town already was a crisp, black moonscape of hardened lava, but Hauanio was determined to stay.

His own house was safe for the moment, but Hauanio already knew that it would be the next house to be covered by the lava.

His children, however, were not and they begged him to move the structure to secure ground, the way community members had relocated the nearby Star of the Sea Catholic church months earlier.

He persuaded a friend with a bulldozer to widen the narrow approach to his threatened house and hired a crew with a strong lowboy trailer.

A week after his childhood home burned, he rolled his current house 2 miles up the road.

The next day, the lava had arrived.

He said the lava "flows like water, but it's not.

Everything's burning.

There's a lot of crackling.

You no can hear bubbles (of lava) popping, but you can see 'em.

It's just like a big pond."

Kalapana was once home to a famous black sand beach and a historic Hawaiian village.

It is now a perfect geological example of pahoehoe.

There are two main kinds of lava: pahoehoe and aa.

Aa, said Janet Babb, a geologist with the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, is "jagged and rubbly" and can be found high on the slope above Kalapana.

The lava that covers the beach here is an outdoor pahoehoe exhibit worthy of a natural history museum.

There are many different kinds of lava, Babb said — "ropy, wrinkled, billowy, slabby, sticky, glassy" — and most all of them are to be found on the southeast edge of the Big Island.

There are vast lengths of perfectly twisted lava ropes, shiny swirls with an angry beauty.

The ropes are formed when the lava's crust begins to harden but molten rock below is still moving.

This pushes the solidifying top into wrinkles, much like a spatula pushing scrambled eggs in a pan.

Today, Kapalana is lovely in its own way, said Hauaino, who still lives in the house he rescued from the flow 25 years ago.

When he thinks about the on-again, off-again threat to Pahoa, he is philosophical.

If you live in Pahoa, he said, you always have to be ready to move.

"The whole island is made out of lava, yeah?"

he said.

"You cannot do anything.

You cannot cry.

When the lava comes, you just gotta take what's important to you and just move out of the way."

