Pele, the Hawaiian volcano goddess, is on the move, slowly but surely.

As she travels, she is depositing lava across the Big Island of Hawaii.

Since June, lava from a vent at Kilauea volcano has been sliding northeast toward the ocean.

People in the small town lying in its path say the lava will reshape the community yard by yard.

A retired woman name Jamila Dandini said Pele is "so gentle, but so unrelenting — she is just slow and steady."

Dandini had stopped at a coffee shop down the road from where scientists have forecast the lava will likely cross.

Last month, scientists said the lava flow was two weeks away from hitting the main road in Pahoa, a small town in the Puna region with about 950 residents.

The lava slowed but has largely remained on course.

Late Wednesday, it was about 225 yards away from Pahoa Village Road, which goes through the commercial center of the Big Island's rural, mostly agricultural Puna district.

It was traveling about 5 to 10 yards an hour.

The slow pace has given residents time to pack their valuables and get out of the way.

However, it's been agonizing for those wondering whether the lava might change direction and head for them.

It's been stressful as well for those trying to figure out how they will cope once the lava blocks the town's only roads.

"It's like slow torture — it speeds up, it slows down.

It speeds up, it slows down," said Paul Utes, who owns the Black Rock Cafe.

"It's not like any other event where it comes and goes and it gets over with and you can move on."

Utes' restaurant is not in the predicted path, though it's just a few hundred yards south of where the lava will likely cross the main road.

However, he worries this could change.

Even if the cafe is spared, he doesn't know how traffic will be diverted once the flow crosses the road, how supplies will reach his restaurant and what his customers will do.

For the time being, business is up because more locals and tourists have been streaming into town hoping to get a glimpse of the molten rock.

"The anxiety building up is kind of hard to deal with," Utes said.

The lava has already brought changes that are beginning to have an effect on daily life in Pahoa.

The county bus no longer passes through the main street lined with wood buildings dating to the town's heyday as a lumber- and sugar-plantation town.

So Dandini has to walk into town from where the bus drops her off on the outskirts.

Once the lava crosses the main road and the bypass road it will effectively slice Pahoa in half.

Most residents won't be able to get to the area's only supermarket, though it's just a mile from the town center.

Puna will be cut off even more if the lava makes it all the way to the ocean, some 6 miles away.

Some businesses are closing or moving, while others are vowing to stay.

Dandini likened the coming isolation to being on "an island on an island."

She predicted it would be an opportunity for people to work together to solve their problems.

Some residents, she said, have been discussing pooling their resources for supply runs to Hilo, the nearest city, because it could take hours to get there once Pahoa's main roads are cut off.

So far, lava has burned a garden shed, tires and some metal materials.

Dozens of homes, business and other structures are near the lava, and that number could increase as the flow front widens.

Erbin Gamurot, 48, a handyman, said Pele just wants to visit her sister, Namakaokahai, the sea goddess.

"She's doing what she gotta do — that's her way, that's her nature.

Who can stop her?"

he asked.

