In June, lava started pouring out of a Hawaiian volcano.

Lava is melted rock from deep below the Earth's surface.

The burning hot lava has been moving slowly from the volcano toward the ocean.

Locals call the lava "Pele."

She is the Hawaiian volcano goddess.

They say she is moving through the Big Island of Hawaii.

While Pele is a myth, the lava is very real.

People in the small town of Pahoa are worried.

The town is home to about 950 people.

The lava is moving closer and closer to their homes and shops.

Jamila Dandini lives in Pahoa.

She says Pele is gentle but she doesn't stop.

In two weeks, the lava will be at Pahoa's main road.

Once the lava crosses the main roads many people in Pahoa will have big problems.

The roads will no longer be usable.

There will be no way to get to the area's only supermarket.

The lava has slowed down but keeps moving toward Pahoa.

The slow pace has given people time to get out of the way.

Still, people are not sure about whether to leave.

Many who are not in the lava's path worry it will change direction and head for them.

Others are trying to figure out what they'll do once the lava blocks the town's roads.

The waiting is hard to take for some.

"It speeds up, it slows down.

It speeds up, it slows down," said Paul Utes, who owns a restaurant.

"It's not like any other event where it comes and goes and it gets over with and you can move on."

Utes' restaurant is very near to where the lava will likely cross the main road.

So far, scientists say it is safe from the lava.

Even if the building is spared, Utes could have big problems anyhow.

He doesn't know how supplies will reach his restaurant.

He doesn't know if customers will still come.

For now, Utes has a lot of customers.

More people have been coming to town hoping to see the lava.

The lava is already changing daily life in Pahoa.

The bus doesn't pass through the main street.

Dandini has to walk into town from where the bus drops her off.

Some businesses are closing or moving.

Others say they'll stay.

Dandini fears that Pahoa will become very cut off from the rest of the world.

Pahoa will be like "an island on an island," she said.

She says people will help one another.

She said they may join together to get supplies from the nearest city.

It will take hours to reach to city once the lava blocks the main roads.

So far, the lava has burned only a few objects and a shed.

Still, dozens of homes and businesses are nearby.

More buildings could be in danger.

