Many homeless people move from colder states to Hawaii where it is warm and they can sleep on the beach.

David Ige is the governor of Hawaii.

He says it has become a big problem.

There are too many homeless people in Hawaii.

Ige has declared an emergency.

He says the state must help the homeless.

Ige's emergency declaration will help the state government to quickly build a homeless shelter for families.

The governor's announcement came just days after officials cleared one of the nation's largest homeless camps.

As many as 300 people were living in tents.

Workers took down the camp.

The workers helped 125 people find housing, including 25 families.

Some people rode buses to homeless shelters.

Others moved into longer-term houses, Ige said.

"They are definitely off the streets and in a better situation," he added.

Yet many people still need homes.

There is especially not enough houses for families.

There are 7,260 homeless people living in Hawaii.

It has the highest rate of homelessness of any state in the United States.

Scott Morishige is the state homelessness coordinator in Hawaii.

The number of families without a home almost doubled in the past year, he said.

The state will spend $1.3 million to help homeless people, Morishige said.

The money will pay for the new shelter.

It will pay for another program called Housing First.

The program provides homes and services to people who have been homeless more than once.

The money will also help families pay rent.

Meanwhile, workers are putting up a new homeless shelter.

This short-term shelter is located on Sand Island.

The rooms have just enough space for two people.

Each room will be just as big or bigger than a tent.

The rooms were made from shipping containers.

Each large rectangular container has a window and a screen door.

People will be able to sit outside under a shady spot, said Russ Wozniak.

He is an architect and an engineer with Group 70.

His company helped designed the shelter.

The units will not have air conditioning.

However, a special coating on the outside will help the inside stay cool.

Nearby will be a trailer that holds five bathrooms.

Each has a toilet and shower.

The shelter will be finished in December.

It will house up to 87 people at a time until they find permanent homes.

