On a cloudy Monday afternoon, Aku Hauanio is seated on a picnic table in front of his Uncle Robert's house.

The home is one of the few structures in the beach town that was spared 25 years ago by Kilauea, one of the most active volcanoes in the world.

A red trail of cinders from the fiery lava leads from the heart of this small area through a plain of billowing, rock-hard pahoehoe lava to the ocean.

Ferns grow in deep crevasses.

Coconuts brought by visitors have sprouted and struggle to grow in the inhospitable ground.

Waves crash against the shore.

Hauanio remembers his green, pre-volcano beach town on the east end of the Island of Hawaii as "just one of the beautifulest places on the island.

So beautiful it's hard to explain.

Everything was like plentiful down here.

Fish, fruits, everything.

Not much people, just a couple Hawaiian families lived down here."

He often refers to the lava flow as "da ting," as in, "Da ting just came down all over here."

He watched it in 1991 as it slowly devoured the house where he was born and raised.

His father still lived there when the lava made its way to the coast.

He remembers watching at 2 o'clock in the morning as the lava flow entered the house through the back.

It took down the water tank and set the modest structure on fire.

The U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) documented the eruption of Kilauea and the lava's fierce path through 180 homes in Kalapana: "Slow-moving pahoehoe lava gradually spread through the community," the agency reported, "burning homes and covering parks, roads and gardens."

Now, 25 years later and 12 miles up the road lies Pahoa.

Lava from the volcano Kilauea has put the small town in its molten path.

An oozing, burning cloud of smoke has been advancing toward the town of 950 residents since June.

The lava claimed its first home on Nov. 10 and threatened to cut the area in half.

The lava flow moves in fits and starts, moving for a few days, then pausing for weeks.

Pahoa's supermarket and drugstore shut down in December when it seemed the flow was nearing, but then it stopped and the drugstore reopened.

Other retailers are preparing to do the same.

As many wonder what to do, Hauanio and others still living down the road in Kalapana already know the answer.

They will wait, watch, then move.

When his father's house was burned by the lava that night in 1991, 62-year-old Hauanio, a former Hawaii Volcanoes National Park employee, remembers watching in shock and amazement with his former wife.

Much of the town already was covered with black, hardened lava.

It looked like the rough, gray surface of the moon.

Still, Hauanio was determined to stay.

His own house was safe for now, but Hauanio knew that it would be next to go.

His children begged him to move the structure to a safe area.

Only months earlier, community members had moved a nearby Catholic church.

Hauanio hired a crew with a bulldozer and a strong trailer and a week after his childhood home burned, he rolled his current house 2 miles up the road.

The lava arrived the next day.

The lava, he said, "flows like water, but it's not.

Everything's burning.

There's a lot of crackling.

You no can hear bubbles (of lava) popping, but you can see 'em.

It's just like a big pond."

Kalapana was once home to a famous black sand beach and a historic Hawaiian village.

It is now a perfect geological example of pahoehoe.

There are two main kinds of lava: pahoehoe and aa.

Janet Babb, a geologist with the USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory, said aa is "jagged and rubbly" and can be found high on the slope above Kalapana.

The lava that covers the beach here is an outdoor pahoehoe exhibit worthy of a natural history museum.

There are many types of lava, Babb said — "ropy, wrinkled, billowy, slabby, sticky, glassy."

Most all of them are to be found on the southeast edge of the Big Island of Hawaii.

Today, Kapalana is lovely in its own way, said Hauaino, who still lives in the house he rescued from the flow 25 years ago.

He thinks about the on-again, off-again threat to Pahoa.

If you live in Pahoa, he said, you always have to be ready to move.

"The whole island is made out of lava, yeah?"

he said.

"You cannot do anything.

You cannot cry.

When the lava comes, you just gotta take what's important to you and just move out of the way."

