This week, Leilah Abdennabi joined her friend at a cafe in Austin, Texas.

When she got inside, her friend was crying.

Her friend, Sirat Al-Nahi, said that an elderly white man had harassed her.

He had suggested that Abdennabi did not know how to drive.

He also said she should go back to a country in the Middle East called Saudi Arabia.

Both women are American.

They practice a religion called Islam.

Followers of Islam are called Muslims.

Some Muslim women wear headscarves.

They wear it for religious reasons.

Al-Nahi, a college student, had not expected to be harassed.

People in Austin are usually respectful of different religions.

Abdennabi asked to speak to someone in charge at the cafe.

The manager said there was nothing she could do.

Abdennabi asked the elderly white man to repeat what he had said.

He told her to go away.

Abdennabi told the Los Angeles Times that nobody did or said anything.

She told the people at the cafe that the man had said racist things to her friend.

She said, "Who cares about us?"

Someone at the cafe shouted, "Nobody."

It is easy to know if a woman is Muslim if she wears a headscarf.

This makes Muslim women easy targets.

Some people do not like Muslims.

It is easy to pick on a Muslim woman because she is wearing a headscarf.  Many women wearing headscarves have been harassed lately.

Men often pick on Muslim women.

It has happened all over the country.

A driver tried to run over a Muslim woman in Ohio.

A student in California said that a man pulled on her headscarf and yelled at her.

Some Muslim women are afraid of being harassed.

Some women in the United States have stopped wearing headscarves.  Sahar Aziz is a professor in Texas.

She has worn a headscarf for four years. She said that wearing a headscarf or not is a woman's choice.

Aziz said that different women have different beliefs and may make different choices.

Abdennabi is Palestinian-American.

She has worn a headscarf for six years.

She knows some women who are choosing not to wear a headscarf.

Abdennabi chooses to keep wearing her headscarf. She said that she wants people to know that she is a Muslim.

She said that if she is harassed, she will share the story on the Internet.

