Deborah Pontius lives in a small town in Nevada called Lovelock.

She is chief nurse for her school district's 600 students.

Over the years, she has come to know a certain problem very well: head lice.

Head lice are grayish-white, wingless insects that live their whole lives on people's heads.

They feed on blood and attach their eggs to hair.

Fortunately, they do not carry disease — but they do cause terrible itching.

For years, checking for lice eggs was part of Pontius' job.

Sometimes she had to pick live lice out of students' hair.

But something bigger bugged Pontius: the fact that schools sent children with head lice home.

Pontius saw students with head lice miss weeks of school.

And getting permission to return to class was difficult: Students could not come back until parents proved that not a single bug remained on their child's head.

Sure, lice are "icky," Pontius thought.

But was there really a good reason to keep kids out of school?

To find out, Pontius contacted experts.

She talked to doctors who treat children.

She got in touch with the government's experts on disease outbreaks.

She also interviewed families of students with lice.

It turned out that in most cases the students had not gotten the bugs while in the classroom.

And lice do not fly or jump.

For lice to spread, kids would have to be touching.

So maybe students being treated for lice could remain in class.

They would not really be a risk to others.

Pontius got the district to change its rules.

Since then, many more school districts have done the same.

But Pontius and others she worked with know the battle isn't over.

"We know people will overreact," said Sheila Story, the chief nurse for the Carson City School District.

"Head lice just gets everyone overexcited."

Even in Lovelock, the new rules have some people upset.

"The best I can hope" for is that people realize it "isn't worth taking a child from school," Pontius said.

"What people really want," she added, "is for the lice to go away.

That's not going to happen."

Each year up to 12 million U.S. children under 12 get head lice.

The bugs spread when kids are close together.

For example, they can crawl among children during sleepovers or play groups.

When a child is infected, Pontius calls the parents.

She recommends chemical treatments.

She also gives out a fact sheet.

This is jokingly called "Lice 101: Everything You Really Didn't Want to Know About Lice."

Humor, she says, helps people calm down.

People get worked up over lice.

But Pontius has not been able to get rid of one idea: that head lice are a sign of bad parenting.

"Many mistakenly see the bugs as signs of a dirty home," she said.

Shea Murphy is principal at Lovelock Elementary School.

She at first opposed Pontius' plan.

But Murphy has since changed her mind.

"We've taken the hysteria out of head lice," she said.

Some are still against the plan, though.

Lovelock teacher Dana Montes calls lice a classroom nightmare.

"One girl, all she did was sit there picking out the lice and putting them on the desk."

Montes thinks the bugs move among hats and coats on racks.

Or among students working close together.

That's how she got a case of head lice from a student six years ago: "I leaned over her at the reading table and saw lice in her hair.

Then one dropped onto the desk.

By then it was too late."

