Pharrell Williams looked good in his photo.

It was taken from the side while he was wearing a Native American war bonnet.

But Williams, singer of the hit song "Happy," is not Native American.

Not as far as anyone knew.

The picture appeared on the July cover of fashion magazine Elle UK.

As soon as it came out, people started talking about it on social media.

They were angry.

Williams quickly apologized.

"I respect and honor every kind of race, background and culture," he said.

"I am genuinely sorry."

Headdresses have a lot of meaning for Native Americans.

But lately people who are not Native American have been playing dress-up in them.

This has restarted an argument about whether taking things from other cultures is right or wrong.

Vincent Schilling is a Native American journalist.

He points out that Native Americans have a strong, brave voice on social media.

"Our presence is making change."

For years, "the only voice we had was to go out and hold up a sign and say we're frustrated.

But now, for the first time, the native voice is being heard on social media."

Schilling is Akwesasne Mohawk.

He saw many examples of headdresses being used in the wrong way.

So he made a YouTube video last fall.

The video shows examples of people and clothing stores using Native American clothing in disrespectful ways.

Schilling begins: "What we're seeing now is ... what people are calling native hipsters.

And seeing these young people in headdresses and poetic fashionable poses … it's really upsetting a lot of people."

Schilling said, "It's not like I'm mad at these people.

It's just that it hurts.

I feel physical pain in my heart when I see these things."

The feathered war bonnet is the headdress Williams was wearing.

It is what many people typically think of when they think of Native Americans.

The war bonnets are worn mostly by Northern and Southern Plains tribes.

Native people make the bonnet by hand.

They use eagle feathers.

Such headdresses can be seen every year at the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation's powwow.

Hundreds of Native American dancers and drummers from across the country travel to northeast Kansas for the event.

The dancers' colorful dress creates a thrilling scene.

The leatherwork, beading and quillwork of their clothing is all done by hand.

Some of their custom headdresses are worth thousands of dollars.

Dennis Zotigh works at the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington.

The war bonnet was their symbol of power, he said.

"Each of those feathers was earned and shows their position of leadership," Zotigh said.

"So not everybody had the right to wear these.

And they were only worn for special occasions."

Tom Spotted Horse sometimes sees a Native American wearing a war bonnet.

"That tells me this person has met" the requirements that mean they deserve it, he said.

Spotted Horse said his great-great grandfather was buried with his war bonnet.

It's like "the modern warrior who earns a medal for their service during wartime," Zotigh said.

Imagine someone who was wearing a war bonnet without earning it.

That would be the exact same thing as someone wearing a Medal of Honor who did not earn it, he said.

Dana Warrington is a 34-year-old dancer from Keshena, Wisconson.

He is half Potawatomi, half Menominee.

Warrington does not think it is right for nonnatives to wear headdresses.

But he tends to give artists like Williams and others a pass.

"I don't think they do it in such a disrespectful way," said Warrington.

"I don't think they do it with that [meaning]."

Spotted Horse does not get worked up either over things like the Williams flub.

That's because he has seen it before and thinks it will keep happening.

"To me, when a nonnative or whoever is wearing them, I know in my heart they're not real war bonnets.

They're the ones you can buy for $300 and $400," he said.

So he looks at the situation as almost funny.

"Let's face it," he said.

"As Native Americans we are living in a (white) society, a society dominated by nonnatives, and it's going to be like that for a long time."

He just thinks nonnatives in headdresses look silly.

