Singer Pharrell Williams looked stunning in his photo.

He was shot from the side wearing a proud Native American war bonnet.

But Williams is not, as far as anyone knew, Native American.

The picture appeared on the July cover of fashion magazine Elle UK June 5.

The angry backlash on social media followed soon after.

Critics on Twitter used the hashtag "#NotHappy," a joke about Williams' hit single, "Happy".

Williams quickly apologized.

"I respect and honor every kind of race, background and culture," he said.

"I am genuinely sorry."

Headdresses have deep meaning for Native Americans.

But lately a lot of people who aren't Native have been playing dress-up in them.

This has brought back a subject that has been argued for a long time.

Is it right to take things from other cultures and use them however you want?

While they are only 2 percent of the U.S. population, Native Americans have a strong and bold presence on social media, Vincent Schilling explained.

Schilling is a Native American journalist.

"Our presence is making change."

For years, "the only voice we had was to go out and hold up a sign and say we're frustrated.

But now, for the first time, the native voice is being heard on social media."

Now, when people use Native American culture in hurtful ways, the news spreads far and wide.

In June, headdresses made headlines during a San Francisco Giants baseball game.

Security guards stepped in after a Native American man and woman approached a group of nonnative men.

The men had brought a fake, plastic headdress to the game.

The incident got attention both in online discussions and in the news.

Soon, the Giants changed their list of what can get fans thrown out of the stadium.

The Giants added "culturally insensitive" clothing to hurtful language and abusive behavior.

And Native American activists say a music festival in Canada took a historic step.

It banned people from wearing feathered headdresses at the concerts.

Schilling is Akwesasne Mohawk.

He saw so many examples of headdresses being used in a disrespectful way that he made a YouTube video last fall.

The video is called "What Is Native American Misappropriation?"

Schilling begins: "What we're seeing now is ... what people are calling native hipsters.

And seeing these young people in headdresses and poetic fashionable poses … it's really upsetting a lot of people."

He adds, "It's not like I'm mad at these people.

It's just that it hurts.

I feel physical pain in my heart when I see these things."

The feathered war bonnet is the headdress Williams was wearing.

It is what many people typically think of when they think of Native Americans.

The war bonnets are worn mostly by Northern and Southern Plains tribes.

Native people make the crown by hand.

They use feathers from eagles.

Such headdresses can be seen at the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation's yearly powwow.

Every summer hundreds of Native American dancers and drummers from across the country travel to northeast Kansas for the event.

The dancers' colorful costumes create a breathtaking scene.

The leatherwork, beading and quillwork of their clothing is all done by hand.

Some of their custom headdresses are worth thousands of dollars.

Dennis Zotigh works at the National Museum of the American Indian in Washington.

The war bonnet was their symbol of leadership, he said.

"Each of those feathers was earned and shows their position of leadership," Zotigh said.

"So not everybody had the right to wear these.

And they were only worn for special occasions."

Tom Spotted Horse sometimes sees a Native American wearing a war bonnet.

"That tells me this person has met a specific level of distinction," he said.

Spotted Horse said his great-great grandfather was buried with his war bonnet.

It's like "the modern warrior who earns a medal for their service during wartime," Zotigh said.

"For a person to wear a war bonnet who didn't earn it would be the exact same thing as somebody wearing a Medal of Honor who did not earn it."

Dana Warrington, a 34-year-old dancer from Keshena, Wisconsin, who is half Potawatomi, half Menominee, does not think it's right for nonnatives to wear headdresses.

But he tends to give artists like Williams and others a pass.

"I don't think they do it in such a disrespectful way," said Warrington.

"I don't think they do it with that intention."

Spotted Horse doesn't get worked up either over by what happened with Williams.

He said he's seen it before and believes it will keep happening.

"To me, when a nonnative or whoever is wearing them, I know in my heart they're not real war bonnets.

They're the ones you can buy for $300 and $400," he said.

So he looks at the situation as almost funny.

"Let's face it," he said.

"As Native Americans we are living in a dominant society, a society dominated by nonnatives, and it's going to be like that for a long time."

He just thinks nonnatives in headdresses look silly.

