Kyarra Garrett is in her last year at Jones High School in Orlando, Florida.

She is in a special program for health sciences.

She is learning how to take blood pressure and perform CPR to save a person's life.

She is also learning how to care for patients.

"In the beginning it's rough," Garrett said.

"In the end it all pays off because you can see all you learned and teach others."

The U.S. needs more doctors, nurses and pharmacists.

Some high schools, like Jones, are preparing students for these kind of jobs.

Hundreds of students are already in these special programs.

More and more students are joining them.

Next year, the Lake County school district in Florida will open its first health-sciences academy.

It has space for 100 students.

The programs show what a job in health care is really like.

Many TV shows, for instance, do not give a real view.

They mostly feature doctors.

They do not show the many other jobs people do.

These include repairing medical equipment or taking X-rays.

The special programs offer hands-on experiences to students.

They can follow health workers who rush to emergencies.

They can practice stitching up chicken legs.

They can also help out at hospitals.

At Jones High, students were paired with medical students at the University of Central Florida (UCF).

They spend three years learning from them.

"They see it as a place where they can get a job," said Lisa Barkley.

She is with the UCF College of Medicine.

"There's so many different things you can do in health."

Because of Jones High's program, Garrett has decided to be a doctor.

She said the classes are difficult.

That just makes her want to work harder.

"It's very stressful trying to learn everything at one time," said Garrett.

At times, she thought about quitting.

However, she decided, "No, I have so many people depending on me."

The teenager said she will stick with it, because doctors make a good salary.

Doctors can earn more than $200,000 a year.

In the end, Garrett might decide to do something else.

However, she should still be able to find a job in health care.

There are plenty of job openings now and more every year.

Hospitals are hiring the best students.

Paul Johns is with South Lake Hospital in Clermont, Florida.

He said the high school health-sciences programs are important.

There is a big need for people to work in health care.

The programs give students the skills to get these new jobs, he said.

Students get time in school to study for exams for licenses.

If they pass, they can work as technicians and medical assistants right after high school.

Some programs allow students to earn an associate degree.

It lets them skip community college and saves them money.

Students still can study something else if they change their minds.

No one expects teens to have made all their decisions yet, said Barkley of UCF.

