Brian Boone is practicing his silly voice.

The soldier lost part of his leg while serving in Afghanistan.

"Good boy," Boone says to Brindle, a highly trained service dog.

Service dogs are trained to help people living with physical and other needs.

Sarah Koch is Brindle's trainer.

She suggests to Boone that he sound a little sillier.

"I want you to get a little silly with your praise," she says.

Boone tries again.

"Goooooood booooooooy," Boone coos.

Brindle, a 2-year-old Labrador-golden retriever mix, looks up gently at his new master.

The dog seems pretty pleased with himself.

Brindle and Boone were united through an unusual new partnership.

It is between a California service-dog group and a Texas health care company.

Canine Companions for Independence will train the service dogs.

It usually costs $50,000 to train each service dog.

The health care company, Baylor Scott and White Health, will find patients who could be helped by a service dog.

The company will also provide the money to train the dogs and their new owners.

The partners will build a special training center in Texas.

The center will have six rooms and space for 24 dogs.

There's a need for service dogs among patients, says Joel Allison.

He is the head of Baylor Scott and White Health.

"We think of it as part of our commitment to serve and meet the needs of all the patients that we serve."

More than 25,000 Americans use service dogs.

Some service dogs can sense when their owners are about to fall and protect them.

Other dogs help people who have trouble seeing.

Canine Companions trains dogs to pull wheelchairs.

It also trains them to pick up keys from the floor and tug off clothes.

Boone was one of four Texans who were matched with a service dog this week.

The partnership hopes to match 60 people next summer.

He was joined by Stacey Odom, Melanie Knecht and Mackenzie Dunckelman.

Mackenzie is 13.

Odom is a special-education teacher.

She hopes the dog will help her work with autistic students.

Boone is thrilled with his dog.

Back pain makes it difficult for Boone to pick things up.

He hopes Brindle will be able to fetch things for him.

Boone was injured in 2011.

He was an Army officer in charge of disarming bombs.

That makes them harmless so they will not explode.

A bomb destroyed his left leg and his shoulders.

Boone was unable to use his right arm for a year.

Months of therapy helped him get some of his strength back.

He hopes that working with Brindle will make him even stronger.

Only four out of 10 of the dogs raised by Canine Companions finish the training program.

The training program lasts nine months.

The service dogs are taught at least 40 commands.

The ones that make it to Texas are the best of the best.

"Illia.

Down.

Don't!

Down.

Good girl!"

Stacey Odom, the special education teacher, says to Illia, a shiny black dog.

"I just want to cuddle her," Odom says.

The teacher fights the urge to snuggle.

Instead, she asks Illia to obey a second command.

Illia doess and eagerly sits on the schoolteacher's foot.

Odom and Boone waited more than seven months to start training.

More than 100 people ask to join the program each month, says Simi Balter.

She is a Canine Companions program manager.

"We get to witness small miracles," Balter says.

She remembers a boy with learning problems who never spoke before.

He said his first word to a service dog.

Boone isn't asking for a miracle.

He just hopes the dog will lift his spirits.

"Dogs are very soothing," he says.

"Especially these calm dogs.

Just being around them brings your spirit up.

That's hard to beat."

