President Barack Obama's health care law has been fought over from the start.

It has survived the Supreme Court, a battle for the White House and rounds of budget standoffs.

Now the American people get to see how it works.

Health insurance markets open Tuesday around the country.

A fight over the health care law could cause parts of the government to close Tuesday morning.

But the main pieces of Obamacare will still go live as scheduled.

There's been a lot of squabbling in Washington over the law.

But people are probably going to care more about how the system actually works than what politicians say about it.

People want to know if they can afford the monthly bill for their insurance and if they will get good care.

They will see if new federal and state websites will really make shopping for health insurance easier.

It may take months to get the full answers.

Expect the rollout to get off to a slow start.

There will be some bumps.

People who don't have health insurance from a job can start shopping right away for private coverage.

Part of the coverage will be paid for by the government through what is called a subsidy.

People can also wait to sign up as late as Dec. 15 and still get coverage by Jan. 1.

Many will probably want to see how it goes for others before they jump in.

Problems are likely to pop up.

Over the weekend, several states were still struggling to get plan information to show up accurately on their websites.

The federal government already announced delays for small business and Spanish-language signups.

A long government shutdown could slow needed technology fixes.

People also could run into problems getting their right subsidy.

Having large families living under one roof could be a problem.

Referrals to state Medicaid programs might go smoothly in some states.

They might not go so well in others.

At the start, "it is going to be very clear that everything can't be done on a computer," said Christine Ferguson.

She runs Rhode Island's marketplace.

But it will get easier as time goes by, she said.

About 50 million people in the country do not have health insurance.

Eventually at least half of them are expected to be covered through the new health care law.

Many will get insurance through private plans sold in the new markets.

Others will be covered by Medicaid as it grows in states that let it for low-income uninsured adults.

Immigrants in the country illegally will be the largest group remaining uninsured.

Starting Jan. 1, virtually all Americans will have have to carry health insurance or face fines.

But employees who lose their jobs, people starting their own businesses and people in between school and work will have an easier time getting coverage.

Also as of Jan. 1, you will be able to get health insurance even if you already have a medical problem.

Republicans oppose increasing the federal role in health care.

That could lead to a partial government shutdown.

But that will not stop what many now call Obamacare.

The program was designed so that major parts are shielded from annual money battles in Congress.

Polls show more people do not like the law than support it.

But a survey released over the weekend found 56 percent of Americans do not approve of cutting off funding to expand coverage for the uninsured.

Congressional Republicans are pressing to do just that.

The poll also found that people are confused about what the law means for them.

Nearly three-fourths of the uninsured were unaware of the new markets opening to serve them.

Under the law, people below the poverty line can only get the new coverage through expanded Medicaid.

And the Supreme Court gave states the right to chose not to.

A person earning $11,490 per year or less lives below the poverty line.

For a family of four, the poverty line is $23,550.

The new private markets are mainly geared to uninsured people in the middle class.

The White House hopes to sign up 7 million the first year.

Young, healthy adults are prime customers.

They'll help offset the cost of caring for sicker people sure to sign up once insurers can no longer say no.

