Republicans and Democrats have fought for years over President Barack Obama's health care law.

Now the American people get to see how it works.

Health insurance markets open around the country Tuesday.

The law is supposed to make sure that practically everybody gets insurance.

It is a big deal.

Going to the hospital or a doctor is very expensive if a person has no insurance.

And insurance itself has been very expensive and hard to get for many.

Health care has not been expanded like this since the 1960s.

That is when Medicare became law.

Medicare is health insurance for older people.

Most people are less interested in what politicians in Washington are saying about the law.

They just want to see how the new system actually works.

People want to know if they can afford the monthly bill on the new plan.

They want to know if they will get good care.

They need to see if new websites will make it easier to shop for health insurance.

It may take months to get the full answers.

Expect things to start slow.

There will be some bumps.

People who don't get health insurance through their job can start shopping right away for private coverage.

Part of the insurance will be paid for by the government.

People can also wait to sign up as late as Dec. 15.

Problems are likely to pop up.

Over the weekend, several states were still struggling to get information to show up correctly on their websites.

The federal government already announced delays for small business and Spanish-language signups.

A long government shutdown could slow needed technology fixes.

There could be other problems, too.

At the start, "it is going to be very clear that everything can't be done on a computer," said Christine Ferguson.

She runs Rhode Island's marketplace.

But it will get easier as time goes by, she said.

About 50 million people in the country do not have health insurance.

The government expects at least half of them will eventually be covered.

Many will get insurance through private plans sold in the new markets.

Others will be covered by Medicaid, a program for poor people.

Medicaid already exists.

It will grow under the health care law, but only in states that let it.

The Supreme Court said states do not have to take more money from Washington to expand Medicaid.

Practically all Americans will have have to carry health insurance on Jan. 1.

They will have to pay a fine if they don't.

But employees who lose their jobs, people starting their own businesses and people in between school and work will have an easier time getting coverage.

Also as of Jan. 1, you will be able to get health insurance even if you are already sick.

Insurance companies have been able to turn down people with health problems in the past.

Republicans do not want the government to get more involved in health care.

Their objection could lead to a government shutdown.

The shutdown could start Tuesday.

But that will not stop what many now call Obamacare.

The program was designed so that major parts are shielded from annual money battles in Congress.

Polls show more people do not like the law than support it.

But a survey released over the weekend found 56 percent of Americans do not approve of cutting off funding to expand coverage for the uninsured.

Congressional Republicans are pressing to do just that.

The poll also found that people are confused about what the law means for them.

Nearly three quarters of the uninsured were unaware of the new markets opening to serve them.

