Kyarra Garrett is not even out of high school.

Already, the Jones High School student is on her way to a career in health care.

There is a great need for doctors, nurses and pharmacists.

High schools like Jones are increasingly preparing students for jobs in this fast-growing field.

While still in school, the students take special classes in medical sciences.

The students learn how to take a person's blood pressure, for instance, and care for patients.

"In the beginning it's rough," Garrett said.

"In the end it all pays off, because you can see all you learned and teach others."

The high school programs offer hands-on experiences to students.

They can follow paramedics who rush to emergencies, stitch up chicken legs and help out at hospitals.

The programs show what a job in health care is really like.

Many TV shows, for instance, mostly show doctors.

They do not look at the people doing other important jobs, such as repairing medical equipment or taking X-rays.

Hundreds of students are already in these high school programs.

More students are joining them.

Next year, the Lake County school district in Florida will open its first health-sciences academy.

It has space for 100 students.

This fall, Jones High School celebrated the success of its 2014 graduates.

In high school, they were paired with medical students from the University of Central Florida (UCF).

The Jones students will learn from the college students over three years.

"They see it as a place where they can get a job," said Lisa Barkley, who is with the UCF College of Medicine.

"There's so many different things you can do in health."

Garrett, the Jones senior, said she plans to go to medical school.

She was inspired because of her school's medical program.

The 18-year-old said the classes are challenging, but that only motivates her to work harder.

"It's very stressful trying to learn everything at one time," said Garrett.

She thought about leaving the program but decided: "No, I have so many people depending on me."

The teenager said doctors make a good living, and that fact has pushed her to stay with it.

Doctors can earn more than $200,000 a year.

Even if Garrett chooses another job in health care, she should still be able to find a job.

There are plenty of job openings now, and there will be even more in the future.

In 2014, there were about two-thirds more health care jobs than in 2013.

That comes to about 108,000 new jobs in just the last year.

Hospitals are supporting efforts to hire the best and brightest students.

Paul Johns is with South Lake Hospital in Clermont, Florida.

He said the programs meet the changing needs of health care.

"You're really trying to help those students understand what it's going to take to be in the work force," Johns said.

He added that these programs give students a better idea of what jobs are out there.

Students are also learning the skills needed to get them.

The programs also offer students the chance to get jobs.

Students get time in school to study for certification exams.

If they pass, they can work as technicians and medical assistants right after graduation.

Some programs allow students to earn a two-year associate degree while they are in high school.

It could save them the cost of going to community college.

If students decide the medical field is not for them, they can still study something else.

No one, said UCF's Barkley, expects teens to have made a final decision yet.

