Kyarra Garrett wants a career in health care — and she's not waiting to start her education.

The Jones High School senior is among a growing number of high-school students entering health-sciences magnet programs, a trend that is ushering them in to one of the fastest-growing career paths in the country.

They help with MRI and CT scans, analyze strains of bacteria and learn bedside manner.

The nation's aging baby-boomer population and ever-increasing access to health care mean doctors, nurses and pharmacists are in greater demand.

School districts are looking to fill that void by offering specialized courses to students who dream of donning a white coat when they grow up.

"In the beginning it's rough, but in the end it all pays off because you can see all you learned and teach others," Garrett said.

The Lake County school district is preparing to join other counties with its first health-sciences academy next year for 100 students.

It will work in partnership with local hospitals, the University of Central Florida and Lake-Sumter State College.

As the need for health care grows, medical magnets are preparing students for the burgeoning industry that has taken root in Central Florida and elsewhere.

The colossal Medical City complex at Lake Nona, a 650-acre health and life-sciences park that has garnered national attention, is expected to create 30,000 jobs and $7.8 billion in annual economic activity by 2017, Orlando Mayor Buddy Dyer has said.

The programs offer hands-on experiences to students who can shadow paramedics during 12-hour shifts, sew sutures into chicken legs and assist at hospitals.

The lessons shatter stereotypes portrayed in TV shows such as "Grey's Anatomy" that limit the medical profession to surgeons, excluding other key areas such as equipment repair and medical imaging, school officials said.

Hundreds of students already have taken advantage of programs, and enrollment continues to grow.

This fall Jones High School celebrated the success of its 2014 graduates, who started college after being paired in a three-year mentoring program with aspiring doctors at UCF.

"They see it as a place where they can get a job," said Lisa Barkley, assistant dean at UCF's  College of Medicine.

"There's so many different things you can do in health — it can meet students with all kinds of different needs.

It's a very versatile field."

Garrett, the Jones senior, said she plans to pursue a degree in medicine after high school because of her time in the medical-arts magnet program.

The 18-year-old said the classes are challenging, but that only motivates her more.

"It's very stressful trying to learn everything at one time," said Garrett, who aspires to be an obstetrics and gynecology physician.

She thought about leaving the program but "I said, 'No, I have so many people depending on me.'"

The teenager, who has learned to take blood pressure and perform CPR, said the fact that knowing that ob-gyns make a good living pushed her to endure the rigorous program.

Various websites indicate that ob-gyns can earn upward of $200,000 a year and more.

Even if Garrett chose a different medical discipline, federal data suggest there are plenty of jobs available and more on the horizon.

In 2014 the nation added about 65 percent more health-care jobs, or 108,000 positions, than the year before, due in part to money pumped into the economy by the Affordable Care Act, experts say.

Local hospitals are supporting efforts to employ the best and brightest students close to home.

Paul Johns, chief operating officer at South Lake Hospital in Clermont, Florida, said the magnet programs cater to the evolving needs of health care, which soon will require more outpatient procedures and physician assistants.

The hospital is a partner in Lake County's new initiative.

"The trend is that you're really trying to help those students understand what it's going to take to be in the work force, whether you're building widgets or doing something in health care," he said.

"We are now broadening the horizon of what is out there and what opportunities are presented to high-school students."

Magnet programs also offer immediate employment prospects to students.

Time carved into the school day lets students prepare for clinical-certification exams, which, if they pass, allows them to work as EKG technicians, nursing technicians and medical assistants upon graduation.

Some programs allow students to simultaneously earn an associate degree, too.

While more students take advantage of the health-sciences programs at increasingly younger ages, they are also able to change course if they decide the medical field isn't for them.

No one expects adolescents to have made all their decisions yet, said Barkley, the UCF dean.

"The double-edge sword is that it could trap kids who don't want to go that way, or they might just be laser-focused in one area, and they need to be well-rounded," Barkley said.

"Parents and students need to make sure they are taking it in broad strokes."

