Kyarra Garrett has learned how to take blood pressure and perform CPR, and she is not even out of high school yet.

Garrett, 18, is a senior at Jones High School in Orlando.

She is among an increasing number of students preparing for a job in health care, one of the fastest growing careers in the country.

Through a special school program, students learn to help with MRI and CT scans — machines that image the body — and analyze bacteria.

They also learn how to talk to patients in a calm and informative manner.

"In the beginning it's rough, but in the end  it all pays off because you can see all you learned and teach others," Garrett said.

The high school programs offer hands-on experiences to students.

They can follow paramedics during 12-hour shifts, stitch up chicken legs and assist at hospitals.

The lessons shatter how people often think about health care.

Many TV shows, such as "Grey's Anatomy," only feature doctors.

The school programs let students know about many other career choices, such as equipment repair and medical imaging jobs such as X-ray and MRI technician, school officials said.

Next year, the Lake County school district will open its first health-sciences academy.

It has space for 100 students.

Hundreds of other students around the country already have taken advantage of these high school programs.

In the Jones High program, students were paired with medical students at the University of Central Florida (UCF) for three years.

"They see it as a place where they can get a job," said Lisa Barkley, assistant dean at UCF's College of Medicine.

"There's so many different things you can do in health."

Garrett, the Jones senior, said she was inspired by her school's program to aspire to medical school.

She said her classes were challenging, but that only motivates her to try harder.

"It's very stressful trying to learn everything at one time," said Garrett.

She said she thought about leaving the program but decided, "No, I have so many people depending on me."

The teenager said the fact that doctors make a good living pushed her to keep with it.

Doctors can earn upward of $200,000 a year.

Even if Garrett chose a different medical field, government numbers suggest there are plenty of job openings right now, and there are even more on the horizon.

In 2014, the nation added about 65 percent more health-care jobs, about 108,000 positions, than in 2013.

The colossal Medical City at Lake Nona, for instance, is expected to create 30,000 jobs.

The campus will house hospitals and research labs.

Experts say the new jobs in health care are due to the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

The federal law made health insurance available to everyone, so more people are seeking out medical care.

In turn, that means more people are needed to care for them.

Local hospitals are supporting efforts to hire the best and brightest students close to home.

Paul Johns helps run the South Lake Hospital in Clermont, Florida.

He said the high school health sciences programs meet the changing needs of health care.

"You're really trying to help those students understand what it's going to take to be in the work force," he said.

"We are now broadening the horizon of what is out there and what opportunities are presented to high-school students."

The programs also offer students the chance to get jobs.

Students are given time during school to study for certification exams.

If they pass, they can work as technicians and medical assistants right after graduation.

Some programs allow students to earn a two-year associate degree while going to high school.

It can save them the time and cost of going to community college.

Students still can study something else if they decide the medical field isn't for them.

No one expects teens to have made all their decisions yet, said Barkley, the UCF dean.

The downside is that these programs can trap kids who end up changing their minds about working in health care, or whose focus is too narrow.

"They need to be well-rounded," Barkley said.

