SHINGTON - People in the United States were supposed to be able sign up for health insurance on a website on Oct. 1.

The website was set up by the government.

It is called healthcare.gov.

The problem is that it does not work.

So President Barack Obama went on television to suggest other ways to sign up.

One way was to make a phone call to a call center.

Operators there were should be able to help you sign up, he said.

The insurance helps pay for doctors and other care if you get sick.

It is part of the Affordable Care Act, the U.S. health care law.

Without health insurance, going to the hospital can cost a fortune.

The call center of Connecticut's new insurance exchange is busy with questions.

It is 10 a.m. on a Monday and about 25 operators are talking on telephone headsets.

A dozen more callers wait on hold.

"It's controlled chaos," said David Lynch.

He is the call center manager.

A call center is a room where a group of operators take calls from all over.

Some say the centers are not being used properly now.

They were never meant to be used to sign up for insurance.

They were only supposed to be a way to help some people understand their choices.

"The telephone call center is not a realistic alternative to the website," said Adam Linker.

He studies health care issues for the North Carolina Justice Center.

He said the website was supposed to be an easy place to look at different plans and shop.

There is no way to do that on the phone, he said.

Others agree.

The call centers' operators can provide only limited help to those who want to shop for a health plan, they said.

That's because some states have dozens of plans to choose from.

The process could take hours to sort through on the telephone.

The operators are also having trouble getting information from healthcare.gov.

So it is difficult for them to check people's information.

Call center operators face many of the same delays as customers, said John Foley.

He is a lawyer with a group paid by the government to help people figure out how to sign up.

"We are facing the same glitches on the telephone," he said.

He tells people to wait until the website becomes easier to use.

There are 17 call centers with more than 10,000 trained operators.

States such as Connecticut have set up their own state marketplaces.

They also have their own call centers.

Timothy Jost is a law professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law.

He said that young and healthy people may have less reason to sign up.

They probably won't wait through hours-long phone calls, he said.

The situation is easier in the Hartford call center.

Connecticut has set up its own health exchange.

Its website is also working.

Benjamin Hunnicutt manages the Hartford call center.

He said most callers are older or poorer than people using the website.

The top questions are about costs and discounts that people may receive.

The operators also have information about which doctors and hospitals a person with a certain plan can visit.

Some do sign up over the phone.

It can take about 50 minutes.

Signing up by telephone is easy in Connecticut.

Just three companies are selling plans there.

In states such as California and Florida more than a dozen companies are selling insurance plans.

That could take much longer, Hunnicutt said.

