SHINGTON - It's 10 a.m. Monday and the call center of Connecticut's new health insurance exchange is bustling with questions.

An elderly man calls to ask if the land he owns will count as income.

A legal immigrant asks if she can sign up for a health plan through the state's online insurance marketplace.

A broker wants help to become certified to start selling coverage.

The exchange was set up under the Affordable Care Act, the federal health law.

About 25 operators in blue shaded cubicles are talking on telephone headsets.

A dozen more callers wait on hold.

"It's controlled chaos," said David Lynch, the call center manager.

People were supposed to shop for and enroll in healthcare plans through healthcare.gov, a website run by the federal government for residents of 36 states.

But the site has been working poorly.

President Barack Obama mentioned the call centers last week.

He said they were one of several alternatives for people having trouble using the website.

"The call centers are available," he said, giving the telephone number.

"You can talk to somebody directly and they can walk you through the application process.

Once you get on the phone with a trained representative, it usually takes about 25 minutes for an individual to apply for coverage, about 45 minutes for a family."

But consumer advocates say the centers were never meant to be an alternative to the insurance exchange website.

They were only supposed to be a way to offer some consumers more help to understand their options.

"The telephone call center is not a realistic alternative to the website," said Adam Linker.

He works on health care issues for the North Carolina Justice Center, a group that represents consumers.

"The marketplace was billed as a place to easily shop and compare plans."

There is no way to do that on the phone, he said.

Others agree that the call centers' representatives can provide only limited help to those who want to shop for insurance.

That's because some states have dozens of plans to choose from.

The process could take hours to sort through on the telephone.

In addition, the representatives are also having trouble getting information from healthcare.gov.

So it is difficult for them to check people's identities and income.

One healthcare.gov operator said she cannot provide exact prices and benefits before a caller answers a series of questions.

The answers are needed to set up an account.

She can only offer average premiums in a particular area without going through that process.

Call center operators face many of the same delays as consumers because of the broken federal website, said John Foley.

He is a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society of Palm Beach County in Florida.

The group received money from the federal government to help people figure out the sign-up process.

"We are facing the same glitches on the telephone," he said.

He tells people to wait until the website becomes easier to use.

There are 17 call centers with more than 10,000 trained representatives to assist consumers.

States such as Connecticut that have set up their own state marketplace also have their own call centers.

Timothy Jost is a consumer advocate and law professor at Washington and Lee University School of Law.

He said that young and healthy people, who may be less motivated to sign up, probably won't wait through hours-long phone calls.

The situation is easier in the Hartford call center.

Connecticut has set up its own exchange.

Its website is also functioning.

Since Access Health CT opened on Oct. 1, an average of 1,300 people a day have called or asked for assistance to help fill out applications.

Over 10,000 residents have started applications.

More than 4,200 have enrolled in plans.

"Telephone assistance is something that people really want," said Lynn Quincy with Consumers Union.

"Many people are intimidated by the task of buying insurance on their own."

Benjamin Hunnicutt, who manages the Hartford call center, said most callers are older or poorer than people using the website.

The top questions are about how much will the regular payments cost and how to estimate how much of a discount they are eligible to receive.

The operators also have information about which doctors and hospitals that are available in different plans.

Some do enroll over the phone, which can take about 50 minutes.

The exchange did not know how many had completed enrollment online.

Telephone enrollment is easy in Connecticut because just three companies are selling plans.

In states such as California and Florida where more than a dozen companies are selling plans, that could take much longer, Hunnicutt said.

