Brian Boone is practicing his silly voice.

Boone is soldier.

He lost part of his leg while serving in Afghanistan.

"Good boy," Boone says to Brindle.

Brindle is a highly trained service dog.

Service dogs help people living with physical and other problems.

Sarah Koch is Brindle's trainer.

She says Boone should sound a little sillier.

"I want you to get a little silly with your praise," she says.

Boone tries again.

"Goooooood booooooooy," Boone coos.

Brindle looks up sweetly at his new master.

The 2-year-old dog seems very pleased with himself.

An unusual partnership brought Brindle and Boone together.

It is between a service-dog group and a health care company.

Canine Companions for Independence will train the dogs.

It usually costs $50,000 to train each service dog.

Baylor Scott and White Health is the health care company.

The Texas company will find people who could be helped by a service dog.

It will also pay for the training programs.

There's a need for service dogs among patients, Joel Allison says.

He is the head of the health care company.

More than 25,000 Americans use service dogs.

Some service dogs protect their owners from falls.

Other dogs guide people who are blind.

Service dogs are trained to pull wheelchairs.

They can even pick up keys from the floor.

Boone was injured in 2011.

He could not use his right arm for a year.

Some of his strength has come back.

He hopes that working with Brindle will make him even stronger.

The training program for service dogs is hard.

Only two out of five dogs finish it.

The dogs are taught at least 40 commands.

The ones who make it to Texas are the best of the best.

"Illia.

Down.

Don't!

Down.

Good girl!"

Stacey Odom says to Illia, a shiny black dog.

Odom is a special-education teacher.

She hopes the dog will help her work with students.

"I just want to cuddle her," Odom says.

Boone is thrilled with his dog.

"Dogs are very soothing," he says.

"Especially these calm dogs.

Just being around them brings your spirit up.

That's hard to beat."

