Because of one of the worst droughts in California's history, visitors to the luxurious Hearst Castle estate will soon find something none too swanky: dry fountains and an empty pool.

Springs that supply the state historical monument,  built by publisher William Randolph Hearst, are running at just one-sixth normal, said Nick Franco, a superintendent with State Parks.

Only 47,000 gallons a day now flow from the springs.

That's down from 285,000 gallons a day normally.

A trio of reservoirs that typically are filled with 2.75 million gallons of water this time of year are only about a third full.

That little water is not enough to carry the Castle through the summer.

So it doesn't make any sense to keep topping off the famous, but leaky, outdoor Neptune Pool.

Built in the 1920s, the pool has several cracks.

Each day, it loses 3,000 to 5,000 gallons of water through leakage.

State Parks is putting the 345,000 gallons of water that were in the pool to good use.

Connections have been made to the irrigation system and, last Friday, water started flowing out of the pool and onto the landscape and garden.

How long it takes to empty the 95-by-104-foot, marble-lined basin that's as much as 10 feet deep depends on how much irrigation is needed, Franco said.

On Monday, he estimated the pool was down 5 or 6 feet.

"You know the statue of Venus in the back with her rising out of the water?"

he asked.

"Well, she's not in the water anymore."

Also dry and quiet are the Castle's six fountains, which usually provide the soothing sound of tinkling water for garden strollers.

"They splash," Franco said, and "lose water."

Not a lot of water, certainly, "but we want to save every drop we can."

They're also, Franco said, "doing triage on the perennials" — in other words, they are trying to decide which of the garden's long-term plants to save.

Staff members are figuring out what "can survive with very little water and what won't."

And they are "focusing on the landscape, how we can nurse it along."

Usually this time of year, Franco said, State Parks brings in "thousands of annuals" — that is, plants whose life cycle lasts only a single growing season, and are replaced annually.

Not this time, though.

And they're putting mulch on the landscaping to keep moisture in the soil and conserve as much water as possible.

State Parks vehicles are not getting washed, other than the windows.

As a result, buses shuttling visitors to the hilltop estate will be a bit dirty, Franco said.

The indoor Roman Pool will remain full, and will increase the availability of usable water, Franco said.

The pool does not leak and, since it's indoors, it has very little moisture loss through evaporation.

But most importantly, it is being used to meet regulations requiring State Parks to keep 200,000 gallons of water stored on site in case of fire.

Previously, the Castle had set aside reservoir storage for that purpose.

The switch frees up the reservoir water for use by visitors and on irrigation, Franco said.

Low-flow toilets were installed at the Hearst Castle Visitor Center during the most recent remodeling, he said.

But when you have 700,000 visitors annually, there's still going to be a lot of water use.

How long the outdoor Neptune Pool remains empty essentially "depends on the weather," Franco said.

Divers examined cracks in the pool lining and plumbing last fall, and the process of mapping out what needs to be fixed was begun.

Once that's complete, Franco said, he can begin calculating the cost of repairs.

But even after repairs are finished, it will still take some rain and a rise in spring flow before Venus' feet are wet again.

For now, there's a 4-foot-high metal fence ringing the pool, to make sure nobody falls into it.

Grumblings were heard already Tuesday as tour groups reached the emptying pool.

Its blue waters are changing to a clear white as levels near bottom.

"I expect people will be disappointed," Franco said, "but I think they will understand.

Just look at the hills."

