When a Georgia school promised to reduce sports workouts when the heat index reached 140, experts didn't know if they should be appalled or amused.

"If you hit a heat index of 140," said Bud Cooper, a researcher at the University of Georgia, "you'd basically be sitting in the Sahara Desert."

The heat index is the combined effects of air temperature and humidity.

Some officials are recognizing that a "no-pain, no-gain" way of thinking about kids in sports must take second place to safety.

Increasingly, they are seeking to protect student athletes from the serious injuries or illnesses that can come from being pushed to their physical limits — or beyond.

Since 2009, every state and the District of Columbia has required that student athletes be removed from games or practices when they may have concussions.

The laws also say when an athlete with a head injury can safely play again.

In addition, some states now require that schools have automated external defibrillators to jump-start the heart of a student in sudden cardiac arrest, as heart attacks are a leading cause of death in young athletes.

Also, a number of Southern states have adopted strict rules to avoid heat-related illnesses and deaths.

And some schools try to prevent overuse injuries, caused by repeating the same motion, such as pitching a baseball or softball.

But no state has required what many involved in sports medicine believe would be the single most important step to keep student athletes safe: at least one full-time athletic trainer in every high school.

The Korey Stringer Institute is a research center at the University of Connecticut that studies how to keep student athletes safe.

According to the institute, only 39 percent of public high schools in the U.S. have full-time trainers on staff.

The institute was named for Minnesota Vikings offensive lineman Corey Stringer, who died of heat stroke during summer training camp in 2001.

Stringer's high-profile death brought attention to the problem of heat-related illnesses in athletes.

In 2011, Ralph Sweargin, then head of the Georgia High School Association (GHSA), decided to address heat-related deaths in football in his state.

At the time, Georgia had the most heat-related football deaths in the country, with eight between 1980 and 2011.

In Georgia, schools kept starting earlier and earlier, which meant football practices began in mid-July, the height of summer.

Up to that point, the GHSA had let individual schools write their own health policies.

Sweargin concluded that a statewide policy was needed for all schools.

Sweargin also realized that they weren't making decisions based on data, and were instead "relying on best guesses and assumptions and copying what other people were doing."

Sweargin asked a team of sports medicine researchers at the University of Georgia to study the impact of heat on high school football players.

Their study found that players were particularly prone to heat-related illnesses in the first days of practice.

That was especially true of linemen, who tend to have higher ratios of body fat and whose bodies needed more time to get used to the heat.

Clearly, said Bud Cooper, one of the researchers, an essential part of any new policy would be that players had to gradually get used to the hot weather.

Cooper said the researchers knew that using the heat index to determine heat policy was not enough.

It ignored the "radiant temperature," or the temperature on the ground.

Certain surfaces, like concrete or a football field, retain and intensify the heat on the ground.

The new GHSA policy now requires all high schools to use a special calculator that measures temperature, humidity and radiant temperature.

When readings reach a certain level, football coaches must take action to relieve heat stress.

For example, a reading above 82 requires coaches to provide at least three breaks an hour of four minutes or longer.

Higher readings require more steps, such as shortening practice sessions and allowing players to wear shorts instead of football pants.

For readings above 92, outdoor practices are stopped.

Cooper insists that Northern states also need to adopt statewide heat policies.

Temperatures in the North are also high when football players begin practicing.

He pointed out that Stringer died of heat stroke in Minnesota on a day the heat index hit 110.

Concussions and extreme heat have drawn the most attention in high school sports, but they are not the only dangers to young athletes.

Overuse injuries also are receiving more attention.

More student athletes are specializing in particular sports — playing them year round to the exclusion of others — and risk serious injury from overused joints and muscles.

For baseball pitchers, there are elbow and shoulder injuries.

In soccer, players hurt their knees.

In volleyball and swimming, it's often the shoulder.

Many schools limit the number of pitches baseball and softball pitchers are allowed to throw.

Some schools even force sports teams to stop training for a while to give athletes time to recover.

Many parents and coaches, though, are pushing kids to be "better, faster and stronger," said Jeffrey Dugas, an orthopedic surgeon in Birmingham, Alabama.

Mark Hyman is a sports journalist whose book, "Until It Hurts," is about the rise in sports injuries to kids.

Hyman said that as adults have become more involved in youth sports, the more kids get hurt.

"Before, when kids played sports and they knew their elbow or knee hurt, they stopped playing," Hyman said.

"With adult involvement, parents and coaches have been the ones to push them beyond physical limits."

If limits are going to be re-established, it will be up to the adults to do so, he said.

