The dump truck rumbled over miles of unpaved roads in the hills just east of the Montana border.

It drove past cattle and grain bins and haystacks to the dirt pit.

When it got there, Bill Gore slid his truck onto the scale and signaled a man to pile the dirt high.

The truck pulled out of the pit weighing more than 100,000 pounds.

It was well over its legal limit of 82,000 pounds.

"We try to run it as hard as we can," Gore said.

Heavy trucks transport water, pipes and sand at the Bakken, North Dakota, oil fields, where more than 1 million barrels of oil is produced each day.

The trucks move oil rigs and bring oil to pipelines and train yards.

They also carry the dirt and construction materials to build the roads, homes and businesses for the growing number of oil field workers.

Many trucks, like Gore's, carry loads that are too heavy.

State officials estimate that one-quarter of the Bakken's water trucks are overloaded.

Trucks hauling too-heavy loads can be dangerous.

The extra weight makes it harder for drivers to brake.

It also increases the damage they could cause in a crash.

Truck crashes leading to severe injuries jumped by 12 times during a recent four-year period.

According to the Truck Safety Coalition, 100,000-pound trucks take 25 percent longer to stop than 80,000-pound trucks.

"It's the stopping power," said trucker Michael Fisher, who drives overweight.

"Your brakes are set up to stop a certain amount of weight, and if you increase that, you have a lot more chance of something going wrong."

Heavy trucks ruin bridges more quickly than lighter trucks.

They crumble prairie roads built for light farm tractors.

The state has been forced to spend a lot of money to rebuild roads and bridges.

McKenzie County is the state's top oil producer.

Its tiny sheriff's office has a file cabinet containing enormous violations.

One driver was pulled over this summer while hauling a crane that was 61,300 pounds overweight.

Another trucker was caught driving 76,100 pounds overweight while carrying a digger.

In interviews, drivers described the pressure to "haul heavy."

Jobs that pay by the ton, rather than by the hour, encourage them to overload their trucks.

The more the trucks carry, the more money the truck drivers make.

"We didn't come to North Dakota for the scenery.

We're here for money," said Jesse Scheffler.

He once got a $3,000 ticket for driving a truck that was 20,000 pounds overweight.

Scott Luhman is a McKenzie County sheriff's deputy.

The county police officer knew he had a prize when a water truck sped past him, its tires bulging.

Luhman weighed the truck.

It came in at more than 113,000 pounds, which was nearly 25,000 pounds over what it was allowed haul.

The driver was fined $5,200.

The county has only two officers responsible for making sure truck drivers are not overloading their trucks.

"(The state's) lack of enforcement causes trucks to be out there that are unsafe, and they're letting down the general public with that," Luhman said.

The North Dakota Highway Patrol ticketed 1,318 overweight trucks last year.

In 2012, state troopers issued 1,701 tickets.

Highway Patrol Captain Eldon Mehrer said he is not sure why the number has gone down, but he thinks truckers are worried they will get caught and fined.

Bakken's wealthy trucking business includes a mix of larger and smaller companies.

The bigger companies tend to follow the rules more, Luhman said.

"It is the smaller companies.

It's Joe Blow … that's out here trying to save his family.

He's going to push the rules a little bit more."

Sunday morning, Fisher chugged down Route 200.

He turned onto an unpaved road and bounced over potholes on the way to a dirt pit.

He and his friend Gore were told the job would pay $9.50 a ton to haul dirt to a water treatment plant.

A ton equals 2,000 pounds.

At the dirt pit, he pulled onto the scale, then got into line.

Fisher signaled to the man operating the loader that he wanted 35 tons.

After the man dropped giant buckets of dirt into his truck, Fisher gave him a thumbs up and pulled onto the scale.

Although the truck's limit was 80,000 pounds, it weighed a little more than 104,000.

"You're a lightweight," Gore joked.

Later, Gore got another call about a job that would pay $100 an hour.

"If I work by the hour," Gore said, "I can haul legal loads."

