The truck rumbled past cows and haystacks to the dirt pit.

Once there, trucker Bill Gore made a signal to pile the dirt up high.

When he left, his dump truck weighed more than 100,000 pounds.

It was only supposed to carry 82,000 pounds.

That is its weight limit by law.

"We try to run it as hard as we can," Gore said.

These are the oil fields of Bakken, North Dakota.

An oil boom is happening.

The area produces more than 1 million barrels of oil each day.

Heavy trucks carry water, pipes and sand.

They bring oil to pipelines and trains to ship it.

They also carry dirt and construction materials.

Many drivers are like Gore.

They carry loads that are way over their limits.

They get paid more money for it.

Overloaded trucks can be dangerous.

The extra weight makes it hard for drivers to stop quickly.

It increases the damage in a crash.

The Truck Safety Coalition says that 100,000-pound trucks take one-quarter longer to stop than 80,000-pound trucks.

Say the 80,000-pound truck is moving at a certain speed.

It might take that truck 100 feet to stop.

But, the 100,000-pound truck would take 125 feet to stop at the same speed.

"Your brakes are set up to stop a certain amount of weight," truck driver Mike Fisher said.

"If you increase that, you have a lot more chance of something going wrong."

Heavy trucks ruin bridges.

They crumble roads.

Then the state has to fix them.

McKenzie County produces the most oil of any county in the state.

Its tiny sheriff's office gives out huge tickets.

One driver was pulled over this summer carrying 61,300 pounds over the limit.

Another trucker was caught driving 76,100 pounds overweight.

The drivers feel pressure to "haul heavy."

If truck drivers are paid by the hour, they do not overload the truck.

But some trucking jobs pay by weight.

Then truckers make more money to overload the truck.

"We're here for money," truck driver Jesse Scheffler said.

He once got a $3,000 ticket.

His truck was 20,000 pounds overweight.

The North Dakota Highway Patrol ticketed 1,318 overweight trucks last year.

In 2012, it gave out 1,701 tickets for overweight trucks.

Highway Patrol Captain Eldon Mehrer thinks truckers are being more careful now.

They are worried they will be caught.

Big companies follow the rules more, McKenzie County policeman Scott Luhman said.

"It is the smaller companies.

It's Joe Blow … that's out here trying to save his family.

He's going to push the rules a little bit more."

On a Sunday morning, Fisher chugged down a highway.

He was with his friend Gore.

He drove to a dirt pit.

He was there to pick up a load of dirt for a water treatment plant.

The job paid $9.50 a ton.

A ton is equal to 2,000 pounds.

At the dirt pit, he pulled onto the scale so his truck could be measured empty.

Then, he got into line.

Fisher asked for 35 tons of dirt.

His truck was filled up.

Then Fisher pulled onto the scale again.

His truck weighed more than 104,000 pounds.

His limit was 80,000 pounds.

"You're a lightweight," Gore joked.

