The latest cover of the French satirical paper Charlie Hebdo shows a weeping Muslim Prophet Muhammad holding a sign that says, "Je suis Charlie" — "I am Charlie."

The headline reads, "All is forgiven."

The issue is the first since a deadly attack on the paper last week by extremists.

Two gunmen shot and killed 12 people, including four cartoonists.

Over the years, Charlie Hebdo has stirred up anger by publishing political cartoons and articles highly critical of Islam, Judaism and Christianity.

Muslims do not depict the prophet in drawings, and are deeply offended by it.

At an emotional briefing Tuesday, staff members from Charlie Hebdo explained their thinking behind the latest issue, due out Wednesday.

Gerard Biard, the editor in chief, said the new edition was produced "with pain and with joy."

He noted that 3 million copies will be published in multiple languages in contrast to the usual run of 60,000 copies per week.

Biard and cartoonist Renald Luzier, known as Luz, displayed the edition's controversial cover.

Luzier described how he came up with the drawing following last week's attack.

"I said to myself, we must do a drawing that above all makes us laugh, and not one on the emotional charge we are victims of," he said.

Luzier referred to a firebombing attack on Charlie Hebdo in 2011.

He said he chose to put Muhammad on the cover because "he is a character that got our offices burned, and a character who at first got us treated as the great white knights of the freedom of the press because the offices had burned down.

Then a year later when we redrew the character, we were treated as dangerous, provocative and irresponsible."

He drew Muhammad crying, he said, and then cried himself.

"This was not the front page the world wanted us to draw, it was our front page.

This is not the front page that the terrorists want us to draw — there are no terrorists in it, just a man who cries," he said.

"This Muhammad is so much nicer than the ones the terrorists brandish," Biard said, holding the cover aloft.

"He's sympathetic.

Look at him, he's crying!"

It was one of the few light moments during the emotional briefing, during which Luzier repeatedly choked up and paused, or rubbed tears from his eyes.

Luzier, who has worked at the paper for 20 years, had to leave the Charlie Hebdo offices along with the rest of the publication's staff as police continued their investigation into last week's attack.

They have been working this week in borrowed offices at the newspaper Liberacion, where they held Tuesday's briefing.

The day of the attack, Jan. 7, was Luzier's birthday.

He was running late and arrived after the attack to see the bodies of his friends and co-workers.

While he conceded that the cover of the latest issue is provocative and controversial and "there are risks," he promised to keep drawing.

"We can't remain silent," he said.

"We trust people's intelligence, their sense of humor," Luzier said.

"People who committed this attack are just people who lack humor."

"Yes I am Charlie.

But I am also a cop.

I am Jewish.

I am Muslim.

And I am atheist," he said.

Two police officers were killed in Wednesday's attack on Charlie Hebdo.

On Thursday, a lone gunman killed a policewoman in a Paris suburb.

Then on Friday, the same gunman attacked a kosher grocery store in Paris and killed four Jewish people.

The gunman was killed by police.

That was also the day police killed the gunmen who had attacked Charlie Hebdo.

Following the attacks, many people in France wore signs that said "Je suis Charlie" in solidarity with the slain cartoonists and to show their support for freedom of speech.

Luzier spoke of "complicated emotions" following the attack and about his co-workers who are still struggling with the emotional impact of what occurred.

He also spoke of his hope that his co-workers would return to work at Charlie Hebdo soon.

If the press thrives and grows stronger, Luzier said, "we have really won."

