week ago, two gunmen attacked a French paper in Paris.

Twelve people were killed, four of them cartoonists.

French police killed the gunmen two days later.

The paper is called Charlie Hebdo.

It printed political cartoons of the Muslim Prophet Muhammad.

In the Muslim religion, pictures of the prophet are forbidden.

On Wednesday, Charlie Hebdo will print its first issue since the attack.

A cartoon of Muhammad will be on the cover.

In it, Muhammad is crying and holding a sign.

It says, "Je suis Charlie" — "I am Charlie."

The headline reads, "All is forgiven."

Over the years, Charlie Hebdo has stirred up a lot of anger.

It has published many cartoons and articles that have offended Muslims, Christians and Jews.

After the attack, many people in France wore signs that said "Je suis Charlie."

They wanted to stand with the dead cartoonists.

They also wanted to support freedom of speech, the right to express thoughts and ideas.

On Tuesday, staff members from Charlie Hebdo held a meeting.

They explained why they decided to put a cartoon of Mohammad on the cover again.

Gerard Biard is the editor in chief of Charlie Hebdo.

He said the issue was put together "with pain and with joy."

Three million copies will be published in many languages.

Usually, Charlie Hebdo prints 60,000 copies per week.

Cartoonist Renald Luzier, known as Luz, drew the cover.

He described how he came up with the picture.

"I said to myself, we must do a drawing that above all makes us laugh," Luzier said.

He has worked at Charlie Hebdo for 20 years.

Luzier said he drew Muhammad crying on the cover.

Then, he said, he cried himself.

"This was not the front page the world wanted us to draw, it was our front page," Luzier said.

"This is not the front page that the terrorists want us to draw."

He added, "There are no terrorists in it, just a man who cries."

During the meeting, Luzier became upset and rubbed tears from his eyes.

French police are still investigating last week's attack.

Luzier and rest of the paper's staff have been using the offices of a newspaper in Paris.

The day of the attack, Jan. 7, was Luzier's birthday.

He was running late, and did not get to the Charlie Hebdo office until after the attack ended.

Luzier admitted that the latest cover showing Muhammad may upset people.

"There are risks" to publishing another cover with Muhammad, he said.

Luzier promised to keep drawing.

"We can't remain silent," he said.

"We trust people's intelligence, their sense of humor," he said.

"People who committed this attack are just people who lack humor."

"Yes I am Charlie," Luzier said.

"But I am also a cop.

I am Jewish.

I am Muslim.

And I am atheist," a person who does not believe in God.

Luzier was talking about the two police officers who were killed during the attack on Charlie Hebdo.

The next day, a policewoman was killed by a different gunman.

On Friday, the same gunman killed four Jewish people in an attack on a kosher grocery store.

The gunman was killed by police.

That was also the day the gunmen who had attacked Charlie Hebdo were killed by police.

Luzier was very upset after the attack.

Many other staff members are still struggling with what happened, he said.

He added that he hopes they return to work soon.

Charlie Hebdo and other papers must grow stronger, Luzier said.

Then "we have really won."

