The latest cover of the French satirical paper Charlie Hebdo shows the Muslim Prophet Muhammad.

He is weeping and holding a sign that says, "Je suis Charlie" — "I am Charlie."

The headline reads, "All is forgiven."

The issue is the first since the paper was attacked last week by extremists.

Two gunmen shot and killed 12 people, including four cartoonists.

Over the years, Charlie Hebdo has published cartoons critical of Islam, Christianity and Judaism and which show the Prophet Muhammad in an extremely negative way.

Muslims do not show the prophet in drawings, and consider depictions of him to be very offensive.

At an emotional meeting Tuesday, staff members from Charlie Hebdo explained why they decided to put Mohammad on the cover again, although doing so got their co-workers killed.

The latest issue — the first since the killings — is due out Wednesday.

Gerard Biard, the editor in chief of Charlie Hebdo, said the new issue was produced "with pain and with joy."

Three million copies will be published in many languages, in contrast to the usual run of 60,000 copies per week, he said.

He and cartoonist Renald Luzier, known as Luz, displayed the edition's controversial cover.

Luzier described how he came up with the cover drawing following last week's attack.

"I said to myself, we must do a drawing that above all makes us laugh," Luzier said.

He then referred to the firebombing of the offices of Charlie Hebdo in 2011.

Luzier said he chose to put Muhammad on the cover because "he is a character that got our offices burned."

Immediately after the 2011 bombing, Charlie Hebdo was hailed as a hero of press freedom, he said.

"Then a year later when we redrew the character, we were treated as dangerous, provocative and irresponsible," Luzier said.

In the latest issue, Luzier drew Muhammad crying on the cover, he said, and then cried himself.

"This was not the front page the world wanted us to draw, it was our front page.

This is not the front page that the terrorists want us to draw — there are no terrorists in it, just a man who cries," said Luzier, who has worked for Charlie Hebdo for 20 years.

"This Muhammad is so much nicer than the ones the terrorists" describe, Biard said, holding the cover aloft.

"He's sympathetic.

Look at him, he's crying!"

It was one of the few light moments at the emotional meeting, during which Luzier repeatedly choked up or rubbed tears from his eyes.

French police are continuing their investigation into last week's attack.

Tuesday's meeting was held at the newspaper Liberacion, where Luzier and the rest of the Charlie Hebdo staff have been working this week in borrowed offices.

The day of the attack, Jan. 7, was Luzier's birthday.

He was running late and did not arrive for work at Charlie Hebdo until after the attack was over.

Luzier conceded that many would find the cover of the latest issue offensive and said that "there are risks" to publishing another cover with Muhammad.

However, he promised to keep drawing.

"We can't remain silent," he said.

"We trust people's intelligence, their sense of humor," he said.

"People who committed this attack are just people who lack humor."

"Yes I am Charlie," Luzier said.

"But I am also a cop.

I am Jewish.

I am Muslim.

And I am atheist," which is a person who does not believe in God.

Two police officers were killed in Wednesday's attack on Charlie Hebdo.

The next day, a policewoman was killed by a different gunman.

On Friday, the same gunman killed four Jewish people in an attack on a kosher grocery store.

The gunman was killed by police.

That also was the day the gunmen who had attacked Charlie Hebdo were killed by police.

Since the attacks, many people in France have worn signs that said "Je suis Charlie" to stand with the slain cartoonists and show support for freedom of speech.

Luzier spoke of "complicated emotions" following the attack.

Many of his co-workers are still struggling emotionally with what happened, he said.

Luzier added that he hopes they return to work at Charlie Hebdo soon.

If the press thrives and grows stronger, Luzier said, "we have really won."

