Mattel is a big toy company.

They make Barbie dolls.

They are working on a new doll called Hello Barbie that is connected to the Internet.

Mattel held a demonstration to show everyone how the doll works.

The presenter greeted the doll by saying, "Welcome to New York, Barbie."

The high-tech doll was able to understand the presenter's greeting.

Hello Barbie gave a response that made sense: "I love New York!

Don't you?

Tell me, what's your favorite part about the city?

The food, fashion or the sights?"

Mattel thinks the doll will be a big hit.

They think children will like how the doll knows what they are saying.

Hello Barbie can even remember things about its user.

For example, the presenter told Hello Barbie that she liked being onstage.

Later, she asked the doll what she should be when she grows up.

Hello Barbie responded: "Well, you told me you like being onstage.

So maybe a dancer?

Or a politician?"

Mattel says the high-tech doll can actually learn about what its users like.

It can change questions around to make them personal.

It can make children feel like Hello Barbie is really getting to know them.

Children seem to think Hello Barbie is "cool."

Many parents say it is "creepy."

The doll has a microphone that records what children say.

Then it sends the recording over the Internet to Mattel's partner company, ToyTalk.

There, computers listen to the recording.

The computers tell Barbie what to say next.

Some people are very upset about Hello Barbie.

They have asked Mattel not to sell it.

They do not like how the doll listens in on children.

They say the company should leave children and their secrets alone.

Other people are worried about what Hello Barbie might wind up saying to kids.

They think Hello Barbie will try to make kids want other new toys and movies.

That way, Mattel will make more money.

Oren Jacob is in charge of ToyTalk.

He says they have been careful to follow all of the laws about children and the Internet.

He says they make sure that strangers never hear any of the stored recordings.

Jacob also says the recordings will only be used to help make Hello Barbie better.

He says ToyTalk wants to hear whether Hello Barbie is doing a good job.

They want to make the doll even better.

Jacob says the doll will never be used to tell children about other toys.

ToyTalk also lets parents keep an eye on what their children are sharing.

They can sign up to get emails from ToyTalk every day.

The emails give them links to their children's talks with Hello Barbie.

That way, parents can hear all of the same recordings ToyTalk hears.

The problems with Hello Barbie show how tough things have become for toymakers.

Companies need to make money.

They try to invent high-tech toys kids will love.

But kids are not the ones who buy the toys.

Toy companies must make sure toys are safe so that parents will like them, too.

Finding the right combination can be tricky.

