At age 40, Hello Kitty has enjoyed a career that any Hollywood movie star would envy.

Lady Gaga and Katy Perry count themselves among her admirers.

Lady Gaga has even worn an eye-popping gown made entirely of Hello Kitty plush toys.

Images of Hello Kitty's adorable little cartoon self have helped sell everything from motor oil to diamond necklaces.

She has even joined up with major league baseball teams on super cute souvenirs.

This week, thousands of fans will gather in Los Angeles to attend the first convention celebrating all things Hello Kitty.

Because so many convention-goers will be adults, participants at Hello Kitty Con 2014 can get a permanent tattoo of the aging icon of cuteness.

"She is not just a commercial object," said Christine Yano, an anthropologist who helped organize the recently opened exhibit, "Hello!

Exploring the Supercute World of Hello Kitty."

"We have to think of her as a phenomenon."

Despite all the hoopla, Hello Kitty may be entering her fifth decade in a midlife slump.

For years, Hello Kitty reigned as Japan's best-selling character, according to research company Character Databank, which ranks the most popular characters in Japan by sales of their merchandise.

Hello Ketty now ranks third, behind No.

2 Mickey Mouse and No.

1 Anpanman, an anime superhero whose head is a jam-filled bun.

"I don't think this can go on forever," said Tom Looser, a professor at New York University.

"The fact there is nostalgia among fans indicates you are already seeing some of the limits, that she is dated."

But it seems the Tokyo company that created Hello Kitty is concerned about her future, and relying on her for so much of its sales.

Hello Kitty and other characters earn $8 billion for Sanrio, which created the kitty, and other companies that pay Sanrio to use the images, said Janet Hsu, president of Sanrio's North American division.

That makes Sanrio the world's sixth-largest licensing company, according to industry magazine License Global.

Companies pay Sanrio to use — or license — Hello Kitty's image on their products.

Hello Kitty's face adorns about 50,000 products, from lunch bunches to kitchen appliances and even a jet airplane.

Sanrio will not say how many Hello Kitty products it sells.

However, the kitty accounts for about half of sales at Sanrio stores, Hsu said.

In May, Sanrio assured investors in the company that it is developing other characters beyond Hello Kitty.

In search of the next cute sensation, Sanrio designers have been busy churning out new characters.

None of them, though, comes close to approaching Hello Kitty's success.

Next year, Sanrio will introduce a Hello Kitty cafe in Southern California, something already in Asia.

Sanrio recently said it is launching a brand in 2015 called Hello Kitty Men.

"For future growth, we are bringing more experience and entertainment initiatives that will keep the brand evolving," Hsu said.

Although she has starred in TV shows over the years, Hello Kitty has remained the Greta Garbo of the cartoon world — mysterious, one-of-a-kind and silent.

Greta Garbo, a Swedish actress, was one of Hollywood's greatest film stars, famous for saying, "I want to be alone."

The kitty even got a cute start.

Artists at Sanrio created her in 1974 in a design competition.

Some observers point to her simple design as the key to her long shelf life.

Her face lacks a mouth, an expression and a personality, and fans can imagine whatever they want about her.

"Hello Kitty is almost like a perfect blank slate on which viewers can project their own emotions," said Roland Kelts, author of "Japanamerica: How Japanese Pop Culture Invaded the U.S." "If you had a lousy day … you come home to Hello Kitty on your sofa, and she sympathizes," Kelts said.

"On the other hand, if you got a raise or met someone and hit it off, Kitty feels good for you."

She became popular in the United States at about the same time as the West embraced sushi, anime cartoons and all things Japanese.

Some scholars consider her the No.

1 representation of kawaii — the Japanese word for cuteness that has become a big part of popular culture in Japan.

Every so often, Sanrio tries to create publicity for Kitty by putting together events for fans like the museum exhibition and Hello Kitty Con.

The convention starts Oct. 30 at the Geffen Contemporary at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles.

The exhibit at the Japanese American National Museum has drawn such big crowds that the museum in Los Angeles had to hire extra staff.

Tickets have sold out for the four-day convention, which also features workshops on flower arranging, scrapbooking and creating Kitty-shaped snacks.

Like many high-profile celebrities, Hello Kitty has passionate critics.

Some say she is anti-feminist — a girl with no opinions who physically cannot talk back.

A blogger, who writes on his site KittyHell.com, blogs about the invasion of Hello Kitty on the most unlikely objects.

"There are some combinations that just should never go together," he wrote, mentioning the appearance of Hello Kitty on men's underwear and a chainsaw.

At the museum exhibit, longtime fan Gianfranco Ocampo brushes off the Kitty bashers, volunteering that he collected Hello Kitty figurines as a kid.

The 23-year-old art students has even attended Hello Kitty tea parties.

Sanrio executive Davi Marchi can't exactly define Hello Kitty's appeal.

"If I could explain it," he said, "we would have 30 huge characters."

