Dressed to impress, Jorge Magana, 18, zipped through his presentation slides with the confidence of a top executive.

Magana, a senior at Los Angeles High School of the Arts, had 45 minutes to convince three judges that he was ready to graduate.

The panel of judges was made up of the school's assistant principal, a school coordinator and a former student.

Magana walked the judges through a portfolio that served as a highlight reel of all the work he had done in high school.

He even included a personal piece he had written for AP English about his father's alcoholism and its effect on his family.

Then the panel grilled him with questions: What was your research process?

What obstacles did you face?

How did you overcome them?

How will the skills you learned help with your future plans?

Portfolio assessments like this one — also known as senior defenses — are on the rise in California and across the nation.

They are based on the same judging process doctoral students must go through to get their Ph.D.

Portfolio assessments are gaining popularity despite being more time-consuming and expensive than traditional high school graduation requirements like report cards and standardized tests.

"When you see your students reflect on what they've learned, and see how that learning has affected them, it's hard to say this isn't a good idea," said Isabel Morales, a 12th-grade teacher at Magana's school.

Morales and her fellow faculty members initially thought portfolio defense were unnecessary torture but started to look at things differently once they saw students in action.

"Watching the defenses taught me how much my lessons count," Morales said.

She recognized that just teaching students wouldn't be enough — Morales needed to transform them, she said.

Students can simply "go through the motions" in class, taking in information without really retaining it, she said.

Portfolio defenses force them to explain what they have learned, and to apply it in different ways.

Since 1999, California has used the Academic Performance Index, which ties school rankings to test scores.

Under a new index set to debut in the fall, test scores will account for only 60 percent of a school's ranking.

The other 40 percent will be based on things like "college and career readiness."

Portfolio assessments are one possible source of information about students' readiness.

The tricky part is convincing skeptics that they are reliable.

Harvard education professor Daniel Koretz said that what counts as a good portfolio can vary widely from school to school, making them difficult to compare.

Differences between how teachers grade are one of the main reasons standardized assessments were created in the first place, Koretz said.

Now educators are trying to figure out how to make portfolio assessments just as fair.

In a recent report, Stanford University professors Soung Bae and Linda Darling-Hammond recommended that the state allow schools to use "well-designed" portfolios in place of traditional exit exams.

These portfolios would be made up of work from five subject areas and would include complex assignments like research essays and artwork.

Skills that students learn from challenging projects like those do not show up on multiple choice tests.

"Some say U.S. kids are the most tested and the least examined in the world," Darling-Hammond said.

"We have a lot of tests, but we don't have high-quality examinations of thinking and performance."

"Students can sell themselves short," said Nadia Schafer, a digital specialist with Philadelphia Academies, a Pennsylvania nonprofit that works with area high schools to provide students with career training and college preparation.

"But the portfolio shows them all that they've accomplished.

A portfolio tells their stories so much better than just a resume ever could."

For now, the goal at the Los Angeles Unified School District is to make portfolio defenses a graduation requirement.

Ten high schools are testing the program and there are plans to get more schools on board next school year.

"Students have improved immensely since we first started," said Cathy Kwan, a portfolio coordinator at Los Angeles High School of the Arts, who schedules the defenses, recruits panel members and trains teachers.

"But it still wouldn't be fair to hold them back based on the defense.

We haven't yet learned how to prepare kids adequately to do this."

Magana failed his portfolio defense because he did not demonstrate content knowledge and strong research skills.

Morales says the portfolio assessment process has taught her a lot about how to prepare students who, like Magana, struggle to communicate what they know.

She has discovered that the best preparation for a defense is to make time in class for students to share their work and talk about what they learned in the process.

It's something she did not always do until now, she said.

Magana got another shot and passed his second defense a week later.

He said he has learned from his mistakes and will not repeat them when he heads to the University of California, Riverside, this fall to study computer science.

"I'm worried that in college I won't have anyone there to push me," Magana said.

"But I have this experience to refer back to.

I will remember this.

I won't allow myself to fail again."

According to a survey of students at Los Angeles High School of the Arts, 90 percent of students who passed and 68 percent of students who failed said the portfolio defense was a "worthwhile experience."

Of the 92 seniors who defended their portfolios this year, 33 failed.

Like Magana, they were scheduled to redo their presentations.

In the end, everyone passed and received diplomas.

"They worked their tushes off," Kwan said.

"Not one of them gave up."

