The ocean life in the high seas of the world is dying.

For the first time in history, countries are joining together to protect the high seas.

The high seas lay beyond a country's coastal waters.

They make up more than half of our planet's oceans.

Too much fishing and other problems like pollution are destroying the ocean life in the high seas.

To save the high seas, the countries agreed to develop a set of rules.

Daniela Diz is an expert on oceans at the World Wildlife Fund.

She called it "an important step forward."

A study found that the world's oceans are in crisis.

The Census of Marine Life discovered that 90 percent of tuna and swordfish have disappeared from the seas.

Other large fish are being killed off as well.

The census is a 10-year-long study of all the oceans.

Fishing is causing most of the harm.

Deep-sea fishing is largely done by heavy nets.

They scrape across the floor of the ocean.

They destroy everything in their path.

The nets kill the deepwater corals and sponges that are at the bottom of the sea.

The corals and sponges are like houses for fish.

The nets also sweep up lots of unwanted fish and sea creatures.

Fishermen end up throwing back a lot of dead sea life caught up in the nets.

"The new agreement will be about what we keep in the seas," says Karen Sack.

She is the director of The Pew Charitable Trusts' International Marine Program.

Sack has been involved in the discussions among the countries since they began in 2004.

Right now, too many groups have control over the high seas.

There is the International Maritime Organization, which is in charge of shipping.

The International Seabed Authority is for mining.

For fishing, it is the Regional Fisheries Management Organizations.

The Global Ocean Commission is a group that is trying to help the world's oceans.

The commission found that the shipping, mining and fishing organizations do not work together.

They all have different rules.

This has made it almost impossible to protect the high seas.

The commission said a new agreement should go into effect within five years.

Otherwise, the high seas should be closed to fishing.

The suggestion is not anti-fishing, said Rémi Parmentier, an official who works for the commission.

In fact, closing the high seas would actually help countries along the coast, he said.

Right now, fishing fleets kill many of the fish in the high seas.

The fish have no chance to swim closer to the coast, where local people can catch them.

This is especially a problem in West Africa.

There seems to be scientific evidence to support this idea.

Earlier in February, the University of British Columbia released a report.

It found that closing the high seas would help many countries catch more fish.

The high seas would become the "biggest savings account on the planet," the report said.

But not all countries would benefit, it said.

Countries like Japan and South Korea do a lot of high-seas fishing.

They would lose hundreds of millions of dollars each year.

In the end, there may be no need.

An agreement would make it easier to create marine protected areas.

The protected areas would be the oceans' national parks.

More than one-tenth of the world's land is protected in national parks and wildlife preserves.

But just one-hundredth of the high seas is protected.

If this new plan is used, eventually almost one-third of the high seas would be protected.

Enric Sala helped write the report.

He is also a deep-sea diver.

"I realize what we have lost," Sala said.

"I also see what the ocean of the future can be."

