Looking for work is a headache for plenty of people.

But Vivian Nixon's job-hunting frustrations were particularly painful.

Federal job applicants would escape these experiences under a new executive order from President Barack Obama and legislation being considered by Congress.

Nixon was released in 2001 from Albion Correctional Facility in New York.

She was convicted of falsifying documents and grand theft.

She often went on three job interviews a week for 14 months, she recalled, before finally getting hired by St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, New York.

"Some people just outright asked me about my felony conviction and never asked another question about my qualifications for the job," she said.

"Of course, I never heard from them again.

But I also experienced some really embarrassing moments where I was asked inappropriate questions such as 'What was prison like?

What did you do in prison?

Were you in prison with dangerous people?

Is prison like the TV show Lock Up or is it like Oz?'

One interviewer even went and grabbed some of her colleagues to come in and hear my personal story because she was so enthralled that she met someone who actually 'went to prison.'

It was humiliating.

It was embarrassing."

Many federal agencies already delay questions about an applicant's criminal history until later in the hiring process.

Obama's directive would have the power of a law, so all agencies would now have to comply.

A coalition of Republican and Democratic members of Congress are pushing for a law that would go even further.

Their bill would also apply to companies that have contracts to perform services for the federal government.

"The federal government, I believe, should not use criminal history to screen out applicants before we even look at their qualifications," Obama said.

People should not be dismissed simply because they made a mistake in the past, he added.

That is what happened to Nixon.

Now she is a college graduate and executive director of College and Community Fellowship, a New York City organization that works with women with criminal pasts.

Like other advocates, Nixon praises Obama for this "major milestone."

However, she urges him to issue "a strong executive order covering federal contractors."

"It's not at all clear that Congress will ultimately enact a strong ban-the-box bill," she said.

The ban-the-box phrase refers to a question on some job applications that requires candidates to check a box asking if they have arrest or conviction records.

The proposed ban-the-box bill calls for federal employers to wait until later in the hiring process to consider criminal records.

It is not known when or how forcefully Congress will act.

However, the ban-the-box congressional coalition gives the bill a good running start.

Representatives Elijah Cummings, a Democrat from Maryland, and Darrell Issa, a Republican from California, are a continent apart politically.

But they hosted a congressional briefing to generate support for the bill, called the Fair Chance Act, which they introduced into the U.S. House of Representatives.

The Fair Chance Act would prohibit all federal government agencies from asking applicants for criminal history information until the job-offer stage.

The same would apply to companies hiring workers for federal contracts.

Similar legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Senate.

Both the House and the Senate would have to vote "yes" on the bills before the Fair Chance Act could become a law.

There would be exceptions for certain law enforcement and national security positions.

There is much activity now in Washington surrounding ban-the-box proposals.

At the same time, there is a growing movement toward criminal justice reform.

However, the federal government still has to catch up to many state and local governments and some large companies, including Target.

"Momentum for the policy has grown exponentially, particularly in recent years," Michelle Natividad Rodriguez and Nayantara Mehta wrote in an article for the nonprofit National Employment Law Project.

They said more than 100 cities and counties have banned the box, as have 19 states.

Attitudes are changing.

Look at the 2010 comments of Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Republican from Utah.

Then, he defended his bill, that if passed, would have prohibited the Census Bureau from hiring former felons as census takers.

Census takers go door to door, handing out questionnaires asking Americans about their jobs and lives.

At the time, he said: "I don't want a convicted felon going to knock on grandma's door."

That kind of discrimination potentially affects "the 65 million Americans in this country who have a criminal record on file," said Glenn E. Martin, president of JustLeadershipUSA, a group working to cut the prison population.

He cited the unbalanced impact of the criminal justice system on racial minorities — meaning people of color are more likely than white Americans to be arrested and convicted of crimes.

People of color are also more likely to face discrimination based on a criminal record, he added.

Obama made it clear that criminal records should be considered, just not at the beginning of the application process.

"It is relevant to find out whether somebody has a criminal record.

We're not suggesting ignore it," he said.

"What we are suggesting is, when it comes to the application, give folks a chance to get through the door."

