STIN, Texas – Some Hispanic students have a hard time getting a college education.

Now, states are looking at ways to help them.

Manuel Ramirez is an example of how difficult it can be.

His parents brought him to the United States illegally from Mexico.

He was 8 years old.

They cleaned houses and did odd jobs.

They made just enough to live on.

When he grew up, they could not afford to pay $10,000 for him to go to the University of Texas at Austin.

To earn extra money, Manuel worked different jobs.

He colored people's hair, for instance.

He built fences at a ranch.

Last year, Ramirez graduated from college.

He now has a job organizing workers.

Ramirez is fighting to prevent a change in a Texas law.

The proposed law would make college more expensive for people who came here illegally from other countries.

Right now, Texas residents pay less money for college than residents of other states.

Under the bill, illegal immigrants would not get the lower price.

Ramirez said the fight is not just for immigrants.

Everyone should be able to afford college.

Texas needs "to produce great minds and give them a job."

The share of the U.S. population that is Hispanic is growing larger.

But in Texas and 24 other states, whites are at least twice as likely as Hispanics to have college degrees.

States are beginning to see that difference as a serious problem.

More jobs are being created for people with college degrees.

At the same time, there are fewer jobs for high school graduates.

The situation is even worse for people who dropped out of school.

The problem is growing across the country, said Steve Murdock.

He is a professor at Rice University.

Murdock has said for years that Texas and other states must do a better job of educating minorities, especially Hispanics.

Otherwise, he said, companies will find workers in other countries.

Republican Governor Greg Abbott talked about the issue this month.

Texas must keep creating new jobs, he said.

"We must become the leader at educating our children."

Two months ago, a Texas business group rented a sign.

It said graduation rates at the University of Texas at San Antonio were too low.

Almost half the students at the school are Hispanic.

Meanwhile, two companies saw they needed more college-educated workers.

The companies were aircraft makers Lockheed Martin and Boeing.

They started a program that lets local students work toward their college degrees.

Teri Albrecht works with students at the University of Texas at Austin.

Albrecht said applying for college can be especially tough for immigrants.

Many immigrants find out then that they were brought to the country without permission.

Their parents never told them.

The parents wanted to "protect their children," Albrecht said.

U.S.-born Hispanic college students face unusual money problems.

They need advice and help from those who are doing well in school, said Michael Soto.

He is a professor at Trinity University in San Antonio.

Soto grew up near the Mexican border.

He has degrees from Stanford and Harvard universities.

"We know what works," Soto said.

"There are a number of proven programs."

