S ANGELES - A bunch of scientific journals recently agreed to publish a paper.

In fact, 157 journals agreed to run the paper.

But the paper was fake.

It was written by Science magazine to uncover publishers of open-access journals who may not be honest.

Most science journals were once sold by subscription.

People would have to agree to pay for them before getting them.

But, open-access scientific journals are free on the Internet.

Because they're free, the open-access journals make money differently.

Some get money from a university, hospital, or library, for instance.

Others ask the writer of the article for money in order for the article to be put on the website.

The older subscription journals are some of the more well-known.

Open-access journals were created with the idea that scientific information should be available to more people.

And many have popped up in the past 10 years.

Subscription journals use "peer review."

Scientists, or peers, check for mistakes before an article is published.

The Science magazine article says that open-access journals don't always do this.

The writer of it, John Bohannon, discovered problems with publishers seeking money from writers.

He found some using false addresses and names.

Some had bank accounts in other countries, and used peer reviews that might not have been very good.

Bohannon is a scientist and a reporter.

To test the journals, Bohannon created a fake study about a cure for cancer.

It's a disease that attacks cells in the human body.

The study had problems, a lot of problems, on purpose.

The paper was sent to 304 journals.

It contained mistakes in the experiment.

A proper review should have found those mistakes.

For instance, the fake paper described something that could prevent the growth of cancer.

But the experiment wasn't done properly.

Studies generally try to show why there could not be other reasons why the results came out as they did.

The fake study didn't do this, at all.

Also, the writer said lots of alcohol was used in the experiment.

The amounts used would have poisoned the cells in the study.

Even with these problems, 157 journals accepted it; only 98 rejected it.

The other 49 did not get back to the writer with a final answer.

Some journals that accepted the fake paper wanted several thousand dollars to publish it.

The American Journal of Polymer Science accepted the paper.

It is owned by Scientific &amp; Academic Publishing.

The company, SAP, claims to be in Rosemead, Calif.

But its address is incorrect, the article says, it's actually an intersection.

There are also no phone numbers listed for the publication.

Bohannon contacted a scientist who was listed as a reviewer for the SAP.

She said she had received just one paper, which had many mistakes.

"I thought it was a joke," she said.

The scientist said she asked to not be listed as a reviewer after that.

Not all of the journals were bad at peer review, however.

Some open-access journals that have a bad reputation provided the toughest peer review of all, Bohannan wrote.

He said a journal from the Public Library of Science was the only one that pointed out the paper's problems, meeting rules for proper moral behavior in the scientific publishing community.

