S ANGELES - A science paper was recently accepted by 157 science journals.

That wouldn't normally be a big deal.

Except that in this case the paper was a total fake.

It was written to expose lazy or tricky people who publish open-access journals on the Internet.

People pay money for traditional journals.

Open-access scientific journals are available free to readers on the Internet.

Because they're free, the journals make money for their owners differently.

Some are paid for by a university, research center or library.

Others make money by charging the writer for publishing the article.

Many of the most famous journals work under the older pay-to-read model.

Open-access journals started from the idea that scientific research should be available to more people.

And many more have popped up in the past 10 years.

Some have been criticized for not following the same rules of "peer review."

Under peer review, scientists check for errors before an article is published.

The fake article was written about in the journal Science.

The author, John Bohannon, discovered problems with publishers seeking money.

He found some using false addresses and names.

Some had bank accounts in other countries.

Open-access scientific journals have grown into a global industry, Bohannon wrote.

He's a biologist and a science reporter.

It was not clear who most of the players in the industry were, he wrote.

Who the journals' editors are and where they work, as well as how they make money, are often kept mysterious on purpose.

To test the correctness of these journals, Bohannon created a flawed study on a cure for cancer.

Different versions of the paper were sent to 304 journals.

The paper contained mistakes in the experiment.

A proper review should have found the mistakes.

For instance, the fake paper described a material that stopped cancer from growing.

But the experiment did not have proper control groups.

Such groups are sometimes used to make sure there aren't other reasons for the outcome of a study.

The writer also described using lots of alcohol in the experiment.

The amounts supposedly used would have poisoned the cells being studied.

Even with these problems, a whopping 157 journals accepted it; only 98 rejected it.

The other 49 did not get back to the author with a final answer.

The journals that did accept the fake paper demanded as much as several thousand dollars to publish it.

One journal that accepted it was the American Journal of Polymer Science.

It's owned by Scientific &amp; Academic Publishing.

The company, SAP, lists its address as being in Rosemead, Calif.

But the Science article points out that the address appears to be an intersection.

There are no phone numbers listed for the journal or its officers.

Bohannon contacted a scientist who was listed as a reviewer for SAP.

She said she had received just one paper, which was deeply flawed.

"I thought it was a joke," she said.

The reviewer said she asked to be taken off of the list of people who worked with the group after that.

Not all of the journals were bad at peer review, however.

Some open-access journals that have a bad reputation provided the toughest peer review of all, Bohannon wrote.

He said a journal from the Public Library of Science was the only one that pointed out the paper's problems, meeting rules for proper moral behavior in the scientific publishing community.

