S ANGELES - A fake science paper was recently accepted for publication by a shocking 157 open-access science journals.

It was written to expose lazy or shady scientific publishers.

Open-access scientific journals are available free to readers on the Internet, unlike traditional subscription journals.

Because they're free, the publications make money differently.

Some are subsidized by a scientific institution, such as a university, research center, or library.

Others make money by charging the author for publishing the article.

Many of the most famous journals are of the older subscription type.

Open-access started from the idea that scientific research should be available to a wider audience.

Many more have popped up on websites in the past few years.

And some of them may not follow the original ideal.

Critics say some open-access journals do not follow the policies of "peer review" that subscription journals do.

Under peer review, articles are checked by other scientists for errors before they are published.

The investigation was published by the journal Science.

The author of it, John Bohannon, discovered problems with publishers that seek fees.

He found some using false addresses, false names, overseas bank accounts and sketchy "peer reviews" routinely.

"From humble and idealistic beginnings a decade ago, open-access scientific journals have mushroomed into a global industry, driven by author publication fees rather than traditional subscriptions," wrote Bohannon.

He's a biologist and a science reporter.

It was not clear who most of the players in the industry were, he wrote.

"The identity and location of the journals' editors, as well as the financial workings of their publishers," are often kept mysterious on purpose.

To test the accuracy of these journals, Bohannon created a false and fatally flawed study on a wonder cure for cancer.

Different versions of the paper were sent to 304 journals.

The paper contained experimental blunders.

A proper review should have detected the errors.

For instance, the author of the fake paper argued that a tiny part from a species of lichen prevented the growth of certain cancer cells.

But the experiments lacked proper control groups, which are used to make sure there aren't other explanations for the outcome of a study.

Also, the author described using excessive amounts of alcohol in experimental solutions.

Those amounts would have poisoned the cells being studied.

Despite these and other problems, a whopping 157 journals accepted it; only 98 rejected it.

The others did not get back to the author with a final answer.

The journals that did accept the error-riddled paper demanded fees of as much as several thousand dollars for publication.

Among the journals that accepted the paper was the American Journal of Polymer Science, which is owned by Scientific &amp; Academic Publishing.

The company, SAP, lists its address as being in Rosemead, Calif.

But the Science article points out that the address appears to be a mere intersection.

There are no phone numbers listed for the publication or its officers.

Bohannon contacted a scientist who was listed as a reviewer for SAP.

She said she had received just one paper, which was deeply flawed.

"I thought it was a joke," she said.

The reviewer said she asked to be taken off of the group's list of reviewers after that.

There were notable exceptions, however.

Some open-access journals that have a bad reputation provided the toughest peer review of all, Bohannan wrote.

He noted a journal from the Public Library of Science was the only one that pointed out the paper's problems, meeting rules for proper moral behavior in the scientific publishing community.

