_Eric H. Holder is attorney general of the United States.

President Barack Obama named him to run the U.S. Department of Justice.

He also serves in the president's cabinet.

One of the Department of Justice's duties is to make sure that all people are treated fairly under the law.

The following is a letter written by Holder for the St. Louis Post Dispatch, adapted by Newsela.

_ Since the Aug. 9 shooting death of Michael Brown by a police officer, the nation and the world have watched the angry protests gripping Ferguson, Missouri.

Demonstrators are demanding answers about how this young man died.

Many question the fairness of our criminal justice system.

I run the Justice Department, making me the top law enforcement officer and lawyer for the government.

My department intends to learn exactly what happened.

The people of Ferguson can have confidence that we will do a fair and thorough investigation to find out what happened.

On Wednesday, I was in Ferguson to be filled in on the civil rights investigation that I ordered over a week ago.

I met with community leaders, the FBI and government lawyers to get more details of the case.

This investigation will take time to complete, but we have already taken important steps.

About 40 FBI agents and some of the government's most experienced lawyers are leading this process.

Hundreds of people have already been questioned to share what they know about the death of Michael Brown.

On Monday, I sent a team of doctors to do a careful examination of Brown's body.

Ferguson police have done an investigation.

But we understand the need for another investigation, not involving the police.

We hope that we can help calm the anger in Ferguson by finding out the truth of what really happened.

In order to begin the healing process, however, we must first see an end to the acts of violence in the streets of Ferguson.

These acts have been caused by just a few of the protesters, many who come from outside Ferguson.

They are not helping.

In fact, they seriously hurt the efforts to see justice done in Ferguson.

And they prevent us from talking about the issues of discrimination that the protesters are talking about.

The Justice Department will defend the right of protesters to peacefully demonstrate.

But violence and theft cannot be allowed.

I urge the citizens of Ferguson to speak out against the actions of people who create conflict and make the situation worse.

Law enforcement has a job to do in calming people's anger, as well.

As the brother of a retired police officer, I know what our police go through to do their jobs.

Every day they put their lives on the line and often have to make split-second decisions.

At the same time, good law enforcement requires creating trust between the police and the public.

This trust is all-important, but it is also easily broken.

It requires that force be used in appropriate ways.

How we enforce the law and arrest people must not lead to treating people differently just because of their color.

And police forces should include men and women from different groups and races.

They should look like the communities they serve.

Over the years, we have made major progress on these issues.

But we still have much to do.

We should continue to discuss our problems, and we must also act.

It is painfully clear, across our great nation, that more progress, more talk, and more action are needed.

I pledge to the people of Ferguson that our investigation will be full and fair.

We will not let anyone influence us one way or another.

And beyond the investigation itself, we will work with the police, civil rights leaders, and members of the public.

Our goal is to bring the police closer to the communities they serve.

Long after the events of Aug. 9, the Justice Department will continue to stand with this community.

As we move forward, I ask for the public's help and patience.

And I urge anyone with information about the shooting to call the FBI by dialing 800-CALL-FBI, option 4.

