_Eric H. Holder is attorney general of the United States, appointed by President Barack Obama.

As attorney general, Holder heads the U.S. Department of Justice.

The Justice Department is responsible for U.S. law enforcement, including that justice is carried out in a fair and unbiased manner.

The following is a letter by Holder written for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, adapted by Newsela.

_ Since the Aug. 9 shooting death of Michael Brown by a police officer, the nation and the world have witnessed the unrest that has gripped Ferguson, Missouri.

The demonstrators are demanding answers about how this young man died.

Beyond that, there is a larger concern about the fairness of our criminal justice system.

At a time when so much may seem uncertain, the people of Ferguson can have confidence that the Justice Department plans to learn exactly what happened.

A fair and thorough investigation will be held.

On Wednesday, I was in Ferguson to get an update on the federal civil rights investigation that I launched more than one week ago.

I met personally with community leaders, FBI investigators and federal prosecutors from the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division and the U.S. Attorney's Office.

They briefed me on details of the case.

The Department of Justice is committed to the investigation into Michael Brown's death.

This investigation will take time to complete, but we have already taken significant steps.

About 40 FBI agents and some of the Civil Rights Division's most experienced lawyers are leading this process.

Hundreds of people have already been interviewed about the death of Michael Brown.

On Monday, at my direction, a team of federal medical examiners conducted their own autopsy of Brown's body.

We understand the need for an independent investigation that will not be influenced by the police, or anyone else.

We hope that the independence and thoroughness of our investigation will bring some calm to the anger in Ferguson.

In order to begin the healing process, however, we must first see an end to the acts of violence in the streets of Ferguson.

These acts have been committed by a very small minority — in many cases, by individuals from outside Ferguson.

Yet, they seriously hurt, rather than help, the cause of justice.

And they interrupt the deeper conversation that the peaceful demonstrators are trying to advance.

The Justice Department will defend the right of protesters to peacefully demonstrate.

But violence and looting from businesses cannot be allowed.

I urge the citizens of Ferguson who have been peacefully exercising their First Amendment rights to gather in protest and speak freely, to join with law enforcement in speaking out against the actions of those seeking to create conflict.

Law enforcement has a job to do in reducing tensions, as well.

As the brother of a retired law enforcement officer, I know firsthand what our men and women in uniform go through to perform their duties.

They face tremendous threats and significant personal risk.

Every day they put their lives on the line and they often have to make split-second decisions.

At the same time, good law enforcement requires forming bonds of trust between the police and the public.

This trust is all-important, but it is also fragile.

It requires that force be used in appropriate ways.

Enforcement and arrest patterns must not lead to treating groups of people differently under the law, even if police don't mean to be unfair.

And police forces should include people from all groups and races, and look like the communities they serve.

Over the years, we have made significant progress on these issues.

But there is still much to be done.

Conversations should continue — but it must also turn into concrete action.

And it is painfully clear, across our great nation, that more progress, more conversation, and more action are needed.

This is my pledge to the people of Ferguson: Our investigation into this matter will be full, it will be fair, and it will not be influenced by anyone.

And beyond the investigation itself, we will work with the police, civil rights leaders, and members of the public to ensure that this terrible event can lead to new understanding — and strong action.

Our aim is to bring law enforcement officials closer to the communities we serve.

Long after the events of Aug. 9, the Justice Department will continue to stand with this community.

As we move forward together, I ask for the public's cooperation and patience.

And I urge anyone with information related to the shooting to contact the FBI by dialing 800-CALL-FBI, option 4.

