_Eric H. Holder is attorney general of the United States.

President Barack Obama named him to run the U.S. Department of Justice.

He also serves in the president's cabinet.

One of the Department of Justice's duties is to make sure that all people are treated fairly under the law.

The following is a letter written by Holder for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, adapted by Newsela._ Since the Aug. 9 shooting death of Michael Brown, the nation and the world have seen the angry protests in Ferguson, Missouri.

People protesting want answers about how this young man died.

They question the fairness of our police.

I'm the top law enforcement officer and lawyer for the government.

I run the Justice Department.

It plans to learn exactly what happened.

The people of Ferguson can be sure of that.

A fair and complete investigation will happen.

On Wednesday, I was in Ferguson.

I was there to be filled in on the civil rights investigation that I launched over a week ago.

I met with community leaders, FBI investigators and government lawyers.

They gave me more details of the case.

This investigation will take time to complete, but we have already done much.

About 40 FBI agents and some of the government's best lawyers are leading this investigation.

Hundreds of people have already been interviewed about the death of Michael Brown.

On Monday, we sent a team of doctors to examine Brown's body.

Our investigation will be fair.

We hope it will bring calm to Ferguson.

In order to start healing, the violence in the streets of Ferguson has to stop.

These acts have been caused by just a few of the protesters.

In many cases, people from outside Ferguson caused them.

Violence hurts the cause of the protesters.

It prevents us from talking about the problems Michael Brown's death has brought up.

The Justice Department will defend the right to peacefully protest.

Violence and stealing cannot be allowed.

I urge the citizens of Ferguson to speak out against people who make the situation worse.

Law enforcement can help make people less angry.

My brother was a policeman.

I know what our police go through in their jobs.

Every day they put their lives on the line.

At the same time, there must be trust between the police and the public.

This trust can easily be broken.

Force must be used carefully.

The police must not treat people differently just because of their color.

And police forces should be more diverse.

They should look like the communities they serve.

Over the years, we have made progress on these problems.

But we still have much to do.

We should continue to talk about our problems.

Now we must also act.

And it is clear, across our great nation, that more progress, more talk, and more action are needed.

Our investigation will be fair.

Beyond the investigation, we will work with the police, civil rights leaders, and the public.

Our goal is to bring police closer to the communities they serve.

Long after the events of Aug. 9, the Justice Department will stand with this community.

I ask for the public's help and patience.

And I urge anyone with information about the shooting to call the FBI by dialing 800-CALL-FBI, option 4.

