Among the tall towers and tourists of the popular streets of Chicago is an often ignored population — homeless men and women holding signs begging for money.

Many of these signs tend to look messy and quickly scribbled.

Ian Todd, an art student, saw the signs and decided he wanted to help.

Todd replaced the sloppy signs with beautiful ones hoping they will stand out on the busy streets of Chicago.

Todd's goal was that his project would make people more aware of the homeless population.

He believed beautiful signs would make people more likely to talk to homeless people when they walked by.

The more they talk to homeless people, the more they are likely to give them money.

Todd, 23, said he was overwhelmed by the number of homeless people in Chicago when he moved to the city.

"It was a bit shocking seeing all the homelessness," he said.

Todd first approached homeless people in April to ask if they wanted new signs.

Some did not want his help but others did, and Todd went to work.

Todd finished about 20 signs in two months.

He said the beautiful lettering on the signs takes a great deal of time, anywhere from 5 to 10 hours to complete.

The signs Todd made help tell many stories of struggle.

One single father is trying to support three children; another woman is offering to work so she can afford a bus ticket home.

Todd kept in touch with many of the people he made signs for.

Some of them said the signs really helped, while other said they did not help.

Mike Droney, 54, was holding one of Todd's signs on a recent sunny afternoon.

The aging piece of cardboard said, "I lost my leg for my country.

Please help, you will be blessed."

Droney sits in front of a Starbucks coffee shop most days asking for money.

He said he often gets compliments about the sign, but it is hard to tell whether or not it's actually helping.

Ulysses White, 54, also has one of Todd's signs.

He said it has absolutely led to people giving him more money.

White said he was a soldier in Iraq, and his sign mentions his army service before saying, "Anything is appreciated.

Thank you for your generosity."

Todd's project is not the first of its kind.

In 2011, the Chicago Tribune newspaper did a story on a man named Christopher Devine.

Devine was printing and laminating signs for the homeless.

However, his signs were much simpler than Todd's.

They were printed on white paper in a bold font saying "Homeless" or "Please Help."

Devine, 32, has seen Todd's artwork on the street.

He was happy to see another project whose goal is making the homeless population more visible to others.

He thinks Todd's signs are beautiful and more decorated than his own.

"The important part of both projects is that the signs are different aesthetically than your typical homeless sign," Devine said.

Ed Shurna works with the homeless population in Chicago.

He said that while the signs have helped a few people, Chicago's homeless problem needs organized action.

"It's getting worse," Shurna said.

Shurna said Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner is not helping the situation.

Rauner has a new budget that will cut care programs for poor people and make the homeless problem in Illinois worse.

Shurna added that even now, the current number of shelters in Chicago are not sufficient for the many homeless people.

Todd, who graduated from design school in May, recently moved to Los Angeles to begin an internship.

He said he told his homeless friends before he left that he would no longer be able to make signs for them.

While Todd said his new job keeps him very busy, he might  begin making signs for the homeless in California.

"Homelessness is definitely here," Todd said.

"I wouldn't mind getting something started."

