Tech consultant Rudo Boothe and his daughter are heavy into shapes and word-association these days.

Together, they count down along with the microwave timer and when they go to the grocery store, they add up the cans of tomato sauce in the supermarket cart.

Boothe's daughter may be just 19 months old, but he believes it's not too early to introduce educational concepts to her in order to increase her chances of future success.

"My attempt is to make numbers very important," said Boothe.

The Miami Shores, Fla., man attributes his own professional success — anyone's professional success, actually — to learning to read and perform basic math at age 4.

"Greatness is the objective," he said.

"To be phenomenal at age 7."

Boothe may seem like the kind of hyper-competitive parent who wants his child to learn to read before her classmates.

Instead, he is investing in his child's future ability to make money — at least if you believe Boothe and researchers at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland.

They say that increased reading and math ability at age 7 mean bigger paychecks later in life.

Early reading and math skills predict future income more than even a child's intelligence, education, and family wealth.

American educators agree that early childhood education is critical for a lifetime of success.

But they say it's important not to ignore the other factors.

"Children who have acquired more skill in reading at age 7 have a cascade of positive events," said Timothy Bates, a University of Edinburgh psychology professor.

"By adulthood (they) are earning significantly more."

How much?

Bates followed 17,000 people in the United Kingdom over four decades.

He found that young subjects who were better at reading and math still ended up having higher incomes, better housing and better jobs as adults than the kids who had perhaps higher IQs or richer parents, but read or performed math at lower levels.

A 7-year-old who read a level higher, for instance, earned $8,000 more at age 45.

And he expects that here in the United States, where our system rewards the best candidate, we'd see the same effect, only stronger.

"These findings imply that basic childhood skills, independent of how smart you are, how long you stay in school or the social class you started off in, will be important throughout your life," Bates said.

Hold it right there, say a bunch of U.S. educators.

They agree that early learning is critical to career success and say that it produces kindergarten-ready kids who gain momentum as they get older.

But they also point out that income most certainly affects the outcome.

For starters, only 40 percent to 55 percent of American children attend high quality pre-kindergarten programs, said Libby Doggett.

She is deputy assistant secretary of policy and early learning for the U.S. Department of Education.

There, kids learn the basics of reading and math, of course.

But they are also introduced to executive function skills, such as motivation and persistence, that help people achieve goals.

"It's not about ability," Doggett said.

"We create ability.

And we create it early on."

The kids most likely to skip quality pre-K programs are — you guessed it — poor children, said Greg J. Duncan, a professor at the University of California-Irvine.

That partly explains a gap — equivalent to about 20 IQ points or 120 SAT points — in reading and math skills between the nation's richest 20 percent and the poorest 20 percent of kindergarten-age kids.

Even worse, American schools fail to erase the gap between rich and poor, he said.

Some factors that contribute to the gap include having teachers in low-income areas without job security.

Likewise, students in poorer areas are more likely to have behavioral problems that slow down entire classes and more mobile families, he said.

"Most of the gap comes from what goes on in the home," Duncan said.

"It's not to say (intelligence) doesn't play a role, but much of the gaps are caused by differences in parenting practices."

Reading and math lessons are easily disguised as exciting activities, said Silvia P. Tarafa, principal of the Key Biscayne K-8 Center in Florida.

Tarafa said parents can play a role in introducing the important concepts into daily activities.

For example: 1.

Together, read nonfiction books on the subject of the child's special interest, such as sharks, cooking, outer space or dinosaurs.

2.

While shopping at a store and online, always compare prices.

3.

When packing for a trip, ask the child to bring three or four shirts and five pairs of pants, because number recognition — rather than counting on fingers — is critical.

4.

Pay with cash and discuss basic coin combinations, such as how four quarters make a dollar.

5.

Bake brownies, using your measuring cup and sticks of butter as tools to teach fractions.

6.

Let them open a savings account and see how interest compounds.

7.

Measure the items you buy for your home, converting the lengths to inches, feet, yards — and don't forget the metric system.

8.

Frame their artwork, but first, together with your child, measure the picture's length, width and perimeter.

"When a child has heard the concepts at an early age," Tarafa said, "that child will make a connection to the concept when it's introduced by a teacher."

