The streets of Chicago are very crowded.

The city is filled with buildings and people.

There are also many homeless people on the streets.

They have trouble finding enough money to pay for a home.

They hold cardboard signs asking for money.

Many of these signs look messy.

A student in Chicago saw these signs.

He decided he could help make them beautiful.

His name is Ian Todd.

He is an artist.

He replaced the messy signs with beautiful ones he made.

He hopes the beautiful signs will stand out.

If more people notice the signs, they will notice the people holding them.

Ian wants to get people talking about the homeless.

He does not want them to get passed by.

Some people think the signs work.

Other people are not sure they work.

There are still many things that need to be done to help homeless people in Chicago.

Ian first talked to homeless people to see if they wanted new signs.

Some did not want his help, but others did.

He started working on the new signs right away.

He finished about 20 signs in two months.

He said it can take up to 10 hours to make one sign.

Mike Droney is 54 years old and homeless.

He was a soldier in the army.

He lost his leg while fighting.

Ian made him a sign.

It says, "I lost my leg for my country.

Please help."

Mike said many people like his sign.

Still, he is not sure the sign helps.

He is not getting more money than he did before.

Ulysses White also has one of Todd's signs.

He said his sign works.

More people are giving him money than ever before.

Ed Shurna works with the homeless in Chicago.

He said that the signs have helped a few people.

Still, the homeless need more help than just the signs.

Ed thinks that the city of Chicago needs better laws.

Right now, there are too many homeless people.

At night, there are not enough places for them to sleep.

There needs to be more places built, Ed said.

Ian has now moved to Los Angeles.

There are homeless people there, too.

Ian wants to make signs for the homeless in Los Angeles.

