The number of homeless children in America is at its highest ever, a new report said.

There are 2.5 million children who have no home, about 1 in 30 children.

These kids are often invisible.

They do not always live on the streets.

Instead, they may sleep on friends' couches, in all-night restaurants or hop from motel to motel.

Carmela DeCandia is the director of the National Center on Family Homelessness (NCFH), which prepared the report.

She said the number of children without permanent homes is huge.

Yet, government is not taking the problem seriously enough.

Many homeless children cannot get enough help to enable them to deal with being homeless, said Ed Walz.

He is with the group First Focus Campaign for Children.

"And they can't get it because they're kids."

In 2010, President Barack Obama announced a plan to end homelessness by 2020.

It concentrates on homeless adults.

To some degree, his plan is succeeding.

The number of homeless adults has gone down.

The number of homeless children, though, has nearly doubled since 2010.

Poverty, of course, is the great cause of homelessness.

Homeless children usually belong to a family headed by a single mother in her 20s.

The mother does not have much education and is often not working.

Many of these mothers avoid going to shelters for as long as possible.

Either they do not want their children to live in shelters or they are afraid the family will be split up.

"They are the group at greatest risk," DeCandia said.

Low-income families easily become homeless, DeCandia said.

For a poor person, it is difficult to find a home that is not expensive.

A person earning $8 an hour cannot afford even a small apartment, according to a report.

People are surprised that homelessness affects children so much, said Patricia Nix-Hodes.

She is with the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless.

"It tends to be less visible.

People call it the hidden homelessness."

The hidden homeless are not living on the street, she said.

Instead, they may be moving place to place, staying with another family or living in a shelter.

According to the NCFH report, homeless kids are more likely to be hungry or sick.

They also are more likely to struggle in school, miss classes and later drop out of school.

Just over half of homeless kids are under age 6.

About 1 in 4 homeless preschoolers and 4 out of 10 school-age kids are depressed or have other emotional problems.

Some homeless kids are on their own.

Others are separated from their families who also are homeless.

By law, shelters receiving government money cannot turn away families with boys older than 10 or 12.

Other shelters can and do turn them away, which breaks up families.

Teens are often left on their own.

Over the past few years, Nix-Hodes of the Chicago homeless coalition has seen child homelessness go way up.

Last year school year, nearly 60,000 school children in Illinois were homeless.

During the 2008-2009 school year, the number of homeless kids was half that number.

Also, Chicago has also seen a big increase.

More than 22,000 homeless children were enrolled in the public schools.

The U.S. Department of Education reports that more than 1.1 million homeless children went to public schools during the 2011-2012 school year.

"We're seeing this dramatic and shocking increase year after year," Nix-Hodes said.

She added that there is not enough money available to help homeless kids.

School districts lack enough money to provide all the educational and other services homeless children need.

Some states are more successful in reducing child homelessness.

Two of them are Utah and Connecticut.

The ones that are successful have a state plan to combat the problem.

They also have money to pay for housing for homeless kids.

"This report is a call to action for states," said Richard Bloom.

He is a California lawmaker who would like to see his state work harder to end child homelessness.

He said that states need to take action to help kids who are at high risk for homelessness.

If they don't act now, they will be creating the next generation of homeless people, Bloom said.

