When the thought of running for homecoming queen first swept through Cassidy Campbell's mind last year, she pushed the idea aside.

It would just be a joke, she told herself.

Now the high school senior sees it as a chance to make a statement.

Cassidy was born a male but has known for a long time she wasn't a boy on the inside.

As far back as Cassidy can remember she was drawn to dolls and pink dresses.

"I felt like I was already a girl, so I was confused as to why my mom would cut my hair," Cassidy said.

"I didn't understand why she would make me wear shorts and shirts when I wanted to wear dresses and skirts."

For a short while in middle school she tried explaining that she was transgender.

People who are transgender do not feel they are the gender they were born as.

However, that term seemed to confuse her peers.

It turned her into an outcast.

So she just told classmates she was gay.

During her freshman year she started watching YouTube videos made by transgender women.

"They were so unique, so different and beautiful," the 16-year-old said.

"That's when I started thinking this could be an option for me."

On Halloween of her sophomore year Cassidy dressed up as a girl.

She figured it would be the easiest time to express herself.

Sometimes during that year and the next, she went to school in a dress or skirt.

But it still felt less than honest.

"I would dread taking off my wig," Cassidy said.

So, she began taking medicine that she ordered online.

She didn't tell her mother or consult a doctor.

The medicine stopped her from becoming a fully developed male.

One night, about three months ago, she came clean to her mom.

"I was crying," she recalled.

Her mom, Christine Campbell, told her she'd support her.

Her father was slower to warm to her change.

But, he has not discouraged her.

The teen's now on medicine prescribed by a doctor to help her develop feminine features.

She's watched her body change, but the biggest change has been psychological, she said.

"I didn't just change physically; everything changed," she said.

"This year," she said, stroking her long black hair, "I'm a girl every day."

Cassidy has started drumming up support to win the homecoming crown at Marina High School in Huntington Beach.

She's part of a growing group of transgender youth across the country competing in similar events.

The teens see an opportunity to shake up views about what it means to be male or female.

"If I win it would mean that the school recognizes me as the gender I always felt I was," Cassidy said.

On Friday, the queen will be crowned at the school's football game.

Her mother will take her onto the field if Cassidy is a finalist.

On her bed lies dresses she'll wear to the game and Saturday's homecoming dance.

Standing in front of a mirror and talking about Britney Spears, Cassidy is just like most high school girls.

But, she worries about health complications.

She even worries about being attacked because of her change.

"It's worth it because I lived a full life," Cassidy said, "I would die as the person I wanted to be, rather than die in vain as a boy."

The risks of taking estrogen are low.

But, there is the possibility of blood clots and liver damage, said Johanna Olson.

She's the medical director at the Center for Transyouth Health and Development.

It's at the Children's Hospital in Los Angeles.

"It's a medical necessity," Olson said.

"It can't be framed as a choice."

she said.

Cassidy's change has forced her to grow up faster than other kids, her mother said.

"I don't want her to be who she is, and my religion says it's wrong," said her mother, who is a born-again Christian.

"But I think in the end, love is letting her be who she wants to be."

School officials have not stood in Cassidy's way.

Cassidy thinks she has a good shot at being crowned.

"But with all the attention, I realized it's bigger than me," she said.

"I'm doing this for the kids who can't be themselves."

SANTA ANA, Calif.—Cassidy Lynn Campbell broke down in tears Friday night.

The teen was crowned homecoming queen.

The senior at Marina High School in Huntington Beach was born male but told the Los Angeles Times she always felt like a girl.

She decided to run for homecoming queen, in part, to make a statement.

On Friday, at Marina High's homecoming pep rally, the field of 10 homecoming queen candidates was thinned to five.

Cassidy was one of them.

At halftime, school district spokesman Tom Delapp said, the five finalists were called up and balloons were released from a box to announce the winner.

"She kind of broke down on the podium," Delapp said of Cassidy.

"She was shocked.

She cried a lot."

Students started chanting her name and then ran down to give her a hug, he said.

"I was so proud to win, not just for me but for everyone out there," Cassidy told reporters afterward.

"I think it really shows the progression of the times."

