Ten-year-old Kaylie Hegwood is hungry; so is her 12-year-old brother, Tyler.

It is not because they just finished soccer practice or forgot to eat breakfast.

They are hungry because their mother cannot afford to buy food.

"There's good days and bad days," Tyler told film director Jezza Neumann.

"Sometimes when we have cereal, we don't have milk.

We have to eat it dry.

Sometimes we don't have cereal and we have milk."

Kaylie and Tyler live in Iowa with their mother.

She has a job.

But after she pays the rent and monthly bills, their mother has very little money left over for groceries.

Kaylie and Tyler try to help.

They both collect empty cans to recycle.

Tyler also mows lawns.

Kaylie and Tyler's story was part of "Poor Kids," a program that aired on PBS.

"A lot of times, I have to give my money up to buy groceries and buy gas for the car and lawn mower," Tyler told Neumann.

"I got $10, and I put in $6 of it for the gas and gave the rest to my mom for some food.

And (that's) what I do with my money."

Kaylie and Tyler do not attend school because they move homes too often.

They are officially homeless.

When people hear "homeless," they often think of a woman carrying bags of junk through the street.

Or they imagine an old man who sleeps on a park bench.

But children with no permanent place to live are also homeless.

Poverty affects about 16 million American children.

Poverty means having little or no money to support yourself or your family.

Poverty can lead to homelessness.

"I'm just starving," Kaylie tells Neumann.

"We don't get that three meals a day, like, breakfast, lunch and then dinner."

Studies say that 1 in every 45 children in the United States does not have a place to call home.

That means just over 1.6 million children are homeless in America.

That is as many people who live in the state of Idaho.

Since the economy crashed in 2008, homelessness in the United States has exploded.

The number of homeless children in the United States is so large that it has been called an epidemic by some in Congress.

An epidemic is something that spreads rapidly.

It almost always describes something bad.

Kaylie and Tyler are not alone in their struggle to help their mother make enough money to survive.

Millions of American adults spend more than half of their income on rent and utility bills.

That means one missed paycheck really hurts.

One unexpected expense, like treating a broken leg, can lead to a crisis.

That is what happened to Kaylie and Tyler.

Their mom could not afford to keep paying her bills, so they had to move.

Now the family lives in a small motel room.

When they moved Kaylie had to give away her dog, Nala.

"(Nala) was like my favorite dog," Kaylie says.

"And now we have to take her to the pound."

The more time children live in poverty, the harder it will be for them to avoid poverty as adults.

That is because children who face poverty and homelessness have a hard time attending school.

Like Kaylie and Tyler, they have to quit school.

Instead, they work.

The money they earn helps pay the bills.

Directors Sean Fine and Andrea Nix Fine wanted to shed light on childhood homelessness.

Their short film, "Inocente", was a true story about a 15-year-old homeless girl named Inocente Izucar.

It aired on MTV in 2012.

Inocente moved more than 30 times in nine years.

She used her artistic talent to rise above poverty.

The film won an Oscar in 2013.

The directors hope that winning the Oscar will bring more attention to the subject of homeless kids.

They want the 40-minute film to be shown in museums, libraries and schools.

They want to get people talking about homelessness.

They want to give a voice to homeless children.

