Child homelessness in the United States is at an all-time high, according to a new report.

One in 30 children is homeless — a total of 2.5 million around the country.

But these kids are often invisible, crashing with their families on friends' couches, sleeping in all-night diners or hopping from motel to motel from week to week.

"Child homelessness has reached epidemic proportions in America," said Carmela DeCandia, director of National Center on Family Homelessness (NCFH), which prepared the report.

"But the nation hasn't really prioritized family and child homelessness.

How are we going to target resources if we're not on the same page about the size of the problem?"

There is no agreement even over how to define childhood homelessness.

The U.S. Department of Education counts the number of school children without a fixed address, which comes to 1.1 million.

The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), on the other hand, counts the number of families living on the street, in shelters or in cars at a specific point in time, about 138,149 homeless children.

Advocates for the homeless argue that HUD's definition of "homeless" excludes more than a million homeless kids.

That makes it almost impossible for state and local governments to use federal money to help them.

Many homeless children "can't get the full range of shelter services, food assistance and counseling to manage the trauma of being homeless — and they can't get it because they're kids," said Ed Walz.

He is the vice president of the nonprofit First Focus Campaign for Children.

In 2010, President Barack Obama unveiled a plan to end overall homelessness by 2020.

It specifically aimed to end chronic homelessness and homelessness among veterans by 2015.

The chronically homeless are those with a disability and have been homeless for more than a year or multiple times.

The number of homeless veterans and chronically homeless has decreased by more than 20 percent.

The number of homeless children, though, has nearly doubled since 2010.

Poverty, of course, is the great driver of homelessness.

Homeless children are typically part of a family headed by a single mother in her 20s without much education and frequently out of a job.

Many mothers avoid going to shelters for as long as possible because they don't want to expose their children to shelter life or they are afraid the family will be split up.

"They are the group at greatest risk," DeCandia said.

If you factor in in the lack of reasonably priced housing, then you will find that vulnerable families easily "topple over the cliff," DeCandia said.

A 2014 report found that a full-time worker earning minimum wage able is unable to afford a one- or two-bedroom apartment.

"People are surprised that (homelessness) impacts children so much," said Patricia Nix-Hodes, director of the Law Project at the Chicago Coalition for the Homeless.

"It tends to be less visible.

People call it the hidden homelessness.

People aren't literally on the street.

They may be living place to place in some precarious situation, doubled up or living in a shelter."

According to the NCFH report, homeless kids are more likely to be hungry or sick and be mentally ill.

They are more likely to struggle in school, miss classes, repeat grades and eventually drop out.

Fifty-one percent of kids without a permanent home are under age 6.

About 25 percent of homeless preschoolers and 40 percent of homeless school-age kids have mental health conditions, and kids without homes are more likely to be beaten, said Barbara Duffield.

She is with the National Association for the Education of Homeless Children and Youth (NAEHCY).

Some homeless youth are on their own, while others are separated from their families who also are homeless.

By law, federally funded shelters can't turn away families with boys older than 10 or 12.

Privately funded shelters can and do turn them away, breaking up families, leaving teens to fend for themselves.

Over the past few years, Nix-Hodes of the Chicago homeless coalition said she's seen child homelessness in the city skyrocket.

Last school year, nearly 60,000 school children in Illinois were identified as homeless, double the number in 2008-2009 school year.

The federal Education Department reports that more than 1.1 million homeless children went to public schools during the 2011-2012 school year "We're seeing this dramatic and shocking increase year after year," Nix-Hodes said.

There is not enough money for housing or for schools to provide all the educational and mental health services the children need.

The states that are more successfully reducing child homelessness, including Utah and Connecticut, coordinate services for families.

They also have a state plan to combat the problem and a state housing fund.

"This report is a call to action for states," said Richard Bloom, a California State Assembly member who would like to see more comprehensive efforts to address child homelessness in California.

"We need to focus resources on the very at risk children.

We are going to be creating the next generation's chronically homeless populations if we don't address their needs now."

At the federal level, advocates for child homelessness are pinning their hopes on the Homeless Children and Youth Act.

If passed, the law would enable HUD to redefine homelessness to include more children and youth.

The recent economic downturn has changed who is homeless in America," said NAEHCY's Duffield.

"The problem is, HUD's definition hasn't changed with it."

