Some parents aren't happy about their children's homework.

Some say there's too much homework.

Other parents say their kids get too little homework.

Tom Loveless knows a lot about how schools work.

He asked many students about how much homework they have.

He created a report of his findings.

Loveless says one thing is confusing people: Some parents are being heard more than others.

More parents think there is too little homework.

But parents who think there is too much homework are more upset.

For that reason, they get most of the attention.

News stories about children with too much homework are real, he says.

But these cases are not common.

There is one important thing to realize, though: The amount of homework can be very different from school to school.

Take these three Pittsburgh Public Schools students: Imani Downing attends Pittsburgh Perry High School.

She said she rarely gets homework.

When she does get homework, it's usually in just one class.

"I feel like we should have homework in every class," Downing said.

That would allow for "more learning."

It would give students "a better chance to understand things."

Amma Ababio attends Pittsburgh Allderdice High School.

She has much more homework than Imani.

She does her homework from about 5 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. She even does homework while she eats dinner.

"I have homework in every single class," she said.

Jermalle Johns attends Pittsburgh Obama 6-12.

He is in between the other two.

He figures he spends "maybe an hour on homework tops."

Hearing from those three students tells us something: Some students have more homework than others.

It all depends on what school they go to.

Loveless also tried to answer another question: Do students work more than they used to?

Do they work more than students did 20 or 30 years ago?

He doesn't think so.

Loveless looked at earlier studies of homework.

These studies were done in 1984, 1986, and 2012.

Students were asked how much time they spent on homework.

It turns out there's not much difference between the 1980s and now.

The truth, Loveless says, is this: Students today don't have more homework than they used to.

