Hong Kong pro-democracy activists occupied major streets Monday, forcing the closure of some schools, banks and other businesses.

Due to the demonstrations, government officials said they would cancel a major annual fireworks celebration — China's equivalent of the Fourth of July.

Hong Kong, a longtime British territory, came under Chinese rule in 1997.

The transfer of power included an agreement, known as "one country, two systems," which gave Hong Kong residents more freedoms than people in mainland China.

Communist authorities in Beijing essentially agreed to allow the territory of 7 million people a high degree of self-rule for 50 years, except for matters of national security.

On Sunday, police fired 87 rounds of tear gas at protesters at nine locations, but backed away from clashing as directly with demonstrators on Monday.

Thousands of activists took to the streets in neighborhoods on both sides of Victoria Harbor Monday.

They sat down in intersections and set up barricades.

The Chinese government had warned that the demonstrations could cause serious damage to Hong Kong's economy and reputation as a stable Asian financial hub.

However, the city's stock exchange seemed largely unaffected, falling less than 2 percent.

Some workers went on strike, including some social workers and employees at Swire Coca-Cola Hong Kong.

A number of businesses opened late or closed early.

In many parts of the city, though, commerce continued as usual.

No one seemed sure what would happen next.

In part, this is because the demonstrations have become unplanned and have attracted a wide cross section of participants.

Without a strong, close-knit group of leaders directing things, "it's very difficult to predict" how the situation will evolve, said Chi-Keung Choy, a professor of international politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

He said the pro-democracy protests have moved beyond the movement started by a group called Occupy Central, which is pushing for more democracy in Hong Kong.

Choy said that government officials in Beijing and Hong Kong will need to extend a significant olive branch to get marchers off the streets.

"They need to have major concessions from the government.

No one can convince them, unless the government makes big concessions," he said.

The demonstrations began in response to new rules imposed by the mainland Chinese government over the summer.

The rules would limit voters' choices in Hong Kong's 2017 election for chief executive, the territory's top official, to candidates approved by the Chinese government.

But underlying the unrest is unhappiness in Hong Kong over a range of issues.

These include high housing prices, a growing income gap  and an influx of mainland visitors whose customs and habits have struck locals as unsophisticated.

In addition, many of the youths who make up a forceful part of the demonstrators have little sense of connection to mainland China.

Instead, they embrace a strong identity as Hong Kongers.

Western governments are concerned about the situation in Hong Kong, although they have been careful about showing support for the demonstrators.

Some pro-Beijing media outlets have suggested that leaders of some of the protest groups have links to "black hands" abroad — including even the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).

Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, warned Monday that foreign interference in the situation was unwelcome by Beijing.

"Hong Kong belongs to China.

Hong Kong affairs are purely China's domestic affairs," she said in Beijing.

"We strongly oppose any countries interfering or supporting Occupy Central by any methods.

We wish these countries to be cautious."

The U.S. consulate general in Hong Kong said the U.S. "strongly supports Hong Kong's well-established traditions and Basic Law protections of internationally recognized fundamental freedoms."

These include freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression and freedom of the press.

It encouraged all sides to exercise restraint and said the U.S. does not take sides.

But some Hong Kongers are calling for greater expressions of support from overseas.

A group of Hong Kong-based employees of Apple wrote to Chief Executive Tim Cook, calling for active support of the civil disobedience campaign.

Hong Kong has a rich tradition of protests, but demonstrations are typically well organized and calm, with people marching along pre-planned routes with official permits.

The free-form and unpredictable nature of the last few days of protests have surprised local residents.

It has also spurred many of them into the streets to stand with the protesters.

"It's shocking to see armies of police equipped with tear gas guns, rifles and batons," said Nan Hie In, who joined demonstrators Sunday night.

"For a second I thought: Are we in Syria or Hong Kong?"

After Jerry Ip, 25, and a few friends were tear-gassed by police, he said, "I felt like I'd die."

Even so, Ip said he would not give up because "we're fighting for the future of Hong Kong.

This is our homeland."

After the clashes between police and protesters Sunday night, Hong Kong government officials sought to take a gentler approach.

Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying appeared on television, promising that police would treat protesters respectfully.

He also said that he hoped people would "keep calm."

Leung had said over the weekend that local officials would soon launch a new round of talks over the 2017 election rules.

But on Monday, his administration backed away from any specific timeline.

It said the climate was not right and that the government would ask for public comment at a later date.

A group of protesters gathered outside the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Monday afternoon.

They urged office workers to show support for the demonstrations after business hours.

"Hong Kong people are not going to take this lying down," said local legislator Alan Leong.

"This is a people's movement."

