Thousands of protesters took to the streets of Hong Kong Monday, calling for free elections.

The demonstrations forced schools, banks and other businesses to close.

Government officials said they would cancel a major annual fireworks celebration on Wednesday.

The holiday marks the founding of China.

Hong Kong is a territory of 7 million people, located on China's south coast.

Long ruled by the British, it was transferred to Chinese control in 1997.

The Communist Chinese government promised Hong Kong more freedom than people in mainland China under a system it called "one country, two systems."

The demonstrations began after China announced new election rules at the end of the summer.

The rules would limit voters' choices in the 2017 election for Hong Kong's top official.

Only candidates approved by the Chinese government would be able to run.

People in Hong Kong are unhappy over other issues, as well.

These include high housing prices and a growing income gap between the rich and poor.

In addition, young protesters don't feel connected to mainland China.

Instead, they feel a strong sense that they are Hong Kongers.

On Monday, protesters demonstrated in neighborhoods throughout Hong Kong.

They sat down on roadways and blocked streets.

Police backed away from clashing directly with demonstrators.

On Sunday, police had fired 87 rounds of tear gas at protesters.

Tear gas is a chemical that irritates the eyes.

It is used to break up protests.

The Chinese government had warned that the demonstrations could cause serious damage to Hong Kong businesses and its image.

Some workers refused to work in support of the protesters.

Also, a number of businesses opened late or closed early.

In many parts of the city, though, businesses continued as usual.

No one seemed sure what would happen next.

The protests are not planned and a wide variety of people have joined them.

Without a group of leaders directing things, "it's very difficult to predict" what will happen, said Chi-Keung Choy.

He is a professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

The protests were started by a group called Occupy Central.

Choy said the protests have become much more widespread.

Choy said that government officials will need to give in to many of the protesters' demands to get them off the streets.

Western governments are concerned about the situation in Hong Kong.

But they have been careful about showing support for the demonstrators.

Hua Chunying is a spokeswoman for the Chinese government.

She warned other countries not to interfere.

"Hong Kong belongs to China," she said.

"We strongly oppose any countries interfering or supporting Occupy Central by any methods.

We wish these countries to be cautious."

Some Hong Kongers, though, want greater support from overseas.

A group of Hong Kong-based employees of Apple wrote to Chief Executive Tim Cook, calling for his support of the demonstrations.

In Hong Kong, demonstrations are usually well organized and calm.

The free-form nature of the protests have surprised people.

It has also encouraged many of them to stand with the protesters.

"It's shocking to see armies of police equipped with tear gas guns, rifles and batons," said Nan Hie In.

He joined demonstrators Sunday night.

"For a second I thought: Are we in Syria or Hong Kong?"

After 25-year-old Jerry Ip and a few friends were tear-gassed by police, he said, "I felt like I'd die."

Even so, Ip said he would not give up because "we're fighting for the future of Hong Kong.

This is our homeland."

Hong Kong's government has tried to calm the situation.

Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying promised that police would treat protesters with respect.

He also said that he hoped people would "keep calm."

Leung had said that local officials would soon hold talks over the 2017 election rules.

On Monday, though, his government would not say when this would take place.

He added that the government would ask for people's thoughts at a later date after the protests calm down.

Hong Kong lawmaker Alan Leong said people were not going to be happy about this.

"This is a people's movement," he said.

