Extending their protests into the workweek, Hong Kong democracy activists continued occupying major thoroughfares Monday, forcing the closure of some schools, banks and other businesses in the semi-autonomous Chinese territory.

Due to the demonstrations, government officials said they would cancel a major annual fireworks celebration scheduled for Wednesday — China's equivalent of the Fourth of July.

After firing 87 volleys of tear gas at protesters at nine locations on Sunday evening, police backed away from engaging as directly with the demonstrators during the daytime on Monday.

Thousands of activists took to the streets in neighborhoods on both sides of Victoria Harbor, sitting down in intersections and setting up barricades.

Despite warnings that the demonstrations could cause serious damage to Hong Kong's economy and reputation as a stable Asian financial hub, the city's stock exchange seemed to take the day's activities in stride, falling less than 2 percent.

Some workers went on strike, including some social workers and employees at Swire Coca-Cola Hong Kong.

A number of businesses opened late or closed early, but in many parts of the city, commerce continued as usual.

No one seemed sure what would happen next — in part because the movement has become diffuse and spontaneous, attracting a wide cross section of participants.

Without a cohesive group of leaders directing things, "it's very difficult to predict" how the situation will evolve, said Chi-Keung Choy, professor of comparative politics at the Chinese University of Hong Kong.

"It is no longer a movement initiated by (the group) Occupy Central, or the student strike.

It became a self-initiated movement," he said.

Government officials in Beijing and Hong Kong will need to extend a significant olive branch to get marchers off the streets, he added.

"They need to have major concessions from the government.

No one can convince them, unless the government makes big concessions."

The demonstrations have burst forth in response to new rules imposed by mainland Chinese authorities that would limit voters' choices in Hong Kong's scheduled 2017 election for chief executive, the territory's top official.

But underlying the unrest is unhappiness in Hong Kong over a range of issues, from high housing prices and a growing income gap to an influx of mainland visitors whose customs and habits have struck locals as uncouth.

In addition, many of the youths who make up a forceful component of the demonstrators have little sense of connection to mainland China and instead embrace a strong identity as Hong Kongers.

Hong Kong, a longtime British territory, reverted to Chinese rule in 1997 under a Basic Law that embraced a framework known as "one country, two systems."

Communist authorities in Beijing essentially agreed to allow the territory of 7 million a high degree of self-rule for 50 years, except for matters of national security.

The situation in Hong Kong has drawn the concern of Western governments, but they have been measured in their expressions of support for the demonstrators.

Some pro-Beijing media outlets have insinuated that leaders of some of the protest groups, including a student movement known as Scholarism and another organization called Occupy Central With Love and Peace, have links to "black hands" abroad — including even the CIA.

Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs, warned Monday that foreign interference in the situation was unwelcome by Beijing.

"Hong Kong belongs to China.

Hong Kong affairs are purely China's domestic affairs," she said in Beijing.

"We strongly oppose any countries interfering or supporting Occupy Central by any methods.

We wish these countries to be cautious."

The U.S. consulate general in Hong Kong said the U.S. "strongly supports Hong Kong's well-established traditions and Basic Law protections of internationally recognized fundamental freedoms, such as freedom of peaceful assembly, freedom of expression, and freedom of the press."

But it encouraged all sides to exercise restraint, adding: "We do not take sides in the discussion of Hong Kong's political development, nor do we support any particular individuals or groups involved in it."

But some Hong Kongers are calling for greater expressions of support from overseas.

A group of Hong Kong-based employees of Apple wrote to Chief Executive Tim Cook, calling for active support of the civil disobedience campaign.

"The people of Hong Kong are now under the violent treatment of the Central government, while fighting for the human rights and democracy of Hong Kong," they wrote.

They asked Apple, as "the most humanized and the most respectful company, to support and help our civil disobedience campaign, and also to respond to the fight of Hong Kong people."

Hong Kong has a rich tradition of protests, but demonstrations are typically well organized and calm, with people gathering in designated parks and marching along pre-planned routes with official permits.

The free-form and unpredictable nature of the last few days of protests have surprised local residents — and spurred many of them into the streets in solidarity.

"It's shocking to see armies of police equipped with tear gas guns, rifles and batons," said Nan Hie In, who joined demonstrators on the streets Sunday night.

"Amid the madness, the crackling sounds from police firing tear gas and the protesters running away to evade the chemical haze, for a second I thought: Are we in Syria or Hong Kong?"

After he and a few friends were ambushed inside a public square in Central by police with a volley of tear gas, Jerry Ip, 25, said, "I felt like I'd die."

Even so, Ip said he remained undaunted because "we're fighting for the future of Hong Kong.

This is our homeland."

After the tear-gas confrontations Sunday night, Hong Kong government officials sought to take a more conciliatory approach.

Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying appeared on television after midnight, promising that police would use "maximum discretion" and saying that he hoped people would "keep calm" and not be misled by "rumors."

Leung had said over the weekend that local officials would soon launch a new round of consultations over the 2017 election rules.

But on Monday, his administration backed away from any specific timeline, saying that the climate was not right and that authorities would solicit public input at a later date when the atmosphere was more conducive.

At a gathering outside the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on Monday afternoon, a group of protest supporters urged office workers to show support for the demonstrations after business hours.

"Hong Kong people are not going to take this lying down," said local legislator Alan Leong.

"This is a people's movement."

