Isaac Doss sits outside on a warm night.

He takes a puff from a large water pipe and breathes out clouds of smoke.

Doss has been smoking hookah for years.

He started smoking tobacco using a water pipe when he was an 18-year-old college student.

"I smoked every weekend.

I never considered how bad it would be for me," Doss said.

Hookah bars are getting more popular among young people.

About 1 in 5 students smoked hookah in the past year, say medical researchers.

Another survey found that more high school seniors are smoking hookah.

The dangers of cigarettes are well known.

But many young people don't realize that smoking out of a hookah, or water pipe, is just as dangerous, experts say.

To smoke a cigarette, the user lights the tobacco on fire and inhales the smoke directly.

With a hookah, a charcoal brick lights the tobacco.

The smoke passes through a water bowl before the user inhales it through a tube.

Both cigarettes and hookah involve smoking tobacco.

Both put dangerous chemicals into the body.

Scientists have found that hookah can actually deliver more toxic chemicals than cigarettes.

Dr. Thomas Eissenberg has done many studies on water pipe smoking.

"There is no reason to believe that a water pipe is less dangerous than a cigarette," he says.

"In fact, depending on some of the toxins, there is reason to believe it is more dangerous."

Smoking hookah one time can deliver 1.7 times the nicotine, 6.5 times the carbon monoxide, and 46 times the tar of a single cigarette.

Nicotine is the addictive chemical in tobacco.

It's what makes people want to keep smoking.

Carbon monoxide can cause brain damage and even death.

Tar contains carcinogens, which cause cancer.

Packs of cigarettes have labels like "SMOKING KILLS" and "SMOKING CAUSES LUNG CANCER."

There are no warnings at hookah bars.

"If you go into a water pipe bar, there is nothing that tells you it's dangerous," Eissenberg says.

Young people may think "It doesn't say it's dangerous, so it must be safe," he said.

But smoking tobacco out of a hookah is definitely not safe, recent science has shown.

Hookah smoke has higher levels of dangerous substances like arsenic, tar and carbon monoxide.

Because hookah smokers inhale longer and harder than cigarette smokers, more carcinogens and nicotine can enter their lungs.

One puff on a hookah can produce as much smoke as a whole cigarette.

Smoking hookah for 45 minutes gives off the same amount of nicotine and tar as a pack of cigarettes, says Eissenberg.

There are 20 cigarettes in a pack.

"If you aren't a cigarette smoker because you know cigarettes are dangerous, then there is absolutely no reason to be smoking a water pipe," he says.

"Water pipe smoking will kill you also."

Dr. Mark Millard saw the results of hookah smoking first-hand.

He was a doctor in the Middle East, where people have been smoking hookah for more than 400 years.

He once treated a woman who had a bad cough.

"She was smoking every night for an hour," he says.

"That is quite a lot.

I told her to get rid of her hubbly bubbly (hookah).

Nicotine is the addictive factor.

It makes people want to come back for more.

People can get addicted to hookahs, and it does affect your health."

Farhad Ata owns Kush Hookah Lounge, where Doss was smoking.

He has been running this business for five years, and smoking hookah his entire life.

Still, he knows smoking hookah is not healthy.

"It is still tobacco, no matter what, even if it is flavored," Ata said.

"Your lungs are meant for air.

Any type of smoke is not good for you, whether it's cigarettes or hookah."

