SHINGTON - Wild horses are being offered for auction this weekend in Fort Worth, Texas, as part of a desperate effort by a federal government that cannot figure out what to do with them.

These horses are descended from the steeds of Spanish explorers, Native Americans, U.S. cavalry and ranch strays.

The Interior Department has taken nearly 50,000 wild horses off their Western rangelands.

It pays private ranchers to put them in corrals and pastures, largely in Kansas and Oklahoma.

More of America's wild horses are now in holding facilities than roaming the wild.

These government roundups have outraged wild horse advocates.

The Bureau of Land Management says the roundups are needed.

The agency, which is responsible for 264 million acres across the United States, says the swelling horse populations are too much for the wild range to sustain.

The supporters of wild horses say that this is not true.

They argue that it is really about favoring the interests of ranchers whose cattle and sheep graze upon the public lands.

Everyone agrees the situation cannot go on.

The Bureau of Land Management is running out of space in the holding facilities and cannot find more.

At the same time, the cost to taxpayers of the wild horse program has nearly doubled in the past four years to $75 million, with more than half going to holding costs.

Meanwhile, government budgets are being cut.

"There is no quick fix," said BLM spokesman Tom Gorey.

"The options are limited because we're not going to put down healthy horses for which there is no adoption demand, even though the law authorizes it."

The Bureau of Land Management could find homes for only about 2,600 wild horses and burros last year.

That is less than half than in 2005.

Arranging adoptions has become harder with the rough economy, as horses are considered a luxury item, Gorey said.

There is also a glut of cheap domesticated horses on the market since the closure of the nation's last horse slaughterhouse six years ago, he said.

Such domesticated horses tend to be more attractive to buyers than the Interior Department's untrained wild horses, Gorey said.

The Bureau of Land Management pays the Mustang Heritage Foundation $3.75 million to train some of the wild horses and put them up for auction, a program that led to 868 of the adoptions last year.

The foundation is in the midst of an adoption event at the John Justin Arena in Fort Worth, with 150 of the horses going up for bid Friday and the same number Sunday.

The average sale price is under $500.

Adoptions last year, though, accounted for just 5 percent of the wild horses in government-funded holding facilities.

The Bureau has a board that advises it on wild horses and burros.

It said the number of horses being held has ballooned to the point that it "threatens the health and welfare of the horses and the entire program."

The board recommended removing female reproductive organs of mares in the field as a population control method.

The BLM is considering it, but wild horse advocates call the procedure cruelly invasive and unnecessary.

The Bureau should instead balance wild horses with the livestock.

It could also have vaccines to prevent pregnancies in horses if necessary, said Suzanne Roy, campaign director of the American Wild Horse Preservation Campaign, based in Hillsborough, North Carolina.

"You have wild horses on about 11 percent of BLM land.

But even on that small percent the BLM still allocates most of the forage resources to privately owned livestock," Roy said in an interview this week.

"You'll have management areas with the annual equivalent of 1,000 cows and 100 horses, and when the horse population reaches 125 BLM says the horses are overpopulating.

What we really have is an overpopulation of cattle and sheep on our public lands."

A National Academy of Sciences study on the wild horse problem is coming out next month and will heavily influence the debate.

Among the issues covered are population control methods and the controversial question of how the Bureau of Land Management decides how many horses a piece of land can sustain.

But the BLM's Gorey said the study would not give any easy answers.

The fertility control efforts used so far have limited effectiveness, he said, and herds can double in size every four years.

If the bureau cannot find places for the horses, that could mean limited roundups and "deterioration of the range, which is going to be unacceptable for most people that care about public lands," Gorey said.

