The four horses had not been visited in weeks.

There was no water in their buckets, no hay in their stalls.

All of the animals looked dangerously thin.

The horses' caregiver had stopped showing up.

So even though the horses were not hers, Joyce Benes, the stable owner, fed them her own hay.

But with hay prices as much as five times higher than usual because of last year's drought, she could not afford to do so forever, she said.

Desperate, Benes called the Illinois Department of Agriculture in January for help, and then waited, she said.

And waited.

"I must've jumped up and down for two weeks," Benes said.

"I said, 'I can't have you do this.

I can't have you step in when they die.

You need to step in now.'"

On Feb. 15, the state took two of the abandoned horses.

It sent the other two back to their original owners.

They were unaware that the woman hired to care for the animals had disappeared, said Jeff Squibb, spokesman for the Agriculture Department.

State officials said the case was given top priority.

The response, they said, was as timely as possible for an agency with five investigators covering animal abuse and neglect complaints in 102 counties.

But some horse rescue operators say a perfect storm of high hay prices, a bad economy and ineffective government oversight has created a crisis.

Dozens – perhaps hundreds – of horses and other large animals have been abandoned or neglected with no consequences for the owners, according to several horse rescuers.

"It's pretty rough out there right now," said Tony Pecho, president of Illinois Horse Rescue of Will County, who estimates that 35 to 50 abandoned horses are running free near his organization's base in Beecher, Illinois.

"I'm very, very worried about it."

Horse rescue organizations have picked up abandoned horses on the side of the road and roaming through suburban neighborhoods.

Their shelters are crowded to capacity with sometimes three times as many horses as usual.

Rescuers have had to turn away new ones, they said.

Several county animal control departments in the Chicago area say that they have tried to cope with an unusually high number of horse abandonment cases.

But the calls have to be handled by staff and facilities mostly equipped to deal with cats and dogs.

"I can't keep a horse on this property," said Julie Boudreau of the Kankakee County Animal Control and Adoption Center.

"I don't really know of any animal control agencies that have the ability to care for all species of animals."

In the past six months, the Kankakee center has received at least a dozen calls asking for help with horses hit by cars, running at large or suspected of being neglected, she said.

"I can only hope that it's not going to get worse," Boudreau said.

According to the state's Humane Care for Animals Act, cases of abuse or neglect can be investigated in several ways.

County animal control departments have the power to give fines and work with owners on improving care.

Staff and volunteers of rescue organizations also may be approved by the state to handle abuse and neglect calls.

Similarly, sheriffs' and police departments can investigate cases and have the power to seize animals when an owner is arrested.

But short of an arrest, permission to remove animals must come from the Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Animal Health and Welfare, said Dr. Mark Ernst, the state veterinarian.

After ensuring that the owners had an opportunity to correct problems, state officials must agree that the animal should be seized, a policy that protects owners as much as the animals, Squibb said.

"These are the same laws that prevent the Department of Agriculture from kicking in your front door and taking your dog or cat," he said.

Budget cuts in the last six years, however, have made it a challenge to handle neglect calls, state and local animal welfare officials acknowledge.

In 2002, the Bureau of Animal Health and Welfare had 32 employees compared with 12 now.

The bureau's budget was slashed from $7 million to $4.6 million in the same time period, Squibb said.

Today, five investigators handle animal complaints from across the state, with each responsible for as many as 15 counties.

Last year, 969 neglect complaints were made to the bureau, Squibb said.

Investigators are responsible for other duties, including inspecting 2,500 pet shops, kennels, stables and other places licensed to hold animals.

They also monitor the movement of all animals to be sure diseases are not introduced to the state.

"Everyone's resources are stretched thin, and there's a limit to what we can provide," Squibb said.

"If that's not good enough for people, I suggest they contact their lawmakers and tell them to start providing additional resources."

