SHINGTON – The Federal government will be trying to sell wild horses at auction this weekend in Fort Worth, Texas.

It is a desperate effort, because the government cannot figure out what to do with the animals.

These horses are related to the steeds of Spanish explorers, Native Americans, U.S. cavalry and ranch strays.

The Interior Department has taken nearly 50,000 wild horses off their Western rangelands and paid private ranchers to put them in corrals and pastures.

Those are mostly in Kansas and Oklahoma.

More of America's wild horses are now in holding facilities, rather than running wild.

The roundups have outraged wild horse supporters.

The Bureau of Land Management says the roundups are needed.

The agency is responsible for 264 million acres across the United States.

It says the horse population is too big for the wild land to sustain.

The supporters of wild horses say that this is not true.

They argue that the government is really favoring the interests of ranchers whose cattle and sheep graze on the public lands.

Everyone agrees the situation cannot go on.

The bureau is running out of space in the holding facilities.

It cannot find more.

At the same time, the cost to taxpayers of the program has nearly doubled in the past four years to $75 million, with more than half going to pay for holding the animals.

Meanwhile, government budgets are being cut.

"There is no quick fix," said bureau spokesman Tom Gorey.

The bureau has limited options.

It will not kill healthy horses if nobody wants to adopt them, even though the law says it can, he said.

The Bureau of Land Management could find homes for only about 2,600 wild horses and burros last year.

That is less than half than in 2005.

Arranging adoptions has become harder with the rough economy.

Horses are considered a luxury item, Gorey said.

There's no shortage of cheap non-wild horses on the market since the closure of the nation's last horse slaughterhouse six years ago, he said.

Such domesticated horses tend to be more attractive to buyers than the Interior Department's untrained wild horses, Gorey said.

The Bureau of Land Management pays the Mustang Heritage Foundation $3.75 million to train some of the wild horses and put them up for auction.

That program led to 868 of the adoptions last year.

The foundation is holding another adoption at the John Justin Arena in Fort Worth, with 150 of the horses going for bid Friday and the same number on Sunday.

The average price is less than $500.

Only 5 percent of the wild horses that the government was caring for were adopted last year.

The Bureau has a board that advises it on wild horses.

It said the number of horses being held has gotten so big that it "threatens the health and welfare of the horses and the entire program."

The board recommended removing female reproductive organs of mares in the field to limit the number of horses.

The bureau is considering it, but wild horse groups call the procedure cruel and unnecessary.

The groups say the bureau should instead balance the number of wild horses with the cattle and sheep.

It could also have vaccines to prevent pregnancies in horses if necessary, said Suzanne Roy, campaign director of the American Wild Horse Preservation Campaign.

"You have wild horses on about 11 percent of BLM land.

But even on that small percent the BLM still allocates most of the forage resources to privately owned livestock," Roy said in an interview this week.

"You'll have management areas with the annual equivalent of 1,000 cows and 100 horses, and when the horse population reaches 125 BLM says the horses are overpopulating.

What we really have is an overpopulation of cattle and sheep on our public lands."

A report on the wild horse problem is coming out next month and will heavily influence the debate.

It will discuss ways to control the population and the touchy question of how the Bureau of Land Management decides how many horses a piece of land can handle.

But the bureau's Gorey said the study will not give any easy answers.

The efforts to control horse breeding used so far have had limited results, he said.

Herds can double in size every four years.

If the bureau cannot find places for the horses, that could mean limited roundups and "deterioration of the range, which is going to be unacceptable for most people that care about public lands," Gorey said.

