The U.S. government plans to capture more wild horses this summer and take them off the land in the West.

But even though it will take fewer horses than last year, animal supporters are not happy.

The Bureau of Land Management said that it would remove 1,300 horses in the coming months.

Many of the horses might otherwise die.

They do not have enough food or water, the government said.

The announcement comes even though the agency has run out of room to house the horses.

Animal supporters say 1,300 horses are still too many.

They do not believe the bureau is doing this to help the horses.

Horse supporters say that the agency is really helping ranchers.

The ranchers own cattle and sheep that eat grass on the land.

The BLM is in charge of huge areas of land across the United States.

The total number of acres it manages is almost as much land as Texas and Montana put together.

Nine of the BLM's 16 summer roundups will happen in Nevada.

The agency said it would move 50 wild horses two hours north of Nevada.

The horses are threatened by drought.

BLM officials said some animals that are suffering might have to be killed.

The bureau has been closely watching the drought.

Since early July, it has been filling tubs and troughs with water.

It has also been putting out hay for the horses.

But the animals are extremely nervous.

They will not drink from the man-made containers.

"Horses will die," BLM spokesman Tom Gorey said.

"It's not going to be pretty."

People have criticized the BLM for how it has managed the wild horses.

The animals have been blamed for damaging the land.

But there are many more cattle grazing on the land than there are horses.

Scientists looked at the agency's horse roundups.

They said the agency should spend money to cut down on the number of mustangs being born.

It should also let nature thin the herds.

It should not spend millions to house horses in crowded holding pens, the scientists said.

In June, 30 congressmen asked Sally Jewell to change the government's wild horse management program.

She is the new Interior Secretary.

She is in charge of the BLM.

The bureau plans to remove 4,800 mustangs from the range over 12 months.

Those 12 months end in September.

That is down from 8,255 in the last year, Gorey said.

The American Wild Horse Preservation Campaign group criticized the BLM's plans.

"The BLM is galloping ahead with rounding up more wild horses," said spokeswoman Suzanne Roy.

The government is doing this even though it costs taxpayers a lot of money, she said.

The scientists said the BLM should stop, she added.

Six of the Nevada roundups will use helicopters to push the animals to pens.

The rest will use bait and water to trap them.

Sally Summers is the founder of Horse Power.

The group wants to stop horses from being captured.

She said the BLM plans to put water traps in an area that would make it hard for people to see what the bureau is doing.

"They want to do what they do in secrecy," she said.

Gorey said the critics were wrong.

They think it is okay if the horses starve or die from thirst, he said.

If the government tries to save the horses, that is bad, he said.

"Where is the reasoning in that argument?

I don't see it," he said.

