Horticulture experts usually prefer to gush about the beauty of flowers and the joys of growing vegetables.

So when six of the most important people in the field made a warning, the words were shocking: "Horticulture is under siege."

They were worried that horticulture, the study of plants, is in trouble.

So the six wrote an alarming letter in December.

It went to 800 schools and universities, government agencies, business associations, and growers of everything from almonds to onions to zucchini.

The letter warns that something must be done soon to boost the ranks of plant scientists, breeders, students, and others in the field.

Or else, it said, horticulture could become a lost art and a forgotten science.

It outlined a plan of action.

"Think of all the careers horticulture is competing against," said Paul B. Redman, director of Longwood Gardens in Kennett Square, Pa..

He is a strong supporter of the four-year campaign outlined in the letter, which calls for: A scientific study of the problem so that horticulture experts can prove what they already believe to be true, that not enough people are getting into the field; A plan outlining how horticulture can be woven into lessons in grades K-12 and promoted at colleges: Raise public awareness of horticulture's importance.

Inform people about careers in horticulture.

"We have to come up with a game plan.

Period," said Redman, who has been in horticulture for 30 years.

By the book, horticulture is the art and science of growing fruits, vegetables, flowers and ornamental plants.

But Mary H. Meyer, a horticultural science professor at the University of Minnesota and a major force in the campaign, said people don't really understand what being a horticulturist means.

She described the mistaken impression people have.

"It's a guy with a pickup truck and a lawn mower, a low-paying job requiring manual labor and no college degree," Meyer said.

She is also president of the American Society for Horticultural Science.

Horticulture offers many career opportunities, she said.

She ticked off a few, including plant breeding, greenhouse and food production, and the cut-flower, landscape and nursery industries.

There's also caring for public gardens, parks and sports turf.

And there are many fields of research for people who are interested in plants, including global climate change, plant pests and diseases, water quality, biofuels, and food safety.

They can even study how plants benefit people's minds and bodies.

This crisis is not unique to the United States.

While teaching in England over the summer, Meyer discovered that the world's horticultural powerhouse was facing the same concerns.

So much so that the Royal Horticultural Society decried in a report in May that there were not enough skilled professionals in horticulture jobs.

It called the situation "alarming."

Horticulturists in both countries say the crisis has been building for years.

It's been greatly influenced by globalization, which means that people can buy food and flowers from distant parts of the world.

Further, the population shift from farm to city, and the loss of a personal connection to the land, have added to the crisis.

Matthew Bond, 21, a plant sciences major at Cornell University, found his future the old-fashioned way.

He grew up in farm country in Ogdensburg, N.Y., where his father and grandmother were enthusiastic gardeners.

Bond, an officer of the National Junior Horticultural Association since 2009, is worried that the group's membership has plummeted from 1,000 in the '60s to half that number 15 years ago to 300 today.

He suggests today's heavily scheduled kids have little time for hobbies like gardening.

"They don't even go outside," he said.

But Bond said there are signs that horticulture may be getting some much-needed energy.

He pointed out interest among young people in farming in cities.

More young people are also interested in organic food production, a method that involves avoiding the use of chemicals.

Pauline Hurley-Kurtz, who chairs the landscape architecture and horticulture program at Temple University, says student interest in traditional horticulture is holding steady.

That includes ornamental shrubs, trees and plants.

Giving her hope, she said, is that practical courses have become extremely popular in the last two or three years.

Among them: growing food, native plants, restoring landscapes, the study of trees in cities, and even beekeeping.

A challenge is getting people interested in horticulture early, said Jessica McAtamney, who teaches environmental science and gardening in cities at W.B.

Saul High School in Philadelphia.

"There's nothing sexy about plant science until you make it so for kids," she said.

But, McAtamney added, "Once you do, they're hooked."

Hydeia Brown, 17, from Philadelphia's Germantown, could be the poster child for an idealized horticultural future.

There would not only be more practitioners but more diversity, too.

An environmental science major in Saul's horticulture program, Brown wants to make a career out of plants.

"I love science," she said in a phone interview from Morris Arboretum in Philadelphia.

Her class was photographing and cataloging the Latin botanical names of pitch pine, American holly, and other trees.

Brown, whose family left their South Carolina farm to move north before she was born, wishes "other kids would come out and experience this.

Not a lot of them know about the outdoors.

They like electronics and stuff like that."

Douglas C. Needham, education department head at Longwood, said, "I'm passionate about this.

I don't want to see the art, science, and craft of horticulture die out."

