"Go," the teacher said, and Ashley Jackson grabbed her orange weights.

She lifted them above her head and then lowered them.

When the teacher said "switch," she immediately began doing jumping jacks.

Ashley is only 10.

She is part of a Kids' Boot Camp at Memorial Hospital West in Miami.

The program is aimed at getting kids in shape at an early age.

For Ashley, the class helps her achieve her goal.

She wants to lose weight so her clothes will fit.

"I have some clothes I stretch out," she said.

"It's tiring, but it's fun."

Several other hospitals also offer programs to help children stay healthy.

The idea is to encourage healthy eating and exercise early on.

Developing good health habits as kids helps prevent health problems as they get older.

According to the government's Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, one out of every three children are obese.

Obese means having too much body fat.

Twice as many children are obese than 30 years ago, the CDC reports.

For teens, that number is four times.

"It's a serious problem and can only get worse," said Dr. William Muinos.

He heads the Weight Management Program at Miami Children's Hospital.

"It's all about health."

Muinos sees about 30 children every Friday.

He works to create a plan for each child based on age, height and body mass index (BMI).

BMI measures the amount of body fat based on a person's height and weight.

Muinos said he has worked with children who have had to lose more than 100 pounds.

He tries get the children to understand the importance of losing weight.

But the family also must go along with the plan.

Parents need to feed their kids fruits and vegetables.

Television and computer time should be limited.

"A child cannot do it by themselves," Muinos said.

Muinos starts by encouraging kids to eat more vegetables and less starchy foods, like potatoes and bread.

He then puts the kids are on a "doable" exercise plan.

The plan may include anything from walking to going to the gym.

"We have to make sure it's something a child will stick with," he said.

Most kids have to completely change their behavior.

They have to start eating healthy.

They also need to cut down on television and video games.

Jose Carlos Sanchez is 14.

When he met Muinos, he weighed nearly 250 pounds.

Already, he has lost about 20 pounds.

"I feel much better about myself," Sanchez said.

"I have a lot more energy."

His mom is happy her son's weight is under control.

"I see a big change in him," she said.

Miami Children's Hospital has a program for overweight Latina teen girls.

The program includes exercise.

It also teaches the teens to cook healthy food.

At the University of Miami hospital, overweight children are put on a special plan.

It includes healthy eating and exercise.

The first three months are the most strict, said Dr. Tracie Miller.

"The idea is to go hard and fast in the beginning," Miller said.

"Really, the hardest part is just getting started."

But having fun is important, Miller said.

At the boot camp, the kids didn't realize how hard they were working.

Rickey Dickenson teaches the class.

He tries to make it like a club.

He plays popular music and games.

The kids work out with hula hoops, sliders, weights and balls.

"I make it a rock star-type atmosphere and the kids get into it," he said.

"By the end of the class they are all sweating."

Viana Espinal is 7.

She said she "feels good" about herself.

"I worked hard," she said, her face red from the workout.

