Ed Currie spent four years working on his newest food creation.

He gave it to a friend to sample.

"He took a bite and fell to his knees and threw up, so I knew I had something," Currie said.

Currie's creation was a chili pepper — the spiciest chili pepper in the world.

It's called Smokin' Ed's Carolina Reaper.

He created the Reaper by combining two other extremely hot peppers using a process called crossbreeding.

They were a Soufriere pepper from the Caribbean island of St. Vincent and a Naga pepper from Pakistan.

It took Currie 12 years of crossbreeding peppers before he finally reached the top of the pepper world.

He tested hundreds of combinations before he found one hot enough to take the world record.

One year ago, Guinness World Records certified the Carolina Reaper as the hottest pepper in the world.

To compare the heat of peppers, scientists use the Scoville heat scale.

It's named after Wilbur Scoville, an American pharmacist who invented the scale in 1912.

Non-spicy peppers like bell peppers have 0 Scoville heat units (SHUs).

Spicy jalapeños might reach 10,000 SHUs.

The Carolina Reaper?

It has 1.56 million SHUs.

The previous world-record holder, the Trinidad Scorpion Butch T from Australia, came in at 1.46 million SHUs.

Chemists at Winthrop University in South Carolina have been measuring the heat of Currie's peppers for years.

One scientist's opinion of the Reaper: "Too darn hot for me to taste," said Cliff Calloway, a chemistry professor at Winthrop.

Calloway has tested the Reaper for more than five years.

It's the hottest pepper he's ever seen — even the smell of the pepper was too hot for him, Calloway said.

The human body's response to the chemical "heat" from the Reaper is the same as if it were burned with a match, Calloway said.

Currie explained that the chemical compound in peppers, called capsaicinoid, attach to taste buds.

"It tricks the body into thinking it's being burned," he said.

"Your body signals that as heat."

To celebrate the one-year anniversary of his Guinness World Record victory, Currie recently ate a whole Carolina Reaper.

He said he eats eight to 10 extremely hot peppers every day.

"Agh ...

I'm ... losing ... the ... ability ... to ... talk," Currie said, gasping.

His throat was on fire.

His face was blood red.

His eyes watered.

He swallowed the rest of the Reaper and gulped down cold water.

"Eating them whole like that is just stupid," he said.

Currie, 51, first became fascinated with crossbreeding plants when he was a boy in Michigan.

He read library books about plants and read gardening magazines ordered by his mother, a master gardener.

When he got older, Currie began to grow peppers after he read that they might reduce the risk of heart attacks and cancer, two diseases that run in his family.

In 2001, Currie moved to South Carolina and began working at a bank.

He made salsas and hot sauces at home from peppers he grew in his yard.

His spicy peppers helped him meet his wife, who loves salsa.

She convinced him to sell his salsas rather than giving them away to friends and neighbors.

Currie then opened a small booth at a flea market.

Two years ago, he opened a store in Fort Mill.

He quit his bank job to dedicate himself full-time to his company.

Today, Currie's company is 8 years old.

It sells salsa, hot sauce, chili seeds, chili jellies, chocolates, peanut brittle and brownies to customers worldwide.

For now, the Carolina Reaper is officially the world's hottest pepper.

Still, Currie has even hotter peppers that he's holding back.

In case anyone breaks his record, he's ready to take it right back.

Currie has one top secret pepper that he says reaches 2.83 million SHUs in scientific lab testing.

The new pepper "tastes awful," Currie said.

"It has a few seconds of flavor, and then the heat builds and builds and just doesn't let up."

After eating one, Currie was in pain for 40 minutes, he said.

He woke up hours later at 2 a.m. with terrible stomach cramps.

Currie has eaten about 50 of the super-hot secret pepper.

Why?

"I'm stupid," he said.

