American high school graduates don't understand the ideas of freedom and equality, and where in our history they came from.

These principles are essential to our government and our democracy.

If kids don't learn them now, how will they believe in them as adults and defend them?

Many people are quick to blame teachers for the problems with America's schools.

The National Assessment of Educational Progress has shown that many students are not even mastering the basics of U.S. history and government.

For example, the most recent NAEP U.S. history exam was in 2010.

It found just 12 percent of all U.S. high school seniors score at or above the "proficient" level.

Being "proficient" means having a solid understanding of a subject.

In other words, only 12 in 100 students understood the test and did well.

In civics — the subject of U.S. government — the test scores were somewhat better.

Still, slightly less than one-fourth of all high school seniors performed at or above the "proficient" level.

Most of them did not understand the questions that were on the test or did not do well.

We often hear about the need to improve education in the STEM subjects.

These are science, technology, engineering and math.

But American students perform worse on American history tests than in any other subject.

It's unfair to blame America's 125,000 social studies teachers, however.

I've been with the Ashbrook Center at Ashland University in Ashbrook, Ohio, for 17 years.

In that time, about 8,000 teachers from across the country have participated in our educational programs.

I've met many teachers.

I know from first-hand experience they're not the problem.

The problem is the way teachers are trained.

Teachers spend too much time learning how to teach and not enough time learning what to teach.

Without a major change in how teachers are taught, America will continue down the same path.

We'll continue to raise generation after generation of students who do not understand what it means to be an American.

These kids will think freedom of speech means the right to take "selfies."

They'll believe freedom of religion means removing religion from public life.

Our Founding Fathers are already commonly referred to as dead old white men.

Someday people may think they're completely unimportant.

They also may end up thinking Washington and Lincoln as having something to do with Presidents Day, a holiday for shopping.

They might just think the Fourth of July is a day for fireworks and a cookout.

Teaching government and history involves more than just significant names, dates and events.

It involves more than just knowing a little about a handful of historically significant documents.

Teachers need a deep understanding of the Declaration of Independence, which helped the United States separate from Britain.

They need to know the Bill of Rights, which covers the rights of all Americans and makes up part of the Constitution, and the Emancipation Proclamation, which freed slaves.

To successfully teach U.S. history and government our teachers need to rely less on textbooks.

Instead, they should rely more on the writings and thinking of those who shaped our country.

Consider civil rights.

The changes in America's mind, heart and laws over time on the subject of racial equality didn't happen by accident.

That's why we urge teachers to closely study the writings of the people who shaped America's thinking.

This would include, for example, Frederick Douglass' 1852 speech, "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?"

It would also include Lincoln's famous Emancipation Proclamation, Gettysburg Address, and "Resolution Submitting the Thirteenth Amendment (outlawing slavery) to the States."

It would include the texts of the U.S. Supreme Court's key decisions that ended the separation of blacks and whites, known as desegregation.

Martin Luther King's 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech would of course also be present.

Teachers who understand the importance of such documents and use them in the classroom will be better teachers.

Their students will learn more.

And they'll be better prepared for the responsibilities of citizenship as adults.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Roger L. Beckett is executive director of the Ashbrook Center at Ashland University, Ashland, Ohio.

Readers may write him at Ashbrook Center at Ashland University, 401 College Avenue, Ashland, Ohio 44805.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

Every citizen in a democracy must be knowledgeable in civics and history.

That information is necessary to fully understand national issues as well as global affairs.

However, high school schedules are already crowded with classes.

Stuffing in more American history and civics classes is exactly the wrong way to accomplish that mission.

Increasing the classes required in the nation's high schools likely would mean even more force-feeding information to our nation's youth.

They're already swallowing a diet of information that promotes a liberal Democratic viewpoint, decided upon by agencies like the U.S. Department of Education and state education departments.

Teaching teenagers to be better citizens should be left to parents and other family members, and the local schools.

Even community groups such as the Boy or Girl Scouts of America and the Rotary Club would do a better job than government agencies.

Instead, history and government courses are too often taught in public schools as a series of human rights abuses.

Typically, classes teach about the U.S. crimes against Native Americans, Mexicans, African-Americans, immigrants and women.

Don't get me wrong.

I'm not suggesting schools should teach a form of patriotism that cuts out all the bad things that America has done.

By all means we should recognize the mistakes our government makes.

But we should also recognize that our founders were wise and exceptionally well-educated.

They created a system of government that was self-correcting.

Although it is often late, our country has continued to correct past mistakes over its 239-year history.

It leads to a better nation — a more perfect union.

Unfortunately, forcing more American history and civics classes on today's restless students likely will only decrease their understanding.

If they're developed by Washington then they'll be even worse.

A glaring example is the community service required of students in about 83 percent of the nation's public school districts.

The requirement violates our Constitution's declaration of individual freedom.

It forces students to spend numerous hours each month away from the classroom.

They have to do public service projects like recycling and cleaning up trash in poor neighborhoods.

Some even are being made to attend re-education sessions to ensure they are learning liberal ideas.

Now there's even a push to require all high school seniors to pass the same citizenship test required of immigrants to America.

But why?

More than 90 percent of recent high school students have spent a semester studying civics.

In addition, a majority have spent a year studying American history.

As Peter Levine of Boston's Tufts University points out: "Requiring students to pass a citizenship exam will reduce both the amount and quality of civic education in our schools."

The problem with civics is not that we fail to teach it, he says.

"The problem is that civics is often viewed as a set of disconnected facts," he said.

It is not taught as "a challenging and inspiring subject that will continue to interest us after high school."

He's right, of course.

And that's exactly why school programs for American history should be designed in towns and cities, not by our national government.

In the Baltimore area, where I live, local history becomes even more fascinating when linked to the nation's history.

Consider just a few: the discovery of Chesapeake Bay by Captain John Smith; the founding of the Baltimore railroad that allowed early pioneers to head west; the bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812 that inspired the National Anthem; and Baltimore's key role in the Civil War.

And on and on.

Applied across the U.S., this approach can make history come alive.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Whitt Flora, an independent journalist, is a former chief congressional correspondent for Aviation &amp; Space Technology Magazine and a former White House correspondent for the Columbus Dispatch.

Readers may write him at 319 Shagbark Road, Middle River, MD 21220-3903.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

