U.S. high school graduates don't understand the principles of freedom and equality essential to American government and the historical roots of these principles.

If this continues, how can we expect them to share these principles as adults and defend them?

Many people are quick to blame teachers for the problems facing America's schools.

And the problems should be obvious.

The National Assessment of Educational Progress has shown consistently that many students are not even mastering the basics of U.S. history and government.

For example, the most recent NAEP U.S. history exam, in 2010, found just 12 percent of all U.S. high school seniors scoring at or above the "proficient" level.

The Institute of Education Sciences describes being "proficient" as the level representing "solid academic performance."

In other words, less than 12 percent of high school seniors understood the questions on the test.

In civics — the subject of U.S. government — the test scores were somewhat better.

Still, slightly less than one-fourth of all high school seniors reached the "proficient" level.

We often hear about the need to improve education in the STEM subjects of science, technology, engineering and math.

But American students perform worse on American history tests than in any other subject.

It's unfair to blame America's 125,000 social studies teachers, however.

In the 17 years I've been with the Ashbrook Center at Ashland University in Ashbrook, Ohio, some 8,000 teachers from across the country have participated in our educational programs.

So I've interacted with many teachers.

I know from first-hand experience they're not the problem.

The problem is the way teachers are trained.

Teachers spend too much time learning how to teach, and not enough time learning what to teach.

Without a major change in how teachers are taught, America will continue down the same path.

We'll continue to raise children who do not understand what it means to be an American.

These kids will equate freedom of speech with "selfies" and believe freedom of religion requires removing religion from public life.

Our Founding Fathers are already belittled in popular culture as dead old white men.

Someday they may think them completely unimportant.

They also may end up associating Washington and Lincoln as having something to do with Presidents Day, a holiday when everybody goes shopping.

Or The Fourth of July might just be considered a good time for fireworks and a cookout.

Teaching government and history involves more than just significant dates and events and connecting them with names.

It involves more than a basic familiarity with a handful of historically significant documents, such as the Declaration of Independence, Bill of Rights and Emancipation Proclamation.

To successfully teach U.S. history and government teachers need to rely less on textbooks.

Instead, they should rely more on the writings and thinking of those who shaped our country.

Consider civil rights.

The changes in America's mind, heart and laws over time on the subject of racial equality didn't happen by accident.

That's why we urge teachers to deeply read the writings of those people who shaped America's thinking.

This would include, for example, Frederick Douglass' 1852 speech, "What to the Slave is the Fourth of July?"

It would also include Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation, Gettysburg Address and "Resolution Submitting the Thirteenth Amendment (outlawing slavery) to the States."

It would include the texts of the U.S. Supreme Court decisions regarding desegregation in Plessy v. Ferguson (1896) and Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka (1954).

Teachers should also have a deep understanding of Martin Luther King's 1963 "I Have a Dream" speech.

Teachers who understand the importance of such documents and use them in the classroom will be better teachers.

Their students will learn more.

And they'll be better prepared for the responsibilities of citizenship as adults.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Roger L. Beckett is executive director of the Ashbrook Center at Ashland University, Ashland, Ohio.

Readers may write him at Ashbrook Center at Ashland University, 401 College Avenue, Ashland, Ohio 44805.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

It's obvious that every citizen in a democracy must be knowledgeable in civics and history.

That basic information is necessary to fully understand what happens in our nation and around the world.

However, high school schedules are already crowded with classes.

Stuffing in more American history and civics classes is exactly the wrong way to accomplish that mission.

Beefing up those areas in the nation's high schools likely would mean even more force-feeding our nation's youth.

They're already swallowing a politically correct diet of information decided upon by agencies like the U.S. Department of Education and state education departments.

Teaching teenagers to be better citizens would be better left to parents and other family members, and local schools.

Even community organizations such as the Scouts and Rotarians would do a better job than government agencies.

Instead, history and government courses are too often taught in public schools as a series of human rights abuses.

Typically classes teach about the U.S. crimes against Native Americans, Mexicans, African-Americans, Irish and Italian immigrants, and women.

Most recently, we've been hearing about the treatment of lesbian, gay and transgender communities.

Don't get me wrong.

I'm not suggesting schools should teach a censored form of patriotism that presents an America free of all its warts.

By all means we should recognize our flaws at home and mistakes abroad.

But we should also recognize that our founders were wise and exceptionally well-educated.

They created a system of government that corrects itself.

Although it is often done late, our country has continued to correct past mistakes over its 239-year history.

It leads to a more perfect union.

Unfortunately, imposing more American history and civics classes on today's restless students likely will only make things worse.

If they're developed by Washington then they'll be even worse.

A glaring example is the community service requirement now imposed on students in about 83 percent of the nation's public school districts.

The requirement violates our Constitution's declaration of individual freedom.

It forces students to spend numerous hours each month away from the classroom.

They have to do public service projects like recycling, clean up trash in poor neighborhoods and even attend re-education sessions to ensure they are marching in step with the views of Democrats.

Now there's even a push to require all high school seniors to pass the same citizenship test required of immigrants to America.

This despite the fact that more than 90 percent of recent high school students have spent a semester studying civics and a majority have spent a year studying American history.

As Peter Levine of Boston's Tufts University points out: "Requiring students to pass a citizenship exam will reduce both the amount and quality of civic education in our schools."

The problem with civics is not that we fail to teach it, he says.

"The problem is that civics is often viewed as a set of disconnected facts, not as a challenging and inspiring subject that will continue to interest us after high school."

He's right, of course.

And that's exactly why school programs for American history should be made in towns and cities, not our national government.

In the Baltimore area, where I live, local history becomes even more fascinating when linked to the nation's history.

Consider just a few local events: the voyages of discovery and mapping of Chesapeake Bay by Captain John Smith; the founding of the Baltimore railroad that allowed early pioneers to head west; the bombardment of Fort McHenry during the War of 1812 that inspired Francis Scott Key to write the National Anthem; and Baltimore's key role in the Civil War.

And on and on.

Applied across the U.S., this approach can make history come alive.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Whitt Flora, an independent journalist, is a former chief congressional correspondent for Aviation &amp; Space Technology Magazine and a former White House correspondent for the Columbus Dispatch.

Readers may write him at 319 Shagbark Road, Middle River, MD 21220-3903.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

