The U.S. high school graduation rate has inched up to 82 percent and the achievement gap between white and nonwhite students has narrowed, according to new federal data.

Despite these improvements, education officials and others remain concerned.

They worry that progress is too small and that too many students still are not getting a diploma.

The latest figures released in mid-December by the Education Department showed wide differences in graduation rates according to where students live.

Leading the way was Iowa, with a graduation rate of nearly 91 percent.

The District of Columbia had the lowest rate: 61 percent.

For the nation, the graduation rate for the 2013-14 school year was up almost a percentage point from 81 percent the previous year.

The rate was the highest since the department started using a new, uniform measure in 2010.

Education Secretary Arne Duncan praised the new numbers as encouraging, saying the progress was real and powerful.

Duncan cited three-year graduation rate numbers that show solid improvement for African-American and Hispanic students and English language learners.

Progress by all three groups outpaced progress among English-speaking white students.

Still, nearly 1 in 5 students are leaving high school without a diploma.

"We have a good deal more to do to ensure that every child has access to a quality education," Duncan said in a phone call with reporters.

Though showing progress among subgroups of students, the latest figures drew concern from groups campaigning for a 90 percent graduation rate by 2020.

To reach that goal, the rate will need to increase each year by at least 1.3 percent.

The nation met that mark for three school years in a row starting in 2010, but missed it for the 2013-14 school year.

John Bridgeland, head of the public policy group Civic Enterprises, called the new data "a real wake-up call" and "an early warning indicator to the nation.

" Civic Enterprises is taking part in the "90 percent" campaign, along with the Alliance for Excellent Education, America's Promise Alliance, and the Everyone Graduates Center at Johns Hopkins University.

Bridgeland praised the gains made by English language learners, African-American and Hispanic students, and students with disabilities.

However, he said those gains are "not rapid enough to close these graduation gaps in a way that will get us to our goal" of a 90-percent national graduation rate.

The data showed that African-American and Hispanic students made progress in closing the achievement gap with white students.

About 72 percent of African-American students and 76 percent of Hispanic students earned diplomas in 2013-2014.

For white students, the rate was 87 percent.

Vast differences exist across the country at the state level.

Nebraska, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Texas, New Hampshire and Indiana were close behind Iowa, all with solid showings in the high 80s.

At the bottom of the list were Nevada and New Mexico, just ahead of the nation's capital.

The graduation rate is calculated by using a formula in which the number of graduates in a given year is divided by the number of students who enrolled four years earlier.

In 2008, the George W. Bush administration ordered all states to begin using this method, moving to a calculation that required them to track each student individually.

The new method gives a more accurate count of how many students actually finish high school.

