When it comes to hunting, Illinois already takes several steps to preserve what is known as "fair chase," or giving animals a chance against hunters.

The state bans using bait to lure wildlife, dogs to kill and certain lights to see animals at night.

Now to those and other do-nots, a state lawmaker would like to add one more: drones, or unmanned aircraft, that might be used to track or even kill animals.

State Senator Julie Morrison introduced legislation this month that would bar the use of drones to hunt and fish.

The proposed law would build on existing Illinois law that prohibits using drones to interfere with hunters or fishermen and restricts their use by law enforcement.

Morrison decided to propose the legislation after talking to officials at the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.

If it passes and becomes a state law, it would make it illegal to use a drone to kill fish or any species of wildlife protected by Illinois law.

Chris Young, a spokesman for the department, said the Illinois conservation police have not yet received complaints or reports of anyone using drones while hunting.

Young described the legislation as "a proactive measure."

The goal is to get ahead of any potential problems, as drones have now become more affordable to people.

Young said he could envision hunters using drones to drive wildlife to them or to locate wildlife beforehand and then go to that spot to hunt.

"So the use of drones would basically reduce the element of fair chase, which is an important principal of hunting," Young said.

Other states, including Montana, Alaska and Colorado, have already restricted the use of drones in hunting.

The moves have been widely embraced by animal-rights activists and hunters in those states.

John Bostic, who owns a business guiding hunters, has been hunting for more than 40 years.

He said he favors banning the use of drones in Illinois.

"I believe in doing things the old way, and it's not hunting to me if it's too easy," Bostic, 56, said.

"Get out and do your legwork, that's what hunting is about."

Linda Estrada, director of Animal Welfare League in Chicago Ridge, Illinois, said she also agreed with banning drones to hunt.

"The animal wouldn't have a chance whatsoever," she said.

Some hunting guide businesses, however, are in favor of being able to use drones to scout for animals.

Scouting involves exploring a possible hunting area ahead of time to gather information on animal whereabouts, herd or flock sizes and best spots to hunt from.

Currently in hunting, that is the most likely use for a drone.

The aircraft can be outfitted with video equipment to transmit images and information from the wilderness back to an operator flying the drone by remote control from the ground.

Jason Parent, a New Hampshire state legislator who owns a hunting guide service, has been a vocal proponent of being able to use drones for scouting in his state.

He said using drones to scout would potentially be good for business, saving customers time and money and increasing the chances of coming into contact with animals.

He likened using drones for scouting to other devices.

Parent said hunters already use stand-alone cameras to watch for animal activity and tree stands that allow hunters to see an area from a better point.

"Tell me, where does the cheating start?"

he said.

As written, Morrison's legislation would not prohibit the use of drones to scout for animals before hunting, according to officials at the Department of Natural Resources.

But Morrison said that was her intent and that, if needed, she would "amend the legislation so that it speaks directly to that."

Young said the department is in favor of adding details to the legislation that would ban scouting with drones within 24 hours of hunting.

Under that framework, drone scouting would still be allowed outside that time period as long as it was not being used to bother wildlife, he said.

In keeping with the fair-chase doctrine, Illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places; having dogs pursue, bother or kill deer; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night; baiting deer and turkey; and shooting most birds when they are not flying.

Using any computer software or service to remotely control a weapon that takes wildlife is also banned.

Morrison said she also plans to consider an amendment to allow the use of drones to hunt or fish for invasive species like Asian carp, that take over land or bodies of water and kill native species.

Some have thought that existing Illinois law restricting the use of vehicles already prohibited drones in hunting.

Young said the legislation would clarify the issue.

"This would be specific to unmanned vehicles pursuing animals," he said.

Morrison's legislation would allow the Department of Natural Resources to take away drones that are used for hunting.

The hunter could be charged with a crime for breaking the law.

