Ice fishing has come a long way.

Once, the ice fisherman sat hunched over on a frozen lake.

He waited for hours in the cold, watching as his hole in the ice froze shut.

Now that fisherman is more likely to be sitting comfortably in a heated and well-lit fishing shelter.

Fishing holes are usually power-drilled.

They used to be made by hand.

And that fisherman — or angler, as they're often called — is likely to have a flasher that goes off when a fish is coming near.

Is it any wonder that ice fishing is becoming more popular?

"It's because it got nice," said Russ Francisco of Marine General Supply in Duluth, Minn. "We have nice equipment now.

Tents became warmer.

Rods and reels are high-quality.

It's fun to go now."

Ice fishing used to mean plenty of suffering.

Now it has become downright cozy.

These days, there is a lot of fancy new ice-fishing gear.

Many ice-fishing shelters are now made with sled bases.

The top folds into the sled, along with bait buckets, rods, tackle and heaters.

Other shelters snap open easily and pack down small.

And rods and reels are getting better.

It is expensive to get started in ice fishing.

But the sport is still a bargain compared with summer fishing.

"It's way cheaper than summer fishing," said Mike Reedy of Northwest Outlet in Superior, Wis. "You don't have to get a boat."

And, said ice-fishing promoter Ron Murphy, "You can do it as a family."

He owns Shamrock Productions in Burnsville, Minn.

In Minnesota, the winter fishing season is now as popular as the summer season.

And that's saying something in such a fish-crazy state.

"It is equal to the summer fishing in dollars and cents," Francisco said.

"Every time I say that on the radio or somewhere, people question me, but it's true.

There's a lot of people who just ice fish."

Scott VanValkenburg of Fisherman's Corner in Pike Lake, Minn., agrees.

"December and January are every bit as busy as June and July," he said.

According to Francisco, taking kids out on the ice is more practical than taking them out in a boat in the summer.

"They can run on the ice," he said.

"Part of fishing is running around with other kids.

If someone else catches a fish, they can all run over to see it."

And there's always a warm shelter waiting.

The other reason that ice fishing is popular here is that the fishing is good.

"We're lucky here," VanValkenburg said.

"We've got wonderful bluegill fishing, crappie fishing and, of course, walleye fishing."

Anglers have a good shot at catching big walleyes in the harbor, where the fish run up to 30 inches or longer.

"When the harbor freezes, to us, that's just like summer, like the opener," Francisco said.

"Big walleyes is what they're looking for."

Beyond that, anglers can also catch Kamloops rainbow trout and coho salmon.

And if they're lucky, they can catch big lake trout in Lake Superior.

"People come from all over just to say they've stood on Lake Superior and fished," Francisco said.

"They come from Iowa, Indiana, the Dakotas and mostly from the Twin Cities."

