Julia Lipnitskaia stepped onto the Olympic ice Sunday.

The 15-year-old, 5-foot-2 Russian figure skater captured the audience with her artistry, flexibility and blurring spins.

When the music stopped, and she had landed the last of her 10 jumps, a mesmerized crowd was on its feet applauding.

The crowd, which included Russian President Vladimir Putin, whistled and chanted, 'Yu-li-a!

Yu-li-a!'

and "Russ-ee-ya!

Russ-ee-ya!''

The Sochi Olympics had found its ice princess.

The event was team figure skating.

One female skater, one male skater, one pair of figure skaters and an ice dancing team from the same country all skate.

Their scores are added up to see which country has the best team.

The male skater for Russia was Evgeni Plushenko.

He is a three-time Olympic medalist and 2006 champion.

He had hurt his back earlier this year but he still skated very well.

The crowd roared when he landed his quadruple toe jump.

That's where he jumps into the air and spins four times before landing.

They went crazy when he lifted his finger to his lips to quiet them down.

He was a controversial pick to the Olympic team because of his back troubles.

But he proved he can still jump, even though he was limping a bit afterward and said his back was not fully recovered.

"I skated for my kids, my wife, and my country,'' he said.

Lipnitskaia admitted she was worried about skating after Plushenko.

His fans threw him flower bouquets and stuffed animals.

There were so many that it took 12 young skaters to go around the ice and pick them up.

"I was a bit nervous skating after Evgeni because I didn't want to let the team down,'' she said.

"He was very happy for me at the end and congratulated me in the kiss and cry (area).

My main motivation today was not to let the team down."

Lipnitskaia made her team proud, helping them win a gold medal for Russia.

Canada won the team silver on Sunday and the United States took the bronze.

It was Russia's first gold of these Games.

The gold medal also made Lipnitskaia the youngest person ever to win a gold medal at the Winter Olympics.

She is six days younger than American figure skater Tara Lipinski was when she won her gold medal in 1998.

Lipinski won the medal when she was 15 years old at the Nagano Olympics in Japan.

Lipnitskaia posted the highest women's score in the short and long program over the past three days.

She made herself a clear possible winner of the gold medal in next week's women's singles event.

Russia has a long history of winning pairs, ice dancing and men's skating.

But no Russian woman has ever won in singles.

She had a hard time explaining how it felt to skate so well on the world's biggest stage.

"I don't know how to explain the feeling I had out there,'' she said.

"I'm very happy to have helped win the first gold medal for Russia.

I got nervous in the middle of the program, I'm not sure why, it's completely unlike me, so the jumps weren't great in the second half, I didn't feel totally comfortable.

The jumps didn't feel like mine at that point.

I wouldn't say I got tired, but some errors still crept in.

But even with some flaws it was OK.'' Russian and non-Russian skaters gushed over the young talent.

"A young genius,'' said Russian ice dancer Ekaterina Bobrova.

"She was incredibly composed,'' said U.S. skater Ashley Wagner.

"She's like a wise 40-year-old woman trapped within a 15-year-old's body.

Honestly, it is very inspiring to see someone so young so composed.''

Fellow American Gracie Gold added: "She's only 15.

She's completely unfazed.

She's got no spine, but she's got iron in her bones."

