Julia Lipnitskaia stepped onto the Olympic ice Sunday in red.

The 15-year-old, 5-foot-2 Russian figure skater captured the eye as she skated to music from the film "Schindler's List."

She leaped out from her competition with overwhelming artistry, flexibility and blurring spins.

When the music stopped, and she had landed the last of her 10 jumps, a mesmerized crowd was on its feet applauding.

The crowd, which included Russian President Vladimir Putin, whistled and chanted, 'Yu-li-a!

Yu-li-a!'

and "Russ-ee-ya!

Russ-ee-ya!''

The Sochi Olympics had found its ice princess.

Lipnitskaia had already announced her arrival with a spellbinding short program in the opening team competition Saturday night.

But now the new girl from Russia's Ural Mountains had won the team gold medal for Russia.

The team figure skating competition adds up scores from one female skater, one male skater, a pair of skaters and an ice dancing team.

Ten countries compete against each other.

The team gold medal was the host nation's first gold of these Games, and Lipnitskaia became the youngest athlete ever to win a gold medal at the Winter Olympics.

She is six days younger than Tara Lipinski, another figure skater with a similar last name who also won gold at an early age.

Lipinski is an American skater who won at 15 in Nagano, Japan, in 1998.

Canada won the team silver on Sunday.

The United States took bronze with an upbeat, flawless first-place performance from ice dancers Charlie White and Meryl Davis.

Another teenager, 18-year-old Gracie Gold, performed an elegant Sleeping Beauty routine.

Lipnitskaia posted the highest women's score in the short and long program over the past three days.

She firmly established herself as a gold medal contender in next week's women's singles event.

Despite Russia's long tradition in winning pairs, ice dancing and men's skating, no Russian woman has ever won in singles.

This time, it looks like the Russian team is loaded in all fields.

In the team event, Lipnitskaia and the Russian pairs team won.

Three-time Olympic medalist and 2006 champion Evgeni Plushenko brought the house down on Sunday after recovering from a hurt back earlier this year.

Known for his soaring jumps, power, and his charisma, the 31-year-old had the crowd in the palm of his hand.

They roared when he landed his quadruple toe jump, and went nuts when he lifted his finger to his lips to quiet them down during his performance.

He was a controversial pick to the Olympic team because of his injury troubles last year.

But he proved he can still jump – though he was limping a bit afterward and said his back was not 100 percent.

"I skated for my kids, my wife, and my country,'' he said.

His coach, Alexei Mishin, said: "Evgeni has charisma and power.

Maybe somebody does not like him, but the majority loves him and respects him.

The minority is jealous.''

Lipnitskaia admitted she was apprehensive about skating after Plushenko.

His adoring fans showered him with so many flower bouquets and stuffed animals that it took 12 young skaters to shuffle around the ice and pick them up.

"I was a bit nervous skating after Evgeni because I didn't want to let the team down,'' she said.

"He was very happy for me at the end and congratulated me in the kiss and cry (area).

My main motivation today was not to let the team down."

She had a hard time articulating how it felt to skate so well on the world's biggest stage.

"I don't know how to explain the feeling I had out there,'' she said.

"I'm very happy to have helped win the first gold medal for Russia.

I got nervous in the middle of the program, I'm not sure why, it's completely unlike me, so the jumps weren't great in the second half, I didn't feel totally comfortable.

The jumps didn't feel like mine at that point.

I wouldn't say I got tired, but some errors still crept in.

But even with some flaws it was OK.'' Other skaters, Russian and non-Russian, gushed over the young talent.

"A young genius,'' said Russian ice dancer Ekaterina Bobrova.

"She was incredibly composed,'' said U.S. skater Ashley Wagner.

"You felt the audience when she stepped out on the ice, so for her to go out and put out such a solid performance at 15 is impressive.

Granted, we've been backstage with her and she doesn't seem 15 to us at all.

She's like a wise 40-year-old woman trapped within a 15-year-old's body.

Honestly, it is very inspiring to see someone so young so composed.''

Gold added: "She's only 15.

She's completely unfazed.

She's got no spine, but she's got iron in her bones."

Lipnitskaia will travel to Moscow on Monday and begin training Tuesday for the women's singles competition.

The U.S. skaters are also planning to leave Sochi and train in several undisclosed European locations.

Skating competition continues Tuesday with the pairs short program.

The men begin on Thursday and the women Feb. 19.

