At first, the ALS Association didn't have big hopes for its ice bucket challenge.

It was just a fun way to raise money for the fight against Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS.

Better known as Lou Gehrig's disease, ALS affects the brain and spine.

In many cases, it causes death within five years.

As it turned out, the ice bucket challenge has been incredibly successful.

As a result, groups raising money for other causes are rethinking how they do things.

Many are now trying to come up with other ways to connect with younger people online.

Since July 29, the ALS Association has raised more than $53.3 million.

The ice bucket challenge is now one of the most successful fundraising ideas in history.

It has been very viral: that is, knowledge of it has spread rapidly, from person to person, on the Internet.

Thousands of people have posted videos of themselves getting buckets of ice water dumped over their heads.

They challenge others to do the same — or to give money to the ALS Association.

Many famous people have taken part.

For example, both Taylor Swift and Oprah Winfrey have taken the challenge.

Brian Mittendorf is an expert on raising money.

The ice bucket challenge, he says, has shown it's OK to be silly for a good cause.

The challenge, he said, is "something that's fun that people can do ... People are taking part in it and then" giving money.

Even the ALS Association is surprised at how successful the challenge has been.

"We had no idea it would get to this point," said ALS Association member Carrie Munk.

The challenge's success has demonstrated something important, Munk said: The average person can "really make a difference."

Lucretia Gilbert runs a group called the Pink Agenda.

Its purpose is to raise money to help fight a deadly disease: breast cancer.

She thinks the great success of the ice bucket challenge will get other groups thinking.

She said they will start trying out new ways to raise money.

Gilbert said they will be particularly interested in social media.

Social media is a term for websites and apps that encourage people to connect.

Through them, people share thoughts or information.

Examples include Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.

The ice bucket challenge, Gilbert said, is "a very simple thing and that's kind of the beauty of it.

Everyone can do this challenge."

Mindy Bailey works for a group called JDRF.

Her group raises money to fight the disease Type 1 diabetes.

Volunteers, she said, want to come up with an idea that will make people want to give money to her group.

"We have had a lot of people reach out to us," Bailey said.

They say, "Hey, we're going to do the ice bucket challenge" for your group.

"Recently we had a woman say, 'I'm thinking of doing a pie-in-your-face idea.'"

Still, not everyone is a fan of the ice bucket challenge.

According to Cameron Mitchell of New York, it's too much of a gimmick.

What's more, he said, it's more about the person taking the challenge than it is about fighting the disease.

To him it feels like people who take the challenge are saying, "Look at me.

Pay attention to me."

Whether they are annoyed or impressed, people are talking about the ice bucket challenge.

Even if they don't give money, Munk says, they learn more about the disease.

Just a few years ago, she said, only one in two Americans knew what ALS is.

"We're really looking forward" to seeing how much that changes, she said.

