ME, Alaska – Each year, teams of dogs and their drivers race across Alaska.

They travel nearly 1,000 miles.

The race is called the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race.

The drivers are called mushers.

The mushers race to see who can make it to Nome first.

Nome is a town in Alaska.

Nome is getting ready for the race.

It is a small town.

But it is famous for being the finish line.

On Sunday, workers set up the finish line.

They brought snow in trucks.

They will build a path out of snow for the sleds.

About 200 volunteers came to Nome to help set up the finish line.

Bill McCormick volunteered for his first Iditarod in 1998.

He has been back every year since.

"I like being part of putting something on," McCormick said.

His volunteer job is to test the dogs for drugs.

"I enjoy the people.

It's like family now."

Jeff King was leading the race on Sunday.

He has won the Iditarod four times.

He was ahead of Aliy Zirkle by 20 minutes.

Aliy was in the lead earlier.

Jeff might win.

He won the race in 2006.

He is trying to win five races.

If he succeeds, he will be only the second musher to do so.

Aliy might win.

She won second place for the past two years.

She is trying to become the third woman to win.

Martin Buser might win.

He has won four times.

Or Dallas Seavey might win.

He won the Iditarod in 2012.

Nina Cross came all the way from Mississippi.

She watched the start of the race last year.

She fell in love with it.

She decided she needed to see the finish, too.

Nina read about the 1925 "serum run" as a child.

A serum is a medicine.

In 1925, towns in Alaska needed the serum to cure diphtheria.

Diphtheria is an infection.

Lots of people were sick.

Twenty mushers and 150 dogs traveled more than 600 miles.

They delivered the serum to Nome.

It cured the sickness.

The mushers and their dogs rescued several towns.

Nina thought Nome was a magical place.

"It never occurred to me that I would get there some day.

So, for me to be here is a real event in my life," she said.

And she loves the dogs.

"Any dogs that can laugh when they run, with their tongues hanging out, they got my heart right now," Nina said.

The race began on March 2.

It started with 69 teams.

By Sunday, 16 mushers had dropped out.

That left 53 teams in the race.

The first team to reach Nome wins $50,000 and a new truck.

The teams after that win smaller prizes.

