Lizbeth Mateo crossed into the United States with her mother from Mexico at age 10.

They had to sneak over the border because they had no papers to allow them entry.

Today she's 29 and ready to study law.

On Sunday she paid for her course at Santa Clara Law School, before classes start next month.

On Monday, she emailed the school.

"I'm letting them know I may not make it in time," she said.

The reason for her delay: On Monday she flew to Mexico.

She was protesting the thousands of people who have been removed from the U.S. in the last five years as the government tries to fix the immigration system.

Mateo and two other young people who came to the U.S. without permission as children went to the U.S. border in Nogales.

They asked to come in with legal permission.

Another 30 protesters showed up at the U.S. border.

Six other immigrants who went back to Mexico more than a year ago joined in.

They were all picked up and questioned.

Activists who spoke to their lawyer said that they would be held while their request was waiting to be heard.

Immigration officials wouldn't comment on Monday's events.

They have said before that people had to meet immigration rules to enter the country.

The protest draws attention to children who came to the country illegally.

Many grew up and went to school in the U.S. Mateo graduated from California State University, Northridge.

They want to stay connected to their past without fear of losing their futures in the U.S. Congress is working on a bill that might affect about 11 million people who entered the country without the proper papers.

Mateo and other protesters want to remind lawmakers and the public about the people who have already been deported out of the country.

In 2007 there were 300,000 immigrants sent back to their home country.

That number jumped to nearly 400,000 in 2011.

"We should not forget the people who have been deported," Mateo said.

Marco Saavedra, 23, of New York and Lulu Martinez, 24, of Chicago joined Mateo.

Both came to the United States when they were 3 years old.

Saavedra said his grandfather lives in Mexico.

He must make a dangerous trip across the border when he wants to visit relatives in the U.S. "Why does it have to be almost a death sentence every time he wants to go see his daughters?"

Saavedra asked.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez walked from Nogales, Mexico to Nogales, Ariz. in graduation caps and gowns.

Five other immigrants came along, also dressed for graduation.

Four of them had left the U.S. years ago on their own because life had become too difficult.

The fifth was deported.

"They are insane, but my respect is with them," said Luis Leon, one of the five.

"Nobody throws away 20 years of their lives for someone else."

Leon came to the U.S. when he was 5.

He had been living in North Carolina and returned to Mexico in 2011 because he thought the immigration system would never be fixed.

He regrets that now.

He's tried, and failed, to return to the U.S. six times.

A ninth immigrant who had left on his own before joined as the group walked to the border.

As word spread, as many as 30 others showed up.

The three immigrants are taking a risk.

Under a proposal supported by the president, young people deported could apply to return.

But experts say those who leave voluntarily would not have that choice.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez have experience with activism and protests.

Saavedra once occupied an immigration building in Florida and was jailed.

Mateo joined a sit-in at the Tucson office of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. Saavedra and Mateo could have applied to stay temporarily, but they said no.

They want their cases judged, to put a spotlight on the system.

Mateo remembered crossing the desert with her mother to enter the United States 19 years ago.

"I've never been as thirsty as then," she said.

She described how they drank dirty water, and how her mother pulled and pushed to keep her going north.

Eventually, they settled in Los Angeles.

If she is deported, Mateo said she won't try to cross the border again.

She said she couldn't go through that again.

