Lizbeth Mateo paid her tuition on Sunday for Santa Clara Law School, before classes start next month.

On Monday, she emailed the school.

"I'm letting them know I may not make it in time," she said.

She could be late because of a protest at the U.S.-Mexico border.

Mateo, who is 29 and came to the U.S. illegally at 10, flew back across the border.

She was protesting the thousands of people deported over the last five years as the government tries to improve and enforce its immigration system.

Mateo and two other young immigrants who came to the U.S. as children protested on Monday in Nogales.

They asked to come legally across the border they crossed in secret years ago and had avoided most of their lives.

The immigration debate has focused on how a bill now in Congress might affect about 11 million people who entered the country illegally or overstayed their visas.

Mateo and other protesters say the debate is missing those already expelled from the country.

Statistics show deportations went up from just under 300,000 in 2007 to about 400,000 in 2011.

The protest group on Monday grew quickly.

About 30 others joined the activists at the U.S. border, taking them by surprise.

The immigrants, organized by the National Immigrant Youth Alliance, planned to ask for humanitarian parole, which would let them into the country, or asylum if that failed.

Six other immigrants who had returned to Mexico more than a year ago joined the three protesters.

The nine were questioned and transferred to a holding facility in Florence, Ariz.

Activists who spoke to their lawyer said that they were denied humanitarian parole, and that immigration officials would consider their request for asylum while holding them in Florence.

Immigration officials wouldn't comment on Monday's events, and have said before that people had to meet standard immigration requirements to enter the country.

The protest draws attention to the troubles of children who came to the country illegally.

Many have grown up and gone to schools in the U.S. -- like Mateo, who graduated from California State University, Northridge.

They hope to keep a connection to their pasts without fear of losing their futures in the U.S. With Mateo were Marco Saavedra, 23, of New York and Lulu Martinez, 24, of Chicago.

Both came to the United States when they were 3 years old.

Saavedra, who graduated from Kenyon College in Ohio, says he's American in every way, except for having legal papers.

He said his 60-year-old grandfather, who lives in Mexico, makes a dangerous trip each time he visits relatives in the United States.

"Why does it have to be almost a death sentence every time he wants to go see his daughters?"

Saavedra asked.

Wearing graduation caps and gowns, Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez chanted "undocumented, unafraid" as they paraded Monday from Nogales, Sonora, to Nogales, Ariz.

They were joined by five other young immigrants, also dressed for graduation.

Unlike the original trio, who had traveled to Mexico to make a political point, four of the others had voluntarily left the U.S. years ago because life had become too difficult.

The fifth was deported.

"They are insane, but my respect is with them," Luis Leon, one of the five, said of the other three.

"Nobody throws away 20 years of their lives for someone else."

Leon came to the U.S. when he was 5, and had been living in North Carolina.

He returned to Mexico in 2011 because he thought U.S. lawmakers would never fix the immigration system, and he regrets that now.

He's tried to return to the U.S. six times but without success.

As they headed for the border, the eight immigrants were joined at the last minute by another who had left on his own before.

As word spread, as many as 30 more young people showed up at the border, but their status was not clear.

By returning to Mexico voluntarily, the three immigrants have put themselves at considerable risk.

Under an immigration reform package backed by the Obama administration, young immigrants deported could apply to return to the U.S.

But immigration experts say those who leave voluntarily would not have that option.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez are old hands at activism and civil disobedience.

Saavedra once occupied an immigration facility in Florida, and was detained.

Mateo joined a sit-in at the Tucson office of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz.

The authorities gave Saavedra and Mateo the chance to apply for a program which lets those who arrived as children stay in the U.S., at least for now.

Both turned it down and said they want their cases judged, to put a spotlight on the immigration system.

Mateo remembered crossing the desert with her mother to enter the United States 19 years ago.

"I've never been as thirsty as then," she said.

She described how they drank from rank pools of water and how her mother pulled and pushed to keep her going north.

Eventually, they settled in Los Angeles.

If she is deported, Mateo said she wouldn't try to cross the border.

She said she couldn't go through that again.

