Lizbeth Mateo paid her tuition on Sunday for Santa Clara Law School, before classes start next month.

On Monday, she emailed the school.

"I'm letting them know I may not make it in time," she said.

She could be late because of a protest at the U.S.-Mexico border.

Mateo is 29 and came to the U.S. illegally at 10.

On Monday, she flew back across the border.

She was protesting the thousands of people deported in the last five years as the government tries to reform and enforce immigration.

Mateo and two other young immigrants who came to the U.S. as children went to the border in Nogales.

They asked to come in legally across the border they had crossed in secret and avoided most of their lives.

The group on Monday grew quickly.

Another 30 protesters took them by surprise at the U.S. border.

The immigrants, organized by the National Immigrant Youth Alliance, planned to ask for humanitarian parole, which would let them into the country, or asylum if that didn't work.

Six other immigrants who went back to Mexico more than a year ago joined in.

They were all questioned and held in Florence, Ariz.

Activists who spoke to their lawyer said that they were turned down for parole, and they would be held while their asylum request was heard.

Immigration officials wouldn't comment on Monday's events.

They have said before that people had to meet immigration rules to enter the country.

The protest draws attention to the troubles of children who came to the country illegally.

Many grew up and went to school in the U.S.,  like Mateo, who graduated from California State University, Northridge.

They want to stay connected to their past without fear of losing their futures in the U.S. With Mateo were Marco Saavedra, 23, of New York and Lulu Martinez, 24, of Chicago.

Both came to the United States when they were 3 years old.

Saavedra, who graduated from Kenyon College in Ohio, says he's American in every way, except having papers.

His grandfather, who lives in Mexico, is in danger each time he visits relatives in the United States.

"Why does it have to be almost a death sentence every time he wants to go see his daughters?"

Saavedra asked.

Wearing graduation caps and gowns, Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez chanted "undocumented, unafraid" as they walked Monday from Nogales, Sonora, to Nogales, Ariz. Five other immigrants came along, also dressed for graduation.

Four of them had left the U.S. years ago on their own because life had become too difficult.

The fifth was deported.

"They are insane, but my respect is with them," Luis Leon, one of the five, said of the other three.

"Nobody throws away 20 years of their lives for someone else."

Leon came to the U.S. when he was 5, and had been living in North Carolina.

He returned to Mexico in 2011 because he thought immigration reform would never happen, and he regrets that now.

He's tried to return to the U.S. six times, but without success.

A ninth immigrant, who had left on his own before, joined as the group walked to the border.

As word spread, as many as 30 more young people showed up at the border.

The three immigrants have put themselves at risk by returning to Mexico.

Under a reform package backed by the Obama administration, young immigrants deported could apply to return to the U.S.

But experts say those who leave voluntarily would not have that option.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez are old hands at activism and civil disobedience.

Saavedra once occupied an immigration facility in Florida, and was detained.

Mateo joined a sit-in at the Tucson office of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. Officials said Saavedra and Mateo could apply for a program which lets immigrant children stay temporarily.

They both turned it down, saying they want their cases judged, to put a spotlight on the system.

Mateo remembered crossing the desert with her mother to enter the United States 19 years ago.

"I've never been as thirsty as then," she said.

She described how they drank from rank pools of water, and how her mother pulled and pushed to keep her going north.

Eventually, they settled in Los Angeles.

If she is deported, Mateo said she won't try to cross the border again.

She said she couldn't go through that again.

