The Senate Thursday voted 68-32 to make improvements to the nation's immigration system.

The ambitious plan creates a path to citizenship for millions of immigrants who entered the U.S. illegally while at the same time requiring stepped-up border security.

The measure represents the most sweeping changes to immigration law since the 1980s.

After sailing through the Senate, it now faces a tough path through the House of Representatives, where Republicans outnumber Democrats.

House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, said flatly: "The House is not going to take up and vote on whatever the Senate passes.

We're going to do our own bill."

The bill's passage was no surprise.

However, Senate leaders created some drama by making members vote from their seats, a practice reserved for only the most history-making occasions.

One by one, senators rose from their seats to declare their votes.

The Senate gallery was packed with observers looking on, including an entire section of college students and parents wearing bright blue "United We Dream" T-shirts.

The Senate vote showed strong support to the thousand-page bill carefully crafted by senators from both parties.

Changes were put in this week to win more support from members who were not convinced.

Fourteen Republicans joined 52 Democrats and two Independents in voting yes Thursday, while 32 Republicans voted no.

The eight authors of the bill are called the "Gang of Eight" senators.

The debate stirred a lot of passion.

Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev., invoked the spirit of the late Sen. Edward Kennedy, who worked to enact immigration legislation before his death in 2009.

"Senator Kennedy knew the day would come when a group of senators divided by party, but united by love of country, would see this fight to the finish," Reid said as he closed the debate.

"That day is today.

And while I am sad that Senator Kennedy isn't here to see history made, I know he is looking down on us proudly.

He is not alone," Reid said.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., who played a major role in creating the bill, took heat from conservatives for his efforts to find common ground.

Before he voted yes Thursday, he recalled his parents, who came to this country from Cuba.

"Well before they became citizens, in their hearts they had already become Americans," he said.

"It reminds us that sometimes we focus so much on how immigrants could change America, that we forget that America changes immigrants even more.

"This is not just my story," Rubio said.

"This is our story.

It reminds us that we are 'E Pluribus Unum.'

Out of many, one."

The bill requires employers to check on a job applicant's legal status.

It would also raise the number of  skilled workers allowed to immigrate into the U.S. to fill jobs in the technology industry.

The measure would create a 13-year path to citizenship for an estimated 11 million immigrants who came to the U.S. without permission.

They would have to pass a background check, have not been convicted of a serious crime, pay any taxes owed and pay a $500 fine.

If all those factors are met, the immigrants would get a status that allows them to work and travel.

They also would have to show they had been regularly employed and can support themselves financially.

After 10 years, the status could again be adjusted.

Immigrants would have to meet new requirements, including proficiency in English and a new $1,000 fine.

Three years after that, in most cases, they could achieve citizenship.

There were demands that the path to citizenship be opened only if some border-security steps are taken.

Those include towers, ground sensors, heat sensors, [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), Blackhawk helicopters and marine vessels.

A 700-mile fence would be built between the U.S. and Mexico.

Twenty thousand additional Border Patrol agents would be added to the force of 18,400.

Opponents said the plan basically pardons people who broke the law.

They questioned whether the security goals were realistic.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., who led the opposition, said the bill will not "end the lawlessness in the future."

Other Republicans had a different take.

They tend to represent states with large and growing Hispanic populations, and they were going along with the political reality.

They are concerned that an important voting block is slipping away after seeing their presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, win only about one-fourth of the Hispanic vote last year.

"If someone is going to be here in this country for 20 or 30 or 40 or 50 years, I want them to assimilate," said Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz. "I want them to have the rights, and more importantly, the responsibilities that come with citizenship."

