Lawmakers are at a standstill over changing the country's immigration laws.

It presents a problem for farmers in several states.

They have crops that need to be harvested immediately, but not enough farmworkers to do it.

Over 20,000 U.S. farms employ more than 435,000 immigrant workers from Spanish-speaking countries legally every year, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Thousands — probably tens of thousands — more are employed illegally.

Agricultural powerhouses, such as Florida and California, hire tens of thousands of seasonal immigrant laborers every year to pick produce.

Deeper in the nation, however, farmers in the fruit orchards of the Carolinas face a labor shortage.

"Because we're not a border state, it's definitely harder to get people over this far from the border to work," said Chalmers Carr.

He owns the East Coast's largest peach grower, South Carolina's Titan Farms.

"There's truly not enough farmworkers now, legal or illegal."

South Carolina has seen the greatest percentage increase in Hispanic population in the country from 2000 to 2010.

The number of Hispanics in the state has jumped 150 percent during that time.

Many are doing farm work, but the state still needs even more farmworkers.

Lynn Tramonte works at America's Voice, an immigration reform group.

It supports proposals to reform the nation's immigration laws, including increasing the number of legal immigrants and workers.

"It might be a seasonal job, but we're going to keep having grapes that need to be picked and cows that need to be milked, and immigrants are coming to do that sort of labor," Tramonte said.

Immigrant workers who slipped illegally over the borders years ago are retiring.

Younger, stronger migrant workers are being kept from the fields because they don't have work papers.

Farmers say the crops and the growing season will not wait.

"We're losing that aging population.

But we're also not getting anybody replacing them because of the mess we have at the border and no immigration law," said Manuel Cunha Jr., president of California's Nisei Farmers League.

The group represents more than 180 different types of farms.

Farmers in the North are facing the same problem.

"In northern Ohio, we're on the front lines, and it's not because we're on the northern border," said Mark Gilson.

He owns Gilson Gardens, which relies on immigrant workers.

"It's because the agricultural jobs are here."

Some who oppose immigration reform say U.S. workers should fill those agriculture jobs.

That idea simply won't work, the farmers say.

"I can clearly tell you Americans aren't out there willing to do these jobs," said Carr.

From 2010 to 2012, Carr said, he advertised for 2,000 workers.

Only 432 — less than 25 percent — of the people who applied were U.S. workers.

Then 390 of them never showed up or they quit on the first day.

"About 5 percent of the agriculture jobs needed, you'll get American workers for," he said.

"You've got a choice to import your food or you can import your labor to harvest your food."

"Local Americans don't want to do this work.

It's seasonal.

It tends to be low-paying," agreed Gilson.

The situation may be changing minds in states that have often been against allowing more immigrants.

Despite a lot of debate, though, lawmakers in Washington, D.C., are far from passing a new law.

The delay in dealing with the issue could create problems for farmers, made worse by complicated government worker programs.

The programs provide passes for immigrants looking to cross the border for agricultural work.

Farmers have to pay workers the minimum wage and check out who they hire.

The rules are difficult for farmers to follow.

And some rules are so complicated that some farmers hire workers who came to the U.S. illegally, or they move their farms overseas.

"When we need those workers we have to have them, because Mother Nature doesn't hold up and wait for us to get workers," said Cunha.

"When it's time to harvest, it's time to harvest."

On top of that, South Carolina's Carr says the recent flood of children slipping across the U.S. border has slowed down the system further.

Thousands of unaccompanied children from Central America have crossed the border illegally.

The crisis on the border has taken attention away from agricultural workers trying to get permits.

Gilson of Ohio said the situation is complicated, but farmers have a lot of respect for the immigrant workers.

"These aren't just people with their heads down in the field for us," he said.

"We respect their hard work, and we share traditional American values with them."

