Looking braver than his 16 years, Wilson Coxaj left his village in Guatemala's highlands earlier this month and began making his own way to the United States.

It is a perilous journey.

If he's successful, he'll join what U.S. officials are calling "the surge" — the dramatic increase in [child migrants](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Central+american+emigration) flooding across the U.S. border on their own.

The large number of children coming to the U.S. on their own is creating what President Barack Obama is calling an "urgent humanitarian situation."

Coxaj, who has the short stature and thick black hair of his Mayan heritage, spoke with the determination of someone needing to provide urgent help for his single mother and younger brother.

"I am not with a coyote," he said, referring to the paid human guides who usher some migrants northward.

"I'm just trying to guide myself through instinct."

Children from the northern part of Central America and from Mexico are flooding into the United States.

Between Oct. 1, 2013, and May 31, the total number of young people reached 47,017, the Department of Homeland Security says.

The unaccompanied minors have crammed into Border Patrol stations and forced U.S. officials to set up temporary facilities for them at military bases in Texas, Oklahoma and California.

Nearly all the child migrants are crossing the border at the southernmost tip of Texas, U.S. officials say.

That means they must travel through Mexico's lawless Tamaulipas state, an area under the control of organized crime.

The only likely way for them to do so is to travel with coyotes working with crime groups.

The children are not following traditional routes, which is perhaps  why a visit to Mexican shelters turned up just one young person traveling alone — Wilson Coxaj.

Republican lawmakers have blamed Obama, saying that lax enforcement of immigration laws and the possibility of amnesty is drawing migrants from Central America.

In particular, children are looking to be reunited with a parent already in the United States.

The proposed amnesty would give residency to people who came to the U.S. illegally.

"President Obama is responsible for this calamity," Sen. Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, said last week.

But visits to Catholic-operated shelters in Mexico City, Oaxaca state and Chiapas state indicate that the reason behind the flood of young migrants is far more subtle.

Much of it is driven not so much by U.S. policies as by turmoil in Central America.

Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala have some of the world's highest murder rates, and many youths who refuse to join street gangs must flee.

"The Mara Salvatrucha (gang) dominates the streets, and they wanted me to join them to sell drugs," said William Alberto Molina, who left San Salvador last year at age 17.

"They don't give you an option.

The only option is to leave the country or join the rival gang."

"Violence in Central America is pushing these kids out," said Wendy Young, the executive director of Kids in Need of Defense, a Washington, D.C., group that provides legal help for immigrant children.

Young said the average age of unaccompanied children caught by border agents has dropped.

"There are a lot more kids under age 12, and the percentage of girls has risen from 25 percent to 40 percent," she said.

"I think the goals these kids have are safety and reunifying with family.

I don't think they are necessarily trying to (exploit) the system," said Elizabeth Frankel, a law professor and associate director of the Young Center for Immigrant Children's Rights at the University of Chicago.

The north coast of Honduras, which is on a major drug trafficking corridor, has turned into a lawless no man's land.

The Rev.

Alejandro Solalinde, a Catholic priest who is perhaps Mexico's best known advocate for migrants, said that when adolescents take off from Central America, they "band together with others from their hometowns.

Nobody protects them."

In the Catholic shelters that provide free lodging and meals to migrants, workers say they aren't seeing many minors traveling alone.

"There are maybe five a week," said Carlos Bartolo Soli, director of the Casa del Migrante, a shelter in Arriaga.

"What has increased are children aged 10 to 12 who are traveling with their mothers," said Rene Vigne, a Frenchman who works at the Hermanos en el Camino (Brothers on the Path) shelter in Ixtepec, Mexico.

He scoffed at reports that the number of unaccompanied migrants had surpassed some 6,000 a month crossing into the United States.

"There's no avalanche of minors," Vigne said.

Doing on the back of an envelope a calculation that some 180,000 migrants arrive in Mexico every six months, Vigne added, "Are you telling me that nearly one in four is an unaccompanied minor?

That's stupid.

That is pure fantasy."

But a diplomat from Central America said many of the child migrants travel in groups under the custody of coyotes.

The diplomat said few minors are like Wilson Coxaj, the 16-year-old who was literally alone on the journey, and most are in groups under the control of an adult.

"These kids aren't alone.

They go accompanied by someone," he said.

For his part, Coxaj said he wants to find work in the United States to send money back to his single mother and little brother.

His U.S. destination is unclear.

Coxaj knows the names of only two cities — New York City and Los Angeles — yet he was confident that he'll find a better job than he could at home.

"For a factory job (in Guatemala), you need school certificates," he said.

"I only completed second grade, so it's difficult for me to get those jobs."

