Earlier this month, Wilson Coxaj, 16, left his village in Guatemala's highlands and began making his way to the United States.

It is a dangerous journey.

If he's successful, he'll join what U.S. officials are calling "the surge.

This is the dramatic increase in [child migrants](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Central+american+emigration) flooding across the U.S. border by themselves.

It is creating what President Barack Obama has called an "urgent humanitarian situation."

Coxaj has the short stature and thick black hair of his Mayan ancestry.

He spoke with the determination of someone needing to provide urgent help for his single mother and younger brother.

"I am not with a coyote," he said, referring to the paid human guides who bring some migrants northward.

"I'm just trying to guide myself through instinct."

Children from the northern part of Central America and from Mexico are flooding into the United States.

Between Oct. 1, 2013, and May 31, the total number reached 47,017, the Department of Homeland Security says.

The unaccompanied minors have crammed into Border Patrol stations and forced U.S. officials to set up temporary housing for them at military bases in Texas, Oklahoma and California.

Nearly all the child migrants are crossing the border at the southernmost tip of Texas, U.S. officials say.

This means that they are forced to travel through Mexico's lawless Tamaulipas state.

The only likely way for them to do so is to travel with coyotes working with crime groups.

Republican lawmakers have blamed Obama for the problem.

They say that lax enforcement of immigration laws and the possibility of residency is drawing migrants from Central America.

In particular, children are looking to be reunited with a parent already in the United States.

Proposed immigration reform would permit some people, who came to the U.S. illegally, to stay here legally.

"President Obama is responsible for this calamity," Sen. Jeff Sessions, an Alabama Republican, said last week.

But visits to shelters in Mexico show that the reason behind the flood of young migrants is more subtle.

They are driven to cross the border not so much by U.S. policies as by the turmoil in Central America.

Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala have some of the world's highest murder rates.

Many youths who refuse to join street gangs must flee.

"The Mara Salvatrucha dominates the streets, and they wanted me to join them to sell drugs," said William Alberto Molina.

The Mara Salvatrucha is a dangerous gang in Central America.

Molina left San Salvador last year at age 17.

"The only option is to leave the country or join the rival gang."

"Violence in Central America is pushing these kids out," said Wendy Young.

She is the executive director of Kids in Need of Defense, a Washington, D.C., group that provides legal help for the immigrant children.

Young said that younger children are crossing the border on their own.

"There are a lot more kids under age 12, and the percentage of girls has risen from 25 percent to 40 percent," she said.

"I think the goals these kids have are safety and reunifying with family," said Elizabeth Frankel.

She is a law professor and associate director of the Young Center for Immigrant Children's Rights at the University of Chicago.

The largest factor was likely the "incredible increase in violence and threats posed by gangs," she said.

The Rev.

Alejandro Solalinde is a Catholic priest who is perhaps Mexico's best known advocate for migrants.

He said that when teens take off from Central America, they "band together with others from their hometowns.

Nobody protects them."

In the shelters that provide free lodging and meals, workers say they aren't seeing many children traveling alone, though.

"What has increased are children aged 10 to 12 who are traveling with their mothers," said Rene Vigne.

He is a Frenchman who works at the Hermanos en el Camino (Brothers on the Path) shelter in Ixtepec, Mexico.

He scoffed at reports that more than 6,000 unaccompanied children cross into the United States each month.

"There's no avalanche of minors," Vigne said.

Doing on the back of an envelope a calculation that some 180,000 migrants arrive in Mexico every six months, Vigne added, "Are you telling me that nearly one in four is an unaccompanied minor?

That's stupid.

That is pure fantasy."

But a diplomat from Central America said many of the child migrants travel in groups and avoid shelters.

He said few minors are like Wilson Coxaj, the 16-year-old who was literally alone on his journey.

Most are in groups under the control of an adult.

"These kids aren't alone.

They go accompanied by someone," he said.

For his part, Coxaj said he wants to find work in the United States to send money back to his single mother and little brother.

He doesn't know where he will go and knows the names of only two cities — New York City and Los Angeles.

Yet he was confident that he'll find a better job than he could at home.

"For a factory job (in Guatemala), you need school certificates," he said.

"I only completed second grade, so it's difficult for me to get those jobs."

