Eliseo Medina is skipping Thanksgiving dinner this year.

He is on the 17th day of his hunger strike, or fast.

He is refusing to eat.

Medina is protesting because Washington hasn't gotten around to changing immigration law.

Immigration law involves people who are not U.S. citizens.

It decides whether or not they can live in the country.

Some people in the government want it to be harder to come to the United States.

Other people want it to be easier.

Medina was in a heated tent at the foot of the Capitol building on Thanksgiving.

Two other people were with him.

While the rest of the country ate turkey, the three were fasting.

"We are a little thinner," said Medina, who has lost 19 pounds.

"It's a good diet."

He said the goal of the fast was to bring attention to the problems of people trying to stay in the United States.

Medina is thin.

His beard has become patchy.

A wooden cross hangs around his neck.

He hopes that his fast will make the government take action.

Some government officials have held up plans to change immigration laws.

About 200 people die each year trying to cross the Sonora Desert.

The desert borders Mexico.

Because of the deaths, Medina wants immigration law changed soon.

Some famous government officials have dropped by his tent to support him.

Among them was Vice President Joe Biden.

Two members of Congress, Jeff Denham and David Valadao, also came by.

They represent California districts.

California is home to many immigrants.

"It is a tremendous commitment, what they have been through," Denham said.

It helps us make more people see the issue, he said.

Medina is 67 years old.

He says his family is worried about his health.

At night, Medina sleeps in a room of bunk beds with the other fasters.

A full-time nurse checks Medina's health twice a day.

She also checks the health of the two other fasters.

The three could damage their organs if the fast goes on.

Some people say Medina is just trying to get attention.

Medina says he is not surprised that they say this.

Others say Medina's fast is raising public awareness the way that labor leader Cesar Chavez once did.

Chavez organized farm workers in the 1960s and 1970s.

Conditions on the farms were bad for the workers.

Medina would like to see the White House do more.

Congress would need to pass a law in order to fix immigration.

But the White House could make sure people are not being kicked out of the country so quickly.

White House officials could keep more families together, he said.

President Barack Obama said Monday that he was doing all he could.

He said if he did anything more it would be against the law.

In 1968, Cesar Chavez went on a fast to make people pay attention to labor conditions on farms.

Medina was stunned when he heard that.

Medina was 22.

He had been helping Chavez by getting people in New York City to refuse to buy grapes.

The purpose was to show support for farm workers.

He remembers thinking to himself, "Is he going to die?

What will happen to us?"

Chavez did not eat for 25 days.

Then a famous New York official, Robert F. Kennedy, traveled to California.

He gave Chavez a piece of bread to end the fast.

Kennedy was about to run for president.

His giving bread to Chavez helped people take Chavez and the farm workers more seriously, Medina said.

"It's been 45 years since that fast, and I've never been let down by the American people," Medina said.

