In Michael Coughlin's class, students sometimes write about their voyage from Central America to the United States.

Many of them traveled alone and faced serious danger.

The government says 90,000 children could make the journey alone by this fall.

The children mostly come from countries such as El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala.

Most of these students are determined, Coughlin says.

"They are also very scared because they don't have certainty for their future here," he says.

America's schools are one of the few places where the children are sure to get help.

The courts will decide whether they can stay in the United States.

While they wait, most of these children live with family members.

They must go to school.

Schools and districts in cities such as Washington, Houston and Miami have seen an increase in the number of these students.

They expect more to come this fall.

The government says as many as 145,000 of them could arrive next year.

They often come to join a parent.

Many times they are escaping gangs or poverty.

In Miami, Superintendent Alberto Carvalho said 300 foreign-born students enrolled toward the end of the school year.

Many of the students were from Honduras and traveled alone.

Some of the students cannot read or write.

It is expensive to teach them.

"They need to be fed.

They need to be clothed.

They need to be cared for and then taught," Carvalho said.

Patricia Chiancone is a counselor in Maryland.

She says she hears stories of brothers and sisters and parents killed by gangs in Central America.

Teacher Michael Coughlin's school allows students learning English to stay into their 20s.

In the past two years, it has seen a rise in the number of students who crossed the border alone.

Coughlin says many children work long hours at night to pay for lawyers.

Learning English was hard for Ronald Pojoy.

He came alone from Guatemala in 2007 when he was 15 to join his mother.

"Sometimes, I tried to give up because it was a lot of language I had to learn," he said.

"It was really hard for me because I had to work and then school.

That would make me more tired."

Pojoy is now 21.

He graduated last month from Liberty High School in Houston.

One of Coughlin's students, Milsa Martinez, 20, is from El Salvador.

She says she was 18 when her parents sent for her.

Her parents had moved to the United States 14 years earlier.

She was terrified as she made the journey with about 30 others — including children ages about 8 and 9.

At one point, she said, a woman with sore feet was left behind because she could not walk.

Martinez was treated as a child when she was caught because, she said, she looked young.

Now, she works at a hospital many evenings taking out trash.

She dreams of going to college.

She worries about being forced to leave the United States.

The future for these children and teens is unclear.

"I have great hope for these kids able to hang in there, learn English and earn a diploma, and I have great sadness for those who aren't able to do that," Coughlin said.

"It's heartbreaking."

