On Thanksgiving, Eliseo Medina usually sits down for a turkey dinner with his family at their California home, filling tacos with stuffing and extra jalapenos.

This year, the former high-ranking official of the Service Employees International Union is feasting on nothing but water.

He is on the 17th day of his hunger strike to protest Washington's inaction over immigration reform.

While the rest of the nation is stuffing itself on Thanksgiving, the immigration activist and two other fasters will be in a heated tent on the National Mall at the foot of the Capitol.

"We are a little thinner," said Medina, who has lost 19 pounds.

"It's a good diet."

He said the goal of the fast was to bring attention to the problems of immigrants.

"We are trying to connect with people on a human level, not on a policy or political level."

Medina is very thin and has a patchy beard and a wooden cross hanging from his neck.

He says he hopes that his fast will pressure House Republicans.

They have held up action on changing the immigration laws.

"We want to see it sooner rather than later because of all the deaths" and people being forced to leave the country, he said.

Roughly 200 people a year die trying to cross the Sonora Desert along the southwest border with Mexico.

Some high-profile Democrats have dropped by his tent to lend support.

Among them were Vice President Joe Biden, Thomas E. Perez and Nancy Pelosi.

Two Republican members of Congress, Jeff Denham and David Valadao, Californians who support an immigration measure, also have come by.

"It is a tremendous commitment, what they have been through," Denham said in a telephone interview.

"It helps us bring great recognition to the overall issue."

Denham says he pressed House Republican leaders last week to act more quickly.

But action before the end of the year appears unlikely.

Medina, at 67 years old, says his family is worried about his health.

At night, Medina sleeps in a room of bunk beds with the other fasters.

A full-time nurse checks on Medina and the others twice a day.

The two other fasters are Dae Joong Yoon, 43, and Christian Avila, 23.

They also stopped eating Nov. 12.

The three risk damaging their livers and other organs as the fast goes on.

Medina isn't surprised that some Republicans have dismissed the fast as a publicity stunt.

They see the three men sitting at the foot of the Capitol reminding them of what they have to do, he said.

"It's a hard thing for them."

Others say Medina's fast is raising public awareness in the tradition of labor leader Cesar Chavez.

Chavez organized farm workers in the 1960s and 1970s.

The fast can move people who think immigration reform will not happen, said Miriam Pawel, a former Los Angeles Times editor and the author of a forthcoming biography, "The Crusades of Cesar Chavez."

He said, "It reminds people of the injustices."

Medina would like to see the White House do more.

Congressional action is needed to address the problems of the immigration system.

But the Obama administration, he said, could give an order to slow down the rate of people being forced to leave the country and keep more families together.

During a speech on immigration on Monday, President Barack Obama said that he was doing all he could legally.

Medina recalls being stunned in 1968 when he heard that Chavez was fasting to draw attention to labor conditions on farms.

Medina was 22 and had been helping Chavez by getting people in New Yokr City to not eat table grapes as a way to show support for farm workers.

He remembers thinking to himself, "Is he going to die?

What will happen to us?"

Chavez did not eat for 25 days until New York Senator Robert F. Kennedy, who was about to launch his campaign for president, traveled to California, and gave Chavez a piece of bread to break the fast.

"It was a big validation of what we were trying to do," Medina said.

He says that 1968 fast drove him to get more involved in union activity.

He devoted his career to encouraging immigrants to join unions, eventually rising to the No.

2 position at SEIU, which represents janitors, security guards and other service workers.

He quit that post earlier this year to lead a program in Washington to push for immigration reform.

He expresses hope that his fast will spur the same kind of change that Chavez's inspired in him.

"It's been 45 years since that fast, and I've never been let down by the American people," Medina said.

