At age 14, most kids are in school reading Shakespeare or studying biology.

Benito Vasquez was picking grapes and almonds in California's Central Valley.

That was when he crossed the border from Mexico.

He has worked in the fields ever since.

He has never gone to school, and cannot read or write in any language.

Vasquez is now 28.

He is one of thousands who could be shut out of a government program to fix immigration.

The program is called "deferred action."

It grants work permits to people who came to this country illegally as children.

They would also be safe from getting thrown out of the country for two years.

He and others like him are missing one requirement — a high school diploma.

They can make it up by enrolling in a class.

But that is nearly impossible for someone like Vasquez.

He works long hours, lives in an isolated area, and has had little formal schooling.

Many people have already applied to the program.

But they are the "cream of the crop" because of their school performance, said Jesus Martinez.

The center where Martinez works gives legal help to immigrants.

"A number of those who haven't applied have educational issues."

Vasquez is still deciding whether to apply.

Taking English classes would make Vasquez able to qualify for deferred action.

"I'm thinking about it.

Maybe after work, in the evenings," he said.

President Obama's deferred action program began last August.

Since then, nearly 270,000 young immigrants are now able to work legally.

In most states, they can get driver's licenses.

But only one- third of the 1.3 million people who could be helped by the program have applied.

Early applicants tended to be college-educated.

Some don't realize they are allowed to apply, they think the program is just for college students.

Others may fear coming forward, or are waiting to see if Washington will pardon undocumented immigrants.

The $465 application fee is steep for a minimum-wage worker.

And to prove that an immigrant really has put down roots in the United States, they must provide stacks of paperwork.

The biggest hurdle may be a high school diploma.

Many of those who have yet to apply work on farms.

Of these farmworkers, one in three has less than a ninth-grade education.

In the Central Valley, as many as half of the immigrants may need more schooling to apply for deferred action.

Education was always a ticket out of the fields for farmworkers.

Now it also provides a two-year work permit.

But for some, that reward may be out of reach.

In Madera, the town just outside Fresno where Vasquez lives, the adult school offers English-as-a-second-language (ESL) classes.

For farmworkers in more isolated areas, there are few options.

Adult-education budgets have been slashed in recent years, so there are not enough classes to go around.

Some politicians say the education requirements are to ensure the program rewards immigrants making contributions to the country.

But Grace Meng thinks they exclude deserving farmworkers.

Meng is a researcher at Human Rights Watch.

"Kids working for hours under the hot sun are a very good example of making a real contribution," she said.

San Francisco's Immigrant Legal Resource Center is working in the Central Valley.

It organizes legal workshops in faraway farming communities.

Immigrants who attend the center get matched with adult-education programs.

Two of Vasquez's sisters attended a crowded workshop in Madera earlier this year.

They spoke with attorney Barbara Pinto to get free legal advice.

Angela Vasquez is a community college student who has been blind since birth.

Elvira Vasquez dropped out of high school after her son was born.

The sisters were surprised when Pinto told them that their brother Benito might also be able to get deferred action.

They thought his lack of an education would limit him.

By mid-May, the sisters were well on their way to work permits and driver's licenses.

And Benito's wife, Maria, was inspired to get her GED.

The general educational development (GED) is equal to a high school diploma.

It is for adults who were unable to finish high school.

Benito's path is more uncertain.

He has yet to register at the adult school.

It's hard to find the time for classes after a 10-hour workday.

He operates tractors and other heavy machinery for his job in the grape fields.

But he drives to work without a license.

He fears being pulled over by the police.

Still, he prefers to take his chances in the United States.

"It's better here than in Mexico," he said in Spanish.

"Every week, I get a paycheck.

There's more food.

Everything's a little easier.

If you need something, you just work.

In Mexico, when you need something, there are no jobs."

