Sometimes, Michael Coughlin's students write essays about their terrifying journey from Central America to the United States.

Other times, they'll mention a court date or ask for help finding a lawyer.

The government estimates that 90,000 children, primarily from Central American countries such as El Salvador, Honduras and Guatemala, could make the journey alone by this fall.

As many as 145,000 of them could arrive next year.

They often come to join a parent, many times escaping gangs or extreme poverty.

Most of the students like this at H-B Woodlawn Secondary Program are determined, Coughlin says.

"They are also very scared because they don't have certainty for their future here," he added.

America's schools are one of the few official places where the children coming across the border from Mexico are certain to get a helping hand.

While their cases are being processed, most of these minors are released to family members and must go to school.

Schools and districts in cities such as Washington, Houston and Miami have seen an increase in the number of these students.

They expect more to come this fall.

In Miami, the school board voted to seek money from Washington after Superintendent Alberto Carvalho said 300 foreign-born students enrolled toward the end of the school year.

Many of the students were from Honduras and traveled alone.

Some of the students can't read or write.

The cost to teach them is about $1,950 more per student than the school board gets from the state, he said.

"They need to be fed.

They need to be clothed.

They need to be cared for and then taught," Carvalho said.

Patricia Chiancone, an outreach counselor in Maryland, says she hears stories of hardship.

She hears stories of girls being raped on the journey into the United States and siblings and parents killed by gangs back home.

"We see death certificates and we see letters that a minister wrote saying this child left because he was being threatened by this," Chiancone said.

Coughlin's school allows students learning English to stay into their 20s.

In the past two years, it has seen a rise in the number of students who crossed the border alone.

He says many children work long hours at night to pay for lawyers.

Learning English was hard for Ronald Pojoy.

He came alone from Guatemala in 2007 when he was 15 to join his mother.

"Sometimes, I tried to give up because it was a lot of language I had to learn," he said.

"It was really hard for me because I had to work and then school.

That would make me more tired."

Pojoy is now 21.

He graduated last month from Liberty High School in southwest Houston.

The school serves a large number of immigrants and offers information about legal and other community services.

"We have to clearly demonstrate to the students that what they are doing is very important.

We also have to demonstrate to the students that they can make it," said Eddison James, a math teacher.

One of Coughlin's students, Milsa Martinez, 20, says she was 18 when her parents sent for her in El Salvador, after her grandmother died.

Her parents had moved to the United States 14 years earlier.

She was terrified as she made the journey with two smugglers and about 30 others — including children ages about 8 and 9.

At one point, she said, a woman with sore feet was left behind because she couldn't walk.

Martinez was treated as a minor when detained because, she said, she looked young.

Now, she works at a hospital many evenings taking out trash.

She dreams of going to college, but worries about deportation even though she says she was told her case was closed.

The future for these children and teens is unclear.

Some likely will qualify to stay based on humanitarian reasons.

"I have great hope for these kids able to hang in there, learn English and earn a diploma, and I have great sadness for those who aren't able to do that," Coughlin said.

"It's heartbreaking."

