Classes start next month at Santa Clara Law School.

Lizbeth Mateo was accepted and sent in her fees on Sunday.

But on Monday she emailed the school.

"I'm letting them know I may not make it in time," she said.

There's a reason 29-year-old Mateo might be late for law school.

At age 10 she and her mother snuck into the United States from Mexico.

On Monday she flew back for the first time.

It wasn't for a vacation or to visit family.

She went back for a protest.

Mateo and two other young people who came to the U.S. without permission went to the border.

They asked for permission to come back into the U.S.

There are about 11 million people living in the U.S. who were born elsewhere and came to the U.S. without permission.

Without papers, it's hard for them to get jobs or travel freely.

Lawmakers are trying to find a solution.

While Congress works on the new laws, many immigrants have been sent away, or deported.

Mateo and the others say their border protest was a way to stand up for those people.

More protesters joined them at the border.

They were all picked up and questioned.

Their lawyer said that they would be held while their request waited to be heard.

Immigration officials wouldn't comment.

They have said before that people had to follow immigration rules to enter the country.

The protest brings attention to kids who were brought into the U.S. by their parents.

Many grew up and went to school in the U.S.

They want to stay connected to their past but fear losing their futures in the U.S. Two other young people joined Mateo.

Marco Saavedra, 23, is from New York and Lulu Martinez, 24, from Chicago.

Both came to the United States when they were 3.

Saavedra said his grandfather lives in Mexico.

To visit his family in the U.S. he must make a dangerous trip across the border.

"Why does it have to be almost a death sentence every time he wants to go see his daughters?"

Saavedra asked.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez walked to the border in graduation caps and gowns.

Five other immigrants came along, also dressed for graduation.

Four of them had left the U.S. years ago.

They left on their own because life had become too difficult.

The fifth was deported.

Luis Leon, one of the five, said the other three are "insane."

But he said he respects them for standing up for people like him.

"Nobody throws away 20 years of their lives for someone else," he said.

Leon came to the U.S. when he was 5.

He had been living in North Carolina and returned to Mexico in 2011.

He thought the immigration rules would never change.

He wishes he hadn't left.

He's tried to return to the U.S. six times, and failed.

A ninth immigrant joined as the group walked to the border.

He had left on his own before.

As word spread, as many as 30 others showed up.

The three young immigrants are taking a big risk.

The government lets young people who are deported apply to come back.

But experts say that won't work if they leave on their own.

Mateo, Saavedra and Martinez have protested before.

Saavedra once occupied an immigration building in Florida.

He was jailed.

Mateo did a sitting protest at the Tuscon office of Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. Saavedra and Mateo could have applied to stay temporarily.

But both said no.

They want their cases judged, to put a spotlight on the system.

Mateo remembered crossing the desert with her mother to enter the United States 19 years ago.

She had never been so thirsty.

They drank dirty water and her mother pulled and pushed to keep her going north.

Eventually, they settled in Los Angeles.

If she is deported, Mateo said she won't try to cross the border again.

She said she couldn't go through that again.

