Lawmakers can't agree about letting in more workers from other countries.

Some want immigration laws changed.

Others do not.

It's a problem for farmers.

They have crops to be harvested and not enough farmworkers.

"When we need those workers we have to have them," said Manuel Cunha Jr.

He is the president of California's Nisei Farmers League.

The group represents 180 different types of farms.

Mother Nature cannot wait, said Cunha.

"When it's time to harvest, it's time to harvest."

About 435,000 people from other countries work on U.S. farms legally, says the government.

Thousands more work on farms against the law.

States like Florida and California are near the border with Mexico.

They hire tens of thousands of immigrant workers from Spanish-speaking countries.

Far from the Mexican border, it is harder to get immigrant workers.

In the orchards and fields of South Carolina, farmers need more workers to pick fruit.

"There's truly not enough farmworkers now, legal or illegal," said Chalmers Carr.

He owns Titan Farms.

It is the East Coast's largest peach grower.

The problem is not going away.

Immigrant workers who came without permission years ago are retiring.

Younger, stronger workers don't have work papers.

The crops won't wait for them to get papers.

Some people say U.S. workers should fill those jobs.

That idea won't work, the farmers say.

"I can clearly tell you Americans aren't out there willing to do these jobs," said Carr.

From 2010 to 2012, Carr said he advertised for 2,000 workers.

Only 432 who answered the ads were U.S. workers.

Then 390 of them never showed up or they quit on the first day.

Americans fill only about 5 out of every 100 farm jobs, Carr said.

The other 95 are filled by immigrants.

He said the U.S. must bring in workers to harvest food.

The other choice is to import food.

"Americans don't want to do this work.

It's seasonal.

It tends to be low-paying," agreed Mark Gilson.

He owns Gilson Gardens in Ohio.

He relies on immigrant workers.

So far, lawmakers have taken no action to change immigration laws.

The delay is a problem for farmers.

They say government worker programs already make it hard to hire immigrants.

The programs provide passes for immigrants to cross the border for agricultural work.

Farmers say the programs have too many rules.

Some farmers end up hiring workers in the country illegally.

Others move their farms to other countries.

On top of that, there has been a flood of children crossing the border without permission.

Carr says the crisis has slowed down the system.

It's taking even longer for immigrant workers to get passes to work in the U.S. Gilson of Ohio said the situation is tough, but farmers have a lot of respect for immigrant workers.

"These aren't just people with their heads down in the field for us," he said.

"We respect their hard work."

