The Senate passed a bill Thursday on immigration.

If the bill becomes a law, it could change the lives of millions of people who entered the U.S. without permission.

They will be able to work legally and visit their home countries.

They will have a chance to become citizens one day.

At the same time, the bill says government must tighten up security on the border.

The bill passed with 68 Senators in favor and 32 against.

Democrats were all in favor of the bill.

The bill marks the biggest change to U.S. immigration since the 1980s.

But it's not a done deal yet.

The bill now faces a tough path through the House of Representatives.

Republicans outnumber Democrats in the House.

Rep. John Boehner, R-Ohio, is Speaker of the House of Representatives.

He was not in favor of the Senate's bill.

"The House is not going to take up and vote on whatever the Senate passes.

We're going to do our own bill."

Everyone was expecting the bill to pass.

But there was still some excitement in the chamber.

The Senators had to vote from their seats.

Normally, they only do that during history-making occasions.

One by one, they rose to shout their votes.

Senators from both parties wrote the bill, which was a thousand pages long.

Fourteen Republicans joined 52 Democrats and two Independents in voting yes.

Thirty-two Republicans voted no.

The eight authors of the bill are known as the "Gang of Eight" senators.

Talk of the bill stirred strong emotions on the Senate floor.

Senator Harry Reid, D-Nev. is the leader of the Democrats.

He recalled Sen. Edward Kennedy, who worked to fix immigration right until he died in 2009.

"Senator Kennedy knew the day would come when a group of senators divided by party, but united by love of country, would see this fight to the finish," Reid said.

"That day is today.

And while I am sad that Senator Kennedy isn't here to see history made, I know he is looking down on us proudly.

He is not alone," Reid said as he closed the debate.

Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., played a major role in creating the bill.

Some conservatives were not happy that he was working with Democrats.

He talked about his parents before the vote.

Both his mother and father came from Cuba.

"Well before they became citizens, in their hearts they had already become Americans," he said.

He added, "This is not just my story.

This is our story.

It reminds us that we are 'E Pluribus Unum.'

Out of many, one."

The bill says that companies must check to make sure a worker is allowed to live in the U.S.

It will also allow more skilled workers to come to the U.S. to work in technology jobs.

About 11 million people are living in the U.S. without permission.

The bill would make it possible for them to become citizens in 13 years.

They would have to pass a background check and have a clean criminal record.

Some would have to pay off their taxes and all must pay a $500 fine.

But the bill says that the path to citizenship can only be opened if the U.S. beefs up border security.

The plan calls for more towers, sensors, [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), helicopters and boats to stop more people from crossing the border without permission.

A 700-mile fence must be built between the U.S. and Mexico.

Twenty thousand more Border Patrol agents must be hired.

There are already 18,400 working along the border.

Opponents said the bill goes easy on people who broke the law.

Also, they doubt that the border security plan can work.

Sen. Jeff Sessions, R-Ala., lead the Senators who were against the bill.

He warned that it will not "end the lawlessness in the future."

Other Republicans had a different view.

They mostly come from states with a large or growing number of Hispanic people.

They are worried about losing an important voting block.

Last year, their presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, won only about one-fourth of the Hispanic vote.

Sen. Jeff Flake, R-Ariz, said if someone is going to stay in the United States for "20 or 30 or 40 or 50 years" they should take on American ways.

"I want them to have the rights, and more importantly, the responsibilities that come with citizenship," Flake said.

