Most fourth-graders are better readers than they were 10 years ago.

But few of them can actually read well.

This comes from a new report by the Annie E. Casey Foundation.

The report showed some progress over the last 10 years.

Slightly more fourth-graders are reading at grade level than before.

This is considered a good thing, but there is a growing reading gap between richer and poorer students.

The foundation used reading scores from the National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP).

It compared reading skills of fourth graders in 2013 and 2003.

The NAEP is called the Nation's Report Card.

It describes what students know and can do in different subjects.

Students in all but six states improved in reading.

Fourth-graders in Maryland, the District of Columbia and Rhode Island had the most improvement.

Reading ability went down in four states.

They were Alaska, Michigan, South Dakota and West Virginia.

Reading ability remained the same in Connecticut and Montana.

Connecticut had the most fourth-graders reading at grade level in 2003.

There was a big difference across the states.

Just one out of five fourth-graders read at grade level last year in New Mexico and Mississippi.

In Massachusetts, more than half were where they were supposed to be in reading.

"The gap between Mississippi and New Mexico and Massachusetts is pretty huge," said Laura Speer.

She works at the Casey Foundation.

Reading scores tell a lot about a place, she said.

It tells how well off it is.

It also predicts how educated its workers will be, she said.

But Speer warned the issue is more complicated.

Some states scored well.

But these states had some of the biggest reading gaps between poorer students and richer students.

Children from poorer families were worse readers than those from wealthier families.

This was true in every state.

The gap was largest in the District of Columbia, Massachusetts and Connecticut.

The study found the gap between rich and poor students grew in most states.

It became much wider in 12 states and the District of Columbia.

The District of Columbia, Hawaii and Tennessee saw the biggest gaps.

Over the 10 years, students from richer families made much quicker progress in reading.

Students from poorer families made much slower progress.

About 30 states are trying to improve reading ability by the third grade, said Ralph Smith.

He runs the Campaign for Grade-Level Reading.

Experts say reading well by third grade is critical for children.

Children learn to read in first and second grade.

Third grade is when they begin reading to learn.

Students who can't read by then are at a higher risk for dropping out of school.

They are also at risk for other problems.

In Florida, a new law requires schools with the worst readers to add an extra hour of class.

It seems to be working.

Their reading scores are improving.

"We're making progress," Speer said.

The progress just needs to come faster, she added.

