Parents whose children play school sports are required to pay various fees in order to cover some of the costs of sports programs.

A newly released survey suggests that this system may be causing a serious problem.

If parents feel unable to pay the fees, children who want to play sports may not be able to.

As a result, the children's long-term health may suffer.

The newly released survey is known as the National Poll on Children's Health, and was conducted in June of last year.

The survey seems to support the idea that there is a link between income and health.

It found that 51 percent of higher-income families reported having a child in sports.

Yet, only 30 percent of lower-income families had a child playing school sports.

"Sports is one way that kids can be physically active in an enjoyable way," said Sarah Clark, an expert on children's health.

"They're with their buddies.

They're learning teamwork."

Playing sports is certainly good for children's long-term health.

For example, regular exercise helps prevent kids from putting on too much weight.

Being very overweight, or obese, can cause serious health problems including heart problems and diabetes.

The survey found that the cost of playing sports is keeping many children from participating.

One in 7 parents whose children were not playing sports said cost was a reason.

In addition, fees seem to be becoming a bigger factor in discouraging sports participation.

Sports participation among low-income students was 10 percent lower than it was in 2012.

Even among students from higher-income households, participation has dropped.

Nearly 1 in 10 parents said their child had become less involved in sports because of the cost.

In 2012, only half that number of parents — 1 in 20 — said that.

Other factors may affect participation in school sports, Clark said.

For example, some families choose to have kids play in community leagues rather than school teams.

Overall, however, the results of the survey are troubling.

Schools and parent groups do try to help reduce costs for low-income students who show an interest in playing sports, Clark said.

Yet they may fail to consider students who never bother to try out for a team because they know cost will be an obstacle.

The poll found the average school sports participation fee was $126 per child.

However, some parents paid more than $400 for their children's participation, particularly when costs for equipment and travel were included.

Clark is the mother of two boys who played several different high school sports.

As a result, she knows about the cost of sports participation first-hand.

One year, she said, "I remember I hit $1,000 in fees before Christmas."

