School sports are not free.

Children can only join teams if their parents first pay money to the schools to help cover the cost.

The money they pay is known as a fee.

A new study suggests that sports fees may be causing a serious problem.

Children who want to play sports may be unable to if their parents cannot afford the fees.

As a result, the children may end up being less healthy.

The new study found a big difference between poor and rich families.

Around half of the richer families had a child who played school sports.

The story was very different for poorer families.

Only 3 in 10 had a child playing school sports.

Sarah Clark is an expert on children's health.

"Sports is one way that kids can be physically active in an enjoyable way," she said.

"They're with their buddies.

They're learning teamwork."

Playing sports is certainly good for children's health.

Regular exercise helps prevent kids from putting on too much weight.

Being very overweight can cause serious health problems.

The study found that fees are keeping many children from playing sports.

One in 7 parents whose children were not playing sports said the cost of fees was a reason.

Sports fees also seem to be becoming a bigger problem.

Fewer students from poorer families are playing sports than in 2012.

Even students from richer families are now less likely to play school sports.

Many parents said their children were playing sports less because of the cost of fees.

Only half as many parents said the same thing in 2012.

Clark said that schools do sometimes lower fees for poorer students who want to play sports.

However, some students who would like to play sports do not say anything about it.

They know cost will be a problem, so they never bother to try out for a team.

The average school sports fee is $126 for each child.

However, some parents pay more than $400 for each child, particularly when costs for equipment and travel were included.

Clark is the mother of two boys who played several different high school sports at the same time.

She knows all about the high cost of school sports.

"I remember I hit $1,000 in fees before Christmas" one year, she said.

