Fourth-graders in most states are better readers than they were a decade ago.

But only a third of them actually are able to read well, according to a new report.

The report also found a growing gap in reading skills between children from lower-income and those from higher-income families.

Reading ability varied widely across the states.

The report by the Annie E. Casey Foundation showed some progress over the last decade.

Slightly more fourth-graders are reading at grade level compared with a decade ago.

The foundation used reading scores from the federal National Assessment of Educational Progress (NAEP) in 2013 and 2003.

The NAEP is also known as the Nation's Report Card.

It is a report of what students in the U.S. know and can do in different subjects.

According to the Casey Foundation's report, students in all but six states improved in reading.

Maryland, the District of Columbia and Rhode Island saw the biggest gains.

Meanwhile, reading levels declined in Alaska, Michigan, South Dakota and West Virginia.

Reading ability remained the same in Connecticut and Montana.

Connecticut had the highest percentage of fourth-graders reading at grade level in 2003.

Still, the range of reading skills across the states was dramatic.

Just 21 percent of fourth-graders read at grade level last year in New Mexico and Mississippi, compared with 57 percent in Massachusetts.

"The gap between Mississippi and New Mexico and Massachusetts is pretty huge," said Laura Speer.

She works on education reform for the Casey Foundation.

Just looking at reading scores can tell a lot about whether a place has enough jobs and money and how educated its workers will be, she said.

But Speer warned that the numbers also told a more complicated story.

Some states scored well on average.

But they had among the highest reading gaps between lower-income students and higher-income students.

Children from lower-income families did worse in reading than those from higher-income families in every state.

But the gap was largest in the District of Columbia, Massachusetts and Connecticut.

The study found the income-based reading gap grew in most states over the 10 years.

The gap between high and low income students widened by more than 30 percent in 12 states and the District of Columbia.

The District of Columbia, Hawaii and Tennessee saw the biggest increases in the income-based reading gap.

Students from higher-income families made much more progress in reading than students from lower-income families.

Over the past several years, many governors and lawmakers have focused on improving reading by the third grade.

Experts say reading well by the third grade is critical for children.

Third grade is when they shift from learning to read to reading to learn.

Students who don't read well by then are at higher risk for dropping out of school.

They are also at risk for other problems.

About 30 states have adopted plans to increase reading ability by the third grade, according to Ralph Smith.

He runs the Campaign for Grade-Level Reading.

The group is an effort by nonprofits, foundations and communities to get kids up to speed in reading.

In Florida, a new law has required schools with the lowest reading scores to add an extra hour of class.

Reading scores in those schools have improved.

"We're making progress," Speer said.

"We just need to accelerate that progress."

