Fourth-graders in most states are better readers than they were a decade ago.

But only a third of them actually are able to read well, according to a new report.

The report also found a growing gap in reading skills between children from lower-income and those from higher-income families.

Also, reading proficiency varied considerably across states.

The report by the Annie E. Casey Foundation showed that slightly more fourth-graders are reading at grade level compared with a decade ago.

It used reading scores from the National Assessment of Educational Progress, also known as the Nation's Report Card, to compare fourth-graders in 2013 and 2003.

Students in all but six states improved in reading.

Maryland, the District of Columbia and Rhode Island saw the biggest gains, while reading levels declined in Alaska, Michigan, South Dakota and West Virginia.

Reading proficiency remained level in Connecticut and Montana.

Connecticut had the highest percentage of fourth-graders reading at grade level in 2003.

Still, the range of reading skills across the states was striking.

The number of fourth-grade students reading at grade level last year ranged from 21 percent in New Mexico and Mississippi to 57 percent in Massachusetts.

"The gap between Mississippi and New Mexico and Massachusetts is pretty huge," said Laura Speer.

She works on policy reform and advocacy at the foundation.

"Just looking at that (aspect) across the country can tell you a lot about the economic (health) of those places and how educated their workforces are going to be."

But Speer warned that the numbers also described a more complex picture.

Some states that scored well on average showed among the highest gaps in reading between students from lower-income and higher-income families.

Children from lower-income families did worse on reading than those from higher-income families in every state.

But the gap was largest in the District of Columbia, Massachusetts and Connecticut.

The study found the income-based reading gap grew in most states.

The gap between high and low income students widened by more than 30 percent in 12 states and the District of Columbia.

The District of Columbia, Hawaii and Tennessee saw the biggest increases in the income-based reading gap.

The growing reading gap is due to students from higher-income households making much more progress in reading than students from lower-income households.

Over the past several years, governors and lawmakers from a number of states have focused on improving reading by the third grade.

Experts say reading well by the third grade is a critical milestone for children.

Third grade is when they shift from learning to read to reading to learn.

Students who don't read well by then are at higher risk for dropping out of school and other problems.

About 30 states have adopted measures to increase reading ability by the third grade, according to Ralph Smith, managing director of the Campaign for Grade-Level Reading.

The group is an effort by nonprofits, foundations and communities to get kids up to speed in reading.

In Florida, a new law required schools with the lowest reading test results to add an extra hour of instruction beginning in 2012-2013.

It appears to have helped improve reading scores.

"We're making progress," Speer said.

"We just need to accelerate that progress."

