This week members of central Idaho's Nez Perce Indian tribe said enough is enough.

They gathered by a narrow highway that cuts through pine forests and runs along a winding river.

Hundreds showed up along U.S. Highway 12 on Monday and Tuesday and formed a barricade — a human wall that blocked the road.

They were attempting to stop a huge load of equipment bound for Alberta, Canada.

Reportedly, the load weighed about 644,000 pounds and stretched over 200 feet.

The machinery is used to get oil out of sand and rocks.

The crowd planned to continue their protests Wednesday and Thursday nights.

The protesters included tribal elders, mothers with young children, and activists from elsewhere.

Together they slowed but did not stop the large group of trucks.

The trucks, known as a convoy when they travel together, carried a giant water evaporator.

After about 20 people were arrested for blocking the road, the convoy continued.

Both environmentalists and [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) want to stop the giant shipments.

They say the convoys crowd roadways and disturb tourists.

Most importantly, they threaten the beautiful countryside around the highway.

That countryside is part of the Nez-Perce National Forests.

It is home to white-tail deer, cougars, black bears and mountain goats.

Its rivers teem with salmon and trout.

"Everything is in there," said Nez Perce tribal leader Silas Whitman.

"Yet they want to make it an industrial corridor."

Industrial corridors are roads regularly used to transport huge truckloads of material.

The tribe, he said, would be partly responsible for "the destruction to those areas" if it allowed the loads.

Whitman was one of the first protesters to be arrested.

The company carrying the water evaporator said the Idaho Department of Transportation gave it permission.

The company, which is called Omega Morgan, said it followed state rules.

According to these regulations, convoys have to travel at night.

They can't hold up traffic for longer than 15 minutes.

And they are not allowed to make any changes to the road or surrounding vegetation.

But the U.S. Forest Service claims it is the agency that has to give permission.

The loads are traveling through protected lands, the Forest Service pointed out.

The agency does not want convoys passing through the Nez Perce-Clearwater National Forests right now.

It said it had to first find out whether they might harm the countryside around the highway.

Forest Service officials are not only looking at possible damage to the land and waters.

They are also considering the spiritual value the land has for the tribe.

The Nez Perce, like many Native Americans, think of the land in a religious way.

"That's the part we struggle with, the ... spiritual value of [the land around] this corridor," said forest supervisor Rick Brazell.

It's difficult to gather information about "things you can't see and touch, and they mean a lot."

Still, he said, they are learning how to find out more.

Tribal officials said they had spoken out against using the rural highway as an industrial corridor.

But they were ignored.

They soon decided that the only way they "could get to the man was through his pocketbook," Whitman said.

In other words, they realized that people would have to pay attention if businesses started losing money.

Their hope was that their protests would delay the convoy.

Delays would cause the shipping company to lose money.

And that might make companies decide against further shipments.

Before the protests, tribal leaders told police they understood that officers might have to arrest them.

On Monday, Whitman was the first to be cuffed.

He was with his 10-year-old granddaughter.

As he was being carried off to jail, he told her to get back behind the barricade.

"You have to stay here.

You can't go with me."

