Sayed Mehboob is squatting on a low wooden stool outside on a patch of sidewalk.

As crowds rush by, he adjusts his faded red turban.

Mehboob has set up near Mumbai's Grant Road train station.

Around him young workers set off on lunch break.

Packs of students race to after-school tutoring sessions or home to play video games.

Upper-class housewives emerge from air-conditioned cars with leather seats.

Mehboob, 45, is undisturbed by the noise and rush all around him.

He slides a smaller stool toward a visitor and flashes an inviting smile.

"Would you like me to clean your ear?"

he asks.

It seemed an unusual request, particularly on Mumbai's crowded, fast-paced and less-than-clean streets.

Who in this city has time to stop and get his ears cleaned?

And who would think of having it done on the street, by a man with a battered leather bag full of unmarked bottles?

Yet swabbing dirt and wax out of people's ears has been Mehboob's business for more than 20 years.

His profession is gradually disappearing, but a few ear cleaners can still be found on the sidewalks of Mumbai.

They are identified by the red handkerchiefs tied around their heads.

A young man in an orange shirt approaches Mehboob, who motions toward the empty stool.

Twenty-one-year-old Gaurav sits down stiffly, like a boy in a dentist's chair.

Mehboob props his bag of tools on one leg.

He pulls out a steel pin the length of a pencil and wraps the tip in a wad of cotton.

Then, he carefully inserts it inside Gaurav's ear.

Many of Mumbai's last remaining traditional ear cleaners hail from southern India.

Some trace the profession to the 18th century.

Mehboob learned the trade when he came to look for work in Mumbai 25 years ago.

After he had labored in construction for a few years, a fellow southerner taught him how to clean ears.

"It was just something to do," he says.

In the crowded city, cars and construction sites fouled the air with smoke and dust.

Getting one's ears professionally cleaned was "a normal practice," he said.

Mehboob charges 20 rupees, or about 30 cents, for a standard cleaning of both ears with cotton and hydrogen peroxide.

The process takes less time than a good shoeshine.

The deluxe treatment can include daubs of cream, coconut oil and a dark liquid that Mehboob described as healing.

It costs 50 rupees, or 80 cents.

"That's if the ear is inflamed, or if it's really red," he says.

The extra treatments "provide a soothing effect."

Mehboob begins a cleaning by dipping the cotton-tipped pin in hydrogen peroxide.

He then scrapes the outer ear canal before proceeding to the inner canal.

An old pair of tweezers helps pick out stubborn bits of dirt and wax.

A typical day brings about a dozen customers, he says.

For long stretches he sits alone in front of an old unused phone booth.

In the late afternoon, he moves farther down the road, hoping to catch commuters getting off a train on their way home.

It is unlikely that most young people who pass him on the street know what he does, or recognize the meaning of the red turban.

Most of his regular customers are elderly, he says, although they are loyal.

Some even summon him to their apartment for house calls.

"Rich people," he says proudly.

Mumbai's ear cleaners have a mixed reputation.

Foreigners tell stories of being pestered by red-turbaned men waving needles.

Now that Q-tip-like cotton swabs are common here, the trade seems destined to die out.

In a decent month, Mehboob saves around $80 after subtracting the little he pays for rent.

He shares a room nearby with 15 men, most of them migrants.

Mehboob owns nothing of value here, not even a cellphone.

He carries his savings back to his hometown when he returns every few months to visit his family and their tiny plot of farmland.

Yet Mehboob has trained his nephew, so there could be at least one more generation of ear cleaners in Mumbai.

He dismisses doctors who advise patients with earaches not to visit men like him, because of the risk of infections and scrapes.

"Of course the doctors say that," he says.

"It's good for their business."

