W DELHI – Rescue teams frantically searched for survivors in India's flood-stricken state of Uttarakhand over the weekend.

State disaster officials said the death toll topped 550.

The scenic state of Uttarakhand borders China and Nepal.

Its main attractions are its dramatic Himalayan peaks and a number of sacred landmarks.

Those include the point of origin of the Ganges river, which is worshipped as a goddess in the Hindu religion.

Two rivers join to form the Ganges, the Alaknanda and the Bhagirathi.

Both have swollen from the heavy rains and the gushing waters have washed entire families away.

More than 13,800 people were missing and another 32,000 people were believed to be trapped as a result of the monsoon that have triggered floods and landslides.

The monsoons are seasonal rains that soak the region Google has set up a "person finder" app to help people track down their missing relatives and get more information about the flooded areas.

State disaster relief minister Jaspal Arya said the rescuers responding as if it were a war.

"Forty-five helicopters are combing areas to find people and drop food supplies, as road links are destroyed," Arya said.

Television footage showed stranded people climbing down cliffs, aided by soldiers.

Around 73,000 people have been evacuated so far.

Police spokesman Deepak Pandey said 8,000 people were still estimated trapped in the worst-hit Kedarnath district.

"Women, children and the elderly are being airlifted by helicopters while able-bodied men are being helped to move out using a ropeway," Pandey said.

June is the peak season for pilgrimages and tourism in Uttarakhand, which has numerous Hindu temples.

But this year the monsoon arrived two weeks ahead of schedule, causing widespread disaster.

Indian weather officials said rescue efforts would be compounded by heavy rains expected in the region from Monday.

"The next 24 hours will be crucial for rescue operations," Pandey said.

Uttarakhand Chief Minister Vijay Bahuguna said it would take another 15 days to complete the region's evacuation.

"Our priority remains evacuation and emergency supplies to those who are stuck," said Anil Chait, an army general who is heading the operations.

The army was trying to repair roads and make temporary bridges to restore land-links to the cut-off areas.

A private helicopter being used to rescue stranded people crashed late Friday.

There were no casualties.

Kedarnath, a revered Hindu temple, had turned into a graveyard, with bodies buried in the rubble surrounding the shrine.

"The center of faith has turned into a burial ground.

Bodies are scattered in the area," state agriculture minister Harak Singh Rawat told reporters.

Numerous accounts of death and destruction have emerged in the disaster's aftermath.

Radhey Shyam, a pilgrim to Kedarnath, was the sole survivor in his family.

Thirteen of his relatives were killed.

"My wife, my daughter and relatives were all swept away by the floods.

Nobody is alive," he told broadcaster NDTV.

"Scores of people have climbed hill-slopes and are in forests, who need to be helped and rescued as soon as possible."

KB Rana's three-story business complex was swept away by the raging Mandakini river: "I have lost all that I had.

It was washed away by the floods in a matter of minutes."

Other survivors complained that locals refused them shelter while shopkeepers were overcharging for bottled water and biscuits.

"We were scared of dying and just kept running for our lives.

We don't know how many kilometers we ran.

People kept telling us to run to save our lives," another survivor said.

Angry relatives blocked roads outside the Jolly Grant airport in the state capital, protesting at the lack of help and information from authorities.

"I have been here for the past three days to get some information about my missing father and mother.

But there is no official here to help us.

It's an endless wait," Brajesh Singh said.

Indian media said large-scale construction, mining and power projects in India's northern Himalayan states had contributed to the worst floods in the region in 60 years.

The disaster was "man-made" because environmental laws had been ignored, broadcaster NDTV said.

"The growing frequency of extreme" weather adds to the evidence that dams,  building near riverbeds, and blasting of mountains to build roads are putting India's mountainous states at risk of disaster, the Times of India wrote.

