The Jariwal household could barely contain its joy on a recent weekday afternoon.

The oldest daughter was getting married.

The invitations had been delivered, a venue was chosen, hotel reservations had been made.

But there was the gold problem.

Gold is widely worn at Indian weddings.

But it is far more than a nice thing to wear.

It's a key element of the Hindu religion and customs.

In India, gold is a status symbol and a sign of respect.

India buys 20 percent of the world's gold.

But recently, acquiring gold has become much more of a challenge.

India's money, the rupee, has been losing value rapidly.

This has made gold much more expensive for Indians.

At the same time, there is another problem: The government has increased import taxes on precious metals like gold.

That's left people like Kusum Jariwal, proud mother of the bride, in a tricky situation.

She has to plan carefully as the December wedding date draws closer.

There will have to be a single gold necklace-and-earrings set for daughter Kanika, 25.

She had hoped to give her daughter two.

It also means a pendant rather than a thicker chain for the mother-in-law-to-be.

The groom will get a ring and a watch.

She can't really give him less.

"We have to buy more, but prices are crazy," Jariwal said.

"We'll just have to make do with less."

The government's decision to increase the tax on gold just before the November-February wedding season shows how worried it is.

And its concern is understandable: economic growth has plunged to less than half its 2010–2011 level.

India's stock market lost nearly $100 billion in value during August alone.

Meanwhile, the rupee has dropped 16 percent in value this year.

It has become one of Asia's weakest currencies.

Indians now must pay more for gasoline, imported medicines, foreign trips and education.

"India has become the sick man of Asia," said economist Rajiv Biswas.

Another major problem is that the nation's foreign reserves are shrinking.

A foreign reserve is the amount of foreign money that is held in the country's banks.

Indians use foreign money, like the U.S. dollar, to pay for imports, like gold.

India's foreign reserves have fallen to $280 billion.

This is dangerously low — enough to buy just seven months worth of imports.

The Indian government recently started raising taxes on some imports.

The thinking is that if the taxes make those imports harder to afford, people will buy less of them.

That way, more foreign money will remain in the country.

Of course, some people will spend their foreign money anyhow.

But hopefully it will be on something that helps India's wealth grow.

Oil is India's largest import, but raising taxes on it could choke growth.

So the government has gone after gold, the nation's second-largest import.

The government would rather not see people buy a lot of gold, because gold doesn't expand the country's wealth.

Gold just sits in safe deposit boxes, and is worn at weddings of course.

But it's unclear whether the government can chip away at Indians' love of gold.

Previous attempts have failed.

Biswas predicts that the gold tax will only encourage smuggling.

Last month, two Sri Lankans were caught trying to smuggle more than $10 million worth of gold into India.

No matter what the government does, it'll be tough to bring about change.

Indians believe gold should mark every stage of life, from birth to marriage to death.

Evidence of India's love of gold is everywhere.

One can find furniture, cricket bats, religious statues and temple doors made of solid gold.

There are gold chain-mail shirts worth millions of dollars, and 24K-gold-plated iPhones.

Tata Motors even coated one of its cars with $3 million worth of gold and gems in a shiny stunt for publicity (it worked).

In the Jariwals' colorfully decorated living room, three generations of women proudly displayed their gold earrings and necklaces.

Bride Kanika said she suggested the family stop obsessing about the gold, given all the added expense and worry.

But her mother wouldn't hear of it.

On one point everyone in the family agrees: Indians will never stop buying the stuff.

"Two years ago, gold prices were way down," the mother said with a sigh.

"Oh, how I wish I'd bought more.

Why didn't I just go for it?"

