The hallway at Hinduja Hospital was filled with sick people.

They were waiting to see Dr. Zarir Udwadia.

Nineteen-year-old Nisha was one of those waiting.

Like many of the others, she is sick with tuberculosis (TB).

Tuberculosis is a terrible disease.

It usually attacks the lungs.

People with TB can have trouble breathing.

The disease can be passed from person to person.

Others doctors tried to help Nisha.

They treated her for more than a year.

They ended up making her even sicker.

Doctors try to get rid of tuberculosis by giving people drugs.

The medicines they use are called antibiotics.

Nisha's doctors tried a lot of different kinds of antibiotics.

It made her TB worse.

TB is caused by tiny living things called bacteria.

Bacteria can be good.

They can also make us sick.

Antibiotics are supposed to kill TB bacteria.

When they work well, they can kill bacteria.

They can also stop bacteria from growing.

Then the person can get better.

Antibiotics do not always kill the TB bacteria, though.

Sometimes this happens because doctors stop using the medicine too soon.

Other times the medicine may not be strong enough.

If not all the bacteria die, the survivor bacteria can become stronger.

It might become more powerful than the medicine.

Bacteria that can fight off the medicine are called drug resistant.

The resistant bacteria then pass on their ability to not respond to the drug.

The new bacteria they make have the resistance, too.

Nisha's first doctors kept on switching medicines.

Doing that made the TB in her body grow stronger.

Her TB became more resistant.

It became resistant to a few medicines.

Once one person has resistant TB, other people can get it, too.

Drug-resistant TB can spread from person to person.

TB then becomes harder to get rid of.

Udwadia was the first doctor to notice that drug-resistant TB is spreading quickly in India.

He is very worried that many people will die.

No medicine will be able to help them.

Things are not all bad, though.

Udwadia says some new antibiotics may work.

People like Nisha still have a chance to get better.

