The Jariwal household could barely contain its joy on a recent weekday afternoon.

Family members were getting ready for their oldest daughter's wedding.

The invitations had been delivered, a venue was chosen and hotel reservations were made.

But there was the gold problem.

Gold is far more than just a nice thing to wear at Indian weddings.

It's a key element of the religion and culture.

In India, gold is a status symbol and a sign of respect.

India buys 20 percent of the world's gold.

But recently, acquiring gold has become much more of a challenge.

The nation's economic problems have led to a sharp drop in the value of India's currency, the rupee.

This has made gold much more expensive for Indians.

And that pain has been worsened by the government's decision to increase import taxes on precious metals.

Taxes on imported gold have risen to 10 percent from 4 percent.

That's left people like Kusum Jariwal, proud mother of the bride, in a tricky situation.

She has had to plan carefully as the December wedding date approaches.

There will have to be a single "not too weighty" gold necklace-and-earrings set for daughter Kanika, 25, rather than the two that Jariwal had planned.

It also means a pendant rather than a chain for the mother-in-law-to-be.

Plus a ring and watch for the groom — can't really skimp there.

"We have to buy more, but prices are crazy," Jariwal said.

"We'll just have to make do with less."

The government's decision to increase the tax on gold just before the November-February wedding season indicates how worried Indian economic planners have become.

And their concern is understandable: economic growth has plunged to 4.4 percent, less than half its 2010–2011 level.

Also, the government is spending much more than it is collecting in taxes.

And imports are exceeding exports, meaning India either isn't selling enough goods to the rest of the world, is buying too much from other countries, or a little of both.

India's stock market lost nearly $100 billion in value during August alone.

Meanwhile, the rupee has fallen a lot in value when compared with the U.S. dollar this year.

It has become one of Asia's weakest currencies.

Indians now must pay more for gasoline, imported medicines, foreign trips and education.

"India has become the sick man of Asia," said economist Rajiv Biswas.

Another major problem is that the nation's foreign reserves are shrinking.

The term foreign reserves refers to the amount of foreign currency that is held in the country's banks.

Indians use foreign currencies –– most frequently the U.S. dollar –– to pay for imports.

India's foreign reserves have fallen to $280 billion.

This is dangerously low –– enough to buy just seven months worth of imports.

To help build up foreign reserves, the Indian government has begun raising taxes on some imports.

The thinking is that if import taxes make something more expensive, people will buy less of it.

That way, more foreign currency will remain in the country.

And if people do spend their foreign currencies, it should be on something that helps the economy grow.

Oil is India's largest import, but raising taxes on it could choke growth.

So the government has gone after gold, the nation's second-largest import.

Economists consider gold a nonproductive asset –– that is, it doesn't fuel economic growth.

Instead, it sits idly in safe deposit boxes.

Thus, the government would be glad to see Indians buy less of it.

But it's unclear whether the government can chip away at Indians' love of gold.

Previous attempts to get people to import less of it have failed.

Biswas predicts that the latest gold tax will only encourage smuggling and provide an opportunity for organized crime.

Last month, two Sri Lankans were caught in western India with several pounds of gold, valued at more than $10 million, hidden in their body cavities.

Customs officials had noticed them walking awkwardly.

In May, a jeweler died in a tunnel collapse after a witch doctor convinced him there was a mass of gold under his house.

According to sociologist Partha Nath Mukherji, it's tough to change a culture that believes gold should mark every phase of life, from birth to marriage to death.

Evidence of India's love of gold is everywhere, from solid-gold furniture, cricket bats, idols, and temple doors to chain-mail shirts worth millions of dollars.

Gold is enshrined in ancient Hindu legends.

And it features in the latest marketing campaigns, such as those for 24K-gold-plated iPhones.

When Tata Motors wanted to draw attention to its Nano car model, it coated one of the vehicles with $3 million worth of gold and gems.

The publicity it got far outshone the cost.

Three generations of women proudly displayed their gold earrings and necklaces in the Jariwals' colorfully decorated living room.

Bride Kanika, who admits to being a "riot of emotions" right now, said she suggested the family stop obsessing about the gold, given all the added expense and worry.

But her mother wouldn't hear of it.

On one point everyone in the family agrees: Indians will never stop buying the stuff.

"Two years ago, gold prices were way down," the mother said with a sigh.

"Oh, how I wish I'd bought more.

Why didn't I just go for it?"

