For many years, India has been one of the world's largest coffee growers.

Yet, when most people think of India, they think of tea.

During most of the 1900s, India was the world's biggest tea-growing nation.

Tarun Cariappa's family has a farm.

The family grows coffee, not tea, and has for many years.

The farm has dark green coffee bushes.

Around them are towering fruit trees — and sometimes a wild elephant.

Still, if you ask Cariappa: "Coffee or tea?"

he, like most Indians, answers, "Tea."

"Dad and Mom started their day with a cup of tea," Cariappa said as he looked over leafy plants studded with bright-red coffee cherries.

"So I've never drunk coffee."

Ask for a cup of coffee in most of India and you'll get instant coffee.

The crystals will be drowning in hot milk and sugar.

So few Indians drink brewed coffee that almost all the best beans are exported to countries like Italy.

Now, however, a handful of Indian farmers and businessmen are trying to hook their countrymen on coffee.

Cariappa's family started the farm in 1958.

For years, all 15 tons of coffee picked on his farm each year were sold outside India.

Most of his plants are arabica.

It is an expensive type favored by top coffee roasters.

Two years ago, he began selling some of his arabica to Kunal Ross, who started TheIndianBean.com.

The website sells coffee from four family plantations in southern India to Indian shoppers and businesses.

Ross sells the coffee under the name Appa's.

Cariappa hasn't even tasted the brewed coffee.

His mother recently returned from the nearby city of Bangalore.

She said that the Marriott hotel had bags of Appa's in the rooms.

"And you didn't even take a picture!"

Cariappa joked.

Cariappa said he still does not know where most of his coffee goes when it is sold outside of India.

The effort to sell Indian-grown coffee in India is one of the newest signs of this country's business growth.

It also represents an attempt to connect farmers with Indian shoppers.

Even now some Indians see coffee as an expensive drink.

Ross compared the coffee crop in southern India to West African cocoa.

Some farmers there have never tasted chocolate.

"A lot of farmers barely know they're growing coffee," said Ross, who launched his company in 2012.

"To them it's just another crop they sell to the West."

Until recently, shoppers in most of India couldn't even buy homegrown coffee.

Before India began allowing more trade in the early 1990s, growers had to sell their beans to the government.

The coffee then was traded with other countries for things like weapons.

"Coffee drinkers are pretty starved for choice here," said Matt Chitharanjan.

He runs Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters in New Delhi.

Chitharanjan was born in Wisconsin.

His parents were from India.

He developed a taste for expensive coffee while living in New York and San Francisco.

When he moved to India in 2012, he found that the expensive Italian coffee brands had often lost their freshness by the time they reached stores.

He began roasting beans at home.

In January 2013, he launched Blue Tokai, which sold 7 tons of coffee across India in its first year.

"The response has really been great,"  Chitharanjan said.

Not everyone is completely ready for the change.

Some first-time customers, he said, have tried dissolving his ground coffee in water like instant coffee.

"I tell them it doesn't work like that," he said.

"There's still some education that has to be done."

