When most people think of India, they think of tea.

It is one of the biggest tea-growing nations in the world.

Yet it is one of the biggest coffee growers also.

Tarun Cariappa's family has a farm in India.

The family grows coffee, not tea.

The farm has dark green coffee bushes next to giant fruit trees.

Sometimes, you can see a wild elephant.

If you ask Cariappa: "Coffee or tea?"

he answers, "Tea."

So do most Indians.

"Dad and Mom started their day with a cup of tea," Cariappa said.

"So I've never drunk coffee."

Ask for a cup of coffee in most of India and you'll get instant coffee from crystals.

You will not get coffee brewed fresh from ground beans.

The crystals will be drowning in hot milk and sugar.

Very few Indians drink brewed coffee.

For that reason, almost all India's best coffee is sold to countries like Italy.

A few Indian farmers and businessmen want to change that.

They are trying to hook their countrymen on coffee.

Cariappa's family started their coffee farm in 1958.

For years, all 15 tons of coffee picked on the farm each year ended up outside India.

Most of the plants are arabica.

It is an expensive type of bean.

Top coffee roasters like it.

Two years ago, Cariappa began selling some of his arabica to Kunal Ross, who runs TheIndianBean.com.

The website sells coffee from family farms in India to Indian shoppers and businesses.

Ross sells the coffee under the name Appa's.

But Cariappa still hasn't tasted Appa's coffee.

His mother saw that a hotel in India had bags of Appa's in the rooms.

"And you didn't even take a picture!"

Cariappa said.

Business is growing in India.

The business of selling coffee to Indians is one of the newest signs of this.

It is also an attempt to connect farmers with Indian shoppers.

Even now, some Indians think of coffee as an expensive drink.

Ross compared the coffee crop in southern India to West African cocoa.

Some farmers there have never tasted chocolate.

"A lot of farmers barely know they're growing coffee," said Ross.

"To them it's just another crop they sell to the West."

Until recently, shoppers in most of India couldn't even buy coffee grown in India.

There was a reason.

Growers used to have to sell their beans to the government.

Then the coffee was traded to other countries for things like weapons.

The rules started to change in the 1990s.

Matt Chitharanjan was born in Wisconsin.

His parents were from India.

He developed a taste for expensive coffee while living in New York and San Francisco.

When he moved to India in 2012, he found that expensive Italian coffee often tasted old by the time it reached stores.

He began to buy beans from Indian farmers.

He roasted them at home.

In 2013, he launched Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters.

The company sold 7 tons of coffee across India in its first year.

"The response has really been great," Chitharanjan said.

