Nanasahib Bankar, a prosperous farmer and businessman in this small temple town, worries about a lot of things: sugar cane prices, the health of his cattle, the success of his son's new hotel.

One thing he doesn't worry about is losing his keys.

His house, like nearly all the others here, does not have a door.

Bankar stands under the bare door frame of the red-brick house he shares with 12 family members.

With arms folded over his protruding belly, the 64-year-old says simply, "This is the way we have always lived."

Legend has it that Shani, the Hindu god to whom the local temple is dedicated, watches over Shani Shinganapur, preventing crime and punishing thieves.

The town of about 15,000 is in western India.

Devotees say that to install a door with a latch or a cupboard with locks would be to question Lord Shani's powers and invite his wrath.

Some older residents opt for curtains even for their bedrooms, and most residents do not lock their cars or motorbikes.

Shopkeepers say they sometimes leave cash in their drawers overnight.

The only bank in town has a plexiglass front door but, apart from a safe-deposit box, remains unlocked day and night.

After dark, when the wind rustles the palm trees and sugar cane fields, Bankar draws a simple gray curtain across his front doorway.

He holds the billowy fabric in place with a slab of plywood.

The main threat of a break-in, he said, comes from stray dogs and snakes.

In a bedroom, Bankar's daughter-in-law, Vaishana, a pretty young woman wearing a sari and dangly white earrings, giggles when asked where she keeps her wedding jewelry, her most valuable possession.

She reaches under her bed and slides out a battered blue suitcase.

"See," Bankar says proudly, "it's not locked and we don't worry."

In a land filled with all kinds of Hindu shrines, Shani Shinganapur's peculiar folklore has brought it a small measure of fame on India's temple circuit.

The legend draws thousands of visitors daily to this otherwise-nondescript town, 150 miles east of Mumbai.

The origins of the temple are as much a part of local legend as the crime-free image.

Hundreds of years ago — no one seems to know exactly when — the river running through the village coughed up a 5-foot block of black stone.

When the stone was tapped, the story goes, blood oozed from its surface.

Residents say no one dared to move the slab until, one night, a farmer dreamed that the stone spoke to him.

It identified itself as Shani, the Hindu god associated with the planet Saturn.

"I want to remain here," the stone said, and the next day farmers heaved it up to dry land.

When villagers sought to construct a building to house the stone, however, there were mishaps.

Walls collapsed.

Construction workers suffered injuries.

The residents decided that no traditional temple could house Shani, so the shrine consists of a simple open-air platform on which the slab now sits.

Then the villagers followed suit by doing away with doors.

Over the years, the legend has grown.

Bankar's grandfather would tell how raiders from another village came one night and made off with a bull.

They walked and walked, but when the sun rose they found themselves still in Shani Shinganapur, having wandered in circles, and were captured.

To some, such tales are pure superstition and a ploy for tourists.

They say petty crime occurs, but temple officials keep the reports quiet to protect Shani Shinganapur's reputation.

If the town is so safe, these skeptics ask, why does the temple's donation box have a lock?

Five years ago, a visitor from northern India complained that a tour operator had stolen his camera, cellphone and hundreds of dollars in cash while he was praying in the temple.

News reports — their accuracy impossible to confirm — billed it as the first police case in Shani Shinganapur's history.

One recent afternoon in the center of town, where lines snake around the stone trapezoid that forms the entrance to the shrine, a pickpocket tried to snatch money from a pilgrim but was apprehended.

The suspect, police said, was from out of town.

A more subtle form of thievery has taken root as the town's fame grows and more people flock here from other towns for work.

When cars with out-of-town license plates roll along the dusty road toward the temple, teenagers on motorbikes tap on the windows, harassing visitors over parking fees.

Prices for garlands, ceremonial oil and other religious offerings have also soared.

This has prompted temple leaders to post signs warning visitors about jacked-up prices.

Finally, in September, came an unmistakable sign that reality had pierced the town's shaky myth: A police station opened in Shani Shinganapur for the first time.

Two weeks after the ceremonial opening, a shred of cheap pink ribbon is still affixed to the door frame of Assistant Police Inspector Prashant Mandale's office.

It is held in place by two strips of masking tape.

The station has a small jail cell, which features a compromise: Instead of a lock, the cell door is held shut by a long metal latch, secured by a bolt out of reach of anyone on the inside.

Yes, Mandale says, the police station also has doors, but out of respect for local traditions they do not have locks.

