Indiana Governor Mike Pence said Tuesday that he wants a proposal for a law on his desk by the end of the week.

He wants the state government to make it clear that a new Indiana law does not allow discrimination against gays and lesbians.

Pence defended the religious-freedom law as a vehicle to protect religious liberty.

Still, he said he has been meeting with lawmakers "around the clock" to address concerns that it would allow businesses to deny services to gay customers.

The Republican  governor said he does not believe "for a minute" that lawmakers intended to let people discriminate under the law.

"It certainly wasn't my intent," said Pence.

The governor signed the law last week.

But, he said, he understood that some people thought that was what the law meant.

"We need to confront that," Pence said.

The law prohibits the state from making other laws that make it difficult for a person to follow his or her religious beliefs.

Religious institutions, businesses and associations are all considered "persons" under the law.

The legal language does not specifically mention gays and lesbians.

However, critics say the law is designed to protect businesses and individuals who do not want to serve gays and lesbians.

Examples include people such as florists or caterers who might be hired for a wedding for gay or lesbian couples.

Businesses and organizations including Apple and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) have voiced concern over the effect of the law.

Some states will not let government money be used to pay for travel to Indiana.

The Indianapolis Star newspaper said Tuesday that the law needed to be changed.

The Star printed an opinion article written by its staff.

It was headlined "FIX THIS NOW."

The editorial covered the newspaper's entire front page.

It called for lawmakers to enact a law that would prohibit discrimination against people who are gay.

The newspaper says the uproar sparked by the law has "done enormous harm" to the state.

It said the law could hurt business in the state in the future.

Meanwhile, Arkansas was poised to follow Indiana in enacting a similar law.

The state was set to do this despite increasing criticism from businesses and gay-rights supporters.

The House of Arkansas' state government could vote as early as Tuesday on a proposal.

The law would prohibit state and local governments from infringing on a person's religious beliefs without a "compelling" reason.

Arkansas lawmakers also said they won't modify their measure.

"There's not really any place to make any changes now," Republican Representative Bob Ballinger of Hindsville, Arkansas, said about his proposal.

"If there are questions in two years, we can fix it."

Hundreds of protesters filled the Capitol in Arkansas to stand against the measure.

They held signs that read "Discrimination is not a Christian Value."

Some signs read "Discrimination is a Disease."

They chanted "Shame on you" at Ballinger.

"I believe that many people will want to flee the state, and many people will want to avoid our state," said Rita Jernigan.

She is a protester and one of the people suing the state over its ban on marriages between people of the same sex.

Similar proposals have been introduced in more than a dozen states.

They are patterned after the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993.

Nineteen other states have similar laws on the books.

Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson had expressed reservations about unintended consequences of an earlier version of the bill.

Since then, the Republican governor has said he will sign the current measure into law.

In a letter released Tuesday, Mark Stodola, the mayor of Little Rock, urged Hutchinson to veto the proposal.

He said it would hurt the state's economic-development efforts because it "sends the message that some members of our community will have fewer protections than others."

Opponents of the bill hoped to target Hutchinson's promise to be a "jobs governor" made during his successful bid last year for the state's top office.

The Human Rights Campaign is the nation's largest gay rights group and has run ads in Silicon Valley.

The ads are aimed at the same technology firms Hutchinson has said he wants to lure to Arkansas.

Apple CEO Tim Cook wrote in The Washington Post over the weekend opposing the Arkansas and Indiana measures.

Meanwhile, Wal-Mart has said the proposal sends the wrong message about its home state.

Little Rock-based company Acxiom also urged Hutchinson to veto the bill, saying the measure would enable discrimination and open the state up to ridicule.

"This bill is at direct odds with your position that 'Arkansas is open for business,'" CEO Scott Howe and Executive Vice President Jerry C. Jones said.

In Indiana, the reaction has included a planned women's conference in Indianapolis to be canceled this year.

Meanwhile, the band Wilco has canceled a May performance.

