Three generations of Tarun Cariappa's family have grown coffee on their highland farm in southern India.

The farm consists of 38 rolling acres of dark green bushes sprinkled with towering jackfruit and mango trees — and the occasional wild elephant.

But to that universal question "Coffee or tea?"

Cariappa, like most Indians, has always answered, "Tea."

"Dad and Mom started their day with a cup of tea," Cariappa said as he surveyed a patch of leafy plants studded with bright-red coffee cherries.

"So I've never drunk coffee."

Although India has long been one of the world's major coffee producers, the country's name is practically synonymous with tea.

For most of the last century, it was the world's biggest tea-growing nation.

India is renowned for its Darjeeling and Assam varieties, and it's still among the top consumers of tea worldwide.

Roadside chai (tea) stalls are a fixture in every throbbing city and distant village.

Ask for a cup of coffee in most of India, though, and you'll get instant coffee crystals drowning in hot milk and sugar, or served over ice with even more sugar.

So few Indians drink brewed coffee that virtually all its best crop is exported to countries such as Italy.

There the beans are used in name-brand espresso blends and sold at a huge price increase.

Now, however, a handful of Indian farmers and businessmen are trying to hook some of their countrymen on coffee.

Cariappa said his family acquired the Udayagiri estate in the coastal state of Karnataka in 1958, a decade after India gained independence from the British Empire.

For years, all 15 tons of coffee picked, pulped and sun-dried on his farm annually were sold to a middleman and ended up abroad.

Most of his plants are arabica — the more expensive variety favored by top coffee roasters.

Two years ago, he began selling a small portion of his arabica to Kunal Ross, founder of TheIndianBean.com, a website that sells coffee to domestic consumers and businesses from four family plantations in southern India.

Ross roasts the arabica and markets it under the name Appa's.

The brewed coffee has an earthy, nutty flavor, but Cariappa hasn't tasted it.

His mother recently returned from the nearby city of Bangalore and reported that the Marriott hotel was stocking bags of Appa's in the rooms.

"And you didn't even take a picture!"

Cariappa chided her gently as they sat on the veranda of their peach-colored farmhouse, built by his grandfather in the 1950s.

"I feel like there's some identity to my coffee now," Cariappa said.

"Where the bulk of it goes once it's exported, I still have no idea, but those who buy from Kunal know where Appa's is coming from."

The effort to build a domestic market for Indian-grown coffee is among the latest signs of this country's business growth.

It also represents a bid to lift farmers from the bottom of the supply chain and connect them with Indian consumers who have long viewed coffee as a luxury item.

The shade-grown coffee bushes that spill across the gently sloping hillsides of southern India are, for most farmers, simply a cash crop, Ross said.

He compared it to West African cocoa whose farmers have never tasted chocolate.

"A lot of farmers barely know they're growing coffee," said Ross, a 34-year-old former advertising man who launched his company in 2012.

"To them it's just another crop they sell to the West."

Until recently, consumers in most of India couldn't even buy homegrown coffee, at least not directly.

Before India began opening up its economy in the early 1990s to more free trade, all growers were required to sell their beans to the government.

It then traded agricultural products for items such as weapons from the former Soviet Union, now Russia.

In southern India, the only region with a coffee-drinking culture, local beans are mixed with chicory and sometimes cane sugar for a strong, smoky finish.

"Coffee drinkers are pretty starved for choice here," said Matt Chitharanjan, 32, who runs Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters, based in New Delhi.

Chitharanjan was born in Wisconsin to South Indian parents.

He developed a taste for expensive coffee while living in New York and San Francisco.

When he moved to the Indian capital in 2012, he found that the expensive Italian brands were often stale by the time they reached stores, and that ordering an espresso even at an upscale restaurant usually resulted in a disappointing concoction of instant coffee, milk and chocolate powder.

He contacted farmers, persuaded them to sell him beans directly and began roasting them at home.

In January 2013, he launched Blue Tokai, which sold 7 tons of coffee across India in its first year.

"The farmers were a little skeptical.

They felt there would be no demand for the quality of coffee they were growing," Chitharanjan said.

"But the response has really been great."

Some first-time customers, he said, have tried dissolving his ground coffee in water like instant Nescafe, the only coffee Indians could buy for decades.

"I tell them it doesn't work like that," he said.

"There's still some education that has to be done."

