The Jariwal family is very happy.

The oldest daughter, Kanika, is getting married soon.

The invitations have been delivered.

Hotel reservations have been made.

But there is one problem: gold.

In India, gold is worn at weddings.

But it is far more than just a nice thing to wear.

It shows a person's importance.

And it is given as a gift to show respect.

India buys one-fifth of the world's gold.

But recently, buying gold has become much harder.

The rupee, India's currency — that is, its money — is worth less than it used to be.

This has made gold much more expensive for Indians.

And there is another problem: The government has increased taxes on imported gold — that is, gold bought from other countries.

So buying gold is even more expensive.

That has left Kusum Jariwal in a tricky situation.

The proud mother of the bride has to plan carefully now.

And the December wedding date is getting nearer.

There will have to be a single gold necklace-and-earrings set for daughter Kanika, 25.

She had hoped to give her daughter two of them.

There will be a pendant rather than a chain for the future mother-in-law.

Plus a ring and watch for the groom, can't skimp there.

"We have to buy more, but prices are crazy," Jariwal said.

"We'll just have to make do with less."

The tax increase on gold came just before the November-February wedding season.

That means many families will have the same problems as Jariwal's.

The increase shows how worried the government is.

It's understandable: economic growth is less than half of what it was last year.

And the rupee has lost 16 percent of its value this year.

It has become one of Asia's weakest currencies.

Another big problem is that the nation's foreign reserves are shrinking.

Foreign reserves are the amount of foreign currency in the country's banks.

Indians use foreign currencies to pay for imports — that is, things they buy from other countries.

Most often they use U.S. dollars.

India's foreign reserves have fallen to $280 billion.

This is dangerously low.

It is only enough to buy seven months worth of imports.

Recently, the Indian government began raising taxes on some imports.

It hopes the higher taxes will persuade some people not to buy those things.

That way, more foreign currency will remain in the country.

Of course, some people will spend their foreign currencies anyhow.

But hopefully it will be on something that helps India's wealth grow.

Oil is India's largest import, but raising taxes on it could choke growth.

So the government has gone after gold, the nation's second-largest import.

The government would rather not see people buy a lot of gold, because gold doesn't help the economy grow.

Instead, it just sits in safe deposit boxes, and gets worn at weddings of course.

But the government may not be able to change Indians' love of gold.

Previous attempts have failed.

Indians believe that gold should mark every stage of life, from birth to marriage to death.

And evidence of their love of gold is everywhere.

One can find furniture, statues and doors made of solid gold.

There are gold chain-mail shirts worth millions of dollars.

There are even gold-plated iPhones.

And to get its Nano car model in the newspapers and on websites a couple of years ago, Tata Motors coated it with $3 million worth of gold and gems.

The publicity stunt worked.

In the Jariwals' colorfully decorated living room, three generations of women proudly displayed their gold earrings and necklaces.

Bride Kanika said she suggested the family stop worrying about gold, given how much more expensive it is now.

But her mother wouldn't hear of it.

Everyone in the family agrees on one thing: Indians will never stop buying the stuff.

"Two years ago, gold prices were way down," the mother said with a sigh.

"Oh, how I wish I'd bought more.

Why didn't I just go for it?"

