Three generations of Tarun Cariappa's family have grown coffee on their farm in southern India.

The farm consists of 38 rolling acres of dark green coffee bushes, towering fruit trees — and the occasional wild elephant.

But to the question "Coffee or tea?"

Cariappa, like most Indians, has always answered, "Tea."

"Dad and Mom started their day with a cup of tea," Cariappa said as he surveyed a patch of leafy plants studded with bright-red coffee cherries.

"So I've never drunk coffee."

India has long been one of the world's major coffee producers.

However, the country's name is practically synonymous with tea.

For most of the last century, it was the world's biggest tea-growing nation and is well known for its Darjeeling and Assam varieties of tea.

It is still among the top tea consumers.

Roadside chai (tea) stalls are in every big city and small town.

Ask for a cup of coffee in most of India, though, and you'll get instant coffee crystals drowning in hot milk and sugar.

So few Indians drink brewed coffee that nearly all its best crop is exported to countries such as Italy.

There, the beans are used in name-brand espresso blends and sold for a huge price increase.

Now, however, a handful of Indian farmers and businessmen are trying to hook some of their countrymen on coffee.

Cariappa said his family acquired its farm in 1958.

For years, all 15 tons of coffee picked, pulped and sun-dried on his farm each year were sold to a middleman and ended up abroad.

Most of his plants are arabica — the more expensive variety favored by top coffee roasters.

Two years ago, he began selling a small portion of his arabica to Kunal Ross, founder of TheIndianBean.com.

The website sells coffee to Indian consumers and businesses from four family plantations in southern India.

Ross roasts the arabica and markets it under the name Appa's.

Cariappa hasn't tasted the brewed coffee.

His mother recently returned from the nearby city of Bangalore and reported that the Marriott hotel was stocking bags of Appa's in the rooms.

"And you didn't even take a picture!"

Cariappa joked as they sat on the porch of their peach-colored farmhouse, built by his grandfather in the 1950s.

"I feel like there's some identity to my coffee now," Cariappa said.

"Where the bulk of it goes once it's exported, I still have no idea, but those who buy from Kunal know where Appa's is coming from."

The effort to build a home market for Indian-grown coffee is among the latest signs of this country's business growth.

It also represents an attempt to lift farmers from the bottom of the supply chain and connect them with Indian shoppers.

Those customers have long viewed coffee as a luxury item.

The shade-grown coffee bushes that spill across the gently sloping hillsides of southern India are, for most farmers, simply a cash crop, Ross said.

He compared it to West African cocoa whose farmers have never tasted chocolate.

"A lot of farmers barely know they're growing coffee," said Ross, who launched his company in 2012.

"To them it's just another crop they sell to the West."

Until recently, shoppers in most of India couldn't even buy homegrown coffee.

Before India began easing its business rules in the early 1990s, growers had to sell their beans to the government.

It then traded agricultural products for items such as weapons from the former  Soviet Union, now Russia.

Southern India is the only region with a coffee-drinking tradition.

There, local beans are mixed with chicory and sometimes sugar for a strong, smoky flavor.

"Coffee drinkers are pretty starved for choice here," said Matt Chitharanjan, who runs Blue Tokai Coffee Roasters in New Delhi.

Chitharanjan was born in Wisconson to South Indian parents.

He developed a taste for expensive coffee while living in New York and San Francisco.

When he moved to India in 2012, he found that the expensive Italian brands were often stale by the time they reached stores.

When he ordered an espresso, he usually was served a disappointing mix of instant coffee, milk and chocolate powder.

He contacted farmers, persuaded them to sell him beans directly and began roasting them at home.

In 2013, he launched Blue Tokai, which sold 7 tons of coffee across India in its first year.

The farmers were not sure people would buy their coffee, he said.

"They felt there would be no demand for the quality of coffee they were growing," Chitharanjan said.

"But the response has really been great."

Not everyone is completely ready for the change.

Some first-time customers, he said, have tried dissolving his ground coffee in water like instant coffee.

"I tell them it doesn't work like that," he said.

"There's still some education that has to be done."

