The surf pounded and clawed at one of the oldest places where people once lived in North America.

Archaeologist Torben Rick watched with frustration.

The area was a massive heap of village foundations, cutting tools, beads and kitchen items.

The artifacts had been left behind over the last 13,000 years.

Centuries ago, tribal members cast fishing nets from canoes made of redwood planks.

They prepared dinners on stone griddles and carefully chipped out tiny shell beads.

The beads were used as money.

Now, this bundle of Native American history and several others on the island will almost certainly be lost unless something is done.

Rising seas and strong storms are destroying many of the beaches where the artifacts are found.

Rick works at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History.

He is in charge of the collection of items relating to ancient peoples.

The archaeologist picked up a tiny pink bead.

"Things like this are golden because they can help us better understand the people who lived here and how they dealt with some of the same unstoppable forces we face today," he said.

"The trouble is, a few more storms and all this valuable history will be washed out to sea."

Conservationists and archaeologists are fighting back.

Half a dozen scientists armed with digging trowels, clipboards and global positioning devices fanned out across the island earlier this month.

They took down the first full list of archaeological sites heavily threatened by shoreline retreat and storm erosion, where sand is worn away by the wind and waves.

The list will create baseline information to help guide conservation decisions at sites that are in danger.

It will also enable scientists to monitor the forces of marine erosion, which are predicted to get worse.

Four groups have joined in the work: the Smithsonian Institution, the University of Oregon, Chumash tribal leaders and the Nature Conservancy.

The Conservancy manages three-quarters of the 96-square-mile island, the largest of eight Channel Islands.

The islands lie 36 miles off Ventura, California.

The rising sea level is destroying the chance to learn about our past, said Scott Morrison, the Conservancy's director of conservation science.

"We're trying to do something about that."

Dozens of sites, including former villages and workshops, were assigned one of five risk levels.

Factors such as how high they were from sea level and distance to the nearest shoreline were considered.

Other factors included the angle of the coast, how much soil was being eaten way and how much rain the area faced.

Eight sites were designated "code red."

Those sites contain significant archaeological artifacts.

They also are in immediate danger of being destroyed by rising seas.

One of the sites is a remote cave.

The team conducted an "emergency archaeological rescue" there.

They saved items buried beneath thick layers of sand and driftwood: arrowheads, crude stone tools, rope and fabric woven out of sea grass.

Also recovered in the cave was a square piece of redwood smeared with brown tar.

The piece was used to repair a hole in a canoe.

"The last time one of these planks was found was in the 1960s," said Jon M. Erlandson, an archaeologist at the University of Oregon.

Erlandson is an expert on Santa Cruz Island's cultural items.

The plank is a reminder of a time when the coast teemed with fish, waterfowl and shellfish.

"The shoreline was a lot further away than it is now," Erlandson said.

"There's not enough time to save everything," Erlandson said.

"We're trying to record and salvage all we can before it's too late."

At least three Chumash house pits discovered within the last 40 years have been destroyed by the ocean near the cave.

The destruction meant the pits could not be scientifically analyzed to find  important information about changes in island culture and the landscape, Erlandson said.

Rising sea levels between 7,000 and 15,000 years ago put much of the evidence of the island's earliest occupants under water.

Those people traveled the water.

They arrived when pygmy mammoths lumbered through inland forests at the end of the last ice age.

Their descendants flourished in the rich marine environment.

In 1542, explorer Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo counted several densely populated villages as he sailed past, and there were many more he didn't see.

The island is relatively large and has a varied, roadless terrain.

There are plunging valleys, forests, steep mountains and windswept beaches.

The size and terrain made it hard to survey evidence of the past inhabitants over the centuries.

Rick brought a four-wheel drive truck to an abrupt stop and said, "Let's go for a walk."

He was joined by Gil Unzueta, a Chumash Indian monitoring the survey effort.

Moments later, they were striding toward the eroding remnants of an ancient settlement and refuse heap that was falling into the sea.

"We're standing on a living history book," Unzueta said.

"And we're losing pages from it every day."

