Look inside a grandfather clock or a car steering system and you'll find gears.

The basic interlocking system is part of many man-made machines.

But gears are not just a human invention.

They can also be found in nature.

And scientists have just discovered them in the strong legs of a certain young insect species.

The discovery was published in the journal Science.

It provides the first known example of working gears to develop over the generations in a living being.

"It's a wonderful example of the clever solutions that nature comes up with," said Robert Full, a scientist at the University of California, Berkeley who was not involved in the study.

"It was brilliant."

Biologist Malcolm Burrows was examining planthopper insects.

While doing that he discovered that the young insects' legs had gear teeth.

These teeth locked into place while jumping, giving it a lot of power.

"We weren't deliberately looking for it.

Why would we?"

said Burrows, who works at the University of Cambridge.

He ran the study with University of Bristol engineer Gregory Sutton.

"There's been no description of gear wheels functioning in animals before."

The flightless planthoppers are part of the genus Issus.

They put fleas and other jumping insects to shame.

The adult bugs can leap with an acceleration of roughly 500 Gs in a millisecond, Burrows said.

Gs, or G-force, are a way of measuring the power of acceleration, which is an increase in speed.

An average human can withstand about 5 Gs of acceleration.

After that, a person would pass out.

To figure out what made these insects so springy, the researchers went outdoors to gather a few bugs.

They received a little help from the sharp eyes of Burrows' young grandson.

Some of the planthoppers were mature adults, and some were immature nymphs.

The pair used a very fast camera to photograph the planthoppers while they jumped.

That's when they spotted the gear teeth on the insides of the insects' upper legs.

Each gear strip was about 350 to 400 micrometers long — about half as thick as a credit card.

Each had about 10 to 12 teeth in each.

The discovery was shocking.

Burrows had been studying jumping insects for a long time, and he'd never seen anything like it.

Other insects, like grasshoppers, use their legs to push their bodies straight up.

But the planthoppers' legs move more like a breaststroke.

They splay out to the sides while propelling the body upward.

That way of moving can be tricky.

If one leg fires first, the planthopper will end up spinning, like someone swimming with one arm.

But sending a signal from the brain to coordinate both legs takes time.

It also requires extra brainpower.

So the planthopper's body has a smart fix that keeps the legs in step without a thought.

When one leg starts to jump, the gear teeth on that leg meet with the gear teeth on the other.

That makes it so that they both push off at the same time.

Using the gears, the insects' legs can match up their moves within 30 microseconds.

If the insect had to think about this, Burrows said, it would take longer.

It might take one or two milliseconds to send a message from its brain to its muscles.

The gear system is tens of times faster than a single bug thought.

Oddly, only the nymphs have these gears, Burrows and Sutton discovered.

The adults lose the gears when they're fully grown.

It seems that their legs are strong enough without the gears.

But why not keep using it into adulthood?

Perhaps it's because of wear and tear, Burrows said.

If you break a tooth on a gear in your car or your bike, you have to get it fixed.

Nymphs don't have repair shops.

But, because they shed their bodies into larger and larger exoskeletons as they grow, they're constantly getting upgrades anyway.

Exoskeletons are shells that some animals grow around their bodies.

Once they're adults, their bodies don't change, so they can't upgrade to a new exoskeleton.

In any case, the study shows it's rarely wise to underestimate how nature grows and changes, the scientists said.

"Any statement that you make like that, that something is uniquely human, is just waiting to be disproved," Full said.

