Weston Murphy is 5 years old.

He has a disease called diabetes.

People with diabetes have too much sugar in their blood.

Everyone needs some blood sugar but not too much.

Too much blood sugar makes people sick.

Having diabetes is tough.

It means Weston cannot play too hard.

He cannot go too long without eating.

If Weston and his family are not careful, he might get sick.

He might even have to go to the hospital.

Weston's family must prick his fingers several times each day.

They need a drop of his blood.

The blood helps them test his blood sugar.

When there is a problem with Weston's blood sugar, he might need to get a shot.

The shot is full of something called insulin.

The insulin helps keep blood sugar normal.

Most children with diabetes need several shots each day.

Weston is not alone.

More and more people are getting diabetes.

Doctors are not sure why.

More than 1 million Americans have the same kind of diabetes Weston does.

Weston's family has known about his diabetes for three years.

Doctors usually find the disease when children are very small.

Doctors are worried about Weston's big brother, Hayden.

He is 13 years old.

Hayden took a test.

It said he could get diabetes, too.

Hayden was very upset about the news.

"He sees what his brother goes through," said the boys' mom.

Hayden and his family found out about a new program.

A group of doctors are testing a new idea.

The doctors want to stop people from getting diabetes.

They think giving people insulin before they need it might help.

Hayden and his family wanted to try the program.

Other families signed up for it, too.

The doctors are testing their idea on more than 400 people in many countries.

In the program, Hayden takes insulin pills every day.

Hayden does not have to get shots like his brother.

Sometimes doctors give Hayden blood tests.

It is to see how he is doing.

They watch for signs of diabetes.

"I hope it does not come to me," he said.

"I really did not want it to come to Weston."

Hayden has been taking insulin pills for three years.

He does not have diabetes.

Hayden and his family are thankful, but they are still worried.

Hayden and Weston have a middle brother named Daxton.

He is 9.

He could get diabetes, too.

The boys' mom gets scared when her sons seem very thirsty.

Doctors knew Weston had diabetes when he was thirsty all of the time.

Doctors will keep studying Hayden until 2017.

By then, they will know if the pills really work.

The pills would be much less painful than treating diabetes with tiny needles.

They would also be cheaper.

