For nearly a century, daily insulin shots have been a life-saving treatment for people with diabetes.

Now scientists are testing an exciting new question: What if the same medicine could actually prevent the disease - and in the form of a pill instead of a shot?

People with diabetes have a difficult time regulating the amount of sugar in their blood.

Insulin is a hormone that regulates blood sugar.

Typically, people with the disease can inject insulin to help control their blood sugar levels.

Thirteen-year-old Hayden Murphy is helping researchers determine whether insulin pills can prevent Type 1 diabetes, which is usually diagnosed in childhood.

So far, Hayden has been able to dodge the disease, but his little brother, Weston, has not been so lucky.

At just 5 years old, Weston has to avoid playing too hard and eating too little, which can cause dangerous changes in his blood sugar levels.

The little boy's family must prick his fingers several times a day then check his sugar levels by placing a drop of his blood onto a test strip and inserting the strip into a small machine.

Hayden enrolled in the insulin pill study after a blood test showed that he was in danger of developing Type 1 diabetes.

"When I got the news, I was devastated," Hayden said, knowing how much the disease could change his life.

"He has the daily reminders.

He sees what his brother goes through," said the boys' mom, Myra Murphy.

Now Hayden swallows a small white capsule daily and has his blood checked periodically for signs of diabetes.

"I hope it doesn't come to me, and I really didn't want it to come to Weston," Hayden said.

He is one of more than 400 children and adults participating in the insulin pill study.

The U.S. government is funding the study, but eight other countries are helping.

International partners recruit participants who have gotten the bad news that they have a high risk of developing Type 1 diabetes.

This international effort to explore diabetes prevention is not the first experiment involving insulin pills.

It is the result of a smaller study that was recently published in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

Children in that study took insulin pills and showed immune system changes that researchers said might help prevent diabetes.

But the experiment did not last long enough or look at enough people to know for sure.

The ongoing international study is much larger and more thorough.

Researchers believe it will provide a clearer answer about how insulin pills affect a child's chances of developing Type 1 diabetes.

"Does it prevent indefinitely?

Does it slow it down, does it delay diabetes?

That also would be a pretty big win," said Dr. Louis Philipson, a diabetes expert at the University of Chicago.

About 1.25 million Americans have Type 1 diabetes.

Type 2 diabetes is far more common, affecting more than 300 million people worldwide, including almost 30 million in the United States alone.

Beyond blood sugar issues, both types raise long-term risks for damage to the kidneys, heart and eyes.

Cases of diabetes are occurring more frequently.

Experts think the growing number of Type 2 patients has to do with rising obesity and inactivity, but the 3 percent increase in Type 1 cases each year is more perplexing.

The leader of the insulin pill study, Dr. Desmond Schatz of the University of Florida's Diabetes Center, says doctors know very little about the exact cause of Type 1 diabetes.

That makes the disease especially complicated to prevent.

"For the most part, it's really shooting an arrow into a field and hoping one of the arrows hits a target," Schatz said.

When a person has Type 2 diabetes, their body cannot use insulin properly.

Insulin is a blood sugar-regulating hormone that helps the body convert the sugars in food into energy.

Type 2 diabetes can sometimes be treated with a healthy diet and exercise.

In Type 1 diabetes, the pancreas stops making insulin altogether.

Doctors treat Type 1 by replacing insulin in small doses over the course of a patient's lifetime.

This is usually done with injections or a small pump.

Viruses and other infections have been suggested as possible triggers of Type 1 diabetes since patients' immune systems attack their insulin-producing cells.

Genes are also thought to increase risks for the disease.

Diabetes expert Dr. Wendy Brickman explained that the pills in the study are an attempt to sneak insulin into the body.

Researchers think that treating insulin like food might trick the immune system so that it will not attack insulin-making cells.

The new insulin pill study is focused on prevention, but the pills also are being studied as a diabetes treatment.

Doctors have had trouble getting insulin into the bloodstream without it being damaged by the digestion process.

Results from the prevention study are not expected until 2017, so it is still too soon to predict an outcome.

If the pills work, they will most likely be less expensive than having a lifetime of diabetes, program director Lisa Spain said.

Hayden Murphy and his family are cautiously optimistic.

After three years in the study, Hayden shows no signs of diabetes.

Still, his mom says she worries every time he seems thirstier than usual — one of the symptoms her youngest boy had before being diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes three years ago.

There is a middle son, too, 9-year-old Daxton, who faces an increased diabetes risk because his little brother has it.

"It definitely is a life-changing diagnosis," Myra Murphy said.

