 Oogruk is an Inuit name for the bearded seal.

It is a large, whiskered, gray and gold ocean animal.

John Goodwin is an Inuit who hunts oogruk.  The Inuit are people who are sometimes known as Eskimos.

They live in the Arctic, which includes part of the state of Alaska.

The area also includes parts of other countries.

The oogruk are the largest of Alaska's ice seals.

The animals rest on giant blocks of ice and stay there to give birth to pups, or baby seals.

After winter, ice breaks up and floats on the ocean.

Then Goodwin can get his boat into the water near his home.

He lives in a small city called Kotzebue, Alaska. Goodwin has a short time to hunt the seals before they swim out of the Arctic Ocean.

They will travel through the Bering Strait to the Bering Sea.

Hunting season used to last weeks, but it is shorter now.

The ice used to freeze to at least 5 feet thick.

Now it is much thinner.

Goodwin says, "As soon as the sun comes out, it starts melting, or we have a heavy rain.

We don't have enough time to hunt.

"  Inuit like Goodwin think of themselves as part of nature.

They want to protect their way of life.

Global warming is heating up the Earth.

Scientists say people burn too much fossil fuel.

Fossil fuel comes from gas, oil and coal.

Global warming may cause the Inuit to lose their way of getting food.

There is a group that looks out for coastal villages in Alaska.

The group wrote a report asking for new laws.

They want to protect Inuit food and the Arctic.

Carolina Behe is the group's expert on the Inuit people and science.

She says getting safe and healthy food is connected to how healthy nature is.

Most food in Alaska comes from other places.

Groceries are shipped north by boat or plane. For the Inuit, though, finding their own food is important.

It makes them feel closer to their past.

The Inuit spoke up about global warming and the seal hunt.

Their ideas were different from the ideas of Alaska's leaders.

The leaders thought that bringing in food from somewhere else was a good idea.

Behe says, "They were talking two different languages."

Behe remembers when someone asked if the Inuit were excited about more ships bringing food.

She says, "Our people were saying the exact opposite."

Behe says that the ships will hurt seal hunting.

The noise will bother the animals, they say.

The ships could poison the water.

For thousands of years, the Inuit taught their young how to hunt seals and gather berries.

They did this with pictures, stories and dance. They also used words and drumming.

Alaska and United States leaders will make new laws for the Arctic. Behe says the Inuit want leaders to think about both science and the Inuit way of life. For example, a scientist studying fish might look at how all of the fish are acting.

An Inuit would taste the water and look at plants in the river.

Then he would check fish scales and the feel of the meat.  The United States and other countries caused global warming.

Now it is hurting the Arctic. Behe says, "The people causing the pollution have to have more responsibility."

She says they need to change what they are doing so that the Inuit do not have to.

