David Hockney is already Britain's most famous living artist.

But these days he is doing something new: He is using his index finger to make colorful pictures on his iPad's touch screen.

"It's a very new medium," said Hockney.

So new, in fact, he wasn't sure at first what he was creating.

Then a few years ago he began printing his digital pictures.

"I was pretty amazed by them actually," he said, laughing.

"I'm still amazed."

A new exhibit of Hockney's work opened Saturday in San Francisco's de Young Museum.

It includes many of his iPad pictures.

The show is the museum's largest ever.

It fills two floors with works from 1999 to the present.

There are watercolors, charcoal sketches and even videos.

But it was the iPad pieces that drew gasps from the visitors.

And especially the 12-foot-high views of Yosemite National Park.

Yosemite has already been captured by famed photographer Ansel Adams.

And it has been pictured by well-known painters.

This makes Hockney's iPad pictures of its rocks, rivers and trees seem familiar.

But they are also completely new.

In one picture, bright green pine trees sparkle in the sunlight.

Behind them, Bridalveil Fall tumbles lightly down a cliff.

In the background, the granite crest of Half Dome looms.

In another piece, giant sequoia trees are hidden in a heavy mist.

Museum director Colin Bailey praised the way Hockney paints light and open space.

Hockney also draws faces and everyday objects: a flower, a foot, scissors, an electric plug.

Some of the iPad pieces are displayed on digital screens.

Others, like the Yosemite works, were printed on large panels.

Hockney's new exhibit may make digital artwork more accepted.

Currently, computer-tablet art shows are rare.

"I'm grateful he's doing this," said art historian Maureen Nappi.

"It opens people's mind to the technology in a new way."

But Nappi isn't so sure about iPad art itself.

Yes, using iPads to make art is new, she says.

But there's nothing new about using fingers to make art.

It's "as old as humans are," she said.

"Go back to cave paintings, they're using finger movements."

Hockney, 76, started drawing on his iPhone with his thumb about five years ago.

"People from the village come up and tease me: 'We hear you've started drawing on your telephone.'

And I tell them, 'Well, no, actually, it's just that occasionally I speak on my sketch pad,'" he said.

Hockney creates his work with an app called Brushes.

This was built by software engineer Steve Sprang.

The app is now being snapped up by artists.

And there are others like it.

Together, the artists are developing new ways of making digital art.

Hockney is in the lead.

"David Hockney is one of the living masters of oil painting," said art historian Kevin Hatch.

Oil painting has been around for nearly 600 years.

It has limitations.

So Hockney has "thought long and hard about the advantages of painting with a digital device like the iPad."

Hatch said artists first became interested in digital art about 25 years ago.

The Internet was just developing back then.

Today, he said, most artists use a digital device in some way when they make art.

But there are some drawbacks to tablet art, Hatch added.

Oil paint has a "certain almost magical quality."

It has a special look and feel.

This is lost when a painting becomes "a piece of code" on a screen, he said.

In any case, Hockney isn't giving up painting or drawing any time soon.

And he also doesn't plan on giving up tablets.

When asked where he sees the art world going, he shrugged his shoulders.

"I don't know where it's going, really, who does?"

he said.

"But art will be there."

