Britain's most celebrated living artist, David Hockney, is pioneering in the art world again: He is using his index finger like a paintbrush to create colorful pictures on his iPad's touch screen.

"It's a very new medium," said Hockney.

So new, in fact, he wasn't sure what he was creating until he began printing his digital images a few years ago.

"I was pretty amazed by them actually," he said, laughing.

"I'm still amazed."

A new exhibit of Hockney's work opened Saturday in San Francisco's de Young Museum.

It includes many of his iPad images.

The show is billed as the museum's largest ever.

It fills two floors of the de Young with a survey of works from 1999 to the present, mostly landscapes and portraits in various media: watercolor, charcoal and even video.

But it was the iPad pieces, especially the 12-foot-high majestic views of Yosemite National Park, that drew gasps.

Yosemite has already been captured by famed photographer Ansel Adams, and well-known painters such as Thomas Hill and Albert Bierstadt.

Hockney's iPad images of its rocks, rivers and trees are both comfortingly familiar and entirely new.

In one picture, scrubby, bright green pines sparkle in sunlight.

Behind them, Bridalveil Fall tumbles lightly down a cliff side and the distinct granite crest of Half Dome looms in the background.

In another piece, a heavy mist obscures groups of giant sequoia trees.

"He has such command of space, atmosphere and light," said museum director Colin Bailey.

Other iPad images are overlaid, so viewers can see the different stages of a drawing.

He tackles faces and flowers, and everyday objects: a human foot, scissors, an electric plug.

Some of the iPad drawings are displayed on digital screens.

Others, like the Yosemite works, were printed on six large panels.

Hockey's technical assistants used large inkjet prints to copy the images he created on his iPad.

Exhibiting iPad images by a famous artist in a well-regarded museum gives the medium a boost, say art historians.

It helps make the idea of digital artwork more accepted.

Currently, computer-tablet art shows are rare.

And prices for digital works are typically lower than for watercolors or oils.

"I'm grateful he's doing this because it opens people's mind to the technology in a new way," said art historian Maureen Nappi.

But Nappi isn't so sure about iPad art itself.

Using iPads to make art may be new, she says, but there's nothing new about painting with your fingers.

"These gestures are as old as humans are," she said.

"Go back to cave paintings, they're using finger movements."

Hockney, 76, started drawing on his iPhone with his thumb about five years ago.

Soon, he began emailing his works to dozens of friends at a time.

"People from the village come up and tease me: 'We hear you've started drawing on your telephone.'

And I tell them, 'Well, no, actually, it's just that occasionally I speak on my sketch pad,'" he said.

When the iPad was announced, Hockney said he had one shipped immediately to his home in London.

He creates his work with an app called Brushes, built by former Apple software engineer Steve Sprang.

Along with dozens of other programs, like Touch Sketch, SketchBook Mobile and Bamboo Paper, the app is being snapped up by artists.

Together, the artists are developing new methods, with Hockney in the lead.

"David Hockney is one of the living masters of oil painting," said art historian Kevin Hatch.

But oil painting is "a nearly 600-year-old technology," with its own problems and limitations.

So Hockney has "thought long and hard about the advantages of painting with a digital device like the iPad."

Hatch said a "digital turn" in the art world began about 25 years ago, as the Internet gained popularity.

Today, he said, most artists use a device in some way as they create art.

A similar shift happened almost 100 years ago with the dawn of photography, he said.

At that time, new inventions such as small photograph cards and the stereoscope captured the art world's imagination.

But there are some drawbacks to the shift to tablet art, Hatch added.

"A certain almost magical quality of oil paint," its look and feel, is lost when a painting becomes "a piece of code" on a screen, he said.

In any case, Hockney isn't giving up painting or drawing any time soon.

Nor does he plan on giving up tablets.

When asked where he sees the art world going, he shrugged his shoulders.

"I don't know where it's going, really, who does?"

he said.

"But art will be there."

