Britain's most celebrated living artist, David Hockney, is pioneering in the art world again.

Happily hunched over his iPad, he is using his index finger like a paintbrush to create colorful landscapes and richly layered scenes on a touch screen.

"It's a very new medium," said Hockney.

So new, in fact, he wasn't sure what he was creating until he began printing his digital images a few years ago.

"I was pretty amazed by them actually," he said, laughing.

"I'm still amazed."

A new exhibit of Hockney's work, including many iPad images, opened Saturday in San Francisco's de Young Museum.

Located in Golden Gate Park, the museum is just a short trip for Silicon Valley techies who created both the hardware and software for this 21st-century reinvention of finger-painting.

The show is billed as the museum's largest ever.

It fills two floors of the de Young with a survey of works from 1999 to the present, mostly landscapes and portraits in an array of mediums: watercolor, charcoal and even video.

But on a recent preview day, it was the iPad pieces, especially the 12-foot-high majestic views of Yosemite National Park, that drew gasps.

Yosemite has already been captured by famed photographer Ansel Adams, and prominent painters such as Thomas Hill and Albert Bierstadt.

Hockney's iPad images of its rocks, rivers and trees are both comfortingly familiar and entirely new.

In one wide-open vista, scrubby, bright green pines sparkle in sunlight, backed by Bridalveil Fall tumbling lightly down a cliff side; the distinct granite crest of Half Dome looms in the background.

In another, a heavy mist obscures stands of giant sequoias.

"He has such command of space, atmosphere and light," said Colin Bailey, director of Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, to which the de Young belongs.

Other iPad images are overlaid, so viewers can see them as they were drawn, in an animated beginning-to-end chronological loop.

He tackles faces and flowers, and everyday objects: a human foot, scissors, an electric plug.

Some of the iPad drawings are displayed on digital screens; others, like the Yosemite works, were printed on six large panels.

Hockey's technical assistants used large inkjet prints to reproduce the images he created on his iPad.

Exhibiting iPad images by a prominent artist in a significant museum gives the medium a boost, say art historians.

The exposure helps digital artwork gain legitimacy in the notoriously snobby art world, where computer-tablet art shows are rare and prices are typically lower than for comparable watercolors or oils.

"I'm grateful he's doing this because it opens people's mind to the technology in a new way," said Long Island University art historian Maureen Nappi.

Nonetheless, she described Hockney's iPad work as "gimmicky."

In an article for this month's issue of the MIT journal Leonardo, Nappi argues that while iPad work is novel, there's nothing new about making art with your fingers.

"These gestures are as old as humans are," she said in an interview.

"Go back to cave paintings, they're using finger movements to articulate creative expressions."

Hockney, 76, started drawing on his iPhone with his thumb about five years ago.

Soon, he began shooting his works via email to dozens of friends at a time.

"People from the village come up and tease me: 'We hear you've started drawing on your telephone.'

And I tell them, 'Well, no, actually, it's just that occasionally I speak on my sketch pad,'" he said.

When the iPad was announced, Hockney said he had one shipped immediately to his home in London, where he splits his time with Los Angeles.

He creates his work with an app called Brushes, built by former Apple software engineer Steve Sprang.

Along with dozens of other programs, like Touch Sketch, SketchBook Mobile and Bamboo Paper, the app is being snapped up by artists, illustrators and graphic designers.

Together, the artists are developing new finger and stylus techniques, with Hockney's advanced work offering innovative approaches.

"David Hockney is one of the living masters of oil painting, a nearly-600-year-old technology, and thus is well positioned to have thought long and hard about the advantages of painting with a digital device like the iPad," said Binghamton University art historian Kevin Hatch in New York.

Hatch said a "digital turn" in the art world began about 25 years ago, as the Internet gained popularity.

Today, he said, most artists have adapted to using a device in some way as they create art.

A similar shift happened almost 100 years ago with the dawn of photography, he said.

At that time, new developments such as small photograph cards and the stereoscope captured the art world's imagination.

But there are some drawbacks to the shift to tablet art, Hatch added.

"A certain almost magical quality of oil paint, a tactile, tangible substance, is lost when a painting becomes, at heart, a piece of code, a set of invisible 1s and 0s," he said.

Hockney isn't giving up painting, or drawing, or video, or tablets, any time soon.

When asked where he sees the world of art going, he shrugged his broad shoulders and paused.

"I don't know where it's going, really, who does?"

he replied.

"But art will be there."

