Iran's president is speaking at the annual gathering of the United Nations on Tuesday.

Over the past six years, U.S. and other Western diplomats would leave when that happened.

Not this time.

Some may even applaud.

There is a new president of [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) now.

Hassan Rouhani was elected in June and is a lot more moderate than the previous president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

Ahmadinejad gave angry speeches against the United States and Israel.

He said that the Nazi's didn't really kill millions of Jews and other people during World War II.

Rouhani is likely to give a nicer speech.

People will be listening for signs that he is willing to get along better with the United States and other western countries.

Western diplomats think Rouhani will say something important.

Maybe he could agree to talk to the Americans.

Leaders of the two countries have not spoken formally since 1979.

The Islamic Revolution took over Iran, then.

Iranian students took over the U.S. embassy in that country.

They held Americans prisoner for 444 days.

The White House says President Barack Obama and Rouhani are not scheduled to meet.

But U.S. officials have hinted that Obama and other top officials are ready to chat with Rouhani.

They could try to find a way to start bargaining about Iran's nuclear program.

There are signs that Rouhani is willing to have a conversation with the United States, Obama said in an interview on Telemundo.

"So we should test it."

Rouhani was elected in June.

He had pledged to improve relations with the West.

Iran has been isolated by much of the world because of its nuclear program.

He promised to try to ease the isolation.

The president is not the most powerful person in Iran.

Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is.

He has long resisted making deals about the nuclear program.

But punishments against Iran over the program have hurt business in the country.

So he has supported Rouhani's mission.

Rouhani urged world leaders on Friday make the most of the opportunity.

He asked them to "respond genuinely to my government's efforts to engage in constructive" talks.

His comments appeared in an article in the Washington Post.

Ahmadinejad was often viewed as an unimportant entertainment in his annual UN trips.

But important people are scrambling to get a close look at Rouhani.

He has almost nonstop meetings planned during his trip.

A Jewish Iranian legislator will join him on the trip.

Rouhani used his Twitter account this month to send best wishes to Jews celebrating the Rosh Hashana holiday.

Ahmadinejad would have never done that.

Ahmadinehjad was unpredictable and would say crazy things, said Haleh Esfandiari.

She is a former political prisoner under Ahmadinejad.

Now "you have a normal person as the president of Iran," she said.

Esfrandiari now is a Middle East scholar in Washington.

She said that Rouhani tries to make agreements.

A lot of people want tickets to a dinner Rouhani will have with several hundred Iranian-Americans in New York.

Two years ago, the Iranian mission to the U.N. canceled a similar dinner with Ahmadinejad.

Not enough people wanted to come.

The question remains: Is Rouhani simply presenting a better face to the world?

Or is he really willing to bargain to end the nuclear dispute?

Even people who do not like him expect him to be charming.

He won't pick fights.

He believes in the Islamic Revolution.

But he is also realistic and intelligent.

He lived in Scotland in the 1990s to study and speaks English well.

Rouhani has tried to appeal to the West without upsetting people at home.

He said the United States and Iran can "turn threats into opportunities."

But he also has condemned U.S. "military interference" and insisted that Iran's nuclear program is something it will not surrender.

Analysts say Obama must be careful not to look too eager to make a deal.

That would undermine his negotiating leverage and make important members of Congress upset.

It also would not sit well with the Israelis, who are counting on the United States to prevent Tehran from ever getting a nuclear bomb.

Ben Rhodes, who works for Obama, said Friday that U.S. officials weren't falling for pretty promises from the new Iranian leadership.

"Their words have to be followed by action," he said.

The Iranians aren't expected to begin serious negotiations right away.

But media reports in Iran suggest they may have an immediate negotiating goal in mind.

They apparently want punishments eased enough so that they could reconnect to a global system that would let Iran send money around the world for business.

