At Friday prayers across Iran, the faithful prayed for rain, or at least were told to do so.

A crowd of people came together to pray at Tehran University in the capital of Iran.

The whole country can watch the prayers on television.

"For God's sake, let's go to God's door and ask his Almighty to send water," said an excited Ayatollah Kazem Sedighi.

The ayatollah is the religious leader of Shiite Muslims, who are the largest religious group in Iran.

The ayatollah begged the crowd to pray to God and to Imam Hussein.

The people who follow Shiite Islam have great respect for the Imam.

The lack of water could be a sign, the ayatollah suggested.

He thinks God is warning Iranians to pay attention to their religion.

Concerns are growing about the lack of water across Iran.

Water is in short supply everywhere.

Lakes and rivers have been drying up.

Water is scarce in the crowded capital city of Tehran, as well as in thirsty small towns and cities around the country, which is mostly a desert.

In addition, reservoirs, or man-made lakes where water is stored, are at all-time lows.

The water supply has been cut in some areas.

On the streets here, people grumble about limits in water service.

Many buildings have tanks on the roofs to collect rainwater.

Unfortunately, it has not rained in months.

Bottled water is available for use, but many Iranians cannot afford it.

Most Iranians use water from the sink for both drinking and washing.

"On some days of the week, our tap water is cut for seven or eight hours," said Akbar Aziz.

He is a 40-year-old printing-house employee who lives in the capital's working-class Khorasan district.

"We are consuming as little as possible," added Aziz, a father with young daughters.

"We only shower two times a week.

So we are not responsible for the water shortages."

Experts say there are many reasons for the lack of water.

They blame the long periods with no rain as well as climate change.

Old-fashioned farming and household traditions also waste water.

On global lists that rank how nations manage their water, Iran is usually considered to be one of the worst at saving water.

Tehran had a  very hot summer.

The heat has continued deep into September and early fall.

The water problem is not likely to go away anytime soon.

"In the short term there is really no solution," professor B. Alijani said.

He teaches students about climate change and geography.

However, Alijani said that Iranians need to learn how to bring down their water use "and avoid wasting it both at home and in the fields."

Farmers use a lot of water on apple and cherry trees in dry areas such as Lake Urmia, he said in an example.

Lake Urmia was once a large body of saltwater in northwestern Iran.

Now, the lake is drying up and wells that lie below ground to send water into the lake are running empty.

This month, Eshaq Jahangiri, Iran's first vice president, took tours of places where water is cleaned and stored.

He and others have tried to raise awareness about the seriousness of the water shortage.

The vice president warned that water prices could rise.

The officials in charge could be forced to make people cut their water use if rain does not refill the reservoirs, he said.

There are big plans in the future for recycling waste water.

Officials are also looking at ways to improve farming methods and to change wasteful personal use of water.

However, Iran does not have a lot of money available for huge projects created to increase water supply.

Iranians are also unwilling to change their habits.

After all, they have been  using water the same way for years and years.

Because of these factors, authorities have turned to powerful religious figures for help.

Officials felt that a prayer campaign could be a valuable tool to get out the message that Iran is running dry.

They have asked religious leaders to invite the faithful to join them in a "rain prayer."

The leaders were told to ask people to use less water.

