At Friday prayer services across the nation, there were the usual shouts of "Death to America."

But the people also asked for God's help with a matter that had more to do with the climate than their ideas about the United States.

The faithful prayed for rain, or at least were urged to do so.

"For God's sake, let's go to God's door and ask his Almighty to send water," an excited Ayatollah Kazem Sedighi begged the crowd gathered at Tehran University.

The Friday prayers are usually broadcast to the whole nation on television from here.

The ayatollah, or Muslim religious leader, broke into sobs from time to time as he begged the crowd to make their pleas both to God and to Imam Hussein.

The Iman is an honored person among those who follow Shiite Islam, the official religion of  Iran.

The lack of water could be a sign that God wanted religious Iranians to pay a little more attention to matters of the spirit, the ayatollah suggested.

Concerns are growing about the lack of water across Iran.

Water is in short supply everywhere, from the crowded capital and its thirsty small towns and cities to distant corners of the nation, much of which is desert.

Lakes and rivers have been drying up.

In addition, the reservoirs, or man-made lakes where water is stored for later use, are running low on water.

There have been water supply cuts in some areas.

On the streets here, people grumble about cuts in water service.

Many buildings have tanks on the roofs to collect rainwater.

Unfortunately, it hasn't rained in months.

Bottled water is available for use, but many Iranians cannot afford it.

Most Iranians use tap water for both drinking and washing.

"On some days of the week, our tap water is cut for seven or eight hours," said Akbar Aziz, 40, a printing-house employee who lives in the capital's working-class Khorasan district.

"We are consuming as little as possible," added Aziz, a father with young daughters.

"We only shower two times a week.

So we are not responsible for the water shortages."

Experts say there are many reasons for this state of affairs.

They blame the long periods of drought, and climate change.

Old-fashioned farming and household practices also waste more water than necessary.

When lists are created to rank how well countries manage their water use, Iran usually is listed as one of the worst.

The capital had an extremely hot summer, a trend that has continued into September and early fall.

The water problem is not likely to go away any time soon.

"In the short term there is really no solution," professor B. Alijani said in an interview.

He teaches students about climate change and geography.

However, Alijani said that Iranians need to learn how to reduce their water use "and avoid wasting it both at home and in the fields."

He noted, for example, that farmers were using irrigation to maintain orchards of apple and cherry trees that need huge amounts of water in dry areas such a Lake Urmia.

The lake was once a grand body of salty water in northwestern Iran.

Now, the lake is drying up as its shores shrink every year.

Wells that lie below the ground and feed water into the lake are running dry.

Alijani asked, why are they growing apples and cherries near the Urmia salt lake?

This month, Iran's first vice president completed a tour of places that clean water and reservoirs in the capital.

He and others have started a campaign to raise awareness.

"Tehran's dams only have water for a few more days, and this means that people must take serious measures," the vice president warned of the nation's capital.

"Those who use water beyond normal amounts are hurting"  those who are using the right amount of water.

The vice president warned that water prices could rise.

Officials could be forced to make sure people cut their water use if rain does not soon refill the reservoirs, he said.

Big plans for recycling sewage are on the horizon.

Ideas to improve farming methods and change what many regard as wasteful personal use of water are also being considered.

But Iran has little money available for huge projects created to increase water supply.

In addition, people find it difficult to change the ways their families have used water for hundreds of years.

Because of this, officials have turned to powerful religious figures for help.

The government felt that a prayer campaign could be a valuable tool to spread the message that Iran is running dry.

Mohammad Hadi Heidarzadeh, the top official in charge of the environment in Tehran, wrote a letter to a Muslim religious council in charge of Friday prayers.

In it, he asked religious leaders to invite the faithful to join them in a "rain prayer."

The letter, which was provided to the local press, asked the leaders to encourage people to use less water.

