Iran and the United States have been enemies for years.

The two countries have not spoken officially since 1979.

The Islamic Revolution took over Iran, then.

Iranian students held Americans prisoner for 444 days.

The United States has recently been trying to stop Iran's nuclear program.

[Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) says the United States is meddling in its affairs.

Iran's president is speaking at the United Nations on Tuesday.

U.S. and other Western officials walked out when that happened over the last six years.

Not this time.

Some may even clap.

There is a new president of Iran.

Hassan Rouhani was elected in June and speaks a lot nicer than the previous president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

Ahmadinejad gave angry speeches against the United States and Israel.

Rouhani is likely to give a nicer speech.

People will be listening for signs that he is willing to get along better with the United States.

Some think Rouhani will say something important.

He may agree to talk to the Americans.

President Barack Obama and Rouhani are not scheduled to meet.

But U.S. officials have hinted that Obama and other top officials are ready to talk with Rouhani.

They could try to find a way to start discussing Iran's nuclear program.

There are signs that Rouhani is willing to have a conversation with the United States, Obama said in an interview on Telemundo.

"So we should test it."

Rouhani was elected in June.

He had pledged to improve relations with the West.

Iran has been isolated by much of the world because of its nuclear program.

He promised to try to ease the isolation.

The president is not the most powerful person in Iran.

Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei is.

He has not wanted to bargain on the nuclear program.

But punishments against Iran over the program have hurt business in the country.

So he has supported Rouhani's mission.

Rouhani asked world leaders on Friday make the most of the opportunity.

People often thought Ahmadinejad was not important when he came to the UN.

He was just a spectacle.

But important people are scrambling to get a close look at Rouhani.

He has almost nonstop meetings planned during his trip.

A Jewish Iranian legislator will join him on the trip.

Rouhani sent best wishes this month to Jews celebrating the Rosh Hashana holiday.

Ahmadinejad would have never done that.

Ahmadinehjad was unpredictable.

He would say crazy things, said Haleh Esfandiari.

She was arrested in Iran under Ahmadinejad.

Now "you have a normal person as the president of Iran," she said.

Esfrandiari is a Middle East scholar in Washington.

She said that Rouhani tries to make agreements.

Rouhani will have dinner with several hundred Iranian-Americans in New York.

A lot of people want tickets to the dinner.

Two years ago, the Iranian mission to the U.N. canceled a similar dinner with Ahmadinejad.

Not enough people wanted to come.

The question remains: Is Rouhani simply presenting a better face to the world?

Or is he really willing to bargain to end the nuclear dispute?

Even people who do not like him expect him to be charming.

He won't pick fights.

He believes in the Islamic Revolution.

But he is also realistic and intelligent.

He lived in Scotland in the 1990s to study.

He speaks English well.

Rouhani has tried to appeal to the West.

But he does not want to upset people at home.

He said the United States and Iran can "turn threats into opportunities."

But he also has condemned U.S. "military interference."

He insisted that Iran's nuclear program is something it will not surrender.

Analysts say Obama must be careful not to look too eager to make a deal.

That would hurt his ability to bargain.

It would also make important members of Congress upset.

Israelis would not like it, either.

They are counting on the United States to prevent Iran from ever getting a nuclear bomb.

Ben Rhodes works for Obama.

He said Friday that U.S. officials weren't falling for pretty promises from the new Iranian leadership.

"Their words have to be followed by action," he said.

