Iran and the United States have been enemies for more than 30 years.

In 1979 Iranians had a religious revolution.

They threw out their leader, the Shah.

He had been supported by the U.S.

They took over the U.S. Embassy for a year.

Recently, [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) and the U.S. began talking again.

They made an agreement about Iran's nuclear program.

Nuclear energy can be used to create electricity, but it can also be used to make powerful weapons.

Iran will slow down its nuclear program.

In exchange, Iran will be able to trade goods with other countries again.

It had been under trade restrictions.

The agreement may bring about more peaceful relations between the U.S. and Iran.

But Iran's most religious leaders haven't changed.

They still warn that the U.S. and its partners are lying.

They said it was trying to weaken Iran.

But things are different for young people in the busy capital city.

For them, chants against the United States seem so out of fashion.

"We copycat American culture," said Sarah.

She owns a cafe in Tehran.

"There is a big difference between the approved culture and the reality" of life in big cities.

There's no one single view of the U.S. in Iran.

Half of all Iranians were born after the Islamic Revolution.

The passing of time and the Internet have changed things.

The fact that travel is easier has also helped calm anger since the days of 1979.

Iran has had very little contact with the rest of the world.

In June, President Hassan Rouhani won the Iranian election.

He promised to reach out to Iran's old enemies.

He spoke about helping Iran do business with the rest of the world.

He began to work at ending the trading bans with other countries.

Many young Iranians would fit in in London or New York.

They go to the small coffeehouses that have opened up lately.

The cafes sometimes get raided by a special police force.

The force stops people from wearing certain clothes or watching certain movies and shows.

For the young people who drink coffee, "Death to USA!"

is an old-sounding chant.

It is the favorite saying of those who believe strongly in the revolution and a strict, religious way of life.

"I wear jeans and I eat fake American fast food," said Sasan, 26.

"The Islamic revolutionary culture has not influenced our tastes."

Many younger Iranians don't celebrate certain parts of the revolution.

For example, some American workers living in Iran in 1979 were kidnapped.

The young people see the kidnappings as a mistake that started years of bad feelings and poor trade.

"It was a blunder that my father's generation committed," said Amirali, 26, another person at the cafe.

"Why should we suffer for their mistake?"

Some here can't wait for an end to trade restrictions.

"My marketing professor was saying that if the United States and Iran" start trading again, Iranians will rush to by U.S. products, said Sasan.

He is an engineer taking a marketing course.

"I believe this 100 percent."

