When Iran's president speaks at the annual gathering of the United Nations on Tuesday, Western diplomats might do something they have not done in six years – stick around and listen.

Some may even applaud.

Former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was known for his angry speeches in which he denied the Holocaust happened.

His soft-spoken successor, Hassan Rouhani, is likely to give a conciliatory address to world leaders this week.

It will be closely watched for signs that he is willing to thaw relations with the West.

Western diplomats predict that Rouhani's speech at the U.N. General Assembly will include an important gesture.

He might even acknowledge that the Holocaust happened.

U.S. officials would like to see him go further during his five-day visit.

Maybe he could agree to direct talks with Washington for the first time since diplomatic relations were ruptured by Iraq's 1979 Islamic Revolution.

The White House says it has not scheduled a meeting between President Barack Obama and the 64-year-old cleric.

But U.S. officials have dropped hints that Obama and other top officials are ready for impromptu chats with Rouhani or his U.S.-educated foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif.

Such chats could open the way for bargaining on [Iran's](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) disputed nuclear program.

There are signs that Rouhani "is somebody who is looking to open dialogue with the West and with the United States in a way that we haven't seen in the past," Obama said in an interview on Telemundo.

"So we should test it."

Obama has repeatedly signaled his willingness for direct contact.

He even said so in an exchange of letters with Rouhani, who was elected in June after a campaign that included pledges to ease Iran's isolation and improve relations with the West.

Iran's most powerful figure, supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has long resisted compromise on the nuclear program.

But with punitive sanctions increasingly squeezing the economy, he has signaled top-level support for the Rouhani mission.

Rouhani urged world leaders on Friday "to make the most of the mandate for prudent engagement that my people have given me, and to respond genuinely to my government's efforts to engage in constructive dialogue."

His comments appeared in an article in the Washington Post.

Ahmadinejad was often viewed as a carnival sideshow in his annual trips to New York.

But VIPs and journalists are scrambling to get a close look at Rouhani.

He has almost nonstop meetings planned with senior diplomats, news media executives, Iranian Americans and foreign policy heavyweights.

Rouhani will come accompanied by a Jewish Iranian legislator, Siamek Morsadegh.

Rouhani used his Twitter account this month to send best wishes to Jews celebrating the Rosh Hashana holiday.

It's unimaginable that Ahmadinejad would have done the same.

"After eight years of an erratic, unpredictable president who would say outlandish things, you have a normal person as the president of Iran," said Haleh Esfandiari, a former political prisoner under Ahmadinejad.

Esfrandiari now heads the Middle East program at the nonpartisan Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.

"He is centrist, he is a moderate, he tries to compromise — a word that did not exist in President Ahmadinejad's lexicon."

Rouhani's appeal — it's already being called "Rouhanimania" — is apparent in the huge demand for tickets to a dinner he will have with several hundred Iranian-Americans in New York.

Two years ago, the Iranian mission to the U.N. canceled a similar dinner with Ahmadinejad when too few people wanted to come.

Whether Rouhani is simply presenting a more moderate face to the world or is open to compromise to end the nuclear dispute is still unclear.

Even his detractors predict he will radiate charm and avoid provocations.

Although he is a true believer in the Islamic Revolution and a pillar of the Iranian national security apparatus, he is also pragmatic and intelligent.

He speaks English well, having lived in Scotland in the 1990s as a Ph.D. candidate.

It was Rouhani who arranged the Iranian government's sympathetic reaction after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

He also helped Washington reach out to opposition forces in Afghanistan and Iraq, both of which border Iran, after the U.S.-led invasions.

Rouhani has tried to appeal to the West without upsetting hard-liners at home.

He has proclaimed the "age of blood feuds" over, and said the United States and Iran can "turn threats into opportunities."

But he also has condemned U.S. "military interference" and insisted that Iran's nuclear program is a natural right that it will not surrender.

Analysts say Obama must be careful not to look too eager to make a deal.

That would undermine his negotiating leverage and alienate influential members of Congress.

It also would not sit well with the Israelis, who are counting on the United States to prevent Tehran from getting a nuclear bomb.

Ben Rhodes, Obama's deputy national security adviser, said Friday that U.S. officials weren't falling for pretty promises from the new Iranian leadership.

"Their words have to be followed by action," he said.

Although the Iranians aren't expected to begin serious negotiations right away, media reports in Iran suggest they may have an immediate negotiating goal in mind.

They apparently want sanctions eased enough so that they could reconnect to the global clearinghouse for international financial transactions called SWIFT.

The connection would let Iran send money around the world for business.

