World leaders in Geneva have come to an agreement with Iran.

The country has agreed to slow down work on nuclear materials, which some feared could be used to make powerful weapons.

In exchange, Iran will be freed from certain trade restrictions, which have crippled the economy and made life difficult for ordinary Iranians.

Despite the agreement, religious hard-liners continued to warn that the West is scheming to weaken the Islamic Republic of [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran).

Yet things are different for the mostly young, blue-jean-wearing set in the busy capital of Tehran.

For them, chants against the United States are as out of date as 1970s styles.

"In art, in fashion, in cinema and in our daily lifestyle, we copycat American culture," said Sarah.

She owns a cozy cafe in northwestern Tehran.

"There is a big difference between the approved culture and the reality of urban lifestyles in big cities like Tehran."

There is no single view of the West in Iran, especially among those born after the 1979 Islamic Revolution.

They make up roughly half the population.

The passage of time, the growth of mass media, satellite television and the Internet have changed things.

The relative ease of travel has also helped cool down the anger since the days of 1979, when young Iranians took over the U.S. Embassy.

In June, President Hassan Rouhani won a surprise landslide election.

He promised to reach out to Iran's longtime enemies and spoke to a desire to put aside revolutionary chants and end the nation's isolation.

He began diplomatic work aimed at ending the trade bans.

Many young Iranians wouldn't be out of place in London, New York or Los Angeles.

They gather in the snug coffeehouses that have sprung up in recent years.

The cafes are occasionally subject to crackdowns from the nation's so-called morality police, who arrest women for violating the dress code or confiscate satellite TV dishes for obscene material.

They appear to view the caffeine-driven gathering spots, though legal, as somehow rebellious.

In Iranian culture, tea remains the preferred beverage and men and women are not supposed to mingle together in public.

Among the espresso crowd, "Death to USA!"

seems an unwelcome throwback to a distant era.

It is the cherished motto of Iran's hard-liners.

"I wear jeans and I eat fake American fast food," said Sasan, 26, seated in a cafe near Revolution Square.

"The Islamic revolutionary culture has not influenced our tastes.

In fact, our parents' generation has failed to instill revolutionary values to us."

Many younger Iranians don't celebrate the storming of the embassy and the seizure of U.S. hostages.

They see them as rash acts that started decades of bad relations and economic isolation.

The events long symbolized Iranian resistance to the West.

"It was a blunder that my father's generation committed," said Amirali, 26, another cafe-goer.

"Why should we suffer for their mistake?"

Some here can't wait for an end to trade restrictions.

"My marketing professor was saying that if the United States and Iran resume normal relations, the Iranian middle and upper classes will rush to buy U.S. brand refrigerators, washing machines and so on," said Sasan.

He is an engineer enrolled in a marketing course.

He wants to expand his skill set in a sanctions-ravaged economy.

"I believe this 100 percent."

The attraction of Western products was clear on a recent day at a small refreshment stand.

A pair of fashionable young businesspeople promoted sugarless fruit juice and Western-style coffee.

"We are telling our customers that one important ingredient of this juice is imported from the USA," said Vida, who flashed jet-black hair beneath her required, but colorful, head scarf.

"How can we chant, 'Death to USA!'?"

She added, "We don't want anything to do with politics."

Her partner, Omid, nodded in agreement.

He was a spiky-haired 20-something wearing purple shoes and a black overcoat.

Young Iranians view those who have profited from the trade bans as the ones not wanting Iran to enter into peaceful agreements with the West.

Alireza Qajar, 36, imports plastics for a living.

"This whole 'Death to USA' business is serving the interests of those who make a good living as middlemen," he said, washing down pancakes with French-roast coffee at a cafe.

