World leaders in Geneva negotiated the future of Iran's nuclear development program.

In exchange for limiting uranium enrichment, [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) will be freed from certain trade restrictions, known as sanctions.

But religious hard-liners here continued to warn of a deceitful West scheming to weaken the Islamic Republic.

Yet things are different for the mostly young, jeans-clad set in this busy capital city.

Among them, chanting denunciations of the United States is as out of date as 1970s fashion.

"In art, in fashion, in cinema and in our daily lifestyle, we copycat American culture," said Sarah.

She is the proprietor of a cozy cafe in the basement of a high-rise in northwestern Tehran.

"There is a big difference between the approved culture and the reality of urban lifestyles in big cities like Tehran."

Just as Western views of Iran are far from monolithic, the view here is diverse.

Especially among those born after the 1979 Islamic Revolution, roughly half the population.

The passage of time, the growth of mass media, satellite television and the Internet have changed things.

And the relative ease of travel — many Iranians have relatives in the West and have visited the U.S. and Europe — have helped lighten hostilities since the days of the 1979 takeover of the U.S. Embassy.

In June, President Hassan Rouhani won a surprise landslide election.

He vowed to reach out to Iran's longtime enemies and addressed a desire to put aside revolutionary chants and end the nation's isolation.

He began diplomatic work aimed at ending the economic sanctions, or restrictions against trade with other countries.

Many young Iranians wouldn't be out of place in London, New York or Los Angeles.

They gravitate to the snug coffeehouses that have sprung up in recent years.

The venues are occasionally subject to crackdowns from the nation's so-called morality police, who arrest women for violating the dress code or confiscate satellite TV dishes for obscene material.

They appear to view the caffeine-driven gathering spots, though legal, as vaguely seditious.

In Iranian culture, tea remains the preferred beverage and men and women are not supposed to mingle together in public.

Among the espresso crowd, "Death to USA!"

seems an unwelcome throwback to a distant era.

It is the cherished motto of Iran's hard-liners.

"I wear jeans and I eat fake American fast food," said Sasan, 26, seated in a cafe near Revolution Square, who, like others interviewed, asked that his family name not be used because of privacy concerns.

"The Islamic revolutionary culture has not influenced our tastes.

In fact, our parents' generation has failed to instill revolutionary values to us."

Indeed, many younger Iranians see the storming of the embassy and the seizure of U.S. hostages as rash acts that started decades of bad relations and economic isolation.

The events were long considered iconic symbols of resistance.

"It was a blunder that my father's generation committed," said Amirali, 26, another cafe patron.

"Why should we suffer for their mistake?"

Some here eagerly anticipate an end to trade restrictions.

"My marketing professor was saying that if the United States and Iran resume normal relations, the Iranian middle and upper classes will rush to buy U.S. brand refrigerators, washing machines and so on," said Sasan.

He is an engineer enrolled in a marketing course to expand his skill set in a sanctions-ravaged economy.

"I believe this 100 percent."

The attraction of Western products was evident on a recent day at a small refreshment stand.

A pair of fashionable young businesspeople promoted sugarless fruit juice and Western-style coffee.

"We are telling our customers that one important ingredient of this juice is imported from the USA," said Vida, who flashed jet-black hair beneath her required, but colorful, head scarf.

"How can we chant, 'Death to USA!'?"

"We don't want anything to do with politics," she added.

Her partner, Omid, nodded in agreement.

He was a spiky-haired 20-something wearing purple shoes and a black overcoat.

Young Iranians view those who have profited from the sanctions as reluctant to see any easing of trade bans.

"This whole 'Death to USA' business is serving the interests of those who make a good living as middlemen breaking the sanctions," said Alireza Qajar, 36.

He is a plastics importer who was washing down pancakes with French-roast coffee at a cafe.

One part of the economy that has experienced a sort of boom in the sanctions era is real estate, since affordable housing is perpetually in short supply.

In some instances, empty buildings slated to be torn down have attracted another Western-oriented, edgy phenomenon.

Graffiti artists, like coffee shop patrons, tend to take a dim view of the officially enforced anger toward the West.

They see their temporary creations as bold individualist statements against a stagnant society.

"Here, we are free to express ourselves and vent our frustrations," said a tagger who goes by the handle Bum!

Bum!.

He is part of a crew that recently spent 16 days spray painting the walls of a condemned apartment building with whorls, curlicues and stylized letters and figures.

Once finished, the crew photographed its work — posting it on the Web before the building was torn down.

"We have practically lived here for 16 days, eating and sleeping," said graffiti artist Shayan, 21, an engineering student with dreams of immigrating to Canada.

"Now we have to find another place to take out our anger."

