The crowds were so large that we had to approach Mutanabbi Street from the river, crossing the Tigris in a small wooden motorboat.

We stepped off the boat on to the docks below a statue of the 10th century Iraqi poet Abu Tayeb Mutanabbi.

Stone steps led us up to the market of booksellers that spreads out along a narrow sidewalk.

Mutanabbi Street has become a safe place for Iraqi readers to gather once more.

Seven years ago, the weekly book market was blown up by a car bombing that took 26 lives.

Now, it is bustling again with Iraqis who love books and ideas.

A few steps from the statue, dozens of people stood in line to enter the open-air yard of an arts center.

Every week, writers gather here to share their work.

Up the street, the Shabandar Cafe's small wooden booths were packed with customers, young and old, male and female.

There were fewer females.

The shoppers sipped tea, smoked and shared their purchases beneath walls hung with black and white photos of famous Iraqi scholars.

Outside the cafe, old men sold smeed, a kind of bread baked in the shape of a knot and covered with sesame seeds.

Young men sold fresh fruit juices.

All along the street, booksellers spread their items on the ground or sold their books in low stalls.

Customers said that the Mutanabbi market let them relax for a while and forget the troubles in their city and country.

Car bombs still explode in Baghdad.

People have to guard themselves from dangerous gangs in the streets and groups of violent extremists like Islamic State.

One of the readers was Mohammed Baghdadi, 32, who works for the Department of Trade.

He likes the late Iraqi author Ali Wardi and American writer Dan Brown - he has read every book Brown has written except for one.

Baghdad is full of history, he said.

The Islamic people thought of Iraq's capital city as one of their greatest achievements, he said, as he searched for the book he had not yet read.

Like all markets, Mutanabbi is also filled with valuable things as well as items that are cheaply made.

Beautifully designed copies of the Quran, the sacred book of the Islamic religion, are sold right beside banned DVDs.

Customers rushed to buy a book by Baghdad poet Adhem Adil, but also highly popular novels by Danielle Steel.

One shelf held "Sarah Palin: An American Story," a book about the American politician.

Next to that book was "America" by Jon Stewart, the host of the popular TV program "The Daily Show," and a textbook called "Understanding Human Behavior."

Mustafa Shahbaz, 26, an engineer shopping for science books and science fiction novels, said he was glad to see the peaceful city he was familiar with, instead of the Baghdad of bombings and shootings.

"Baghdad has a hidden face that's difficult to see from afar," he said.

"When you see all these people coming, you don't feel you're in danger, " said another customer, Salaam Musa, 30.

He makes films and said he felt that in a society where a lot of people read, there would not be war.

Shahbaz and Musa did not know then, but there had been several bombings in other parts of the capital city that morning.

Eleven people had died.

Nahla Nadawi, 48, who teaches Arabic at the College of Education for Women in the University of Baghdad, had come with her 13-year-old son.

Nadawi searched the crowd for young faces, especially those of young women, but found few.

"Look, look.

How many youths can you see?

The younger generation reads less," she said.

Young people like to read electronic books, she said.

There's a saying: "Cairo writes, Beirut publishes, Baghdad reads."

But that's not true about her city anymore, Nadawi said, looking around.

Some people from the Communist Party were waving papers in the air and shouting.

Other protesters were passing out copies of their newspaper, Freedom, and government workers were marching for better wages and benefits.

Mutanabbi Street has long been a place where protests are held.

Saddam Hussein, one of Iraq's rulers, ran the country for a very long time.

During his rule, groups that were against his government were not allowed to express their views.

They still went ahead and wrote and sold copies of their articles and essays in the market under fake names.

After Saddam fell more than 10 years ago, the protesters continued to gather in Mutanabbi Street and raise their voices against the governments that followed.

"Politics are going to take over our very air!"

Nadawi said.

She liked the old, comfortable book market of years past.

She understood, however, that in Baghdad change was not only hard to avoid, it was necessary.

Seven years ago, her husband, a doctor and writer, was killed in a bombing.

She got married again a few months ago.

Before she left to continue searching the stacks of books, Nadawi quoted an old Arabic saying: Movement, she said, is good.

