The crowds were so large that we had to approach Mutanabbi Street from the river.

We crossed the Tigris River in a small wooden boat and climbed up the steps.

At the top was a statue of the 10th century Iraqi poet Abu Tayeb Mutanabbi.

Nearby was a market named after him.

Mutanabbi Street has become a safe place for Iraqi readers to gather once more.

Seven years ago, a car bomb blew up the weekly market and killed 26 people.

Now, it is crowded once again with Iraqis who love books and ideas.

A few steps from the statue, dozens of people stood in line to enter the yard of an arts center.

Writers gather here weekly to share their work.

Up the street, the Shabandar Cafe's small wooden booths were packed with customers.

They were young and old, men and women, though there were fewer women.

The shoppers sipped tea, smoked and shared their purchases beneath walls hung with black and white photos of famous Iraqi scholars.

Outside the cafe, old men sold smeed, a kind of bread baked in the shape of a knot and sprinkled with sesame seeds.

Young men offered fresh fruit juices for sale.

All along the street, booksellers spread their items on the ground or sold their books in low stalls.

Customers said that the Mutanabbi market let them relax for a while and forget the troubles in their city and country.

Car bombs still explode in Baghdad, the capital city of Iraq.

People have to guard themselves from dangerous gangs in the streets and violent groups like the Islamic State.

Mohammed Baghdadi is 32 and works for Iraq's government in the Department of Trade.

He likes to read the Iraqi writer Ali Wardi and the American writer Dan Brown — he has read every book Brown has written except one.

Baghdad is full of history, he said as he searched for the book he had not read.

The  Islamic people thought of Iraq's capital city as one of their greatest achievements, he said.

The Mutanabbi market offers a mix of valuable items and cheap things that are not well made.

There are beautiful copies of the Quran, the holy book of the Islamic religion.

They are sold beside banned DVDs.

Customers can buy all types of books.

There is a serious book of poetry by a Baghdad poet but also American novels and textbooks.

Mustafa Shahbaz, 26, an engineer, was shopping for science and science fiction books.

He was glad to see the peaceful city he and long known instead of a Baghdad filled with bombings and shootings.

"When you see all these people coming, you don't feel you're in danger," said Salaam Musa, 30.

In a society where a lot of people read books, "there won't be war," he said.

Nahla Nadawi, 48, who teaches the Arabic language at the University of Baghdad, had come to the market with her 13-year-old son.

Nadawi searched the crowd for young faces, especially those of young women, but found few.

"Look, look.

How many youths can you see?"

she said.

"The younger generation reads less."

Young people like to read electronic books, she said.

Mutanabbi Street has always been a place where protests are held.

Nadawi looked around.

Some people from the Communist Party were waving papers in the air and shouting.

Other protesters were passing out copies of their newspaper, Freedom.

Government workers were marching for better pay and benefits.

Saddam Hussein, one of Iraq's rulers, ran the country for a long time.

During his rule, he did not allow groups that were against his government to express their views.

They still went ahead and wrote and sold copies of their articles and essays in the market under fake names.

Saddam's government fell more than 10 years ago.

Other leaders and governments ruled Iraq after him.

Protesters got together in Mutanabbi Street and raised their voices against those new leaders too.

Nadawi said she liked the old, comfortable book market better.

She understood, however, that in Baghdad, change was hard to avoid.

Sometimes it was necessary.

Seven years ago, her husband, a doctor and writer, was killed in a bombing.

She got married again a few months ago.

Before she left to continue searching for books, Nadawi quoted an old Arabic saying: Movement, she said, is good.

