In Iraq, there is a school for children to learn ballet and music.

One day at the school, Ann Khalid did not feel well.

Still, she insisted on dancing with her classmates.

The 12-year-old wants to have a job someday dancing and teaching ballet.

Her dream is not easy in Iraq.

The country has been through years of war.

"My school and my church are the two things I love the most in Baghdad," Khalid said with pride.

If her dream has a chance, it's because of the Baghdad School of Music and Ballet.

The school has survived many years of trouble.

Baghdad is Iraq's capital.

Once it was a center for music, dance and art in the Middle East.

But that was years ago.

Violence is now a part of daily life.

Strict religious ideas control how people behave.

Still, the school keeps going.

"Where else in Iraq can you walk into a school and listen to a small boy" playing classical music on his violin?

asked Ahmed Salim Ghani.

He is the school's principal and an expert musician.

Most Iraqi schools separate boys and girls.

Not this school.

Male and female students take classes together from kindergarten to high school.

Ghani speaks of Baghdad's golden age from the 1960s through to the 1980s.

Back then, people supported dance and music.

The government had plenty of money from selling oil.

It made sure some of it went to the arts.

The school, which started in 1968, thrived.

Black-and-white video of a 1977 school performance of "The Nutcracker" shows a very high level of dancing.

The children wear professional looking costumes.

Things went bad for the school after Iraq invaded Kuwait in 1990.

The United Nations punished Iraq and Iraq could not sell oil easily.

Money started to run out.

Things got worse in 2003.

The United States and other countries invaded Iraq.

There was chaos.

People stole from the school.

Later it was partly burned.

Conservative religious leaders became powerful.

They considered ballet to be against Islam.

The school removed its large street sign so people would not know it was there.

Children hid their musical instruments when they went outside or left them at school.

Daily violence forced parents to keep their children at home.

The school's best Iraqi ballet and music teachers fled Iraq.

The worst times were in the mid-2000s.

The number of students were just 100 to 120 then, said Ghani.

The city is safer now, but bombings continue.

Religious ideas are now a big part of Iraq's society and have affected the school.

The school now has around 500 students.

But many parents pull their daughters out of ballet when they are 12 or 13.

Leezan Salam graduated this year.

She said that when she started ballet at the school there were around 30 girls with her.

By the time she reached the 10th grade, only three were left.

Some parents do not think it is right for girls to be lifted and held by boys while performing, says Zeina Akram Fayzy.

She is a 40-year-old ballet teacher.

"Years of our hard work go to waste," said Fayzy, who also went to the school.

