When members of the Islamic State group invaded the Central Library of Mosul earlier this month, they were on a mission: to destroy other people's ideas.

Residents say the extremists smashed the locks that had protected the biggest library in the northern Iraq city.

They then loaded about 2,000 books — including children's stories, poetry and works on sports, health, culture and science — into six pickup trucks.

Only Islamic texts were left behind.

The books that were taken are thought to have been destroyed.

"These books promote" the rejection of religion "and call for disobeying Allah.

So they will be burned," a bearded Islamic State official told residents, according to one man living nearby.

The man said the Islamic State members stuffed the books into empty flour bags.

The Islamic State group, also known as ISIS or ISIL, has been fighting government forces in both Iraq and neighboring Syria, and so far has managed to take over one-third of both countries.

Since assuming control, it has sought to rid society of everything that does not conform to its violent interpretation of Islam.

The group already has destroyed many pre-Islamic archaeological relics, deeming them pagan.

It has even destroyed Islamic mosques and other sites it does not approve of, because they are from a different branch of Islam.

Increasingly now, books are on the firing line.

Mosul is the biggest of the cities the Islamic State group now controls.

It boasts an educated population that seeks to preserve its historical sites and libraries.

In the chaos that followed the U.S.-led invasion of 2003, residents near the Central Library hid some of its centuries-old manuscripts in their own homes to prevent theft or destruction of the writings by looters.

However, this time the Islamic State group has made the penalty for such actions death, so there is little locals can do.

The Central Library's collection of Iraqi newspapers dating to the early 20th century are presumed to have been destroyed.

So too are maps and books from the Ottoman Empire and book collections contributed by around 100 of Mosul's most prominent families.

Days after the Central Library's ransacking, Islamic State members broke into the University of Mosul's library.

They lit a bonfire using hundreds of books on science and culture, destroying them in front of students.

A University of Mosul history professor, who spoke on condition he not be named because of his fear of the Islamic State group, said the extremists started wrecking the collections of other libraries last month.

He reported particularly heavy damage to three libraries: a Sunni Muslim library, the library of the 265-year-old Latin Church and Monastery of the Dominican Fathers, and the Mosul Museum Library with works dating back to 5000 BC.

Citing reports by locals who live near these libraries, the professor said that Islamic State members would show up during the night and carry the materials away in trucks.

The fate of these old materials is still unknown, although the professor suggested some could be sold on the black market.

In September, Iraqi and Syrian officials said that the Islamic State group has profited from the sale of ancient artifacts.

The professor said the Islamic State group appears determined to "change the face of this city ... by erasing its iconic buildings and history."

Since seizing Mosul last summer, the militant group has destroyed dozens of historic sites.

Among them are the centuries-old Islamic mosque shrines of the prophets Seth, Jirjis and Jonah.

An Iraqi lawmaker, Hakim al-Zamili, said the Islamic State group "considers culture, civilization and science as their fierce enemies."

Al-Zamili, who leads Iraq's Security and Defense Committee, compared the Islamic State group to raiding medieval Mongols, who in 1258 ransacked Baghdad.

Back then, libraries' ancient collections of works on history, medicine and astronomy were dumped into the Tigris River by the Mongols.

Supposedly, the waters turned black from running ink.

"The only difference is that the Mongols threw the books in the Tigris River, while now" the Islamic State group "is burning them," he said.

"Different method, but same mentality."

