Ahmed Abdulateef has a gift for music, but in his hometown of Baghdad, Iraq, this gift made him a target.

His father smashed his guitar and militants threatened his life.

Abdulateef's passion for music has no place within their strict version of Islam.

He kept playing despite his family's disapproval, and for a while, secret jam sessions were his only chance to play.

Then he heard about a month-long U.S. cultural program.

He was selected and it brought him to perform in California, New Mexico and other states he had only heard about.

Once in the United States, he was free to walk down the street with his oud, a guitar-like Middle Eastern instrument, slung across his back.

"Here, for the first time, I'm Ahmed," he said.

For Abdulateef, the newfound freedom was so precious that he applied for asylum in the United States in November.

He has joined a surge of Iraqis seeking asylum since the rise of the violent group Islamic State.

Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, is an extremist group  that has already taken over land in Iraq and Syria, and wants to set up its own country governed by strict Islamic law.

If someone is facing danger in their own country, they can apply for asylum in another country, and if they are accepted, they can live there in safety.

Iraqis who have applied for asylum in the United States, though, are finding that it is a slow process.

They have to wait months, or years, for a decision.

The processing pipeline for asylum requests has grown clogged, immigration attorneys say.

Worsening conflicts in the Middle East are one reason, with more people leaving their war-torn homes.

The rise of Islamic State is another reason — the U.S. government is worried that violent extremists may use the asylum system to slip into the United States.

"I don't have a plan B," Abdulateef said.

"This is a new life, a whole new life, and it's worth fighting to stay here."

The goal of the asylum program is to provide sanctuary —a safe place — for foreigners who face serious threats in their home countries for political, religious or artistic expression.

According to those guidelines, Abdulateef's case may seem like it should be an easy "yes."

He had already gone through comprehensive security checks before he received a visa to visit the United States in the first place, and his fluency in English is another advantage.

Washington immigration attorney David Garfield, who took Abdulateef's case pro bono — working for free — said a compelling story and serious threats aren't enough for a quick decision.

Garfield is representing other Iraqis with similarly strong cases: female doctors fleeing kidnapping threats, a man who is being threatened for converting to Christianity, and a man who helped U.S. forces sort through evidence against members of the government of former Iraqi President Saddam Hussein.

Their cases have dragged on for nearly a year, and these Iraqis' lives remain unsettled as they await the news that will determine their futures.

"It looks like they're just sitting on the Iraqi cases," Garfield said.

"All these letters, they just don't get responded to.

There's been no decisions — no denials, no approvals."

Applications for asylum in the United States are handled by U.S.

Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS), part of the Department of Homeland Security.

According to CIS, the number of asylum requests from Iraqis rose to 1,133 in 2014, up from 788 the year before.

The rise is likely due to the emergence of Islamic State in that period, the agency said.

The rate of approvals fell slightly — from 84 to 82 percent — and the number of open cases at the end of the year doubled.

There are more than 1,300 Iraqi asylum cases still open, according to the most recent figures.

It's clear that Abdulateef, 23, faces life-threatening dangers if he returns to Iraq, where radical militiamen have a history of silencing musicians and other artists.

His trip to the United States may even have made things worse.

He bonded with American musicians — playing Metallica on his oud — and was introduced to instruments like the mandolin and the Appalachian dulcimer.

Also, the cultural exchange that brought him to the United States was sponsored mostly by the State Department, linking him to the U.S. government in the eyes of Iraqi extremists.

Abdulateef said he did not come to the United States with the idea of applying for asylum and only learned of it through conversations with American friends who steered him to Garfield, the immigration attorney.

To apply for asylum, Abdulateef had to submit an affidavit, an official document telling his story.

His experiences are unique, but they also echo the dashed dreams of many Iraqis who hope to live in a country where basic freedoms are protected.

He said he hopes the U.S. officials who eventually consider his case agree that he can do more to advance Iraqi arts outside the country, at least for now.

"All I want is to be safe from fear and be able to continue my musical career, which incorporates the concepts of collectivity, collaboration, cross-cultural understanding and tolerance," Abdulateef's affidavit says.

"Unfortunately, these principles are not welcome in my country at the moment."

