Gay couples in Ireland will be able to get married soon.

On Saturday, the Irish people voted to allow gay marriage.

Support was surprisingly strong.

More than 6 out of 10 Irish people voted for it.

Gay marriage is when two men or two women marry each other.

In Dublin, thousands of people celebrated until dawn.

The Irish Justice Department said that it would write a new marriage law very soon.

The law will let gay couples get married.

It will also make sure that gay couples do not have to get married in a church.

The Catholic Church does not allow gay marriage.

More than 8 out of every 10 Irish people are Catholic.

The gay marriage law will probably be passed by early July.

The first gay weddings will likely begin in the fall.

For Katherine Zappone and Ann Louise Gilligan, their Irish wedding day has nearly come.

The couple was married in Canada 12 years ago.

Since 2003, they have fought to get the Irish government to accept their marriage.

Zappone is from Seattle.

Gilligan is Irish.

The two women moved to Ireland 30 years ago.

Zappone said that for a long time she has had to insist to people: "Well, we ARE married.

I'm a married woman!"

On Saturday, Zappone and Gilligan waited for the results of the vote at Dublin Castle.

Thousands of people waved rainbow-colored flags and celebrated.

Zappone was speaking to a reporter on television.

Suddenly, she stared directly into the camera and asked Gilligan to marry her all over again.

"I said yes to Katherine 12 years ago at our marriage in Canada," Gilligan shouted to the large crowd.

"And now we are bringing the 'yes' back home to Ireland, our country of Ireland!

Yes, yes, yes!"

People in Ireland are now "so much freer, and proud," Zappone said.

She became Ireland's first female gay lawmaker in 2011.

Gilligan said there are few moments when a person is surrounded by so much joy.

"These are rare moments," she said.

The two women met in 1981.

They were taking a class at Boston College in Massachusetts.

"I fell in love with Katherine," Gilligan said.

"I simply adored her, and I wanted to be with her forever and ever, and here we are!"

Several years ago, Gilligan was in the hospital.

Zappone had problems when she tried to see Gilligan.

The hospital did not accept her as Gilligan's wife or family member.

Zappone could have lied, but she wanted to tell the truth.

"I am married to her, and you have to recognize that," she told the hospital.

The workers at the hospital let her stay.

Zappone spent five weeks by Gilligan's hospital bed.

A doctor wrote them a long note.

He said he wished he loved and cared about someone as much as they do.

The vote will change Ireland's Constitution.

First, lawmakers must pass the gay marriage law.

Experts say the law will probably be approved easily.

Everyone supports it.

Irish President Michael D. Higgins will then sign the law.

Zappone said they will probably have to wait until the end of the year to get married.

"Then we'll head toward the big day," she said.

