Gay couples in Ireland woke up Sunday morning with dreams of wedding plans dancing in their heads.

This new reality was sinking in after the Irish people voted with a surprisingly strong 62 percent "yes" to change the country's constitution to allow gay couples to marry.

Thousands of people of all sexual identities celebrated until dawn after the result was announced Saturday night.

The Irish Justice Department confirmed its plans to write a bill — a proposed law — this week to allow gay marriage.

The proposed law will permit those taking vows in civil ceremonies to choose to be "husband and wife" or "spouses of each other."

It will ensure that gay couples do not have to get married in the church.

This had been a key demand of the Catholic Church, of which more than 80 percent of the Irish people belong, and the other main Christian and Muslim communities in Ireland.

Deputy Prime Minister Joan Burton said she expects the bill to become law by early July.

Because the existing marriage law requires a minimum three-month notice for any civil marriages, the first gay weddings cannot happen until the autumn.

For Senator Katherine Zappone and Ann Louise Gilligan, their day has nearly come.

Since 2003, the lesbian couple have fought to get the Irish government to recognize their Canadian marriage, suffering setbacks and delays as they sued the state all the way to the Supreme Court.

Zappone, a Seattle native who settled with her Irish spouse in Dublin three decades ago, said that for so long, she has had to dig in her heels and say, "Well, we ARE married.

I'm a married woman!"

"We are now entering a new Ireland," said Gilligan, who is a former nun.

Zappone and Gilligan thrilled a crowd of thousands of people waving rainbow flags and celebrating Saturday as the vote results came in at Dublin Castle.

Zappone dramatically broke off from a live TV interview, stared directly into the camera, and asked Gilligan to marry her all over again.

"I said yes to Katherine 12 years ago at our marriage in Canada," Gilligan shouted to the crowd.

"And now we are bringing the 'yes' back home to Ireland, our country of Ireland!

Yes, yes, yes!"

In a more sober mood Sunday, the couple reflected on their long road to social acceptance as a gay couple.

They also spoke of the remaining wait to become officially married in Ireland, hopefully before Christmas.

"It took us hours to get a taxi because so many people came up to us in tears, wanting to talk to us.

They now felt so much freer, and proud," said Zappone, who became Ireland's first openly lesbian lawmaker when Ireland's prime minister appointed her to the Senate in 2011.

"There aren't that many moments in life where you are surrounded with an exuberance of joy.

These are rare moments," said Gilligan, who decided to stop being a nun in her mid-20s.

She said she was not sure about her sexuality until she met Zappone during a class at Boston College in the United States in 1981.

"The door opened, and this gorgeous woman came in.

I didn't know I was lesbian.

I'm a late learner," Gilligan recalled with a laugh.

"I fell in love with Katherine, and I went for it.

I simply adored her, and I wanted to be with her forever and ever, and here we are!"

They married in Vancouver, Canada, and later sued Ireland for legal recognition of their marriage, but in 2006, the Irish High Court ruled that Irish law universally understood that marriage is between a man and a woman.

The Supreme Court sent the case back to the High Court in 2012.

Months later, Gilligan, who is in her late 60s, was hospitalized with bleeding in her brain.

Zappone, yet again, had problems when trying to see her wife, since the hospital did not recognize her as a spouse or other family member.

She could have lied and said they had a civil partnership, a weaker form of marriage-style contract, but Zappone insisted on stating the uncomfortable reality.

"I am married to her, and you have to recognize that," she recalled.

The medical staff completely understood.

After Zappone had spent five weeks at Gilligan's bedside, a doctor wrote them a long note of appreciation, saying he wished he had the kind of relationship that they had.

However, what they still will not have, for many months to come, is an Irish-recognized marriage.

The family section of Ireland's Constitution eventually will read, "Marriage may be contracted in accordance with law by two persons without distinction as to their sex."

First, parliament must pass the same-sex marriage bill.

Analysts say the bill will probably get through parliament easily, since all parties support the measure.

Then Irish President Michael D. Higgins will sign the bill into law and amend the constitution.

"Technically and legally we'll probably have to wait until toward the end of the year," Zappone said.

"Then we'll head toward the big day."

