Gay couples woke up in Ireland Sunday morning and began planning their weddings.

On Saturday, the Irish people voted with a surprisingly strong 62 percent "yes" to change the constitution to allow gay couples to marry.

Thousands of people celebrated until dawn after the results were announced.

The Irish Justice Department announced that it plans to write a new bill — a proposed law — this week to allow gay marriages.

The proposed law will permit those taking vows in civil ceremonies to choose to be "husband and wife" or "spouses of each other."

A civil wedding ceremony means that a couple is married by an official, instead of by a priest or a minister.

The bill will make sure that gay couples do not have to get married in a church.

This had been a key demand of the Catholic Church and other Christian and Muslim communities in Ireland.

More than 80 percent of the Irish people are Catholic.

Deputy Prime Minister Joan Burton said she expects the bill to become law by early July.

Because current law requires at least a three-month notice for any civil marriages, the first gay weddings cannot happen until autumn.

For Senator Katherine Zappone and Ann Louise Gilligan, their day has nearly come.

Since 2003 the lesbian couple have fought to get the Irish government to recognize their Canadian marriage.

They suffered setbacks and delays as they sued the government of Ireland all the way to its Supreme Court.

Zappone is from Seattle and settled with her Irish wife in Dublin 30 years ago.

She said that for so long, she has had to dig in her heels and say, "Well, we ARE married.

I'm a married woman!"

"We are now entering a new Ireland," said Gilligan, who is a former nun.

On Saturday, Zappone and Gilligan thrilled a crowd of thousands of people waving rainbow-colored flags as the vote results came in at Dublin Castle.

Zappone was being interviewed on live TV when she dramatically stopped, stared directly into the camera, and asked Gilligan to marry her all over again.

"I said 'yes' to Katherine 12 years ago at our marriage in Canada," Gilligan shouted to the crowd.

"And now we are bringing the 'yes' back home to Ireland, our country of Ireland!

Yes, yes, yes!"

In a more serious mood on Sunday, the couple reflected on their long road to being accepted as a gay couple.

They also spoke of the remaining wait to be officially married in Ireland, hopefully before Christmas.

"It took us hours to get a taxi because so many people came up to us in tears, wanting to talk to us.

They now felt so much freer, and proud," Zappone said.

She became Ireland's first openly lesbian lawmaker when Ireland's prime minister appointed her to the Senate in 2011.

Gilligan said there are not many moments in life where a person is surrounded by so much joy.

"These are rare moments," said Gilligan, who decided in her mid-20s she no longer wanted to be a nun.

In 1981, Gilligan and Zappone met while taking a class at Boston College in the United States.

"I fell in love with Katherine, and I went for it.

I simply adored her, and I wanted to be with her forever and ever, and here we are!"

Gilligan said.

They married in Vancouver, Canada, and went to court in Ireland to have their marriage recognized.

In 2006, the Irish High Court ruled that marriage was between a man and a woman.

Several years ago, Gilligan was in the hospital with bleeding in her brain.

Zappone had problems trying to visit her, since the hospital did not recognize Zappone as a wife or other family member.

She could have lied and said they had a civil partnership, which is a weaker form of marriage-style contract that is recognized in Ireland.

Zappone insisted on the truth.

"I am married to her, and you have to recognize that," she told the hospital.

The medical staff understood and let her stay.

After Zappone had spent five weeks at Gilligan's bedside, a doctor wrote them a long note saying he wished he had the kind of relationship they had.

Ireland's Constitution eventually will say that people of any sex can get married.

First, parliament must pass the gay marriage bill.

Experts say the bill will probably get through parliament easily, since all sides support it.

Then Irish President Michael D. Higgins will sign the bill into law and amend the constitution.

"Technically and legally we'll probably have to wait until toward the end of the year" to get married, Zappone said.

"Then we'll head toward the big day."

