President Barack Obama has no choice now.

If he wants to defeat the Islamic State group, he'll have to become a real war leader.

He may not like it, but putting troops on the ground is the surest way to win this war.

That's nothing new.

Paris was horrific, but no game-changer.

The game changed in 2014, when Islamic State broke out from Syria, drove the Iraqi military from the field and proclaimed a worldwide caliphate.

The moment the group, also known as ISIS, established a territorial state in Iraq, it posed two grave threats to the U.S. and its friends and allies.

A Sunni extremist-controlled state in the heart of the Middle East was guaranteed to create friction that will lead, inevitably, to a larger regional conflict with far-reaching spillover consequences.

The refugees flooding Europe and Moscow's deepening of its direct involvement in the fighting in Syria foreshadow what lies ahead.

The second threat was transnational.

With tens of thousands of foreign fighters and sophisticated social networking, the Islamic State already had a global reach.

Its acquisition of resource-rich territory made it the wealthiest militant organization in history.

Since then, Islamic State has demonstrated the capacity to adapt and innovate, combining the most effective terrorist practices honed over the last three decades.

Nonetheless, beyond capability, what really makes the Islamic State scary is its intent.

To sustain its narrative as a true caliphate, Islamic State must live up to its image as a powerful and growing force.

And the most effective way to do that is to take the battle to its enemies via transnational terror attacks.

It is folly for the administration to claim that these twin dangers — regional and transnational — are contained.

They are unfolding across Europe and most dramatically in Paris as America watches.

Clearly, our strategy for dealing with Islamic State — such as it is — has been insufficient.

The Islamic State has been resilient, absorbing months of drone attacks and lethargic bombing.

Russia's entry into the war has helped prop up Syrian President Bashar Assad and perpetuate further conflict, but has not driven Islamic State from the field.

While the group has seen some tactical reversals, like the recent Kurdish assault on Sinjar, it has suffered tactical setbacks before and bounced back.

At this point, the U.S. shouldn't try to solve Syria.

As long as Moscow and Tehran back Assad, he will stick around — as will the war against him.

Moreover, it's not reasonable for the U.S. to lead in the fight to hit Islamic State everywhere.

But where the U.S. could lead is in breaking Islamic State's territorial control of Iraq — and that's a task worth doing because commanding a state is what makes the group a global threat.

Without U.S. participation, the prospects for a successful conventional campaign against ISIS are slim.

Arab states lack both the capacity and expertise to undertake these operations.

The Kurds can defend themselves and even regain territory, but liberating the country is beyond them.

The Iraqi military is far from ready.

Neither Sunnis nor Shiite are ready to risk an all-out war with ISIS.

European countries don't have the means to carry out major out-of-area operations on the ground without the U.S. standing by their side.

Additionally, after conventional forces drive ISIS from the field, they will have to keep them from coming back until Iraq is politically stable enough to stand up to external security threats.

This is unwelcome news for a president who boasted of ending the war in Iraq and withdrawing U.S. troops.

But the absence of U.S. boots on the ground changed the facts on the ground as well, and Islamic State was quick to take advantage.

Adding force incrementally — 50 special ops troops here, a few more airstrikes there — cannot substantially alter the current unpleasant facts on the ground.

Delaying meaningful ground action risks allowing the twin dangers of Islamic State to spread even farther.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: A 25-year Army veteran, James Jay Carafano is vice president of defense and foreign policy studies for The Heritage Foundation (heritage.org), a conservative think tank on Capitol Hill.

Readers may write him at Heritage, 214 Massachusetts Ave. NE, Washington, D.C. 20002.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

The response to the Paris terror attacks should not be military.

The impetus to retaliate is understandable.

French President Francois Hollande is speaking in terms of a war against the Islamic State group, just as U.S. President George W. Bush spoke of a war against al-Qaida in 2001.

The threat stated by an Islamic State member a day or two after the Paris attacks to do something similar in Washington, D.C., only heightens the concern and makes it seem we must do something decisive to stop the extremist group, which is also called ISIS.

The problem is that a military effort to eradicate Islamic State is not likely to work.

President Barack Obama understands that if he were to proclaim a goal of definitively eradicating Islamic State in the short term, he would fail and would have to eat his words.

Use of force has gotten us into the fix in which we now find ourselves.

Our response to the attacks we suffered on Sept. 11 was military.

Our aim in invading Afghanistan in 2001 was to stop terrorism, but we seem only to have spawned more.

We did limit al-Qaida's ability to operate in Afghanistan, but they moved elsewhere, and the anger we generated may have brought even more down on us.

Our invasion of Iraq in 2003 replaced a Sunni-led government with a Shiite-led government that then carried out a vendetta against the Sunni population of Iraq.

While in occupation of Iraq, we worked to weed anyone who had supported the prior regime out of government jobs.

That left the Sunnis thinking they had no role in the new Iraq.

The exclusion of the Sunni spawned Sunni-led armed groups like Islamic State.

Rabbi Michael Lerner, a philosopher and long-time student of the Middle East, has written in the wake of the Paris attack, "Until the powerful countries of the world are seen as mainly driven by a desire to care for the well-being of everyone else on the planet and the well-being of the planet itself, and care not only out of self-interest but also out of a new consciousness in which we all come to truly understand our mutual interdependence and oneness, what we saw in Paris this past week is destined to be an increasing reality in the coming decades."

The response to the Paris attack should be to set the West on a path to dealing with the Middle East in a way that undermines the anti-Western attitudes that lead to indiscriminate violence of the kind we saw on the streets of Paris.

The Paris attack provides a new and compelling reason for the West to take action to undercut the negative sentiment about the West.

Among the various conflicts, one where we still have a chance is the Israeli-Palestinian one.

The lack of a solution for that conflict, which has been festering for so long, bears a direct relation to the carnage in Paris.

The support of the Western powers, and particularly the United States, of Israel was a battle cry for Osama bin Laden when he first organized al-Qaida in the 1990s.

The Arab countries were unable to deal with Israel to secure self-determination on the Palestinian side.

Bin Laden attracted the youth of the Middle East by telling them that violence was the only way to fight the West and to force Israel to accommodate the Palestinians.

Bin Laden successfully played on the perception that the United States has been bought off by Israel to let it take over Palestinian land through its aggressive settlement policy.

President Obama wisely is not buying into President Hollande's thinking that an increase in military power in Syria is the proper response.

Rabbi Lerner's approach shows greater chance of achieving a long-term solution.

By positive policy changes, we must change the perceptions that have generated terror attacks.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: John B. Quigley is distinguished professor of law at Ohio State University.

He is the author of 11 books on various aspects of international law.

Readers may write to him at Moritz College of Law, 55 West 12th St., Columbus, Ohio 43210.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

