After becoming disruptive in school, Kari Knudtson's 10-year-old son was asked to leave his classroom.

His teacher sent the fourth-grader to the isolation room at Mill Creek Elementary School.

Some schools see isolation rooms as spaces where misbehaving students can spend time alone and reflect on how they are acting.  Knudtson said her son has had trouble controlling his behavior in the past.

He has been given time out, suspended or placed in a "buddy room" alone with a school staff member until he could calm down.

This is the first time she had heard of an isolation room.  "I didn't know that isolation rooms even existed until I learned that my son had been in one," she said.

There are many ways that schools deal with bad behavior.

There are different types of consequences that schools and teachers can use, like suspending or expelling a student.  Some schools commonly use isolation rooms.

They send students who are out of control to a special space on campus to spend a period of time alone.

Teachers believe the rooms help calm students down who may have hurt themselves or someone else if they were in a classroom.

However, not everyone supports using these rooms.

Some experts say they should never be used as punishment.

In recent years, parents across the country have started to protest the use of isolation rooms.

Families are upset their kids are being held in small rooms and boxes as punishment.

The protesters are pointing to recent research that suggests these consequences do not work.  The Independence School District, which Mill Creek Elementary is part of, is trying to find better ways to keep their students safe and behaving.

They do not want to rely only on isolation rooms.

One solution is to learn how to predict when students are about to get out of control.

Teachers could react differently if they knew the signals.  Still, the district has 15 isolation rooms across its schools.

The isolation room at Mill Creek is an empty room with a door that opens into it.

According to a district assistant superintendent, a student cannot be locked inside.  Students who are sent to the room are supervised at all times by a trained staff member.

If the student is dangerous, the staff member can walk out of the room and monitor the student through a window in the door.  The district said the rooms help students calm down.

Once students recover, they are allowed to return to their classroom.

Many parents want Mill Creek to stop using the isolation room.

"We want those gone," said Joni Gentry, who has a fifth-grader at the school.

"We didn't need them in the past; why do we need them now?"

Other parents see value in the space and appreciate what the school is doing to address behavior challenges.

One mom said isolation rooms have helped her son.

Still many parents say the room at Mill Creek is unsafe and that it should not be used.

It has a brick wall and exposed, uncovered electrical sockets.

The district has said the Mill Creek isolation room has never been used to seriously discipline a child.

However, school officials do say the room might help if a student became uncontrollable or violent.

Isolation and restraint rooms are legal.

Districts that choose to have them must follow state and federal regulations.

A school district can also prohibit the use of isolation rooms or punishment that restrains students.  This is not the first time people have debated the use of isolation rooms.

In 2012, a Washington public school was in the news after a second-grader was barricaded in a small padded closet.

The district called the closet an isolation room but parents said it was a solitary confinement box, like those in prisons.

Last year, North Texas schools were investigated for using isolation rooms.

The smallest of these rooms was 56 square feet, or about the size of a parking space.

Medical experts said many schools across the country are phasing out the use of isolation rooms.

They are realizing that there are more effective ways to address bad behavior.  In the short term, Independence parents are still trying to pressure the school to get rid of the room at Mill Creek.

They will bring their concerns to an upcoming meeting with district leaders.

