The Israeli school year has begun, but thousands of Arab students who attend Christian schools are still on summer vacation.

The schools are striking to protest cuts in government funding that critics say amount to discrimination.

Administrators of the Christian schools, which are attended mainly by Christian and Muslim Arabs, accuse Israel of pressuring them to join the public school system.

They say the move would harm the schools' Christian values and undermine their high academic achievements.

In the central Israeli city of Ramle, the three Khoury siblings are killing time while their parents wait anxiously as the talks between the Education Ministry and the administrators continue.

About 33,000 students in Israel's 47 Christian schools have been on strike since the school year began on Sept. 1.

"I wake up every day late, I watch TV, I play, there isn't much to do," said 13-year-old Bashar.

"I miss my friends and I miss my teachers," said 10-year-old Loucin, who was supposed to be in fourth grade this year.

In Israel, Christian schools and other private schools, which are not part of the public school system, receive some government funding.

The remainder of their budgets are covered by either donations or tuition.

The government money pays for roughly three-quarters of private schools' standard costs, but the state has been cutting back on other funding.

Critics say the funding cuts discriminate against Israel's Arab minority, which makes up some 20 percent of the population.

They note that the government fully funds two large ultra-Orthodox Jewish private school networks.

Christian administrators say the cuts have forced them to raise tuition for students, some of whom come from low-income communities.

"Racism comes from the state and not from the people in the street.

The state is discriminating between the minorities and its (Jewish) people, and this is clear, there isn't any other explanation," said Khader Khoury, the children's father.

"Our wish is that, after 21 days of children getting bored at home, not studying, and learning to be lazy, and getting depressed, our wish is that they go back to school.

Still we won't stop and we will continue with the strike until we get our rights," he said.

In addition to the strike, community members have also staged demonstrations.

Earlier this month about 2,500 people protested outside the office of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem.

The Education Ministry said it has held high-level meetings with representatives from the Christian community to try to reach an agreement and bring an end to the strike.

It said the representatives "consistently" rejected offers it presented.

Wadie Abu Nasser, an adviser to the Catholic Church in the Holy Land, said negotiations are "not easy."

He didn't want to give more details so as not to affect the outcome.

He said the talks are being conducted in a "positive atmosphere" and hoped they will result in a "just and dignified solution."

In the birthplace of Christianity, Christians are currently less than 2 percent of the population of Israel and the Palestinian territories.

There are about 150,000 Christian citizens of Israel and about 50,000 Christians in the eastern part of Jerusalem, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

They have not experienced the violent persecution that has destroyed Christian communities elsewhere in the region.

But the Holy Land's Christians, who mainly identify as Palestinians, say they experience discrimination in areas like housing and employment.

Over the decades, they have sought better opportunities abroad.

