Israel's school year has begun, but thousands of Arab students who attend Christian schools are still on summer vacation.

The schools are on strike to protest cuts in government funding.

Critics say the government is discriminating against the schools.

Christian schools in Israel are attended mainly by Christian and Muslim Arabs.

Christian school officials accuse Israel of pressuring them to join the public school system.

They say that would weaken the schools' Christian values and undermine their high academic achievements.

In the central Israeli city of Ramle, Khader Khoury and his wife wait anxiously as the talks between the Israeli government and Christian administrators continue.

About 33,000 students have been on strike since the school year began on Sept. 1.

The Middle Eastern country has 47 Christian schools.

Meanwhile, the three Khoury children are killing time.

"I wake up every day late, I watch TV, I play, there isn't much to do," said 13-year-old Bashar.

"I miss my friends and I miss my teachers," said 10-year-old Loucin, who was supposed to be in fourth grade this year.

In Israel, Christian and other private schools that are not part of the public school system receive some government money.

The rest comes from donations or tuition.

The government money covers roughly three-quarters of private schools' regular costs, but the state has cut back on other funding.

Critics say the funding cuts discriminate against Israel's Arab minority.

Arabs make up about 20 percent of the population.

The critics note that the government fully pays for two large religious Jewish private school networks.

Christian administrators say the cuts have forced them to raise tuition for students.

Some of them belong to low-income families.

"Racism comes from the state and not from the people in the street," said Khader Khoury, the children's father.

He said the Israeli government is treating the Jewish majority and the Arab minority differently.

"This is clear, there isn't any other explanation," Khoury said.

"After 21 days of children getting bored at home, not studying, and learning to be lazy, and getting depressed, our wish is that they go back to school.

Still we won't stop and we will continue with the strike until we get our rights," he said.

In addition to the strike, community members have also organized demonstrations.

Earlier this month about 2,500 people protested outside the office of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in Jerusalem.

The Israeli Education Ministry said it has held high-level meetings with representatives from the Christian community.

The two sides are trying to reach an agreement and end the strike.

It said the representatives "consistently" rejected its offers.

Wadie Abu Nasser, an adviser to the Catholic Church in the Holy Land, said the talks are "not easy."

He said that the talks are being conducted in a "positive atmosphere" and hoped they will result in a "just and dignified solution."

The region is the birthplace of Christianity.

Currently, Christians are less than 2 percent of the population of Israel and the Palestinian territories.

There are about 150,000 Christian citizens of Israel and about 50,000 Christians in the eastern part of Jerusalem, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

The Christians in Israel have not experienced the violent persecution that has destroyed Christian communities elsewhere in the Middle East.

But the Holy Land's Christians, who mainly identify as Palestinians, say they experience discrimination in areas like housing and employment.

Over the years, many have left to seek better opportunities abroad.

