Israeli children returned to school Monday in a welcome sign that life was returning back to normal after the Gaza war.

Despite balloons and cheerful signs, this was not an entirely normal first day of school.

The start of the school is always something of a national holiday in Israel.

This year, though, emotions were mixed.

Students, parents and educators were relieved to get back to their everyday routines, although they were still sorting through the heartbreak of a summer of war.

Last week, a cease-fire agreement ended the 50-day war between Israel and Hamas, the Palestinian Islamic group that rules the neighboring Gaza Strip.

The war claimed the lives of 72 people on the Israeli side, most of them soldiers.

The Gaza Strip is reeling from a far larger loss.

More than 2,000 Palestinians were killed, mostly non-soldiers, according to international agencies.

In Israel, students will be eased back with two weeks of discussions about their experiences during the war.

Schools will also take part in "relaxing activities" that will help children express their emotions, the Education Ministry said.

Special attention was given Monday to students whose families lost loved ones in the fighting.

Israelis were also concerned about security, although the cease-fire appeared to be holding.

In Gaza, it will be weeks before the school year can begin.

At least 220 schools were damaged or destroyed by Israeli bombs.

Many schools still serve as shelters for Palestinian families who lost their homes in the war.

In the meantime, half a million Gaza students will be out of school.

In Israel, politicians flocked to schools to welcome students back.

Many of them visited schools in the southern towns, which were hardest hit by rocket fire from Gaza.

Schoolchildren in the southern Israeli town of Netivot peppered Communications Minister Gilad Erdan with tough questions: What would happen if Israel were to topple the Palestinian group Hamas, which rules Gaza?

Why does Israel provide electricity to Gaza?

"These are questions of political science university students, not children returning from summer vacation," Erdan said.

At age 5, kindergartner Daniel Neardea of Rishon LeZion recognizes the different sounds of incoming rockets and Iron Dome interceptors.

Iron Dome is Israel's air defense system that shot down many rockets fired from Gaza.

Daniel can also identify the head of the Israeli army and the top Hamas political leaders.

His mother, Enav Neardea, said her children mostly took the rockets and sirens in stride, even when they were out at the playground or swimming pool.

"I guess they understand this is part of their lives now," she said over the counter of her cafe in the town of Rehovot.

She said she was relieved to have them back in school.

She described the summer as "loud."

Looming over the return to school Monday was the financial cost of the war.

The Israeli Cabinet decided Sunday to cut the budget of all government ministries 2 percent — except the Defense Department.

School budgets was also cut 2 percent to help pay for the war.

The Education Ministry, which operates the country's public schools, will lose about $140 million.

This money help pay for the war.

It will also go for urgent assistance to the Israeli communities closest to the border with Gaza.

Education Minister Shay Piron insisted Monday that the move would not harm core education programs or shorten the school day.

He added that the money would come from additional funding the ministry had been expecting.

Still, many parents argue that the Israeli government does not spend enough money on education.

Israel spends well below international averages per student for developed countries, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.

Parents are forced to dig into their pockets to support their children's schools.

"We will feel the impact directly," said Sophie Hod.

The policewoman and mother of two said parents had been notified that school fees would go up.

"I suppose there's not much choice," Hod added.

She noted that tourism, business and most other areas were also suffering.

"There's always some urgent need that puts off reforms," she said.

"Everything takes second place to security, but that's how it must be here for now."

Over the weekend, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu acknowledged that it's hard to balance the country's defense needs while maintaining a strong economy and good government services.

However, he said, "security must come first."

As unpopular as higher taxes are, some politicians criticized the budget cut.

They said that the citizens who need government services most will suffer.

A temporary increase in taxes would be a fairer way to pay for the war.

Environment Minister Amir Peretz, who voted against the cut, said it would hit poorer Israelis "directly in the pocket."

Peretz said the government should "have enough courage to impose a temporary tax" on everyone.

