The Palestinians and the Israelis have been fighting over land since 1947.

This week, the fight moved to a new setting: FIFA, the world soccer association.

The Palestinian Football Association is trying to have Israel suspended from FIFA.

At the FIFA congress this week, the 209 member countries will vote on the suspension.

It needs two-thirds support to pass.

FIFA President Sepp Blatter went to Israel last week to talk to both sides.

He hoped to find a solution before the vote takes place.

In recent years, the Palestinians have pressured Israel through international groups like the United Nations and FIFA.

The Palestinians are trying to embarrass Israel and build support for their desire to have their own country.

A year ago, the Palestinians and Israelis were in peace talks led by the United States.

Those talks broke down, and they don't seem likely to restart soon.

The Palestinian-Israeli conflict goes back to 1947.

After World War II, the state of Israel was created.

It gave Jews a homeland in the Middle East.

The creation of Israel was disputed: Palestinians claimed the land belonged to them.

Wars were fought and years of fighting followed.

Today, many Palestinians live in two areas partly controlled by Israel: the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.

The Palestinians do not have a country of their own.

They say Israel is violating their rights.

The Palestinians say that their soccer teams can't play because of Israel's actions, including restrictions on their movement and military actions in the Palestinian terrirories.

The Palestinians also say that Israel has not controlled racism against Arabs inside Israeli soccer stadiums.

The Palestinians' complaint to FIFA also has to do with the Israelis building housing settlements in the West Bank.

The Palestinians say the settlements are illegal.

They pointed out that five Israeli soccer teams come from these settlements.

Blatter met with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday.

The FIFA president spoke to reporters in Jerusalem.

"One thing I can say is that football is more than a game.

It has the power to connect people and construct bridges," Blatter said.

"I am here to construct bridges and make sure football is not dividing but is uniting."

Soccer is called football in many parts of the world.

Blatter did not give details about his meeting with Netanyahu.

He said he would pass along a message from the Israeli prime minister to Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.

Blatter was scheduled to meet with Abbas in the West Bank on Wednesday.

Palestinian Football Association chief Jibril Rajoub said he had no plans to back down.

Rajoub said he believed there were enough votes from FIFA members to pass the resolution suspending Israel.

Rajoub pointed out that FIFA has suspended countries before.

South Africa was suspended and expelled for 30 years, because of apartheid: the policy of keeping blacks and whites separate.

Yugoslavia was suspended in the early 1990s because of the Yugoslav wars as that country broke apart.

Rajoub said that Blatter thinks there will be a solution.

However, Rajoub said "the ball is in Netanyahu's court.

He is the one that calls the shots."

Rotem Kemer is the head of the Israel Football Association.

He said that the Palestinians were blaming the football association for actions taken by the Israeli government.

The Palestinians were mixing politics and soccer, Kemer said.

He argued that his association has supported Palestinian soccer and fought racism.

Restrictions on the movement of Palestinians and military actions are out of the association's control, he said.

"There are many conflicts around the world: Ukraine and Russia, Iraq, Syria, in Africa.

Do we want every association to use its FIFA status to go against other federations?"

he asked.

