Two million Israeli children went back to school Monday.

They were greeted by balloons and cheerful signs.

But it was not a normal first day of school.

The start of the school year is like a national holiday in Israel.

But after a summer of war, feelings were mixed.

Students, parents and teachers felt relieved to get back to everyday life.

Yet, they were still getting over the heartbreak of the war.

Last week, Hamas and Israel agreed to stop fighting.

Hamas is a Palestinian Islamic group.

It rules the neighboring Gaza Strip.

The war between Israel and Hamas lasted 50 days.

In Israel, students will be eased back into their schoolwork.

For the first two weeks, they will have a chance to talk about the war.

Schools will also take part in "relaxing activities."

These will help children talk about their feelings, the Education Ministry said.

Israelis also felt worried about the country's safety.

In Gaza, it will be weeks before the school year can begin.

At least 220 schools were damaged or destroyed by Israeli bombs.

Many schools still serve as shelters for Palestinian families.

Many homes were also destroyed.

Half a million Gaza students are out of school.

In Israel, elected officials went to schools to welcome students.

Many of them visited schools in the south.

The south was hardest hit by rocket fire from Gaza.

Schoolchildren in the southern town of Netivot had many tough questions for Gilad Erdan.

He is a top Israeli official.

What would happen if Israel were to get rid of Hamas?

Why does Israel provide electricity to Gaza?

Erdan said these are the questions of university students.

They are not the usual "questions of children returning from summer vacation."

Daniel Neardea is 5 years old.

He lives in Rishon LeZion and just started kindergarten.

Daniel recognizes the different sounds of incoming rockets and the Iron Dome.

The Iron Dome is the name of Israel's air defense system.

It shot down many rockets fired at Israel.

Daniel also knows the names of the head of the Israeli army and top Hamas leaders.

His mother, Enav Neardea, described the summer as "loud."

She said her children got used to the rockets and sirens.

"I guess they understand this is part of their lives now."

She said she was happy her children were back in school.

To pay for the war, the Israeli government decided to cut spending.

The Education Ministry will lose about $140 million.

It oversees Israel's public schools.

Shay Piron is the head of the Education Ministry.

He insisted the cuts would not harm important school programs.

Still, many parents argue that the Israeli government spends too little money on education.

Israel spends less per student than many other countries.

Parents have to help pay for their children's schools.

Parents will feel the effect of the cuts, said Sophie Hod.

She is a policewoman and mother of two.

Hod said parents had been told they will need to pay more to the schools.

"I suppose there's not much choice," Hod added.

She said that everything in Israel takes second place to the country's safety.

"But that's how it must be here for now," she said.

Tax increases are not popular in Israel.

Yet, some elected officials suggested a short-term increase in taxes.

They said it would be a fairer way to pay for the war.

Money should not be cut from government services, they said.

The people who need these services, like food and shelter, will suffer.

Environment Minister Amir Peretz voted against the cut.

He said it would hit poorer Israelis "directly in the pocket."

Peretz said the government should "have enough courage" to make everyone pay higher taxes.

