Many centuries-old olive trees in the southern Italian region of Puglia are dying quickly.

The trees are dying because of a deadly bacteria.

It's known as Xylella fastidiosa.

Bacteria are tiny living things that are found everywhere, even in our gut.

Good bacteria can be helpful, like the kind in yogurt.

Bad bacteria spreads diseases.

The fields of olive trees in Puglia were once beautiful.

Now the fields look dead.

Lifeless trunks shoot from the earth next to other plants and flowers that have not been affected by the disease.

Not much is really known about this terrible situation.

No one knows how many trees have already died.

Some people suggest that as many as 1 million olive trees have already been infected by the bacterium.

Many people fear that the bacteria could wipe out fields of olive trees across Europe.

There is also fear that the bacteria will spread to other types of trees, such as cherry and almond.

Officials in Puglia walk through the olive groves, painting red Xs on the trees that will soon be cut down.

Some will be burned.

No one can say exactly how this disease affects the trees.

Scientists do not know exactly how the disease moves or whether burning the trees actually works.

Puglia makes almost half of Italy's olive oil.

It is popular all over the world.

This bacteria will likely cost this region of Italy millions of dollars.

It will also result in higher olive oil prices everywhere.

No one even knows how the bacteria got to Italy.

Scientists think it was brought to Italy on plants shipped in from Costa Rica.

Italians have their own theories for how the bacteria got to Puglia.

Some think that companies are killing the trees on purpose because they want to use the land to build hotels.

Other people think that the olive trees are being killed to use the land as a toxic waste dump.

There is even a rumor that a U.S. company is in involved in making the trees sick so that it can come in and save the region.

It is very important that the bacteria does not spread through Europe.

It is carried by bugs who keep the disease in their throats.

When they feed on the olive trees, they spread the bacterium.

The European Union (EU) is worried.

The EU is a group of 28 countries in Europe that works together to cooperate in trade and other money matters.

They said that everything south of the Pugliese town of Lecce is a dead zone.

The farmers in this region are very upset.

"There is no such thing as Xylella," said Pasquale Spina, a farmer whose trees are in the dead zone.

"Xylella only exists in the head!"

The first person to discover the bacteria was the virologist Donato Boscia.

Virologists are scientists who study diseases that affect humans, animals, insects, bacteria and plants.

Dr. Boscia found the first case of X. fastidiosa in his father-in-law's olive tree field in 2013.

He is leading the battle against the bacteria.

Boscia has promised to find a way to stop Xylella fastidiosa.

Boscia's main concern is convincing the public to follow the EU's plan.

This is becoming very difficult.

The EU has not given enough money to fight the problem.

It makes communication with farmers almost impossible.

Many olive growers do not trust the government.

They believe that they have to take care of the problem on their own.

Few experts know as much about X. fastidiosa as professor Alexander Purcell.

He has written a lot about the effects of Xylella on many types of crops.

He said that this particular outbreak is different than all others.

Never before has a crop been so important to the culture of an area.

Purcell says that until people are willing to work together, the disease will not slow down.

The only good news is that the bacteria has no effect on the fruit and oil the healthy trees make, because infected trees cannot produce olives.

There is no danger to people who eat the Pugliese olives or oil.

The bad news, is that these ancient trees are dying quickly.

