Silla Zelia is a 23-year-old from Ivory Coast, a country in Africa.

In 2013, she became a migrant.

She left home and got on a boat to Italy.

She wanted a new life in Europe.

Zelia's boat was very crowded.

It was full of other migrants.

It was a rough trip, but she made it to Italy.

Now Zelia is stuck.

She lives in a center full of migrants.

There are thousands of people from 30 different countries.

Some of them left their countries because of war.

Some left because they were poor.

None of them can start new lives yet.

They need permission from Italy to stay in the country.

She has asked for permission to start her new life in Italy.

She wants Italy to protect her from being sent back home.

It can take more than a year to get an answer.

So far, Italy has said no to Zelia twice.

Zelia cannot get in touch with her family back home.

She does not want to go back, anyway.

"Where I come from, life is not easy," she said.

Migrants have to wait for a long time to find out what will happen next.

They have nothing to do.

Sometimes they do not have any friends or family with them.

Migrants are allowed to leave the center, but they cannot do much in the city anyway.

They hardly have any money.

Besides, they can only leave for two days.

Collins is a 28-year-old from Nigeria.

He gave only his first name.

He is a migrant like Zelia.

He does not like being in one place all the time.

He says it feels bad not having anything to do.

All you do is "think, think, think," he says.

That is why Collins started working on a nearby farm.

He only earns about $11 for a hard day's work, but he does not mind.

He says it helps him stay happy.

Italy is partners with 27 other countries.

The partner countries are all in Europe.

Their group is called the European Union, or the EU.

Right now, the other countries in the EU are upset with Italy.

Migrants are sneaking through Italy.

They wind up in the other EU countries.

The other countries want Italy to do a better job keeping track of everyone.

Italy is having a hard time keeping up with everyone.

It is getting more migrants than ever before.

Last year, 65,000 migrants asked Italy to let them stay there.

That is twice as many as usual.

Now Italy is changing how it does things.

Italy is trying to do a better job following the EU's rules.

It is trying to get fingerprints from each migrant.

Italy is being asked to make sure migrants do not slip past into other EU countries.

