Silla Zelia, a 23-year-old from Ivory Coast, is stuck in Italy's largest migrant center.

The housing area holds about 3,200 migrants from 30 countries, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa.

Zelia has been there since 2013, when she crossed the Mediterranean Sea on a boat packed with other migrants.

They all braved the difficult journey to seek out new lives in Europe.

Zelia has asked Italy for refuge, which would protect her from being sent back home or arrested.

Her request has been rejected twice and she has since lost contact with her family back home.

Now she has nowhere to go.

"One can get stuck here for two years, three years," she said.

Yet she doesn't want to go home, either.

"Where I come from, life is not easy, my neighborhood has big problems, my house is all in a shambles, all in a shambles," she said.

After making the dangerous crossing to Italy, migrants like Zelia face another big challenge.

They have to convince European countries that they deserve protection as refugees.

The refugee label is normally reserved for people who have escaped from their home countries because of a war or threats to their race or religion.

Many of the migrants from sub-Saharan Africa are just running away from poverty.

Migrants who do not qualify as refugees often remain in Italy.

They work in the fields, picking tomatoes and oranges.

Many migrants who have not been rejected work on those same farms, too.

It helps them pass the time while they wait to hear whether Italy will give them refuge.

Collins is a 28-year-old migrant from Nigeria.

He gave only his first name.

He works on a nearby farm while he waits for the Italian government to answer his request.

He earns only 10 euros ($11) for a hard day's work, but he says it helps him stay happy.

"Being in one place, not to do anything, you understand, is stressful," he said.

"You think, think, think."

The Mineo center resembles an American neighborhood with neat lawns and clean streets.

It was originally built to house U.S. Navy members and their families.

Men are everywhere, riding bicycles and playing soccer on a large dusty field.

The women are harder to find.

Zelia said they stay inside, going crazy because there is nothing to do.

Migrants are allowed to leave the compound, but have to be back in two days.

Even outside the gates, there's not much Zelia can do without an income.

She pointed to her reindeer socks and sandals — they were all she could afford.

Besides food and housing, migrants get a daily handout of cigarettes or phone card credits.

They trade them among each other for cash.

In the last year, Italy has seen a huge jump in requests for refuge.

The country has also been criticized for failing to process and fingerprint migrants properly.

Now the government is taking action to make sure it is in line with European Union (EU) rules.

Italy is being pressured to make sure migrants don't slip through to northern Europe.

According to EU records, Italy granted refuge to about 20,000 migrants last year.

It denied about 15,000 requests.

That's a high approval rate for the EU.

The EU's 28 member countries rejected about half of the requests they received overall.

But Italy now faces record numbers of refuge-seekers, with nearly 65,000 new requests last year.

The only EU countries with higher numbers were Germany and Sweden.

Both countries already have large immigrant communities.

The Italian government said there were 67,000 people in its migrant centers across the country as of February.

"They have been stretched way beyond their limits," said Enos Nolli, a volunteer working with migrants.

The United Nations says most of the migrants who request refuge in Italy come from Mali, Nigeria and Gambia.

Many Syrians and Eritreans also enter the EU through Italy, but they usually don't request refuge there.

Migrants are supposed to make a request in the first EU country they enter.

Mikael Ribbenvik, who is responsible for migrants arriving in Sweden, says many migrants refuse to identify themselves to Italian authorities.

They continue their journeys so that they can request refuge in northern Europe where better paying jobs are available.

Sweden and other EU nations have pressed Italy to fingerprint each migrant who enters the country.

Still, Ribbenvik admits Italy faces a huge challenge with thousands of people arriving on its shores every week.

