The part of Italy called Puglia is famous for its olive trees.

Many of these trees are now dying.

They are dying because of a deadly bacteria.

Bacteria are the simplest of creatures that are alive.

They are everywhere.

Bacteria are in the food you eat, in the dirt and even in your body.

There are good kinds of bacteria, and there are bad kinds.

Bad bacteria often make people, animals and plants sick.

The bacteria killing the olive trees in Italy are bad.

Puglia makes almost half of Italy's olive oil.

Many people around the world like the tasty oil.

The new bacteria will make it hard for people to get it.

Fewer olive trees means less oil will be made.

Then there is less for people to buy.

Olive oil could become more expensive everywhere.

Italy has been making olive oil for hundreds of years.

The upsetting thing is that there is not enough information.

No one knows how many trees have already died.

Scientists are not even sure how the disease travels.

They also have no idea how to get rid of it.

No one knows if the bacteria could hurt other trees.

Scientists cannot agree on how quickly it spreads.

All of these unanswered questions are making a lot of people nervous.

Other European countries are very concerned.

They worry the bacteria could spread from Italy to their lands.

A special area was marked in Puglia.

In this zone, any tree that is near a sick tree will be cut down.

Farmers in this area are getting very upset.

Many of them do not believe that the disease even exists.

The first person to discover this bacteria was Donato Boscia.

He is a scientist.

He found it on an olive tree in 2013.

He is trying to find a cure for the disease.

He says that people must work together to find a cure.

If they do not, he believes the disease will continue to spread.

There is one piece of good news.

The bacteria does not make olives dangerous to people.

It only hurts the trees.

If a tree is really sick, new olives will not grow.

The olives that are already there are safe to eat.

The only bad thing is that there are not enough olives to go around.

