Renaldo Brown practices his scales on a flute under a canopy of trees.

The 12-year-old is barefoot and dressed in donated clothes.

Brown is a student at a Jamaican trade school famous for educating many of this musical island's top instrumentalists.

"It's challenging but I like it.

I'm getting better 'cause I've been practicing nearly every day for two years," said the serious boy.

Brown is from the tough Jamaican city of Spanish Town.

He tapped the keys on the silver-colored wind instrument as he spoke.

Renaldo is among two dozen boys from poor backgrounds who are discovering a new world through music.

The boys have all been placed at Alpha Boys' School by family courts.

Some of the boys are orphans, while others are sent to the home because of neglect, abuse or because their parents can't control them.

Alpha has been operated by Catholic nuns as a residential school since the late 19th century.

It has been the cradle of Jamaica's world-class music culture — and a sign of hope for at-risk kids.

Year after year, Alpha graduates leave Kingston to bring  Jamaican ska, rocksteady and reggae music to the world.

But the school is being squeezed between rising costs and shrinking state support.

Its role in Jamaica's musical history might not matter.

The money crunch has gotten so bad that the nuns say they will have to end the school's residential program later this year.

In response, the school is building up its own money-making businesses.

It recently started an "Alpha Wear" clothing line.

There's also an Internet radio station that draws 60,000 people monthly.

School director Sister Susan Frazer said the online radio program isn't bringing in money yet, but is expected to make some through sponsorship and advertising.

Frazer is a member of the Sisters of Mercy religious order.

She said Alpha also plans to expand and update its training for young students to make sure the famous music program survives.

Alpha is going to focus on all areas of music, she said.

"It won't be just instrument playing, but rather the whole business of music," she said.

Students at the school are taught self-discipline and pride while learning to read music and understand harmony and composition.

Alpha currently has about 85 kids, and 25 of them are in the music program.

Other students focus on the school's more traditional classes like woodworking and tailoring.

Many former students have moved past rough starts in life to become top musicians.

The four founding members of the influential band The Skatalites are graduates of Alpha.

So are the late jazz pioneer Joe Harriott, and dance hall deejay Yellowman.

Many others have found work as strong backup players and session musicians, in Jamaica and other countries worldwide.

"If you go to France, you'll see Alpha boys playing music professionally.

You go to Germany or New York, you'll see Alpha boys," said Winston "Sparrow" Martin.

He is the school's longtime band instructor.

He's also a graduate who has provided a musical foundation to many boys at the school while having his own international recording career.

Classical, jazz and folk music have always been a part of the school's program.

But in the 1950s, the Caribbean island heard American rhythm and blues through distant radio signals picked up at night.

Alpha students transformed it.

They took their trumpets, trombones and other instruments and created upbeat-accented ska.

That music later evolved into rocksteady and reggae.

Alpha's music program dates back to 1892.

Back then, boys participated in a fife and drum corps.

The group evolved into a famed brass band under the school's longtime leader, Sister Mary Ignatius Davies.

She was a big record collector who encouraged students' musical talents for years.

She died in 2003 at age 81.

Joshua Chamberlain is a volunteer and organizer at the school.

He said Alpha plans to create a state-of-the-art recording studio on campus.

It would lure professional talent from overseas hoping to tap into the school's musical magic.

"Who wouldn't want to come to a place where the music is seen to have gotten its start?

The interest from around the world is definitely there," said Chamberlain.

He is from New Hampshire and is a seeking an advanced degree in cultural studies at Jamaica's University of the West Indies.

Chamberlain said that youngsters will soon add to their instrument lessons by learning about digital media production and recording.

They will also learn about getting more attention for the music.

School officials have been raising money from private companies, institutions and donors.

They are also trying to get $23,000 in donations through Kickstarter to launch a basic on-air radio station to go with its online one.

The school hopes to raise as much as $200,000 to pay for a better station and sound studio.

The current crop of Alpha boys are jazzed about the future.

On a recent afternoon, band members practiced under a high-ceilinged building stocked with trumpets, saxophones and other instruments, some new and others battered and worn.

Immersed in the music, Renaldo played his flute in a circle with other advanced musicians, including a keyboardist and several horn players.

During a break, Renaldo and most of his classmates said they dream of becoming pro musicians.

"A lot of other people from here have become musicians," he said with a half-smile, looking down at his bare feet.

"Well, I hope I can, too."

