Rick Bergum never dreamed of becoming a school janitor.

A scientist, maybe.

Or an electrical engineer.

But he ended up joining his father's cleaning business.

Now, the 51-year-old head janitor and handyman at Tahoma High School enjoys his job.

Most of all, he loves spending days with his quirky father and his son.

They also work part-time cleaning the school.

Bergum prefers to be unknown.

But now he is getting some extra attention as one of 10 finalists to win national Janitor of the Year.

Bergum never expected to be chosen for such an honor.

He has never wanted to be famous.

"I just like to be behind the scenes, doing my job," Bergum said.

"I like the idea of everything works, everything runs, and no one knows why."

Cintas, the company running the contest, sorted through hundreds of people's picks for the nation's top janitor.

Then they narrowed the list down to 10.

Bergum, nominated by his father and five others, is the only finalist from Washington state.

People will vote online for their choice between now and May 1.

The winner will get a $2,500 check, and another $2,500 in cleaning supplies for his or her school.

Other janitors at the school said they are voting for Bergum.

Some Tahoma High teachers have told Bergum that entire classrooms have voted for him.

Bergum's office is full of cleaning supplies and tools.

It is very organized.

Even junk drawers have labels.

He likes a clean space, which is good for someone with his job.

Bergum carries many things on him every day.

He has two cellphones and a radio.

He also keeps three sets of keys, a flashlight and two pocket tool sets on his waist.

He never knows what the day will bring, especially in a school.

"You get to see a little bit of everything," Bergum said.

But he has fun too.

Jim Bergum is 72 years old and is Rick Bergum's father.

They work together.

The two sometimes joke that they are brothers.

The older Bergum is taller, but they are balding in the same way.

Jim Bergum has also made a living of cleaning.

After losing a job years ago, he rented a carpet cleaner to help a friend with a cleaning business.

It led to him to starting his family cleaning business.

His son later joined it.

Bergum left the business about 17 years ago for the Tahoma schools.

His father followed after he sold his business.

Devon, Bergum's son, works as a fill-in janitor at the school, too.

It helps him pay for college.

Bergum sometimes thinks about the janitor at his middle school in Covington, Washington.

He would make kids laugh in the lunchroom.

They even had a name for him, chosen for his noisy keys: "Wad of Metal Man."

He looks back and thinks about how he is that person now.

After a long day, Bergum likes turning the lights off on a clean room.

Everything is in its place; garbage bags empty, floors clean.

"It's like, 'Ah, that looks good,'" he said.

