Rick Bergum never dreamed of becoming a school janitor.

A scientist, maybe.

Or an electrical engineer.

But he ended up joining his father's cleaning business.

Now, the 51-year-old head janitor and self-made handyman at Tahoma High School enjoys the satisfying jingle of a ring of keys and fresh plastic bags lining a tidy row of trash cans.

Most of all, he loves spending days with his quirky father and college-aged son.

They also work part-time cleaning the school.

Bergum prefers to be unknown.

He says he's the man behind the curtain.

Recently though, he is getting some extra attention as one of 10 finalists for national Janitor of the Year.

Bergum never expected to be nominated for such an honor — he doesn't even use products made by the cleaning company sponsoring the contest.

And even though he writes a blog about a fictional janitor character called Jon E. Mopp, Bergum has never sought fame.

"I just like to be behind the scenes, doing my job," Bergum said.

"I like the idea of everything works, everything runs, and no one knows why."

Cintas, the company supporting the contest, sorted through hundreds of nominations for the nation's top janitor.

They narrowed the list down to 10.

Bergum, nominated by his father and five other people, is the only finalist from Washington state.

People will vote online between now and May 1 to determine the winner, who will receive a $2,500 check, plus another $2,500 in cleaning supplies for his or her school.

Other janitors at the school said they are voting for Bergum as often as they can.

Some Tahoma High teachers have told Bergum that entire classrooms of students have voted for him.

"He can do anything," said Terry Duty, Tahoma High's principal, who has worked with Bergum for nearly 20 years.

"He can fix anything.

There's never a problem that Rick doesn't find a solution to."

Bergum's office is full of cleaning supplies and tools.

It is extremely organized.

There are even drawers labeled as "junk" and "assorted junk."

He likes a clean space, which is a good trait for someone in his line of work.

On a recent Thursday, special-education assistant Lynn Holstein walked in his door, looking for grease to fix a jammed paper shredder.

Bergum looked in a tall filing cabinet and came out with a spray can.

If that doesn't work, he told her, take the shredder back — it's only a few months old.

"He's just here for everybody," Holstein said.

Bergum always carries two cellphones and a radio, which he clips to his chest each morning.

He also keeps three sets of keys, a flashlight and two Leatherman pocket tool sets on his waist.

He never knows what the day will bring.

"You get to see a little bit of everything," Bergum said, describing a few incidents he could have lived without involving vomit and clogged toilets.

But Bergum has fun, too.

Once, when setting up for a school math event, Bergum color-coded the blue and yellow chairs to show addition, subtraction, multiplication and division symbols.

"I don't think anybody saw it, but I knew it was there," Bergum said.

After Holstein's visit, Bergum headed to the cafeteria, pushing a dry mop across the floor.

The mop picked up an empty fruit cup, broken potato chips, a straw wrapper and crushed popcorn — a relatively small load, he said, not like the piles of trash left behind after testing or the day before a break from school, when the students are wound up.

Jim Bergum, 72, whizzed around behind his son on a ride-on floor cleaner, taking bites from a sandwich he had packed for lunch and beeping the horn when he wanted his son's attention.

The two sometimes joke that they are brothers.

The elder Bergum is taller, but they are balding in the same way.

Jim Bergum, too, has made a career of cleaning.

After being laid off from a job as an electronic technician at Boeing years ago, he rented a carpet cleaner to aid a friend's window-cleaning business — a move that ended up marking the start of the family residential and office-cleaning business his son ultimately joined.

When Bergum left about 17 years ago for the Tahoma School District, his father eventually followed, selling his business.

Devon, his son, works as a fill-in janitor at the school, too, which helps pay his way through a computer-science program at a technical college.

Bergum sometimes thinks about the janitor at his middle school in Covington, Washington, who would make him and his friends laugh in the lunchroom.

They even had a nickname for him, chosen for his clanking keys: "Wad of Metal Man."

"I look back and I'm like, 'Now I'm that guy,'" he said.

After a long day, Bergum likes turning the lights off on a clean room.

Everything is in its place; trash bags empty, floors clean.

"It's like, 'Ah, that looks good,'" he said.

