Rick Bergum never dreamed of becoming a school janitor.

He thought he might be an engineer.

He did not think he would be a cleaning person.

But he ended up joining his father's cleaning company.

Now, he is 51 years old.

He is the head janitor and handyman at Tahoma High School.

He enjoys his job.

Most of all, he loves spending days with his father and son.

They also clean the school part of the day.

Bergum likes to work quietly.

But now he is in the spotlight.

He is one of 10 finalists for the country's Janitor of the Year award.

Bergum is very surprised.

He never wanted to be famous.

A cleaning company is running the contest.

It went through hundreds of picks for the contest.

People wrote in to suggest the best janitors in the country.

The company cut the list down to 10.

Bergum is the only finalist from the state of Washington.

People will vote online for who they think should win.

The winner will get $2,500.

They will also get $2,500 for things they can use to clean their school.

Many people at the school are voting for Bergum.

The students are voting too.

Bergum's office is very organized.

Even his junk drawers are neat.

He likes a clean space.

That is good for someone with his job.

Bergum carries many things with him every day.

Things like keys and tools.

He never knows what the day will bring.

"You get to see a little bit of everything," Bergum said.

He has fun on the job too.

His father is Jim Bergum.

He is 72 years old.

They work together.

The two sometimes joke that they are brothers.

The older Bergum is taller, but they are losing their hair in the same way.

Jim Bergum started a cleaning company many years ago.

His son worked for him.

Then he left to work at Tahoma schools.

Later, his father sold the company.

Then he started working at the school too.

After a long day, Bergum likes turning the lights off on a clean room.

Everything is in its place.

"It's like, 'Ah, that looks good,'" he said.

"I just like to be behind the scenes, doing my job.

I like the idea of everything works, everything runs, and no one knows why," he said.

