Standing just 5-foot-3, Lauren Saiki was sometimes the smallest player on the basketball court.

But her distinctive passes and electrifying ball-handling propelled her and her high school team to the playoffs four years in a row.

Also, the 18-year-old has earned a basketball scholarship to West Virginia University.

For all this, she can credit the basics she learned while playing for more than a decade in a Japanese-American basketball league.

"That helped build my foundation," Saiki said.

"I really fell in love with basketball."

The Asian leagues have been the starting point for many successful high school and now even college careers, particularly for young women.

Keppel has a strong basketball team, even though the average height of its players is usually about 5-foot-5.

All but one of the girls on Keppel's team last season played in a Japanese-American basketball league, and three of Saiki's teammates have played basketball with her since they were 5.

Rough estimates put the total of youth and adult players in Asian leagues in California in the several thousands.

There are other Japanese-American leagues — bowling, baseball, volleyball — but none of them are as popular as basketball.

Teams come from a variety of organizations — service clubs, Buddhist temples, and community centers.

There are so many young players that a few Japanese-American churches in Los Angeles chose to cancel Sunday school.

"Right now, it seems like basketball is the only thing that holds the community together, like the third and fourth generations," said George Imamura, past president of the South Bay F.O.R.

Junior Sports Association, the largest Japanese-American basketball organization in Southern California.

"That's why I think it's so important that if that's all we have right now, to keep it going."

The tradition of these teams motivates families like the Sugiyamas to make the 30-mile drive from their home in Torrance, California, to Alhambra for basketball.

On a Sunday morning in the spring, Claire Sugiyama was in the gym bleachers with about a dozen parents and grandparents to watch her daughter, Sarah, play with the Tigerettes Pulelehua sixth-grade team.

Sarah comes from a long line of Tigers.

Her grandfather was a founder of the Tigers Youth Club, and her father, who coaches the team, also played basketball with the organization.

"He just felt she needed to play with Tigers," Claire Sugiyama said.

"She was born with stripes."

The Japanese American Optimist (JAO) Club girls' league began about 50 years ago to give children of Japanese-American families the opportunity to play basketball at a time when they were not allowed to play elsewhere, said Leland Lau, league commissioner.

When he became the commissioner about 20 years ago, there were about 50 girls' teams.

Today, there are nearly 130.

The leagues' success in getting girls onto high school teams has even attracted non-Asian players, Lau said.

Competition can be fierce, said Kiki Yang, 18, a starter at Pasadena's Polytechnic School and three-time winner of the league's most-valuable-player award.

Yang, who will play at Claremont McKenna College next season, learned to play basketball with a Japanese-American league team when she was in second grade.

"It gave me more confidence," she said.

"It exposes you to the sport and allows you to make friends from different schools."

Kayla Sato, 17, said the skills she learned in Japanese-American basketball helped her to make the main West Torrance High School team.

"This community is like a family," said Sato, who will play next year at Westmont College in Santa Barbara, Calif. "Through one connection, there were so many doors."

Early training in the leagues often teaches players to be quick and nimble ball-handlers and accurate shooters.

Although basketball is a sport that attracts tall players, the lack of height has not been an obstacle for Japanese-American girls, Lau said.

Confidence is key, said Monica Hang, who played in the leagues and is now coach of the Los Angeles Valley College women's basketball team.

"Being 5-foot-2 in JAO doesn't mean you're a guard," she said.

"Sometimes you have to play the forward or center position so it makes you into a complete basketball player.

It taught me how to be 5-foot-2 and play as if I was 6-foot-2."

That confidence will be important for Saiki as she heads to West Virginia.

"I'm nervous because it's big-time basketball, but I'm pretty excited because it's a great experience," she said.

"I'm going to meet a lot of different people and have different experiences than what I've had growing up on the West Coast."

But before she moves 2,500 miles away, first she'll have to graduate from high school and say goodbye to her teammates.

"It's going to be a bittersweet moment, of course," Saiki said.

"Growing up with them ... it's going to be a lot different.

I'll probably stay in touch with them a lot."

