Hiromitsu Ito revved the engine of his boat and steered into the waters of Ogatsu Bay.

He embarked on his regular journey into the bay with an outfit of thick fisherman overalls.

Five minutes from the shore, he slowed the boat and two of his crew members pulled in a net full of sea creatures.

Ito grabbed a shell bigger than a man's palm, opened it with a rusty blade and rinsed it with seawater.

"Yume-gaki," he said.

"Dream oyster.

Try it!"

Oysters, scallops and mussels thrive in Ogatsu Bay.

The bay is a waterway near Japan's northeastern coast.

The water here is full of underwater life but you wouldn't know it by looking around the bay.

There are fewer and fewer fishermen working at Ogatsu.

The town of Ogatsu was wrecked by the huge earthquake that hit Japan in 2011.

An 80-foot-high wave called a tsunami roared into the bay.

Entire buildings were swallowed and 300 people died in Ogatsu.

Across Japan, 15,890 people were killed.

In the years since the storm, Ogatsu has been recovering.

Wreckage has been cleared.

Roads, schools and hospitals have been rebuilt.

Even with these improvements, 220,000 people still haven't been able to return to a permanent home in northern Japan.

In Ogatsu's waters, the going has been tough.

Only about 800 of its residents have returned since the storm.

There is no gas station, no restaurant, not even a mini-mart.

Ito, the fisherman, has been working hard to bring the town and fishing business here back to life.

"I feel like it's my mission," he said.

"No one told me to do it, but someone has to do it."

Ito has tried many different things to help.

One was a fishing business.

He teamed up with other fishermen to start a business that ran fishing expeditions for tourists.

They called the company Oh!

Guts!

Their logo was a clenched fist to represent their determination.

For a while, the company was popular.

Tourists from around the world came to visit, but they lost interest and it closed.

Ito's latest project is a sea-to-table dining business.

He catches oysters in the sea and then serves them at his restaurant.

He has a special name for the oversize oysters from Ogatsu Bay: yume-gaki, or "dream oysters."

Another new business is called Kai-you.

It pays fishermen directly for the fish they catch from the bay.

Sometimes, Kai-you takes in 2 tons of seafood a day from the fishermen.

After cleaning the fish, Kai-you sells the seafood to 350 restaurants across Japan.

Ito has faced many challenges in leading this company.

Yet he reached a goal last November when he opened Ostra de Ole, his own oyster restaurant.

Although Kai-you and Ostra de Ole seem to be doing well, one question remains: can they improve the future of Ogatsu?

Just two new homes have been built in Ogatsu since the storm hit.

Ito bought an old house up on a bluff that barely escaped the tsunami.

"I bought this for my parents, but even they don't want to live here," he says.

For now, Ito's 17-year-old apprentice, Hayato Yabuuchi, lives in the house.

He became Ito's apprentice after his father brought him to Ogatsu for some real-world experience.

After he finishes his daily work with the oysters, Yabuuchi spends his free time writing rap lyrics and keeping a diary.

While driving out of the town of Ogatsu, Ito points to a large empty area of land.

"Before, this was a town," he says.

"Now, I don't know what to call it."

