Children living near Japan's Fukushima nuclear plant were diagnosed with thyroid cancer at a rate between 20 and 50 times that of children elsewhere, according to a new study.

Authors of the study argue that the difference undermines the government's position that more cases have been discovered in the area only because of strict monitoring.

In 2011, the facility was hit by a tsunami, and dangerous radioactive material was released.

Most of the 370,000 children in Fukushima prefecture, or state, have been given ultrasound checkups since the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant.

The most recent statistics, released in August, show that thyroid cancer is suspected or confirmed in 137 of those children, compared to 112 a year earlier.

Elsewhere, the disease occurs in only about 1 or 2 of every million children per year by some estimates.

"This is more than expected and emerging faster than expected," said lead author Toshihide Tsuda.

"This is 20 times to 50 times what would be normally expected."

The study was released online last week and is being published in the November issue of Epidemiology.

The medical journal is produced by the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology in Herndon, Virginia.

The data comes from tests overseen by Fukushima Medical University.

Making sense of the relationship between radiation and cancer is uncertain.

It's scientifically impossible to link an individual cancer case to radiation.

Looking harder with routine checkups, like the one in Fukushima, leads to quicker discovery of cancers, inflating the numbers in a so-called "screening effect."

Right after the disaster, the lead doctor brought in to Fukushima, Shunichi Yamashita, repeatedly ruled out the possibility of illnesses caused by radiation.

The thyroid checks were being ordered just to play it safe, according to the government.

But Tsuda, a professor at Okayama University in Japan, said the latest results from the ultrasound checkups raise doubts about the government's view.

The tests continue to be performed today.

Thyroid cancer among children is one sickness the medical world has definitively linked to radiation after the 1986 Chernobyl meltdown, a large-scale nuclear disaster in Ukraine.

If treated, thyroid cancer is rarely fatal, and finding it early is helpful.

However, patients are on medication for the rest of their lives.

Scientists are divided on Tsuda's conclusions.

Scott Davis is a professor at the Department of Epidemiology of the School of Public Health in Seattle, Washington.

In the same Epidemiology issue, he said the main limitation of Tsuda's study is the lack of information about each child to estimate how much radiation each one absorbed.

Davis agreed with the findings of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR).

Both of them have studied the Fukushima disaster and predicted cancer rates will remain stable, with no rises linked to radiation.

David J. Brenner, professor of radiation biophysics at Columbia University Medical Center in New York City, took a different view.

He agreed that individual estimates on radiation doses are needed, but said that the higher thyroid cancer rate in Fukushima is "not due to screening.

It's real."

Conclusions about any connection between Fukushima radiation and cancer will help determine how much money victims of the disaster will receive, as well as other government policies.

Many people who live in areas considered safe by the government have fled fearing sickness, especially for their children.

An area extending about 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) from the nuclear plant has been declared an exclusion zone, meaning that no one can live there.

The borders are constantly being changed as the cleanup of radiated debris and soil continues in an effort to bring as many people back as possible.

Noriko Matsumoto, 53, used to work as a nurse in Koriyama, Fukushima, outside the exclusion zone.

A few months after the disaster, she fled to Tokyo with her then-11-year-old daughter.

She had ignored the fears about radiation but got worried when her daughter started getting nosebleeds and rashes.

"My daughter has the right to live free of radiation," she said.

"We can never be sure about blaming radiation.

But I personally feel radiation is behind sicknesses."

Andrew F. Olshan is a professor at the Department of Epidemiology at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

He pointed out that research after a catastrophe is complex and difficult.

He said the study did not measure the radiation dose levels to the children's thyroid glands.

It also did not fully assess the impact of screening on the high number of cancer cases, he said.

"Nonetheless, this study is critical to initiate additional investigations of possible health effects, for governmental planning, and increasing public awareness," Olshan said.

