Earlier this year, Shinzo Abe, the head of Japan's government, visited Egypt.

He promised $200 million to help refugees fleeing war in the Middle East.

Now, a flood of refugees is entering Europe.

Many people are wondering why rich Middle Eastern countries and the United States are not doing more to help.

Some in Japan are also wondering if their country should be doing more than giving money.

After all, Japan has not offered to let in any any refugees from Syria, according to Amnesty International.

It is a human rights group.

The Japan Association for Refugees, however, says three people were accepted as refugees in 2013.

Either way, more and more people are saying Japan is not doing enough.

"There are things Japan can do," the Mainichi Shimbun Japanese newspaper wrote on Tuesday.

The paper adding that Japan could do more to help the countries that are taking in many refugees.

It should also consider accepting refugees from war zones.

Japan is called "a country with a closed door for refugees," the paper said.

The paper meant that Japan does not allow refugees in.

It said that figuring out where refugees can go is not just a problem for Europe.

Japan should help, too.

Yasunori Kawakami is a former Middle East reporter for Asahi Shimbun, another Japanese newspaper.

Kawakami has been encouraging the Japanese to open their doors to Syrian refugees.

Japan cannot solve the problem, he said.

However, it can help ease the hopelessness felt by some Middle East youth.

"The world is turning their back on them.

Is it OK for Japan to continue to turn its back on them too?"

he asked.

According to the Amnesty report, there are other wealthy countries that do not take in refugees.

Russia, Singapore and South Korea were also on the list.

Japan, though, prides itself on being a good global citizen.

Last year Japan gave $181.6 million to the United Nation's High Commissioner for Refugees.

The group helps resettle refugees.

Only the United States gave more money.

Last year, Japan accepted just 11 asylum-seekers out of 5,000, according to the Ministry of Justice.

Asylum is given to people who would be in danger if they returned to their home countries.

Japan accepts the fewest refugees among rich countries.

Lawyer Shogo Watanabe called these numbers "shameful."

Japanese journalist Harada Kazuyoshi wrote about the problem on Nippon.com.

He said that "Japan has done less than any other large democracy" to take in refugees.

Japan has a population crisis.

Japan's citizens are growing older and there are not enough babies being born.

Refugees could help increase Japan's population.

Japan's government estimates that the population will shrink from 127 million to 95 million by 2050.

By that point, 4 out of 10 Japanese will be over the age of 65. Who is going to pay for their retirement and their healthcare?

It is not as if Japan does not have the space.

There are about 8 million empty houses, because the population is shrinking and people are moving to the cities.

Many in Japan think the Syrian refugee crisis is not their responsibility.

"I'm against accepting Syrian refugees," Nobuo Ikeda wrote on Twitter.

He is a teacher at Aoyama Gakuin University.

He runs Agora Web, an online opinion site.

Some say it is too expensive for Japan to take in refugees.

Tomoaki Ueda is a Japanese Twitter user.

He said that refugees get money from the government.

"And refugees need language and other help, so they'd be a big burden on Japanese people.

That's why it's a problem."

