When Shinzo Abe, Japan's prime minister, was visiting Egypt earlier this year, he pledged $200 million in aid for refugees fleeing the rise of the Islamic State extremist group.

"We are going to provide assistance for refugees and displaced persons from Iraq and Syria," he said.

Now, as a torrent of refugees flows out of the Middle East and into Europe, many people are wondering why rich Gulf nations and the United States are not doing more to help.

And some in Japan are also wondering if their country should be doing more than giving money.

After all, Japan has not offered to resettle any refugees from Syria, according to Amnesty International.

The Japan Association for Refugees, however, says that three people were granted refugee status in 2013.

Either way, there have been mounting calls here for a broader policy.

"There are things Japan can do," the Mainichi Shimbun, a left-leaning Japanese newspaper, wrote in an editorial on Tuesday.

The paper added that Tokyo could more actively support the countries that are taking in Syrian refugees, especially Turkey and Jordan.

"Japan is called 'a country with a closed door for refugees.'

We should change this closed nature and consider accepting refugees from conflict zones proactively," the paper said.

"Figuring out how to tackle this humanitarian crisis is not an issue only for Europe."

On Twitter, Yasunori Kawakami, a former Middle East correspondent for Asahi Shimbun, has been encouraging the Japanese to open their doors — and their minds — to Syrian refugees.

Kawakami now is a freelance writer in Egypt.

While Japan cannot solve the problem, it can help ease the despair felt by some Middle East youth, he said.

"The root of this despair comes from them feeling completely isolated.

The world is turning their back on them.

Is it OK for Japan to continue to turn its back on them too?"

he asked.

In another tweet, he said that the Syrian children who had drowned trying to cross the Mediterranean Sea were just Arab versions of Chibi Maruko-chan and Kureyon Shin-chan.

These are Japanese anime characters who are also popular in the Middle East.

"Japan needs to sympathize with those children who became refugees," he wrote.

"Japan has been asking for empathy for Hiroshima and Nagasaki, after all," he said, referring to the cities devastated by atomic bombs at the end of World War II.

According to the Amnesty report, Japan is not the only high-income country that has avoided taking in refugees from Syria.

It noted that Russia, Singapore and South Korea were also in the zero resettlement club.

But Japan, which has gone to great lengths to rehabilitate its image since World War II, prides itself on being a good global citizen.

It is one of the largest aid donors in the world.

Last year Japan gave $181.6 million to the United Nation's High Commissioner for Refugees, making it second only to the United States in generosity.

When it comes to putting its mouth where its money is, however, Japan is not doing well.

It accepted just 11 asylum-seekers out of a record 5,000 applications last year, according to Ministry of Justice data.

Japan has a refugee acceptance rate of just 0.2 percent, one of the lowest among industrialized economies.

"The low recognition rate is shameful," immigration lawyer Shogo Watanabe said when the figures were released.

Others have called Japan's acceptance rate "miserly."

"Japan has done less than any other large democracy to alleviate the refugee crisis through granting asylum," Japanese journalist Harada Kazuyoshi wrote on Nippon.com earlier this year.

Immigration is a touchy issue in Japan, an astonishingly homogeneous country where non-Japanese remain outsiders — even if they have lived here for decades and speak perfect Japanese.

That makes it a hard place for refugees to settle into.

Indeed, Gloria Okafor Ifeoma, a Nigerian asylum-seeker who arrived in Tokyo in 2007, said earlier this year that she spent 30 months in detention.

Immigration officials give the impression that they just want refugees to leave, she said.

But Japan also faces a demographic time bomb — one that could be significantly eased by an influx of new people.

With its rapidly aging population and extremely low birth rate, Japan is getting smaller and grayer by the year.

Japan's government estimates that the country's population will shrink from the current 127 million to 95 million by 2050, and by that stage, 40 percent of Japanese will be over the age of 65. Who's going to pay for their retirement and their healthcare?

And it's not as if Japan doesn't have the space.

The New York Times recently reported that there are 8 million empty homes in Japan already, as the population shrinks and people move to the cities.

This phenomenon prompted one real estate expert to warn that "Tokyo could end up being surrounded by Detroits," meaning largely abandoned cities.

But many in Japan, as in the United States, consider the Syrian refugee crisis to be a distant, European responsibility.

"I'm against accepting Syrian refugees," tweeted Nobuo Ikeda.

He is a lecturer at Aoyama Gakuin University who runs Agora Web, an online opinion site for policy experts.

Some are opposed to Japan taking in refugees on economic grounds.

Although the Japanese economy appears to be emerging from two decades of deflation, growth remains weak and consumers remain nervous.

"Immigrants can work and the tax burden on the state would be low," wrote Tomoaki Ueda, a Twitter user from Kyoto.

"But refugee status is just the same as being on welfare.

And refugees need language and other help, so they'd be a big burden on Japanese people.

That's why it's a problem."

