Seventy years after World War II ended, nine American veterans returned to Japan.

They visited some of the places were they were held prisoner and spoke of their memories.

The men, all in their 90s, began the trip Monday with a memorial service for fallen soldiers.

The service was held at the Commonwealth War Graves in Yokohama.

As they marked the 70th anniversary of the end of the war, the emphasis was on forgiveness.

George Rogers, of Lynchburg, Virginia, said he was not angry.

Now 96, he was taken captive by the Japanese after surviving the Bataan Death March in April 1942.

During the march, thousands of prisoners were forced to walk more than 60 miles under terrible conditions.

Many died.

The Japanese also forced Rogers to work at the Yawata steel plant in southern Japan.

The company is today called Nippon Steel &amp; Sumitomo Metal Corp. During his nearly 3 1/2 years as a prisoner, Rogers was not given enough food.

Sometimes, he was beaten up.

He said that he was lucky to survive.

He also said he had "no hard feelings" toward the Japanese.

"Just like we do what we're told to do as far as the Army is concerned, your (Japanese) men do the same thing.

They tell them to do it, they do it," he said.

"Other than that, I think we lived."

Japan surrendered on Aug. 15, 1945.

A month later, Rogers returned to the United States in skin-and-bones condition weighing only 85 pounds, despite being 6 feet, 3 inches tall.

Although he was just 26, his doctor told him that he would most likely not live past 45 or 50, keep his teeth or have children.

Rogers, who still has his teeth, has five children.

One of them accompanied him on his trip to Japan.

Rogers had hoped to visit the Yawata steel plant where he was forced to work.

The factory has been chosen as a World Heritage site, which means it is preserved due to its historical importance.

Rogers, however, did not get to visit the plant.

World War II was fought between the Allies, which included the United States and England, and the Axis countries, including Japan, Germany and Italy.

About 132,000 members of the Allied forces were held as prisoners across Asia, including more than 30,000 in Japan, historians say.

Of the total, about 35,800, or nearly one-third, died after being taken prisoner.

They died at a rate several times higher than prisoners held by Germany and Italy.

At Monday's memorial service, the nine veterans were helped by family members and U.S. service members.

They laid flowers for their countrymen who died after being taken prisoner.

The veterans are visiting Japan at the invitation of the country's Foreign Ministry under a program that started five years ago.

They plan to visit former prisoner-of-war (POW) camp sites in the cities of Osaka, Yokohama and Kamioka, in central Japan.

Australian and British veterans have also visited Japan.

Many former POWs are still angry because of harsh treatment by the Japanese.

Arthur Gruenberg, 94, is from Camano Island, Washington state.

It took him 70 years to come back.

The former Marine surrendered to the Japanese at Corregidor, Philippines, in May 1942, and was sent to work in a mine in Fukuoka in southern Japan.

By then he was blind in one eye because he was not getting enough vitamin A. Gruenberg said he was impressed by modern Japan and hoped it remains a peace-loving nation.

"Everything is just amazing, it's unbelievable," he said.

"I can't say it (my feelings) has changed much; I just hope we don't have any more wars."

