Wearing army-green fisherman's overalls, Hiromitsu Ito revs the engine of his boat, steering it out into the waters of Ogatsu Bay.

Five minutes from the shore, he idles the boat along some buoys.

His nephew and an apprentice haul in a net.

Ito grabs a shell bigger than a man's palm, opens it with a rusty blade, and quickly rinses it with seawater.

"Yume-gaki," he says.

"Dream oyster.

Try it!"

Oysters, scallops, mussels and sea squirts thrive here in Ogatsu Bay.

The bay is a waterway more than a mile inland from Japan's northeastern coast.

While the waters here are rich with underwater life, the number of fishermen is shrinking.

The town of Ogatsu was devastated by the magnitude 9 earthquake that hit Japan in March 2011.

An 80-foot-high tsunami roared into the bay, its waves swallowing entire buildings.

Three hundred people died in Ogatsu, among 15,890 victims nationwide.

Since then, much of the wreckage has been cleared and the town has rebuilt hundreds of roads, schools and hospitals.

Even with these improvements, 220,000 people in northern Japan still have not returned to permanent homes.

In Ogatsu's waters, the going has been tough.

Only about 800 of its 4.300 residents have returned, among them about 70 fishermen.

There is no gas station, no restaurant, not even a mini-mart.

Ito, the fisherman, has been on a quest to bring his town and the fishing industry back to life.

"I feel like it's my mission," he said.

"No one told me to do it, but someone has to do it."

Ito has tried many different things to help business there.

For a while, he teamed up with other fishermen to create a business that took tourists on fishing expeditions, and gave people who donated money free fish.

They called the company Oh!

Guts!, a play on Ogatsu's name, and had a logo of a clenched fist to represent their determination.

For a while, the company was popular and tourists from around the world came to visit.

Students from Harvard Business School even flew to Japan to learn more about the unique business model.

Even though it was popular at first, people lost interest and the business closed.

Ito's latest project — dream oysters — is perhaps a more well-thought-out project.

It is a sea-to-table business.

He catches oysters in the sea and then serves them at his restaurant.

He even has a special name for the oversize oysters from Ogatsu Bay, calling them yume-gaki, or "dream oyster."

Ito had wanted to create a sea-to-table business before the disaster.

But back then it was hard.

Fishermen were not allowed to sell what they caught directly to restaurants.

They had to sell first to a fishery association, which acted like a middleman and made money from the fish when it resold them.

Ito's new business is called Kai-you.

It pays fishermen much more than they would earn selling to middlemen, sometimes double or triple the amount.

Some days, Kai-you takes in 2 tons of seafood a day from fishermen.

After cleaning the fish, Kai-you sells directly to 350 restaurants across Japan.

In order to keep business humming along, Kai-you pays a small fee to the fishing association.

Despite some remaining challenges, Ito accomplished an important goal in November when he opened Ostra de Ole, a 32-seat oyster bar on a busy corner in a Japanese town called Sendai.

Although Kai-you and Ostra de Ole seem to be flourishing, one question remains: can they improve the future of Ogatsu?

Just two new homes have been built in Ogatsu since the storm hit.

Ito bought an old house up on a bluff that barely escaped the tsunami, but he splits his time between Ogatsu and Sendai, so he can manage the business.

"I bought this for my parents, but even they don't want to live here," he says.

For now, Ito's 17-year-old apprentice, Hayato Yabuuchi, lives in the house.

He became Ito's apprentice after his father brought him to Ogatsu for some real-world experience.

After he finishes his daily work sorting oysters by size and packing them, Yabuuchi spends his free time writing rap lyrics and keeping a diary.

While driving out of the town of Ogatsu, Ito points to a large vacant area of land.

"Before, this was a town," he says.

"Now, I don't know what to call it."

