!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20150419-AMX-JAPAN-SCHOOLS4191_1.png) AONE, Japan — Sixty years ago, 254 students attended Aone's old wooden schoolhouse.

Now, there are just six, and two of them are from the same family.

"It's a little bit lonely," said Taiki Kato, who is 11.

He said he was looking forward to going to middle school next year.

"It's a bit bigger and there might be kids from other elementary schools."

Aone has a population of 638.

There are two small stores and a single restaurant.

The average age here is 62.

Towns like Aone can be found across Japan.

For many years, people have been leaving the countryside in large numbers.

They are moving to Tokyo, Japan's capital city.

Life is more exciting there, and it is much easier to find a job.

Now, almost 1 in every 3 people live in Tokyo or close to it.

Almost half the elementary and middle schools in Japan do not have enough students.

The Japanese government wants to close these small schools.

Hiroto Iwaoka is with the Japanese government's education department.

He said if a school has less than five classes, it should combine with another school.

Yet, school districts don't want to close their tiny schools.

Kyoko Inoue is the chief of education in the area that includes Aone.

She said there are no plans to close Aone's school.

Inoue said schools are often the center of a town.

It should be what the town wants, she said.

On a recent school day in Aone, the six students walked to a field.

They planted potato seeds.

Next they ate grilled fish, rice, and soup with bamboo shoots and asparagus for lunch.

Then they collected mushrooms from the forest.

After, they did stretching exercises in the gym.

It is expensive to keep these small schools open.

Money is not the only problem.

Officials say the children at small schools see the same few classmates all the time.

They worry that the kids will not develop the social skills they need in the world.

In Aone, the school has sports days.

There are not enough players to make up a soccer team.

There also are not enough students to fill even one grade.

Teachers have to teach kids of different ages at the same time.

"In a bigger school, children learn social skills and how to live in the real world," said Kotoe Arakawa.

She teaches the younger children.

The Aone kids are so well behaved and gentle, it is hard for them to speak up when they are in larger groups.

There are good things about having such a small school, the teachers say.

No students get left behind, Arakawa said.

Teachers stay with a subject until each student learns it.

Chiharu Yamaguchi is the mother of the only two girls in the school.

She moved to Aone nine years ago.

She was shocked at how small the town was.

She worried about sending her girls to such a small school.

Soon she got to know the school and the parents and the teachers.

"And that got rid of my worries," she said.

