A tsunami destroyed the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan four years ago and dangerous radioactive material was released.

A new study says that children living near the power plant have thyroid cancer at a rate between 20 and 50 times that of children elsewhere.

Its authors argue that this weakens the government's position that more cases were discovered only because of strict monitoring.

Most of the 370,000 children in Fukushima prefecture, or state, have been given checkups since the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-ichi nuclear plant.

The most recent numbers show that thyroid cancer is suspected or confirmed in 137 of those children.

A year ago, that number was 112.

Scientists estimate that the disease normally occurs in only about 1 or 2 of every million children per year.

"This is more than expected and emerging faster than expected," said lead author Toshihide Tsuda.

"This is 20 times to 50 times what would be normally expected."

The study was released online last week and is being published in the November issue of Epidemiology.

The medical journal is produced by the International Society for Environmental Epidemiology.

An epidemiologist studies the spread and control of disease.

The data comes from tests overseen by Fukushima Medical University.

It is not always easy to make the connection between radiation and cancer.

One reason is that it's scientifically impossible to link an individual cancer case to radiation from radioactive material.

Looking harder with routine checkups, like the one in Fukushima, leads to quicker discovery of cancers.

The result is a higher number of cancers, which scientists call a "screening effect."

Right after the disaster, Shunichi Yamashita was the head doctor brought in to Fukushima.

He repeatedly said that the radiation would not cause cancer.

The thyroid checks were ordered just to play it safe, according to the government.

But Tsuda, a professor at Okayama University in Japan, said the latest results from the checkups raise doubts about the government's view.

The tests continue to be performed today.

Thyroid cancer among children is definitely linked to radiation, the study said.

If treated, thyroid cancer is rarely fatal, although patients have to take medicine for the rest of their lives.

Scientists are divided on Tsuda's conclusions.

Scott Davis is a professor at the Department of Epidemiology of the School of Public Health in Seattle, Washington.

In the same Epidemiology issue, he said there is not enough information about each child to estimate how much radiation his or her body absorbed.

The World Health Organization and the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation both studied the Fukushima disaster.

They predicted cancer rates will not rise due to radiation.

Davis agrees with them.

David J. Brenner, professor of radiation biophysics at Columbia University Medical Center in New York City, took a different view.

He agreed that scientists need to know more about how much radiation each child absorbed.

However, he said the higher thyroid cancer rate in Fukushima is "not due to screening.

It's real."

No one is allowed to live in an area extending about 20 kilometers (12.4 miles) from the nuclear plant.

The borders are constantly changing.

The cleanup of soil and debris exposed to radiation continues as the government tries to bring as many people back as possible.

Even many people who live in areas considered safe by the government have fled fearing sickness, especially for their children.

Noriko Matsumoto, 53, used to work as a nurse in Koriyama, Fukushima, outside the 20 kilometer zone.

She fled to Tokyo with her then-11-year-old daughter a few months after the disaster.

She had ignored the fears about radiation but became worried when her daughter started getting nosebleeds and rashes.

"My daughter has the right to live free of radiation," she said.

"We can never be sure about blaming radiation, but I personally feel radiation is behind sicknesses."

Andrew F. Olshan is a professor at the Department of Epidemiology at the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill.

He said that research after a disaster is complicated and difficult.

He said the study did not measure the amount of radiation in the children's thyroid glands.

The study also did not fully consider the screening effect, he said.

Nonetheless, the study is critical to begin "investigations of possible health effects, for governmental planning, and increasing public awareness," Olshan said.

