group of top recording artists says it wants its chance to make money streaming music.

With the carefully orchestrated style of one of his videos, rapper Jay Z led a parade of music royalty before reporters Monday to unveil Tidal, a new music-streaming service.

The musicians say that Tidal will ensure artists get paid fairly for their work.

The service, starting at $10 a month, aims to take customers away from rivals such as Spotify and Pandora in part by appealing to fans' sense of loyalty.

They say artists will get a bigger slice of revenue from the streaming fees.

The music itself will be streamed with higher quality sound.

To underscore the point, Jay Z, born Shawn Carter, was joined at a news conference in New York by a dozen or so music A-listers.

They included his wife, Beyonce, rapper Kanye West and singer Madonna.

The roll-out of Tidal included a social media blitz.

Celebrities such as West told his fans that "together, we can turn the tide and make music history."

But analysts said it's not clear that this will work.

Noble-sounding endorsements from popular musicians likely will not change the bottom line for most acts who are making fractions of pennies for their streams.

"Jay Z has recognized that there's an opportunity to bring personality and quality to streaming music services," said Mark Mulligan, a music industry analyst at MIDiA Research.

"He's essentially setting himself up as the HBO of music streaming.

But it takes more than a handful of music stars to change the underlying dynamics in the music-streaming era."

Artists have been taking stands against the payment model offered by streaming services.

With Tidal, some artists are said to be getting an ownership share in the service that Jay Z bought for $56 million this month.

Tidal officials did not disclose financial details about how artists that are played on Tidal would be paid.

"Our goal is simple: We want to create a better service and a better experience for both fans and artists," singer Alicia Keys, one of the owners of Tidal, said at the news conference.

"We believe it's in everyone's best interests to preserve the value of music."

Up for grabs are potentially billions of dollars in revenue that fans pay for music streaming every year.

Artists have been critical that streaming services pay most of the royalties to record labels and music publishers.

The singers and musicians who created the music are left out in the cold.

Singer Taylor Swift famously yanked her latest album "1989" from Spotify last fall because she didn't want her songs offered on the service's free version.

She maintains that music should not be free.

It sets a dangerous precedent that consumers do not have to pay for listening to albums, Swift said.

Tidal describes itself as "the first music streaming service that combines the best high-fidelity sound quality, high-definition music videos and expertly curated editorial."

The pricing will include two levels of fees and access — with no free service.

A basic service at $9.99 a month will offer standard streaming quality with high-definition music videos.

A second price tier at $19.99 monthly will offer CD-quality streaming, HD videos and access to the service's original content, such as  exclusive playlists and videos.

Tidal, which is available in 31 countries, had 500,000 paid subscribers by the end of 2014.

It has plans to expand to six additional countries.

However, the artist-owned service faces competition from an already crowded streaming-service marketplace.

Spotify, which charges about $10 a month, has more than 15 million paying subscribers and more than 60 million active users, according to the streaming service's website.

It is available in 58 markets.

In November, Daniel Ek, Spotify's chief executive, responded to musicians' criticism in a blog post.

He pointed out that an artist as big as Swift could make up to $6 million a year on the platform.

"Our interests are totally aligned with yours," he wrote in the post addressed to musicians.

"The more we grow, the more we'll pay you."

Internet radio company Pandora, one of Spotify's competitors, reported that in the third quarter of 2014, it had 76.5 million active listeners.

But Pandora offers its services only in the United States, Australia and New Zealand.

Tidal also has a crowd of smaller competitors to fend off, including Samsung, Google and Amazon.

Other artists have tried to bring back the artists' role in music tech and streaming models before, but none have succeeded.

Several analysts remain skeptical of Tidal.

They argue that it takes more than star power to bring in subscribers, especially since people have not gotten used to the idea of paying a subscription fee for music.

To separate itself from the pack of similar services, Tidal will need to offer exceptionally compelling reasons to pay, analysts said.

Although the streaming service will offer original content, there are already plenty of free social media services and other ways for artists to engage with fans.

Most young music fans are not interested in sound reproduction.

Even if they noticed a difference between compressed streaming and CD-quality sound, it is not clear that's worth $19.99 a month to them, especially if they are listening on budget headphones or Bluetooth speakers.

If Jay Z can dramatically raise the rate that artists receive each time a song is downloaded on Tidal, that might be enough to win the goodwill of musicians.

It also makes the service an ethical option for fans who want the convenience of streaming music.

But analyst Mulligan said, "My gut tells me that Jay Z has bitten off more than he can chew."

