Rapper Jay Z led a parade of music celebrities before reporters Monday.

The artists unveiled Tidal, a new music streaming service they jointly own.

The musicians say that Tidal will make sure artists get paid fairly for their work.

The service, starting at $10 a month, aims to take customers away from competitors such as Spotify and Pandora.

The celebrities say artists will get a bigger slice of the money made from streaming fees.

The music itself will be streamed with higher quality sound.

Jay Z was joined at the news conference by a dozen or so star recording artists.

Among them were his wife, Beyonce, rapper Kanye West and singer Madonna.

West told his fans via social media that "together, we can turn the tide and make music history."

But music industry analysts said it is not clear that Tidal will succeed.

The new service will not likely bring much of a change for most music acts making fractions of pennies for their streams.

Jay Z has recognized that there is an opportunity to bring personality and quality to streaming music services," said Mark Mulligan.

He is a music industry expert at MIDiA Research.

"He's essentially setting himself up as the HBO of music streaming.

But it takes more than a handful of music stars to change the  underlying dynamics in the music streaming era."

Artists have taken stands against how streaming services pay them.

With Tidal, some are said to be getting an ownership share in the service that Jay Z bought for $56 million this month.

Tidal officials did not release details about how artists on its streams would be paid.

"Our goal is simple.

We want to create a better service and a better experience for both fans and artists," singer Alicia Keys, one of the owners of Tidal, said during the presentation.

"We believe it's in everyone's best interests to preserve the value of music."

At stake are the billions of dollars that fans pay for music streaming every year.

Artists have been critical that streaming services pay most of the money to record labels and music publishers.

The singers and musicians who created the music receive very little.

Singer Taylor Swift famously yanked her latest album "1989" from Spotify last fall.

She did not want her songs offered on the service's free version.

She said that music should not be free.

Consumers should have to pay for listening to albums, Swift said.

Tidal describes itself as the first music streaming service that combines the best sound quality, high-definition music videos and exclusive content.

The pricing will include two levels of fees and access — with no free service.

A basic service at $9.99 a month will offer standard streaming quality with high-definition music videos.

The more expensive level costs $19.99 monthly.

It will offer high-quality streaming, HD videos and the special content.

Tidal, which is available in 31 countries, had 500,000 paid subscribers at the end of 2014.

It has plans to expand to six more countries.

However, the artist-owned service faces heavy competition.

Spotify, which charges about $10 a month, has more than 15 million paying subscribers, according to the streaming service's website.

It is also more widely available than Tidal.

In November, Daniel Ek, Spotify's chief executive, responded to musicians' criticism in a blog post.

He pointed out that an artist as big as Swift could make up to $6 million a year on the platform.

"Our interests are totally aligned with yours," he wrote in the post addressed to musicians.

"The more we grow, the more we'll pay you."

Internet radio company Pandora reported that near the end of 2014 it had 76.5 million active listeners.

Pandora offers its services only in the United States, Australia and New Zealand.

Tidal plans on offering exclusive content, including playlists by artists and videos.

Still, several experts are not convinced.

They argue that it takes more than high-powered celebrities to bring in subscribers.

Music fans have not even gotten used to the idea of paying a subscription fee for music, they say.

To separate itself from the competition, Tidal will need to offer exceptionally good reasons for people to pay, analysts said.

Although it promises to offer original content, there are already plenty of free social media services and ways for artists to connect with fans.

Most young music fans are not interested in sound quality.

Even if they noticed a difference between compressed streaming and CD-quality sound, it's not clear that it's worth $19.99 a month to them.

Many younger fans listen on low-cost headphones or Bluetooth speakers, which may not make music sound its best.

However, if Jay Z can dramatically raise the earnings for artists, that might be enough to win them over.

But analyst Mulligan said, "My gut tells me that Jay Z has bitten off more than he can chew."

