Music fans pay billions of dollars to stream their favorite music every year.

A group of top pop stars wants their share.

To help them get that, Jay Z introduced his new company, called Tidal.

It is a music-streaming service.

He said Tidal is the future of music.

Experts are not so sure.

Jay Z announced Tidal at a news event with a group of star musicians.

He stood next his wife, Beyonce.

Rapper Kanye West and singer Madonna were also there.

"Together, we can turn the tide and make music history," West told fans.

Tidal will let fans listen to any songs they want for $10 per month.

The new service wants to take customers away from streaming rivals like Spotify and Pandora.

Music artists are unhappy over the way streaming services pay them.

They do not like that streaming services pay most of the money to record companies and music publishers.

Singers and musicians earn very little for their work.

Jay Z says musicians will be paid fairly on his service.

Tidal has promised to pay more.

Some artists may even become part owners.

Jay Z bought Tidal last month for $56 million.

"Our goal is simple.

We want to create a better service and a better experience for both fans and artists," singer Alicia Keys said.

She is one of the owners of Tidal.

Keys said it is good for everyone if fans pay for music.

The music also will be streamed with better quality sound.

Music experts said it is not clear that Tidal will help artists earn more.

Most music groups earn a tiny amount from their streams.

Tidal probably will not change that.

Mark Mulligan studies the music business.

He says that Jay Z understands the need to change streaming services.

Still, it will take more than Tidal to change the streaming business, Mulligan said.

Last fall, singer Taylor Swift was in the news.

She pulled her latest album "1989" from Spotify.

Swift did not want her songs offered on Spotify's free service.

Swift does not think music should be free.

People should have to pay for listening to albums, Swift said.

Tidal says it is the first streaming service with the best sound quality and high-definition music videos.

It also offers extras, like special playlists and videos.

Fans will not be able to get these anywhere else.

The basic service costs $9.99 each month.

It offers regular streaming quality with HD music videos.

The more expensive service costs $19.99 monthly.

It offers better quality streaming, HD videos and extras.

Tidal will have no free service.

Tidal is available in 31 countries.

About 500,000 people had paid to use it by the end of 2014.

But Tidal faces a lot of competition.

Spotify is a big competitor.

It charges about $10 a month.

More than 15 million people to use it, according Spotify's website.

Still, several experts are not convinced that Tidal will be a success.

Many people are not yet used to the idea of paying money for music streaming.

They expect to get it for free.

Tidal will need to give good reasons why people should pay, the experts said.

Jay Z says he can help musicians make more money.

His promise might be enough to get them to put their songs on Tidal.

Mulligan is not so sure.

He believes Jay Z "has bitten off more than he can chew."

