Although they live in the ocean, jellyfish are not actually fish.

They don't have a backbone, and they don't swim like fish.

But, they are very good at moving through the water.

Now, scientists are trying to get them to fly.

Not real jellyfish, but robots that look like them.

A team from New York University has designed flying robots.

These robots use four flapping wings that are controlled by a computer or a machine to stay in the air.

The robots act like a jellyfish.

"I wanted to think of something very different," said Leif Ristroph, a professor at New York University.

"So I actually tried about five or 10 different schemes, all of which failed except this one."

And that was the jellyfish scheme.

At a meeting in Pennsylvania, the new robot was discussed.

Scientists explained how the jellyfish robot could lead the way for flying mini-robots to be used in search-and-rescue and military missions.

The jellyfish robot might even make it easier for people to test air and water quality.

Engineers have been trying to build all sorts of robots based on the wing motions of animals and insects.

They have studied birds, bats, hummingbirds and butterflies.

When working on the smallest robots, they often use insect-like designs.

That's because bugs have become experts at flying with tiny wings.

Many animals and insects fly in the same way.

They move their wings back and forth in a motion that looks like an S. Only a few creatures move their wings in a simple up-down motion.

Dragonflies are one of those creatures.

Basing designs on flying animals and insects is "a great place to start in terms of building a flying machine," said Ristroph.

"But there are some technical problems with it."

One problem is wind.

Animals and bugs with flapping wings have to spend a lot of time dealing with changing conditions.

They sense every gust of wind.

Depending on the wind's speed, they have to make changes to the way they fly.

It takes a lot of work to fly.

That's because flying animals and insects must be able to shift the way they fly very quickly.

Scientists are hoping to make flying easier for robots.

They want to build something that is small, simple and able to be stable in the air without too much thinking.

Jellyfish turned out to be a good choice, because they are very simple creatures.

They don't have brains and are mostly made up of water.

Other than water, they just have a small amount of jelly-like stuff.

And jellyfish don't have bones.

Their simple bodies look like an open umbrella or a bell.

Their arms are tentacles which hang down from the bell shape.

They have a large mouth located at the bottom of the bell.

Their simple body type helps when it comes to building flying robots.

Jellyfish can be big and small.

Their different sizes help scientists when building robots.

For instance, Lion's Mane jellyfish can be over 7 feet in width.

On the other hand, the Irukandji jellyfish can be less than an inch wide.

The scientists' jellyfish robot is 3 inches wide.

It weighs almost nothing.

The robot has four wings that look like flower petals.

They flap up and down.

The robot moves more like a moth in fact.

Jellyfish move with the ocean's current or by squeezing water in and out of their bells.

So far, the robotic flying jelly still has to be plugged into a power source, and can't fly without being attached.

And it can't yet be steered in different directions.

But that doesn't mean they don't work.

The first round of robot jellyfish models show that such a design can indeed work.

Ristroph thinks that the flying robot could be useful for the military.

He also thinks everyday people could benefit from the robot.

One day, mini flying jellies might be used to test air quality.

In the air, they could be used to record information about the atmosphere.

Professor John Dabiri is an expert on how jellyfish swim.

He said the robot doesn't look like a jellyfish, but it does move in the same ways.

Dabiri says he's sure that jellyfish would be proud.

