Before the World Cup started last week, [Brazil](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Brazil)'s streets were noisy with bangs of construction work and the shouts of angry protesters.

Not now.

Now, it's the soccer that is making all the noise.

The games have been open, attacking and packed full of goals and great moments.

Brazilian star Neymar kicked Brazil into gear.

Then, the Netherlands' Robin van Persie soared and scored with one of the most amazing headers you'll see.

On Sunday, Argentina wizard Lionel Messi conjured up a little left-footed magic.

On Monday, it kept coming: Thomas Mueller scored three goals for Germany in a shocking 4-0 thrashing of Cristiano Ronaldo's Portugal.

Clint Dempsey scored just half a minute into the United States' World Cup in an end-to-end 2-1 win over Ghana.

And the first stage of the tournament isn't even done yet.

It's not just the big-name teams either.

There was Costa Rica's comeback to win against a highly rated Uruguay.

And then there was Switzerland's last-gasp winner over Ecuador.

"All the games we're watching, there's a lot of open play, there's a lot of beautiful goals.

It's just wonderful to be here, isn't it?"

Netherlands fan Paul Rolleman said as he walked under perfect blue skies along Rio's famed Copacabana beach.

Many people expected unfinished stadiums and large street demonstrations.

The last time the World Cup was held in Brazil was 64 years ago.

Many also worried that this World Cup could be the most troubled in the last few years.

But with a bunch of goals and no big protests, it could turn out to be the best in more than half a century.

"High-scoring games, this is what fans are waiting for," U.S. coach Jurgen Klinsmann said.

"They want to see goals."

And they have.

From Sao Paulo to Salvador, the goals have flown in.

The World Cup is averaging more than three a game.

If this continues, it will be the highest-scoring tournament since Brazil won the first of its record five titles in Sweden in 1958.

There has been just one draw in those 14 games.

Nigeria's scoreless meeting with [Iran](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iran) drew boos from fans spoiled by high-scoring games so far.

In Brazil, soccer is known as Jogo Bonito, Portuguese for The Beautiful Game.

Jogo Bonito is rubbing off on everyone, it seems.

No one is playing defensively here.

"There's none of that.

No game has been boring," German fan Andre Lien said.

Brazil coach Luiz Felipe Scolari is playing with three strikers at the World Cup.

The Netherlands' fast, attacking play blew away defending champion Spain 5-1.

Even Bosnia, playing in their first World Cup, aggressively took the fight to Messi and Argentina.

The fans have reacted by filling stadiums or fan fests and embracing the carefree atmosphere.

On Monday morning, a group of middle-aged German men in super-tight swimsuits played soccer on Copacabana beach.

Then they headed for the big-screen TV to watch Germany play Portugal.

Of course, it's still the early days.

Organizers can't let down their guard.

There was a moment at Itaquerao Stadium in Sao Paulo last week when Brazil's opening night seemed to be in trouble.

One section of the floodlights flickered off, then on, then off again.

Disaster loomed.

Then the lights came back on and stayed on.

And Neymar rescued Brazil with two goals as the home favorite came back from 1-0 down to beat Croatia 3-1.

There have been a few protests.

Police clashed with protesters not far from Rio's Maracana stadium on Sunday night.

And in the northeastern city of Natal, torrential rain and flooding is threatening the World Cup experience.

But on the field, at least, the tournament has met the early challenge and more.

Brazil's only worry there is if the goal-happy World Cup can keep up this breathtaking pace for a month.

"It's a big party," Netherlands supporter Rolleman said.

"But I do need to get some sleep now."

