John Forbes Nash Jr. was called the "Phantom of Fine Hall."

For many years, he roamed through Princeton University's math building.

He talked to himself and wrote mysterious math symbols in empty classrooms.

Nash suffered from schizophrenia, a severe mental illness.

He could not tell what was real from what was false.

He once turned down a job at the University of Chicago, saying he was about to be named Emperor of Antarctica.

But Nash was also a genius.

He was a Nobel Prize winner who completely changed the field of economics, the science of how people use money.

He was also known as one of the greatest mathematicians of his time.

Nash, 86, and his wife, Alicia, 82, died Saturday in a traffic accident on a highway in New Jersey.

They were riding in a taxi to their home in Princeton.

They had just come back from Norway where Nash had won an important prize in mathematics.

Nash was famous among mathematicians for his beautiful solutions to math problems.

He was more widely known for his work in game theory.

It is the study of how people make decisions.

His ideas have been used in reducing the number of nuclear weapons and in elections.

Nash completed his paper on game theory when he was just 21 years old.

It was only 27 pages long.

Yet, it has had a huge effect on the world.

Game theory was invented in the 1940s by a mathematician and an economist.

The two were interested in "zero-sum" games.

These have a winner who takes everything and a loser who gets nothing.

Nash found ways so that each side in an argument gets the best deal possible.

Business owners and workers would use it in talks about how much workers should be paid.

Powerful countries have used his ideas to avoid wars.

Nash's understanding of how people argue and cooperate was one of the most important ideas of the 20th century, Sylvia Nasar wrote.

Her 1999 book of Nash is called "A Beautiful Mind."

The 2001 Oscar-winning movie "A Beautiful Mind" was based on her book.

Nash was born June 13, 1928, in Bluefield, West Virginia.

When Nash was in fourth grade, his parents were told their son had no ability in math.

He would always get the right answers, although the way he solved problems was not in any math textbook.

Nash graduated from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in three years.

He earned both bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics.

Usually, it takes at least six years to earn both degrees.

At Princeton, Nash hardly ever attended class.

He annoyed other students by constantly whistling classical music.

People did not like him.

After just a few weeks, he met Princeton's most famous professor, Albert Einstein.

In Einstein's office, Nash told Einstein some of his ideas.

After an hour, Einstein told him to go back and study more.

When Nash was 30, a magazine called him one of America's most brilliant mathematicians.

In 1957, he married Alicia Larde, and the two had a son in 1959.

But by then, he had mental problems.

He spent many years in and out of hospitals.

At one point, he thought that aliens had sent messages for him through a newspaper.

Although Alicia divorced him in 1962, she cared for him over the years in her home.

Math professors he used to work with got him a job.

In the 1980s, Nash began to recover from his mental illness.

His started discussing math with scholars again.

Some professors he once taught with started a campaign to recommend him for the Nobel Prize in economics, which he won in 1994.

Alicia and John Nash got married again in 2001.

Their son is also a mathematician with schizophrenia.

In recent years, John and Alicia met with New Jersey officials and urged them to give more money for mental health programs in the state.

