Colombian musician Juanes and singer John Legend met immigrants at a jail in Arizona on Wednesday.

The two performers put on a show for a small crowd outside the facility.

They were hoping to draw attention to immigration.

The musicians each played two songs separately and one together.

The duet was Bob Marley's "Redemption Song," to which dozens of people sang along.

The performance was outside the jail in Eloy, Arizona, about 60 miles southeast of Phoenix.

As the crowd cheered, Legend spoke.

He said, "The reason why we're here, one, is because we want to bear witness to what's happening so we could tell the world about it.

"  Juanes played the guitar and Legend the piano.

They sat on a flatbed truck parked across the street from the federal jail.

An empty desert field was in the background.

People in the crowd held large signs and chanted "Not one more deportation" and "Si se puede," which is Spanish for "Yes we can."

The concert was staged for an audience made up primarily of activists brought there by a group fighting for immigrants rights.

Some relatives of detainees joined as well.

The concert was filmed by a camera crew for a documentary and a broadcast of the performance on ABC's "Good Morning America."

The performers' original goal was for the detainees to hear the music.

Yet organizers were told the inmates were not let out of their cells to hear the concert.

Earlier, Juanes and Legend took a tour of the jail and spoke to detainees inside.

Juanes said in Spanish that he was "heartbroken" by what he saw.

"It's very hard to understand that someone is deprived of their freedom unjustly," said Juanes, "and that's why we're here with our music."

He continued, saying that music "is the strongest tool to bring attention and give a voice to those who don't have one."

Maria Gomez, of Phoenix, said the singers' visit will let immigrants know that people care about them.

The 16-year-old said her brother and other relatives are being held in Eloy.

They traveled from Mexico City to Nogales, Arizona, where they sought asylum.

People facing danger in their home country can apply for asylum to stay in another country.

Gomez said her family had been victims of kidnappings for ransom in Mexico.

"It's something very special because not any artist would do this," Gomez said.

Francisca Porchas is part of a group called Puente Arizona, which helped organize the event.

She said her group's goal was for the singers to meet the detainees and families who have been fighting against strict immigration laws and raids.

She said she hoped the visit would give detainees hope.

"For them it's something very important that they know they're not forgotten," Porchas said.

The organization transported about 60 people to the event in vans, while others drove on their own.

Puente has been critical of the Eloy Detention Center over the deaths of several inmates.

The group says immigration authorities aren't transparent about what goes on inside the jail.

There are nearly 1,500 detainees being held in Eloy.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) is a government agency.

It said in a statement it was "committed to ensuring the safety and welfare of all those in its custody."

ICE said that during the afternoon of the concert, inmates on the south side of the jail "were confined to their cells and residence pods" for about an hour.

The reason they gave for the confinement was concern that the unofficial concert was visible from the south recreation yard.

The agency was concerned that this "might cause a disturbance."

They were restricted to protect "both detainees' and employees' safety," said the agency.

Juanes is a Latin American mega-star who has sold millions of albums.

He topped the Billboard Latin chart in the United States for a record 92 weeks in a row with his song "Un Dia Normal" in 2002\.

Legend has won nine Grammys.

Last year, he won an Oscar with the rapper Common for the song "Glory" from the film "Selma."

