Colombian musician Juanes and singer John Legend got together outside a jail on Wednesday.

The jail is in Eloy, Arizona.

It is close to the border of Mexico and the United States.

Most of the people in the jail are immigrants. They moved to the United States from another country.  The performers met immigrants and put on a show for a small crowd. The immigrants in jail had broken immigration laws in the United States.

Outside of the jail, some of their families came to the show.  The people at the show said U.S. immigration laws are unfair.

Some of their families are in the jail.

The performers say they want people to notice that there is a problem with immigration laws in the U.S.

The performers each played two songs separately.

Together, they played a song called "Redemption Song" by Bob Marley.

Many people sang along.

The performance was outside the jail in Arizona.  Juanes played the guitar and Legend played the piano.

They sat on a truck parked across the street from the jail.

An empty desert field was behind them.

People in the crowd held large signs and chanted.

Some said "Not one more deportation."

When a person is deported, they are sent back to the country they came from.

They are not allowed to immigrate to the United States.

Others said "Si se puede," which is Spanish for "Yes we can."

Most people in Mexico speak Spanish.

Some of the immigrants in jail were from Mexico.

The people at the show want the U.S. to let immigrants into the country.  The concert was filmed by a camera crew for a documentary movie.

It was also on a TV show called "Good Morning America."

The performers wanted the people in jail to hear the music.

The inmates were not let out of their cells to hear the concert.

Earlier, Juanes and Legend took a tour of the jail.

They met some inmates. Juanes said in Spanish that he was "heartbroken" by what he saw.

"It's very hard to understand that someone is deprived of their freedom unjustly," Juanes said.

"That's why we're here with our music."

Juanes said music is a great way to help people who cannot help themselves.  Maria Gomez, is a 16-year-old from Phoenix, Arizona.

She said the singers' visit will let immigrants know that people care about them.

Her brother and other relatives are being held in the jail.

They traveled from Mexico City to Nogales, Arizona, where they asked the U.S. to protect them.

Gomez said her family had been kidnapped in Mexico and wanted to be safe in the United States.

Francisca Porchas is part of a group called Puente Arizona.

She said her group wanted the singers to meet the people in jail and their families.

They have been fighting against tough immigration laws.

She said she hoped the visit would give detainees hope.

Puente is worried about the safety of the people in jail. There are about 1,500 people in the jail.

The U.S. government said it was "committed to ensuring the safety" of the people inside.

The government also said that inmates were kept in their cells during the show.

The reason it gave was concern that the show could be seen from the south yard.

The government was worried that the show might cause a disturbance.

To protect everyone's safety, inmates were kept inside until it ended.

