Colombian musician Juanes and singer John Legend met immigrants at a jail in Arizona on Wednesday.

The two performers put on a show for a small crowd outside the facility to draw attention to immigration.

The Grammy Award winners each played two songs separately and one together.

The duet was Bob Marley's "Redemption Song," to which dozens of people sang along.

The performance was in in Eloy, about 60 miles southeast of Phoenix.

Legend told the cheering crowd why he and Juanes were there.

"We want to bear witness to what's happening so we could tell the world about it," he said.  Juanes played the guitar and Legend the piano.

They sat atop a flatbed truck parked across the street from the federal detention center.

An empty desert field served as the backdrop while people in the crowd held large signs and chanted "Not one more deportation" and "Si se puede," meaning "Yes we can."

The concert was staged for an audience made up primarily of activists brought there by an advocacy group.

Some relatives of detainees joined as well.

The concert was filmed by a camera crew for a documentary and a broadcast of the performance on ABC's "Good Morning America."

The performers' original intention was for the detainees to hear the music.

But organizers were told the inmates were not let out of their cells to hear the concert.

Earlier, Juanes and Legend took a tour of the detention center and spoke to detainees inside.

Juanes said in Spanish that he was "heartbroken" by what he saw.

"It's very hard to understand that someone is deprived of their freedom unjustly," he said.

"That's why we're here with our music, with our culture, which is the strongest tool to bring attention and give a voice to those who don't have one.

"  Maria Gomez, of Phoenix, said the singers' visit will let immigrants know that people care about them.

The 16-year-old said her brother and other relatives are being held in Eloy after traveling from Mexico City to Nogales, Arizona, where they sought asylum.

Gomez said her family had been victims of kidnappings for ransom.

"It's something very special because not any artist would do this," Gomez said.

Francisca Porchas is part of a group called Puente Arizona, which helped organize the event.

She said her group's goal was for the singers to meet the detainees and families who have been fighting against strict immigration policies and raids.

She said she hoped the visit would give detainees hope.

"For them it's something very important that they know they're not forgotten," Porchas said.

The organization transported about 60 people to the event in vans, while others drove on their own.

Puente has been a vocal critic of the Eloy Detention Center over the deaths of several inmates because of suicide and medical problems.

The group says immigration authorities are not transparent about what goes on inside the jail.

There are nearly 1,500 detainees being held in Eloy.

The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said in a statement that it was "committed to ensuring the safety and welfare of all those in its custody."

The agency said that during the afternoon of the concert, "residents of the Eloy Detention facility's south side were confined to their cells and residence pods for approximately one hour."

The unsanctioned concert was within the view of the south recreation yard and might provoke a disturbance, the agency said.

According to the agency, residents were restricted to protect "both detainees' and employees' safety.

"  Juanes is a Latin American mega-star who has sold millions of albums.

He topped the Billboard Latin chart in the U.S. for a record 92 consecutive weeks with his breakthrough "Un Dia Normal" in 2002\.

Legend has won nine Grammys, and he won an Oscar last year with the rapper Common for the song "Glory" from the film "Selma."

