Freshly made juices are supposed to be good for you.

The people who sell them say they give you instant energy.

They contain lots of vitamins and minerals.

They even make you lose weight, they say.

And juices are tasty and easy to gulp down.

Lots of people want to eat healthy foods.

Many of them buy gallons and gallons of juice.

The drinks are so popular that juice-maker Jamba Juice had $55.1 million in sales in just 13 weeks.

Many people also make their own juices at home.

But juice is not the healthiest way to eat fruit.

This has been shown by experts who study food.

They are called dietitians and nutritionists.

Nutrition professor Barry Popkin even calls juice dangerous.

Popkin and other experts wish people would eat whole fruit instead of drinking juice.

Juicing removes fiber, which is one of the best parts of fruit.

Juice also contains huge amounts of sugar and calories.

Calories provide the energy we need, but too many of them make us gain weight.

If you drink a lot of juice, you're more likely to gain weight, Popkin said.

You're also more likely to get diabetes or other diseases.

Unlike juices, smoothies do have fiber in them.

The entire fruit often goes into the blender.

But smoothies still contain a lot of calories.

Some experts do argue that juices have their benefits.

Elizabeth Ward is a dietitian who works with Jamba Juice.

She points out that juices contain lots of vitamins and minerals.

That makes them better than sodas.

But many dietitians say there is just too much sugar in fruit juice.

"Eating too much fruit can make us gain weight.

[It's] just like eating too much candy," said dietitian Lara Field.

Another problem is that juicing removes the fiber that's in fruit.

That means juice drinkers don't get one of the best parts of fruit, said dietitian Bethany Doerfler.

And not eating enough fiber is bad for your health, said food science professor Joanne Slavin.

Diets higher in fiber lower the risk of disease.

They also help keep people from gaining too much weight.

Yet most Americans only eat about half the fiber they should.

"I want people to eat more fiber," said Slavin.

That includes eating whole fruits instead of drinking juice.

Eating fiber also makes people feel full.

This helps to stop them from eating too much.

For example, if you eat apple slices before lunch you'll feel more full than if you drink an apple juice.

That way, you'll eat less during lunch.

But it's not just the fiber that makes whole fruit less fattening than juice.

It's also the chewing.

Scientists say that chewing helps let your body know it's had enough to eat.

That way you end up eating less.

Still, it can be hard to eat enough whole fruits and vegetables.

Grownups are supposed to eat around 2 cups of fruit a day.

And 3 cups of vegetables.

It may not seem like much fun to eat a whole bowl of spinach, said Doerfler.

This may be one reason juices and smoothies are so popular.

Everyone agrees Americans do not eat enough fruits and vegetables.

Juices aren't the best way to solve that problem.

But they are better than nothing, said nutritionist Christina Stark.

Doerfler said smoothies and juice can be an easy way to shift to a healthier diet.

Vegetable blends are a better choice.

If you want to make them tastier, add just a small amount of fruit.

