Junipero Serra is famous in California's history.

He was a Spanish priest who built missions up and down the state in the 1700s.

The missions were used to spread Christianity to Native Americans.

At the time, California was controlled by Spain.

The missions were used by the Spanish military and Catholic priests.

They were outposts, or forts.

Some see Serra as a good man.

They say he left Spain to help people in Mexico and the United States.

Others say he took advantage of Native Americans, forcing them to build the missions in difficult conditions.

Pope Francis is the head of the Roman Catholic Church.

He recently announced that Serra will become a saint.

A saint is a person who lived a good life that can be an example to others.

The pope said Serra helped bring Christianity to the United States.

The announcement surprised many people.

Native American groups had opposed Serra's sainthood for years.

It seemed he might never become a saint.

The pope is planning to visit the United States in the fall.

He might go to California for Serra's canonization.

It is the ceremony that makes him a saint.

In the Catholic Church, becoming a saint takes many steps.

Serra was beatified in 1986, one of the steps.

At that time, the church said that someone who prayed to Serra was cured of a disease.

They called it a miracle.

All saints must have performed a miracle in some way.

Native American groups say Serra should not be a saint.

They say he and the Spanish forced Native Americans to build the missions.

Valentin Lopez is a Native American activist.

He was disappointed by the pope's decision.

Lopez hopes the pope will change his mind.

"Maybe he thinks it's more important that (Serra) brought Christianity to the New World than what happened to the native population," Lopez said.

Elias Castillo wrote a book about how the Spanish treated California's Indians badly.

He said people's opinion of Serra as a great man is a "horrible lie."

Statues of Serra stand at all of California's 21 missions and at the state Capitol.

"I'm astounded.

I couldn't believe the pope was doing this.

I think there will be protests," Castillo said.

The Catholic Church has apologized for how Indians were treated, Castillo said.

He called Serra "one of their great monsters."

Another Native American, Andrew Galvan of the Ohlone tribe, said he was very happy to hear of Serra's sainthood.

Galvan helps to run the Mission Dolores in San Francisco.

His ancestors were converted to Christianity at the missions.

He admits Native Americans were treated badly at the missions, but he does not blame Serra.

He blames colonialism.

During colonialism, Spain and other European countries came to North America.

They wanted natural resources, like gold and silver.

They used Native Americans to get what they wanted.

Mistakes were made in the past, Galvan said.

"The bottom line is: I believe Junipero Serra was a very good person in a very bad situation, which I call colonialism."

There is still a question of how Serra will be remembered.

Will he be known for the treatment of Native Americans or as a missionary spreading Christianity in a new land?

