Pope Francis announced Thursday that Junipero Serra, the Spanish priest who helped spread Christianity in California in the 1700s, will become a saint in September.

Serra is a controversial figure.

Some see him as a dedicated servant of God, while others blame him for harsh treatment of the Native Americans in California under Spanish rule.

As the time Serra lived, the Spanish controlled California, building missions, forts and ranches.

Serra was a religious leader who helped build the first missions there, which were used to spread Christianity and convert Native Americans.

"He was the evangelizer of the West in the United States," the pope told reporters.

The pope made his announcement while traveling from Sri Lanka, where he declared, or canonized, that country's first saint.

For Catholics and some other Christian groups, a saint is a holy figure, someone who lived a good life that can be an example to others.

The ceremony to officially declare Serra a saint, his canonization, may bring the pope to California during his scheduled trip to the United States this fall.

To become a saint, the Catholic Church usually must decide that someone has performed at least two miracles.

Serra has performed just one, according to the church — prayers to him cured a nun of a serious disease in St. Louis.

Still, Serra is a holy man who has been honored as a saint for centuries, Pope Francis explained.

Becoming a saint in the Roman Catholic Church is a long process with several steps.

Serra passed the third when he was beatified in 1986.

Native American groups have strongly opposed Serra's road to sainthood, saying the native Californians who built the missions were forced to work and often punished harshly.

Many Native Americans put to work by the Spanish died of European diseases, including chicken pox and measles, because they had never been exposed to them before.

Valentin Lopez is one Native American activist who is disappointed by the pope's decision.

He is chairman of the Amah-Mutsun Tribal Band of Coastanoan/Ohlone Indians.

Lopez hopes the Vatican, the headquarters of the Catholic church in Rome, will re-think Serra's sainthood.

"Pope Francis is from Argentina and knows the history of the New World," Lopez said.

"But maybe he thinks it's more important that he brought Christianity to the New World than what happened to the native population.

Maybe the end justifies the means."

Elias Castillo recently wrote a book about the Spanish and Native Americans in California: "A Cross of Thorns: The Enslavement of California's Indians by the Spanish Missions."

He says Californians are living a "horrible lie" in their opinions of the Spanish priest.

Serra's statue stands at all of California's 21 missions as well as at the state Capitol building.

"I'm astounded.

I couldn't believe the pope was doing this.

There was an attempt to canonize him in the '40s and '50s, and that was stopped cold by the Indians.

I think there will be protests," Castillo said.

He said it is outrageous that the Catholic Church, which has apologized for how the Indians were treated, would now "canonize one of their great monsters."

But a member of the Ohlone tribe, Andrew Galvan, said he is quite happy to hear of Serra's upcoming sainthood.

"I'm ecstatic," said Galvan, who is the curator of Mission Dolores in San Francisco and whose ancestors were baptized at the missions.

Galvan admits Native Americans at the missions were treated poorly, but he does not blame Serra.

He blames colonialism.

During the colonial period, the Spanish and other Europeans came to the New World to take natural resources, like gold and silver.

They took over the land and used the local people to help them get what they wanted.

"You can't change the past, and we all acknowledge mistakes were made in the past," Galvan said.

"The bottom line is I believe Junipero Serra was a very good person in a very bad situation, which I call colonialism."

Pope Francis's announcement surprised many who thought the Native American groups' opposition might delay Serra's sainthood forever.

Robert Senkewicz is a history professor at Santa Clara University, which was founded by Serra in 1777.

He believes the controversy calmed down since Serra's beatification in the 1980s.

"Thirty years ago, the lines were really tightly drawn between people who supported Serra's beatification and people who didn't.

It was very intense," said Senkewicz, who co-wrote a biography on Serra.

So what will Serra's legacy be?

Will he be known for the poor treatment of Native Americans or for his role as a Catholic missionary spreading the faith in a new land?

"St. Francis of Assisi was known for nature.

St. Thomas Aquinas for intellectual scholarship.

Mother Seton in the U.S. is known for devotion to the poor," Senkewicz said.

"The niche of Serra is giving up a very, very prosperous life in Spain for a difficult missionary life."

Making Junipero Serra a saint brings up another question: will he be considered California's first saint or an American saint?

Serra was born in Spain, but did much of his work in California, building the first nine missions there, and he died in 1784 at the Carmel Mission.

At the time, California was not a U.S. state, but was ruled by Spain.

There are more than 10,000 saints.

Only 12 were either born in the United States or did their good works here.

There is another Californian on the road to sainthood: Cora Evans, a dedicated Catholic who lived quietly in the Santa Cruz Mountains and died in 1957.

She was declared a "servant of God" by the Vatican in 2012, one important step to sainthood.

