American families with kids are eating healthier than they did seven years ago, according to a new study.

Parents bought packaged foods containing 101 fewer calories per person per day in 2012 than they did in 2007, the study found.

But experts said that would not be enough to reverse the epidemic of childhood obesity.

The study analyzed the results of a pledge by big food companies to reduce calories in their products.

It was published Wednesday in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.

The study followed an earlier report on the work of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

The group is made up of 16 big food companies that agreed to cut out 1.5 trillion of the total calories from the packaged food they sold by 2015.

Together, the companies make products that contain about a third of all the calories sold in America.

The companies reduced the number of calories sold by an average of 78 per person.

That comes to 6.4 trillion total calories.

An independent evaluation of the project called it an "impressive" accomplishment.

However, the analysis said it won't reverse the epidemic of childhood obesity, which is too much unhealthy body fat, especially among poor people and some minority groups.

The independent evaluations were conducted by scientists funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

"There has been a cultural shift in this country — especially households with kids have really started buying fewer calories," said Barry Popkin.

He is a professor in the School of Public Health at the University of North Carolina.

Popkin and another professor at the university wrote the evaluation of what people bought.

"The calories purchased has really gone down.

And most of the decline is in the kind of food you and I would call junk food or junk beverages," Popkin said.

But not all the news is positive, he said.

"What we don't have is an increase in beans, whole grains, produce" — which people might buy if those foods became cheaper than packaged food.

"The steepest declines in sales were reported for the least healthy products," said Derek Yach, executive director of the health research firm the Vitality Institute.

As foods have become lower in calories, people are buying healthier foods.

"In other words — both food quantity and quality is starting to improve," he said.

The 16 companies worked to reduce calories by introducing new lower-calorie products, single-serve packages and changing the recipes of existing products, said Lisa Gable.

She is president of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

The 16 food companies include ConAgra Foods, General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods, Cola-Cola and Unilever.

They are selling more lower-calorie versions of popular products, but that doesn't mean they're healthy, several experts said.

"The lower-calorie products are driving the bus," said Hank Cardello of the Hudson Institute.

He is a food industry analyst and former food industry executive.

He found that 99 percent of the $485 million in sales growth for the 16 companies came from lower-calorie foods.

There has been other progress in the war against obesity among some groups of Americans.

But the overall average reduction of 78 calories a day is not enough to reduce obesity in children ages 2 to 19, Popkin and others wrote.

It's actually less than half of what's needed to bring the obesity rates down to where they were before the obesity epidemic began.

Even larger reductions are needed among African-American young people and low-income Americans.

Big food companies have a "tremendous influence" on what people eat, Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mounry, C. Tracy Orleans and Dr. James Marks wrote.

"Therefore we both congratulate these companies and call upon them and other industry leaders … to go even further."

Marks, senior vice president at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, said researchers still need to keep watch on the food companies.. "If you were to catch me at my most optimistic, I might say that this is clearly not the end of where we need to be.

But we might be at the end of the beginning," he said.

This week's evaluations follow an earlier evaluation by the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

Popkin and other researchers wanted to look at the other end of the process — what families actually bought.

They said the actual calorie decline was even greater, about 206 calories per person per day for households with children.

The companies' pledge was part of first lady Michelle Obama's campaign to end childhood obesity, which is called "Let's Move."

"It's all part of the culture.

She focused on kids and kids eating healthy.

She brought a lot of attention to it," Popkin said.

"She did a big announcement with these companies and that put some pressure on them."

"The Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation was met with initial skepticism but has resulted in tangible progress in reducing calories," Yach said.

Packaged foods account for nearly two-thirds of the calories Americans eat, the researchers wrote.

Some of the criticism of the companies' pledge came from the belief that people need to eat more fresh produce, legumes and whole grains, rather than packaged foods.

Food companies "recognize that the challenge of reducing obesity is one that requires everyone to do their part," the Grocery Manufacturers of America said.

The food makers group said the industry has introduced more than 20,000 products with fewer calories, less fat and sugar and more whole grains, among other steps.

The group also noted that full-calorie soft drinks are no longer sold in schools.

