American kids are eating healthier, because companies are making packaged food with less calories.

A new study found that parents bought packaged food with less calories in 2012 than in 2007.

Experts called that "impressive."

However, they said more is needed to keep children from becoming overweight.

The study looked at the results of a promise by big food companies.

In 2011, 16 companies promised to make healthier food.

They said they would lower the number of calories in their products.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

Eating too many calories causes people to gain weight.

The study was published Wednesday.

The companies agreed to cut out 1.5 trillion calories from their packaged food.

They promised to do this by 2015.

Packaged foods come in packages, like chips or cookies.

The group of companies call themselves the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

Their products contain about one out of three calories sold in America.

The companies reduced the number of calories in their food products by about 78 calories per day per person.

That comes to a total of 6.4 trillion calories.

Experts called this a great start.

However, just 78 calories won't keep children from gaining weight, they said.

This is especially true for poor people and other groups.

Barry Popkin is a health professor at the University of North Carolina.

He and another scientist wrote the study.

He said there has been a big change in what people buy.

Families "with kids have really started buying fewer calories," he said.

"The calories (people) purchased has really gone down," Popkin said.

Most of the decline is in junk food and sugary drinks.

It's not all good news, though, Popkin said.

"What we don't have is an increase in beans, whole grains, produce."

People might buy healthy food more if it was cheaper than junk food.

People are buying far less unhealthy foods and far more healthy food, said Derek Yach.

He is in charge of the Vitality Institute.

It is a health research company.

"Both food quantity and quality is starting to improve," said Yach.

The 16 companies made products with less calories.

They put less food in packages, so people ate less.

They also changed the recipes of existing products, said Lisa Gable.

She is president of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

The 16 food companies include General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods and Cola-Cola.

Eating 78 calories less a day is not enough to reduce the number of overweight children.

Too much body fat is not healthy.

It can cause heart disease and other problems.

Experts suggested that children need to eat food with even fewer calories to help them lose weight.

For a healthier weight, children need to eat at least 157 fewer calories.

Young black people and poor Americans should eat even fewer calories.

The experts congratulated the companies.

They said, though, the companies should "go even further."

Dr. James Marks is with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

The foundation paid for the study.

He said scientists still need to keep watch on the food companies.

He called it a good first step.

In 2010, first lady Michelle Obama began the "Let's Move" project.

Its goal is to get kids to be healthier.

It encourages them to eat better and exercise.

The companies' promise to cut calories is part of that effort.

Obama "focused on kids and kids eating healthy.

She brought a lot of attention to it," Popkin said.

Everyone has to help to keep children healthy, said a food makers group.

It is called the Grocery Manufacturers of America.

The group said food companies have created more than 20,000 healthier products.

They have fewer calories, and less fat and sugar.

They also contain more whole grains.

Full-calorie soft drinks aren't sold in schools anymore.

