American kids are eating healthier because companies have cut down the amount of calories in their packaged foods.

A new study found that parents bought food with 101 less calories per person per day in 2012 than they did in 2007.

But experts said it's not enough to stop children from becoming too overweight.

The study looked at the results of a promise by big food companies to reduce the number of calories in their products.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

Too many calories lead to weight gain.

The study was published Wednesday in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.

The study followed an earlier report on the work of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

The group is made up of 16 big food companies.

The companies agreed to reduce by 1.5 trillion the total number of calories in the packaged food they sold by 2015.

Together, the companies make products that contain about a third of all the calories sold in America.

The companies reduced the number of calories in food they sold by an average of 78 calories per person.

That comes to a total of 6.4 trillion calories.

An independent review called it an "impressive" accomplishment.

However, just 78 calories won't stop children from becoming obese, or extremely overweight, which is unhealthy.

Poor people and some minority groups need to eat even fewer calories per day and eat more vegetables and grains.

"There has been a cultural shift in this country — especially households with kids have really started buying fewer calories," said Barry Popkin.

He is a professor in the School of Public Health at the University of North Carolina.

Popkin and another researcher wrote the study.

"The calories (in foods people) purchased has really gone down.

And most of the decline is in the kind of food you and I would call junk food or junk beverages," Popkin said.

Not all the news is positive, he said.

"What we don't have is an increase in beans, whole grains, produce."

People might buy them more if they became cheaper than packaged food.

People are buying far less unhealthy foods, which means they are eating healthier, said Derek Yach.

He is the executive director of Vitality Institute, a health research company.

"In other words — both food quantity and quality is starting to improve," he said.

The 16 companies worked to reduce calories by making products with less calories.

They also reduced calories in food by making servings for one person and changing the recipes of existing products, said Lisa Gable.

She is the president of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation.

The companies include General Mills, Kellogg, Kraft Foods and Cola-Cola.

They are selling more lower-calorie versions of popular products, but that doesn't mean they're healthy, several experts said.

"The lower-calorie products are driving the bus," said Hank Cardello.

He is a food analyst and former food industry executive.

Nearly all the increase in food the 16 companies sold came from lower-calorie foods.

There is more positive news in the fight against obesity in some groups of Americans.

People who are obese are very overweight and have a body mass index (BMI) of more than 30.

The overall average reduction of 78 calories a day is not enough to reduce obesity in children ages 2 to 19, Popkin and others wrote.

It's actually less than half of what's needed to bring the obesity rate down to where it needs to be.

They recommended that children should reduce the number of calories by at least 157.

African-American young people and poor Americans should eat even less calories.

Researchers congratulated the companies and called "upon them and other industry leaders … to go even further."

Dr. James Marks is senior vice president at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

The foundation paid for the study.

He said researchers still need to keep watch on the food companies.

He called it a good first step.

The companies' pledge was part of first lady Michelle Obama's work to end childhood obesity.

In 2010, she began the "Let's Move" campaign to get kids to eat healthier and exercise.

"She focused on kids and kids eating healthy.

She brought a lot of attention to it," Popkin said.

"She did a big announcement with these companies and that put some pressure on them."

Packaged foods account for nearly two-thirds of the calories Americans eat, the researchers wrote.

Some people think that people need to eat more fresh produce, legumes and whole grains.

Food companies "recognize that the challenge of reducing obesity is one that requires everyone to do their part," the Grocery Manufacturers of America said in a statement.

The group said food companies have introduced more than 20,000 healthier products.

These have with fewer calories, less fat and sugar, and more whole grains.

The group also noted that full-calorie soft drinks aren't being sold in schools anymore.

