American kids are eating healthier.

Companies are making food with less calories.

But experts said it is not good enough.

Children should eat even fewer calories to keep from becoming overweight.

Calories from food give people energy.

Too many calories makes them gain weight.

Gaining too much weight is not healthy.

Sixteen big food companies made a promise.

They promised to make food with less calories in it.

The companies agreed to cut 1.5 trillion calories.

Their foods contain one of out three calories sold in America.

The companies lowered the calories by about 78 calories per person each day.

That comes to 6.4 trillion calories.

Experts called this a great start.

However, 78 calories is not enough.

Children need to eat even fewer calories to lose enough weight.

This is especially true for poor children.

Barry Popkin is a health professor.

He works at the University of North Carolina.

Popkin said there is a big change in what people buy.

Families are buying foods with fewer calories.

It's not all good news, Popkin said.

Kids do not eat enough beans and whole grains.

They also need to eat more fruits and vegetables.

Healthy foods can be expensive, he said.

People might buy them if they were cheaper than junk food.

The food companies include Kellogg and Kraft Foods.

They also include Cola-Cola.

These companies make products like breakfast cereal and cheese.

They also make sugary drinks.

In 2010, first lady Michelle Obama began the "Let's Move" project.

The project helps kids lose weight.

It encourages them to eat healthier.

It also tells them to exercise.

Obama "focused on kids and kids eating healthy.

She brought a lot of attention to it," Popkin said.

Everyone has to help kids eat healthy, said a food makers group.

It is called the Grocery Manufacturers of America.

Food companies have created more than 20,000 new healthier products.

These have fewer calories.

They contain less fat and sugar.

They also contain more whole grains.

Schools used to sell sugary soft drinks to kids.

They do not anymore.

