Ancient Romans believed Jupiter was the king of the gods, who destroyed an older race of giants to rule heaven and Earth.

Scientists now have a theory about how the planet Jupiter helped life develop on Earth that backs this up.

Jupiter, as the largest planet, helped form the solar system millions of years ago.

The force of its gravity pushed out the pieces left over when the sun and other planets formed.

Some pieces may have landed on Earth, providing the water the planet needed to develop life.

Jupiter is still surrounded by asteroids and at times sends some into Earth.

It also may have had a role in the asteroids that fell on Earth and wiped out the dinosaurs 66 million years ago, which let mammals grow and our human ancestors evolve.

Scientists now say that even the Earth itself would not have existed without Jupiter's help.

A study says there were bigger planets in our solar system, but Jupiter crashed into them and destroyed them, clearing the way for Earth and the smaller planets to develop.

Scientists suspect that our solar system developed like most others in the universe, but that it used to have more and bigger planets.

Other studies have found other solar systems are packed with planets larger than Earth but smaller than Neptune, that astronomers have called "super-earths."

But those planets were lacking an atmosphere like ours that can support human life, and were nothing like Earth.

Their atmospheres were packed with hydrogen that humans can't breathe, instead of oxygen.

Most solar systems in the universe have a lot of those super-earths, said Greg Laughlin, a scientist from the University of California, Santa Cruz.

He is one of the authors of the study that was published recently.

Our solar system looks like an oddball, compared with the rest, he said.

If so, the obvious question is how it got that way.

There's no reason to suspect the planets in our solar system formed differently than other planets, said Konstantin Batygin, a scientist from California Institute of Technology who also worked on the study.

The explanation for our solar system's differences could be in how Jupiter controlled what happened after the planets formed.

Scientists used to think planets stayed the same after they formed and stayed in the same place.

They would form from the gas and dust spinning around young stars.

Small, rocky planets would form close to the sun and large, cold planets with atmospheres made of gases, called gas giants, would form away from the sun.

Scientists believed all planets stayed in the same orbit around the sun after they formed, and it all agreed with what we knew about the solar system, but it could be wrong.

Twenty years ago, scientists found the first planets around other stars and noticed some planets did not go around in circles, like our solar system.

They would swing very close to their suns and then far away, or would get pulled away by other planets.

Ever since the discovery of other planets, scientists have studied their movements to understand how our solar system was formed.

One theory says Jupiter moved from its place in the solar system to where Mars is today and went back.

As Jupiter moved, it caused a demolition derby, smashing planets against each other and destroying the larger planets that were closer to the sun.

Batygin and Laughlin studied how Jupiter's movement formed the solar system.

The collisions among the large planets would have pushed smaller planets into the sun, which explains why there are so few small planets between the Sun and Earth.

As Jupiter returned to its place, the pieces left over from the broken planets would have come together to form Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars.

This explains the evidence that those planets formed later and why they have different atmospheres.

It would also explain why Mars is so small, compared with its neighbors, because it was formed from pieces of the larger planet that Jupiter broke up.

It also explains why there would be very few planets like Earth in the universe, Laughlin said.

If this is true, Batygin and Laughlin's study would mean that most of those planets that scientists are watching, looking for signs of life, cannot be inhabited by humans.

Visiting them, you would be crushed, cooked and smothered by their atmospheres, which cannot support life.

Very few solar systems had a Jupiter that visited and let new worlds like Earth develop and then went back to its place.

It may really be Saturn that we must thank for being here, because its gravity pulled Jupiter back and kept it from settling close to the sun.

That makes sense, because in Roman mythology, Saturn was Jupiter's father and the god responsible for Earth.

Next time you look up at the sky, uncrushed and uncooked, don't thank your lucky stars — thank Jupiter and Saturn.

