Ten teenage prisoners sit around a table in a hallway near the guard station.

Rap music is playing — an unusual sound at a jail.

Their heads are nodding to the beat.

In the middle of the group is Scott Budnick, a 38-year-old wearing a dark sweatshirt and sneakers.

He asks the teens to write about themselves, using the song for ideas.&amp; Budnick is a volunteer teacher who leads creative-writing classes for teenagers who have gotten into trouble with the law.

When children are accused or found guilty of a crime, they sometimes have to spend time behind bars in detention centers called juvenile halls, or "juvie" for short.

Many are awaiting court trials, and some go on to adult prisons.

Some teens spend years in juvenile halls.

It can be a difficult environment in which to grow up.

For years, Budnick has been teaching writing classes for young prisoners to give them something to look forward to and, hopefully, inspire them.

The work he does with these teens is very different from his regular job.

When not volunteering, Budnick is a movie producer.

He plans and organizes major Hollywood film projects, including "The Hangover" series.

Budnick became very successful in Hollywood.

At a certain point, though, he began feeling unsatisfied by his work and wanted to do something to give back to help others.

Through a friend, he heard about InsideOut Writers, a volunteer creative-writing program that offers classes for youths in juvenile hall.

He attended a class in 2003, and soon after, he was teaching classes himself.

More than 10 years later, he is still at it.

In one class he reads a newspaper article about Steven Czifra, who spent eight years in solitary confinement and is now a student at the University of California, Berkeley.

Solitary confinement is one kind of imprisonment where the prisoner spends day and night alone in a small room with almost no human contact.

The teens are asked to write poetry inspired by something Czifra said: "I have a gift."

After 20 minutes, they read their poems aloud, with their words tumbling out like raps.

A 17-year-old named Andres who dreams about being an architect, reads a poem about his inner conflict.

"My life is a gift but also a curse / My life has a lot of truths and a lot of lies / I like this gift but I don't because sometimes I see no light / I know my life is a gift but also a curse," he reads.

Antonio, a 16-year-old who spent more than a year in juvenile hall but has since been released, said Budnick's classes really helped him.

Writing offered him and others in juvenile hall an opportunity to express his feelings in a healthy way.

"I'll be stressed out — I'll write about it," Antonio said.

"It's a good outlet."

Budnick has been trying to help in other ways, too.

In the fall, he persuaded the county to allow his students to plant small gardens outside the brick dorms where they sleep.

Under the watchful eyes of guards, the teens pour soil into the beds and plant peppers, onions, lettuce, strawberries and herbs.

"I think the process of caring for anything — a human being, plant or animal — is great," he said.

"Most of them weren't cared for, or they wouldn't be here."

Budnick's work on behalf of youths behind bars does not stop there.

He has also been working to the fight some of the injustices he sees in the system.

In the past few years, he has begun taking teens who spent time in juvie to meet with California state lawmakers.

These visits have helped lead to improvements in the legal system.

By explaining their experiences, former teens behind bars have helped change how kids who commit crimes are punished.

In 2013, Budnick founded an organization devoted to keeping teens who are released from juvenile hall from getting sent back.

His organization provides various services for them, including support groups and yoga classes.

The organization also offers help filling out college forms.

Throughout Budnick's journey, he has kept in touch with the young men he has worked with.

Many are sent to state prisons when they turn 18 and become adults.

Budnick visits about 10 state facilities annually to see them.

At the end of last year, Budnick quit his job to start his own company.

His new business will aim to make movies that improve social justice.

He said he woke up one morning and realized that he could help even more through the films he made.

"You make a film, it can touch tens of millions of people," he said.

In the future, he hopes to make movies that will help society improve.

Well-told stories, he believes, can change people's opinions on social issues.

A film may even be able to affect the way children behind bars are seen and treated.

