Many kids who commit crimes end up behind bars.

There is a unique program in Dallas meant to avoid that.

It is the Diversion Male Court and a large number of youth are enrolled in it.

Diversion Male Court (DMC) is a six-month rehabilitation program for boys of color who get in trouble with the law.

The people who work with them are all men of color.

The court system that deals with youth who break the law is called the juvenile justice system.

A major problem is that many of the teens who enter the juvenile justice system are black or Hispanic.

Many of the lawyers and judges are white.

DMC tries to help minority offenders in Dallas by connecting them with adults who they can identify with.

These boys have been accused of everything from aggravated assault to burglary.

DMC uses a variety of methods to help them improve their behavior.

The program is unique in Texas, and there are only a handful of other programs like it in the country.

George Ashford is the judge at DMC.

He says the program is about more than simply telling the boys to stay out of trouble.

He and his team teach the boys life lessons about accountability, respect, responsibility and empathy.

Alex R. Piquero is a criminologist at the University of Texas at Dallas.

He said that DMC has an interesting new approach to helping youths who get into trouble with the law.

"We should continue to experiment with new approaches and alternatives to sentencing, treatment and rehabilitation," Piquero said.

The program is still relatively new, though.

Piquero noted that this approach needs to be evaluated over a long period of time before we will know how effective it really is.

One mother whose son entered DMC recently described it as "an answer to prayer."

"Him getting into trouble was real hard for me.

I need him to learn to follow the rules," she said of her son.

DMC does not hand out the usual punishments to boys who break the law.

Instead, these teens are enrolled in a multi-level program that helps them to grow.

Ashford wears a suit and tie instead of a traditional judge's robe.

When he talks to DMC boys, and sits with them and has personal conversations.

With one boy, he discusses boxing; with another, auto repair.

Every conversation leads back to a life lesson.

Ashford and his team go out of their way to let each youth know that they really care about him.

At the same time, they enforce strict rules and expect of lot from the kids.

All boys in the program have to be at home by 7 p.m., and DMC workers meet with them every week to see how they are doing at school.

Boys have to keep up with their school work and are tutored if necessary.

All participants are also required to learn "character traits" such as trustworthiness and respect.

They must write a half page in their journals every day about how those traits affect their behavior.

Dr. Terry Smith is the executive director of the Dallas County Juvenile Department and is DMC's founder.

When she decided to create the program, she approached an experienced juvenile officer named Mario Love with her idea.

"I actually laughed," Love said.

He was doubtful that the program could work, and so was Ashford.

"I'm happy to say I was proven wrong," said Love.

He is now a passionate supporter of the program.

Since DMC began, 258 boys have been recommended for the program.

Some 143 of them enrolled, and 25 more are currently under consideration.

Overall, DMC focuses on building character.

Sometimes this requires adapting to the needs of each youth.

When Love learned that one 17-year-old had recently become a father, he arranged parenting classes for the teen.

Ashford said the program can help kids who have developed bad habits and made bad decisions to turn their lives around.

"Those cases are deeply satisfying," he observed.

DMC deals directly with the issue of race.

Smith recognizes that race can be an "uncomfortable topic."

Nevertheless, she does not think the issue should be ignored.

For example, an unusually large proportion of black youth end up in the juvenile justice system.

The proportion of whites who enter the system, on the other hand, is below the overall average.

According to many experts, boys and girls of color do not necessarily commit more crimes than white youth.

Rather, they may just be more likely to be caught and punished.

Darlene Byrne is a state district judge in Travis County.

She said that the juvenile justice system treats youth of different races differently.

Experts point to the case of Ethan Couch, a white teenager who killed four people in Tarrant County two years ago while driving drunk.

Couch was 16 at the time of the crash, and it was his third alcohol-related offense, yet a judge did not sentence Couch to serve jail time.

It would have been very unlikely for a black teen to receive such a  forgiving sentence, the experts say.

Piquero said that it is hard to know why boys and girls of color end up in the juvenile justice system more than white boys and girls.

He said that the system may treat youth of different races differently, but this is not necessarily the case.

"That may be true at some level or to some extent.

We just don't know how much."

