Scott Budnick is a movie producer.

He spends most of his time organizing Hollywood movie projects.

A jail filled with teens accused of crimes is not where you would expect to find him.

Budnick is also a volunteer teacher.

For years, he has been teaching writing classes in juvenile halls.

When children and teenagers break the law, they sometimes have to spend time behind bars.

They are sent to special centers called juvenile halls, or "juvie" for short.

Many are waiting for their court trials.

Some spend years there.

They may even go on to adult prison.

Juvenile hall can be a difficult place in which to grow up.

Budnick, and volunteers like him, try to help.

Budnick's volunteer work began in 2003.

A friend told him about InsideOut Writers.

It is a volunteer program that offers writing classes for youths behind bars.

He joined the program that year.

More than 10 years later, he is still at it.

It might be hard to imagine why these kids would want to be in a writing class.

One reason they take the class is that they miss out on  regular school.

Writing classes help them learn, grow and discover themselves.

Another reason is that being in juvenile hall can bring up strong feelings.

Writing lets them express feelings like anger and guilt in a healthy way.

For example, Budnick had one class read a newspaper article about a man named Steven Czifra.

He spent years behind bars as a youth.

Now, Czifra is a college student at the University of California in Berkeley.

Budnick asked his students to write poems inspired by something Czifra said: "I have a gift."

They spent about 20 minutes writing.

Budnick then asked them to read their poems aloud.

A 17-year-old named Andres shared his: "My life is a gift but also a curse / My life has a lot of truths and a lot of lies / I like this gift but I don't because sometimes I see no light / I know my life is a gift but also a curse," he reads.

Andres seemed to really benefit from the classes.

A 16-year-old boy named Antonio spent more than a year in juvenile hall.

He also took writing classes.

Antonio said Budnick's classes really helped him.

Writing lets him express his feelings.

"I'll be stressed out — I'll write about it," Antonio said.

Budnick has been trying to help in other ways, too.

In the fall, he got permission for the boys to plant small gardens.

He explained that gardening might help them.

Taking care of someone or something can help people learn how to be nicer to others.

Budnick believes that many children who end up in juvenile hall were not cared for when they were growing up.

As a result, they may not know how to care for others.

Working on a garden might help.

At least it will make the juvenile hall a little nicer.

Budnick really cares about his students.

He keeps in touch with many of them even after they leave his classes.

For many kids, it can help to know that someone cares about them.

Budnick is very different than the teens he works with.

Most came from difficult backgrounds.

And they face challenging futures.

Budnick is committed to helping.

He enjoys it.

"Interacting with the kids themselves, it's what gives me life," he said.

