Scott Budnick is a movie producer.

He spends most of his time organizing Hollywood movie projects.

A jail for teens is not where you would expect to find him.

In addition to making movies, Budnick is a volunteer teacher.

For years, he has been teaching writing classes for teens who have gotten in trouble with the law.

When children and teenagers break the law, they sometimes have to spend time behind bars in special detention centers for young people.

They are called juvenile halls, or "juvie" for short.

Many are there while they wait to go to court, then some spend years there and then go to adult prisons.

It can be a difficult place to grow up but Budnick, and volunteers like him, try to help.

Budnick's volunteer work began in 2003.

A friend told him about InsideOut Writers, a volunteer program that offers writing classes for youths in juvenile hall.

He joined the program that year.

More than 10 years later, he is still at it.

It might be hard to imagine why kids in juvenile hall would want to be in a writing class.

One reason is that they miss out on the chance to attend regular school.

Writing classes help them learn, grow and discover themselves.

Another reason is that being in juvenile hall may bring up strong feelings.

Writing can allow prisoners to express feelings like anger and guilt in a healthy way.

For example, Budnick had one class read a newspaper article about Steven Czifra.

He spent years behind bars as a youth.

Czifra is now a college student at the University of California in Berkeley.

Budnick asked his students to write poems inspired by something Czifra said: "I have a gift."

After 20 minutes, they read their poems aloud.

A 17-year-old named Andres shared his: "My life is a gift but also a curse / My life has a lot of truths and a lot of lies / I like this gift but I don't because sometimes I see no light / I know my life is a gift but also a curse," he reads.

Andres seemed to really benefit from the classes.

A 16-year-old boy named Antonio spent more than a year in juvie and took writing classes with Budnick.

He said the classes really helped him because writing lets him express his feelings.

"I'll be stressed out — I'll write about it," Antonio said.

Budnick has been trying to help in other ways, too.

In the fall, he got the teens permission to plant small gardens.

They can now grow peppers, onions, lettuce, strawberries and herbs.

He explained that caring for the plants in their garden might help youths behind bars.

Taking care of someone or something can help people learn how to be nicer to others.

Budnick thinks that many of the kids in juvenile hall were not cared for when they were growing up.

As a result, they may not know how to care for others.

Working on a garden might help.

At least it will make juvenile hall a little nicer to live in.

Budnick's efforts to help his students do not end there.

He has also been working to change some of the laws and rules that he believes are unfair to teens in juvenile hall.

In the past few years, he has taken teens who used to be in juvenile hall to meet with California state lawmakers.

In these meetings, kids can tell lawmakers what their time behind bars was like.

They can share their opinions about how the system for children should change.

These meetings have already helped lead to changes to the law.

Over the years, Budnick has kept in touch with the young men he has worked with.

Many teens are sent to state prisons when they turn 18 and are adults.

Budnick visits about 10 state prisons every year to see them.

Budnick grew up differently than the kids he works with.

Most of the kids he teaches come from difficult backgrounds and face challenging futures.

Still, Budnick is committed to helping.

He enjoys it.

"Interacting with the kids themselves, it's what gives me life," he said.

