A program in Dallas has a new approach to helping troubled youth.

When youths break the law, they enter something called the juvenile justice system.

It is a court system for people under age 18.

Some of the juveniles end up under court supervision.

Others go to jail.

Many of the juveniles in trouble are boys and many of them are black or Hispanic.

Diversion Male Court (DMC) offers kids a different path.

It serves boys of color and the people who work there are men of color.

Instead of just punishing these kids, DMC tries to help them to improve their behavior.

George Ashford is the judge at DMC.

He says the program is about more than simply telling the boys to stay out of trouble.

He and his team try to teach the boys to be caring toward others and responsible for themselves.

There is no other program like DMC in Texas, and only a few like it in the country.

Alex R. Piquero is an expert on the justice system.

He said that DMC has found an interesting way to help these teens.

"We should continue to experiment with new approaches," he noted.

The program is still relatively new.

Piquero said that DMC's approach needs to be studied over a long period of time before we will know how well it works.

One mother whose son entered DMC recently described it as "an answer to prayer."

"Him getting into trouble was real hard for me.

I need him to learn to follow the rules," she said of her son.

DMC is a multi-level program designed to help kids grow up.

The men who work there try to show each boy that they really care about him.

Ashford wears a suit and tie instead of a traditional judge's robe.

When he meets with DMC boys, he sits with them and asks about their lives.

With one boy, he discusses boxing.

With another, he talks about auto repair.

Every conversation leads to a life lesson.

DMC workers are caring, but kids also have to follow a number of rules.

Boys in the program have to be at home by 7 p.m., and DMC workers meet with them every week to see how they are doing at school.

They have to keep up with their school work and are tutored if necessary.

Dr. Terry Smith founded DMC.

When she had the idea, she shared it with Mario Love, who had been working in the juvenile justice system for years.

"I actually laughed," Love said.

He wasn't sure that the program could work.

Neither was Ashford.

"I'm happy to say I was proven wrong," Love said.

He is now a passionate supporter of the program.

Since DMC began, 143 boys have been enrolled in the program.

Overall, DMC tries to help teens build character.

Sometimes this requires adapting to the needs of each youth.

When Love learned that a 17-year-old in the program had recently become a father, parenting classes were arranged for him.

Ashford said the program can help kids who have developed bad habits and have made bad decisions to turn their lives around.

"Those cases are deeply satisfying," he observed.

One of the ways DMC is unusual has to do with race.

All of the boys who enter the program, and the men who run it, are people of color.

A big problem in black and Hispanic communities is that many youth are involved in the juvenile justice system.

By working with boys of color, DMC is trying to address this.

Smith recognizes that race can be an "uncomfortable topic."

Nevertheless, she does not think it should be ignored.

Young people of color are more likely to get in trouble with the law than white youth.

However, this does not necessarily mean that they break the law more often.

Rather, they may just be more likely to be caught and punished.

DMC believes it does not just give boys of color who get into trouble a second chance.

It gives them a chance to change and grow.

