Young people can get in a lot of trouble for breaking the law.

Sometimes, they even have to go to jail.

A program in Dallas is offering these kids a different path.

It is called the Diversion Male Court (DMC).

It helps boys of color who have broken the law.

Instead of just punishing the young men, DMC tries to help them to grow up.

George Ashford is the judge at DMC.

He and his team try to teach the boys in the program to be caring and responsible.

Ashford is unlike most judges.

He tries to get to know the kids.

He wears a suit and tie instead of a traditional judge's robe.

When he meets with DMC boys, he asks them about their lives.

With one boy, he discusses boxing.

With another, he talks about fixing cars.

These talks start small but soon, they lead to bigger life questions.

Ashland lets the teens know that he cares.

One mother whose son is at DMC described it as "an answer to prayer."

She explained that it was hard when her son got in trouble.

DMC has helped.

Alex R. Piquero studies how people who break the law are treated.

He said that DMC has found an interesting way to help kids.

"We should continue to experiment with new approaches," he said.

Piquero noted, however, that the program is new.

More study is needed before we'll know how well it works.

DMC is a multi-level program designed to help kids to grow and change.

It was founded by Dr. Terry Smith.

Her idea for DMC was unusual.

Kids who get in trouble almost always get punished.

She wanted to help them change in a different way.

She told a man named Mario Love about her idea.

Love had been working for years with kids who were in trouble with the law.

When he heard the idea, Love laughed.

He did not think it would work.

"I'm happy to say I was proven wrong," Love said.

He is now a huge supporter of the program.

Since DMC began, 143 boys have entered the program.

Ashford said the program can help kids who have developed bad habits and have done bad things to turn their lives around.

"Those cases are deeply satisfying," he observed.

It is not always easy, though.

The boys have to follow strict rules.

They have to be at home by 7 p.m. every night.

DMC workers meet with them every week to see how they are doing at school.

The kids have to keep up with their school work and are tutored if necessary.

Another way that DMC is unusual in how it deals with race.

All of the boys who enter the program are people of color.

This means that they are not white.

The people who work at DMC are all men of color as well.

The boys may feel that they can relate their lives to them better.

Young people of color tend to get in trouble with the law more often than white kids do.

There are a number of possible reasons for this.

Some argue young people of color maybe just get caught more often.

Some say that judges treat them differently as well.

By working with boys of color only, DMC is trying to help kids that may be at an unfair disadvantage.

DMC believes that the program does not just give the boys a second chance.

It gives them a chance to grow, learn and become responsible adults.

