Driving west of Wichita, Kansas, the last thing you might expect to see is a fishing oasis.

That could be why so many people who take the gentle drive up K-94 say "Oh my gosh" when the road opens to views of Bluff Creek Valley.

Many Kansans call it the prettiest public fishing hole in the state.

For hundreds of feet, the prairie falls off at steep angles sloping toward the water.

Even the area's local mule deer, known for their ability to cross difficult landscapes, find much of the area hard to reach.

The highway has sharp turns that bring vehicles into a valley studded with tall cottonwoods and feathery willows.

Across the valley stretches 300 acres of crystal clear water.

You can see a fishing lure 4 feet below the surface, as well as the fish attached to it.

"These fish are so fat, their mouths always look small," Joey Yeager, an experienced fisherman, said on a recent afternoon as he unhooked a bass he had just caught.

"I don't think I've ever seen a skinny bass in this lake."

His fishing partner on this day is Lowell Aberson, a fisheries biologist with the Kansas Department of Wildlife, Parks and Tourism.

He said its bass-fishing future may be looking better than it has in many years.

The lake was made in the 1930s through a public works program during the Great Depression, a period when many people lost jobs.

The program was called the Civilian Conservation Corps.

The Corps gave jobs to hundreds of unemployed men.

The men would work at places like Clark County to construct public areas.

They worked with limited supplies, often with little more than mules and shovels.

Paid barely more than meals and a tent, the men moved the thousands of tons of dirt and rock needed to construct the lake's dam.

More than 80 years later, the dam still holds water well.

Aberson said the lake was at its lowest during the drought-stricken summer of 2013.

That changed one summer night, when more than 7 inches of rain fell.

He said the habitat contains flooded little cottonwoods and willows that make a good nursery in which young fish can grow.

He expects to see some "tremendous" years of fishing coming soon.

The lake also has good populations of white bass, walleye and catfish.

Yeager, a 31-year-old angler, or fisherman, makes a 90-minute drive to get there, mostly for largemouths.

"It's gotten to where I kind of expect to catch a 5-pounder every time I come," he said as he launched his boat.

Aberson came along for the ride.

The men headed to a cove on the lake's western shoreline.

The first bass of the day was a chunky fish weighing nearly 2 pounds.

When Yeager and Aberson started flipping plastic lizards and crawdads into flooded vegetation, things began to happen.

Yeager soon jerked several bass aboard.

Each weighed about a pound.

Yeager did most of his fishing that afternoon in Clark's many coves and bays.

Clark has two boat ramps on both sides of the lake.

Fishermen can usually find a spot out of the wind that provides a location for casting.

Aberson said the steep valley, and many coves, are rich areas for fish.

Because of the many coves, Yeager said the area feels bigger than 300 acres.

On Tuesday afternoon, there were six boats on the lake.

Both fishermen said there are more boats out on the weekends.

Though the fishing at Clark left him a bit disappointed that day, Clark, itself, never lets him down.

In between casts he stopped to watch a kingfisher fly across the water.

He saw a pregnant whitetail doe at the back of a cove.

He gazed often at the hills and high bluffs that rise well above the lake.

He pointed toward several stems poking through the lake's surface.

By early summer, he said, they will be holding large lily pads.

Each pad will have a pink blossom.

"They'll be gorgeous.

The entire lake is gorgeous," Yeager said.

"This is the kind of lake where it's just good to be out here.

It's all just good for me when I'm here."

