Jake Betts looked every bit a cowboy as he tugged the reins of a horse named Leroy and rode up a ridge.

He wore Levi's jeans, wrapped with leather chaps, and cowboy boots with spurs.

Rope coiled off the side of his saddle and cows were in the distance, almost 1,100 head to be herded on a recent day.

And all went well until Leroy bucked and Betts fell backward onto some rocks.

The crew laughed at the aching cattleman for the rest of the day.

"I'll be fine if I can just make it through the shipping season," Betts said.

It is late July, the shipping season when cattle, or cows, are rounded up and shipped to a feedlot where they fattened up for slaughter.

Meet the modern-day cowboys and cowgirls: Betts and 10 others who saddled up and began this roundup at the first break of light.

The cows are speckled across a vast, spectacular stage.

For the last four months, the animals have munched on a thick carpet of native bluestem grasses.

And in keeping with Old West tradition, they're rounded up by men, women and children on horseback, not in the pickups that many ranchers favor.

"For 50 years — since about 1890, actually — we've been talking about the disappearing cowboy," said James F. Hoy.

He runs Emporia State University's Center for Great Plains Studies and an expert on Kansas history.

"But if you get off the interstate a ways, cowboys are still out there," Hoy said.

"They don't carry a pistol anymore in their holster.

Now, it's a cellphone."

A cellphone and intricate spreadsheets help Cliff Cole manage the ranching operations here.

A half-dozen caretakers live on 80,000 acres, about 125 square miles, owned by businessman Bill Haw, who also owns all 40,000 head of cattle with a partner.

The July roundup largely is a family affair, and three generations of the Nelson family, for example, have been herding on horseback, for decades.

Holton Nelson, 15, has been helping drive cattle since he was 4.

Older brother Nate has taken college courses on raising cows and agricultural business.

"But what we're doing now," said Nate, 25, "you're not going to learn out of a book."

The Nelsons have seen plenty of changes in the raising, feeding and shipping of beef cattle.

But the roundup remains an ancient art that can't, as most of these cowboys see it, be carried out any other way.

By cowboys, that is.

They wear long sleeves even in the heat, pointed boots rather than sneakers or work shoes, and jeans of no other color than blue.

When not herding, the cowboys brand and vaccinate the livestock and fix fences year-round.

Few get rich doing it.

"This lifestyle is the opposite of prosperity," said Cole, the operations manager.

Many of those who show for the roundup aren't getting paid, exactly.

They're neighbors and relatives willing to help so long as the favor is someday returned.

Still, the rewards to them are priceless.

They work on the distant horizons in areas so remote that few human eyes ever view them.

Jade Cole, 16, rose at 3:30 a.m. to meet her uncle Cliff Cole, the operations manager, at the edge of a dark dirt road.

Other cowboys arrive for the roundup, their pickups hauling trailers carrying horses.

Somewhere out in the hills are thousands of head of year-old beef cattle unaware they soon will be herded into 18-wheeler trucks.

Dawn reveals spots of livestock scattered across the Flint Hills vista.

The riders take their places, and their horses start at an easy trot.

"Hyah!

Hep, hep!

Tsssh!"

Each cowboy has his own command to get wandering cattle to join the parade, and all of the cattle obey.

"That's their herd mentality," says Nate Nelson.

"You get into their little bubbles of safety and they'll start moving, following each other."

A cow all by itself is a slow target for predators, so they've learned there is safety in numbers and move as one.

"Epp!

Epp!"

And now comes a tongue-rolling shriek impossible to spell.

That's Ryan Gasche directing cattle traffic.

"Ryan's a yelper," Betts acknowledges.

At 7 a.m. the horses pick up the pace.

After a mile-long march, the herd flows shoulder-to-shoulder to the top of a hill and then breaks into a jog, as if the pens are just where these cows desire to be.

Gene Ernest backs his cattle truck to the far end of a pen.

"Heah!

Yah, yah!"

he yells.

More than 70 cows ascend a ramp and pound into the trailer.

The cowboys will haul the cows 50 miles to a Kansas feedlot, then head back for more.

"I'm 51 and been doing this since I was 18," he says.

"It's the (friendship) I like.

That keeps everything going."

At the feedlot, the cattle will eat their fill, bulging from 620 pounds to 1,200 in about 30 weeks, and then it's on to the slaughterhouse.

These cowboys and cowgirls like what they do, though they don't like talking about it very much with outsiders.

Especially not to city folk whose grasp of the beef business is limited to the eating part.

"We don't like to go to town more than we have to," said Cliff Cole, 54.

"Hate to say it this way, but we don't really want to be (near) to people."

Some of the workers of the Flint Hills ranches boast of understanding cows better than people.

"You have to get them to know who you are," Shane Nelson said.

"When we ship these guys tomorrow, they'll follow this truck right out of here," he said, "yeah, a little like the Pied Piper."

Silly cows, if they knew the cowboys better, they'd know that Shane loves ribeye steak.

