A evidence shows that Kennewick Man was related to Native Americans living today, scientists said Thursday.

The discovery, reported in the journal Nature, marks the latest of many twists and turns in the saga of the ancient skeleton, which was unearthed in Washington state in 1996.

At the time, scientists were eager to study the specimen to learn more about the origins of early Americans.

But Native Americans in the Northwest opposed the research on cultural and religious grounds and sought to block it — citing a 1990 law called the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act that required Native American remains and artifacts on federal lands to be returned to their tribes.

Scientists questioned the tribes' claim on the skeleton, arguing that features of the man's skull more closely resembled those found in people from Japan and Polynesia than those of modern Native Americans.

In 2004, after nearly a decade in court, the tribes ultimately lost the dispute.

Research continued on the bones.

Ongoing studies of the cranium continued to conclude that Kennewick Man came from a different population than Native Americans.

As long ago as the 1990s, according to Morten Rasmussen, a postdoctoral researcher at the Stanford University School of Medicine and first author of the new study in Nature, scientists had tried but failed to analyze Kennewick Man's DNA.

They were able to pull off the feat now, he said, because of recent improvements in sequencing technology that make it possible — and affordable — to study DNA from ancient specimens, which often are badly degraded.

Recent carbon dating tests of Kennewick Man have revealed that he died 8,500 years ago, Rasmussen said.

Working with a tiny piece of bone from the skeleton's hand, the scientists were able to identify short sequences of Kennewick Man's DNA and compare them to corresponding sequences of DNA from genomes of people from Asia and the Americas — including DNA from two members of the Colville tribe, one of the Native American groups that had claimed the remains.

Looking at where there were similarities and where there were differences the evidence was clear, Rasmussen said: Kennewick Man "shares by far the most with other Native Americans."

The researchers tested whether the Colville tribe members might have been direct descendants of the population to which Kennewick Man belonged.

The data suggested three possible scenarios: that they were direct descendants, with some outside genes contributed when ancestors mated with different groups; that they and Kennewick Man shared an earlier common ancestor who lived around 700 years earlier than Kennewick Man; or a combination of both.

The team also revisited, and rejected, the conclusions of the earlier research on skull shape.

Harvard Medical School geneticist and ancient DNA expert David Reich, who was not involved in the research, called the new paper exciting and impressive.

"It shows convincingly that Kennewick is a member of the same broad population as most present-day Native Americans," he said, adding that he hoped more Native Americans would start donating DNA for genomic studies.

Having such genetic information would help scientists more clearly understand how ancient Native Americans relate to present-day tribes.

In a telephone call with reporters recently, study senior author Eske Willerslev of the University of Copenhagen's Centre for GeoGenetics, acknowledged some irony in the new findings.

"The reason why we can come to these conclusions is because the remains were preserved for science," he said.

Willerslev, who had been in touch with members of the Colville tribe in recent days, added that those he had spoken to "seemed pretty excited and found it very interesting."

He deflected questions about whether the new research would set off a new round of repatriation battles.

"We're just scientists putting out the result of our analysis — that's it," he said.

