Jim Chatters was the first scientist to study the Kennewick Man.

The Kennewick Man is a skeleton found in eastern Washington.

The old bones got Chatters in a bitter fight.

He said that the skeleton didn't look anything like modern Native Americans.

But this made Northwest Tribes very angry.

They consider the remains to be those of an ancestor.

They sued for the right to rebury who they call the Ancient One.

Chatters is an archaeologist.

He studies humans from the past.

Now he has studied another set of ancient bones.

But this time, he has DNA evidence that helps solve an old puzzle about the first Americans.

The findings also suggest that the tribes may have been right about Kennewick Man all along.

The new discovery comes from an underwater cave in Mexico.

Divers there found a skeleton.

It is one of the oldest, most complete human skeletons in the Americas.

Chatters wrote a paper about the skeleton with a team of experts.

They say that the skeleton is a teenage girl's.

She apparently fell into the limestone cave between 12,000 and 13,000 years ago.

Slowly rising seas flooded her cave cemetery.

The divers who found the skeleton named her "Naia."

The name is Greek for water fairy.

The young woman's skeleton reminded Chatters of Kennewick Man.

"They look a lot alike," he said.

Both skeletons have unusual features in their faces.

These are also found in people from the Pacific Rim, Australia and Africa.

[Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) look more like people from northeast Asia.

That fits with genetic studies.

These show they have a strong link to Siberians.

The first Americans are believed to have moved east into the land mass that once linked Asia and Alaska.

From there, scientists think they expanded into the Americas beginning about 17,000 years ago.

America's oldest inhabitants are called Paleo-Americans.

Their bones have a surprising appearance.

To explain why, Chatters and other scientists made a guess that the two sets of people came to the Americas at different times.

First came people from Southeast Asia or even Europe, they said.

Migrants from Siberia came later.

But DNA taken from one of Naia's teeth changed his mind.

Genetic tests show a clear link.

The girl in the cave is related to modern Native Americans.

The study is the first to make that link.

It proves there is at least one Paleo-American — Naia — who came from the same ancestors as modern Native Americans.

The earliest humans to arrive in the Americas changed the way they looked.

They did it to adapt to their new home and surroundings.

Chatters said he's been wondering about these people for 20 years.

Why did they look different from modern Native Americans?

"This is one step toward resolving that issue," he said.

The study supports the traditional view.

Naia will help scientists argue that most of the people who came to the Americas had their roots in northeast Asia.

DNA has only been taken from four sets of human remains in the Americas older than 10,000 years.

Naia's skeleton is the most complete.

Naia's bones were lying on a small ledge in the underwater cave.

The young girl probably fell through a hole into the chamber.

At that time it was above sea level, Chatters said.

Her pelvis was broken.

"I think she died almost instantly, if not instantly," he said.

Naia's tooth was shipped to Kemp's lab.

There they tried to look more closely at her DNA.

He didn't think it was going to work because the tooth was in such bad shape.

But he was wrong.

They were able to get DNA evidence about the young girl.

