A evidence shows that a famous ancient skeleton is related to Native Americans living today, scientists announced recently.

The discovery was reported in the scientific journal Nature.

It marks the latest of many twists and turns in the story of the ancient skeleton, called Kennewick Man, which was unearthed in Washington state in 1996.

At the time, scientists wanted to study the specimen to learn more about the origins of early Americans.

However, Native Americans in the Northwest opposed the research for cultural and religious reasons and tried to stop it.

They used a 1990 law called the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act to support their view.

The Act requires Native American remains and artifacts on federal lands to be returned to their tribes.

Scientists questioned the tribes' argument about the skeleton.

They said that features of the man's skull looked more like those found in people from Japan and Polynesia than those of modern Native Americans.

In 2004, after nearly 10 years in court, the tribes ultimately lost and research continued on the bones.

Studies of the cranium, or head, continued to conclude that Kennewick Man came from a different population than Native Americans.

As long ago as the 1990s scientists had tried but failed to study Kennewick Man's DNA, according to Morten Rasmussen.

He is a postdoctoral researcher at the Stanford University School of Medicine.

He was first author of the new study in Nature.

They were able to do it now because of recent improvements in technology that helps scientists determine the structure of the DNA.

The technology made it easier to study DNA from ancient specimens, which are often badly degraded.

Using carbon dating, the tests of Kennewick Man revealed that he died 8,500 years ago, Rasmussen said.

The scientists were able to identify short sections of Kennewick Man's DNA working with just a tiny piece of bone from the skeleton's hand.

They compared his DNA to sections of DNA of people from Asia and the Americas.

They also included DNA from two members of the Colville tribe.

This was one of the Native American groups that had claimed the remains.

Looking at where there were similarities and where there were differences, the evidence was clear.

Kennewick Man "shares by far the most with other Native Americans," Rasmussen said.

The researchers tested whether the Colville tribe members might have been direct descendants of the population to which Kennewick Man belonged.

The information suggested three possible scenarios: that they were direct descendants, with some outside genes contributed when ancestors mated with different groups; that they and Kennewick Man shared an earlier common ancestor who lived around 700 years before Kennewick Man; or a combination of both.

The team also revisited, and rejected, the conclusions of the earlier research on skull shape.

Harvard Medical School DNA expert David Reich called the new paper exciting and impressive.

"It shows convincingly that Kennewick is a member of the same broad population as most present-day Native Americans," he said.

He also said he hoped more Native Americans would donate DNA for studies.

More information can help scientists better understand how ancient Native Americans relate to present-day tribes.

The study's senior author, Eske Willerslev, had been in touch with members of the Colville tribe in recent days.

He said they "seemed pretty excited and found it very interesting."

He could not say whether there would be another round of repatriation claims.

