Cafes were humming with a weekend lunch crowd.

Visitors were anticipating a children's cooking competition.

Suddenly, Nairobi's Westgate Mall erupted in gunfire and explosions, sending people scurrying for safety, barricading themselves in storerooms and kitchens.

Some played dead.

At least 68 people were killed and 175 wounded Saturday in Kenya's worst terror attack in 15 years, said President Uhuru Kenyatta.

The Shabab, a Somali group, claimed responsibility, saying the attack was payback for the country's invasion of its northern neighbor two years ago.

The invasion was aimed at controlling the Islamic militants, who are linked with al-Qaida.

As Saturday night turned into Sunday, security forces were reported to have surrounded attackers still holding an unknown number of hostages in the upscale mall.

The Shabab said it was in touch with militants in the mall and rejected negotiations to free the hostages.

"The Kenyan government is pleading with our mujahedeen inside the mall for negotiations," it said in a Twitter message.

"There will be no negotiations whatsoever at Westgate."

The Twitter account was suspended shortly afterwards.

Witnesses who escaped the mayhem said gunmen fired at people from an upper floor, and terrified shoppers scrambled out of the building, some crawling on their hands and knees.

The attack left pools of blood, bodies, discarded shoes, broken glass and spent bullet casings.

Among the dead were two Canadians, including a diplomat, and two French citizens, officials of those countries said.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said there were no reports of Americans being killed, but the wife of an employee of the U.S. Agency for International Development had died.

Four Americans were reported injured.

Kenyatta's own nephew was killed, as was his nephew's fiancee.

Military and police helicopters flew over the shopping mall as ambulances rushed victims to nearby hospitals.

The Kenyan army and special forces were called in to reinforce police.

Kenya's Citizen TV aired footage of victims arriving by ambulance at hospitals, including some who had been shot in the head and others covered in blood but walking.

It was unclear how many attackers there were.

Kenyan media reported that two suspects had been killed by police or special forces.

The masked gunmen, said to have entered the mall through a cafe on a veranda, reportedly let Muslims go and targeted non-Muslims.

Umar Ahmed, an 18-year-old who was injured by a grenade, told Kenyan television he was in the rooftop parking area when he heard shooting and screams.

He tried to flee, but a gunman saw him and threw a grenade toward him.

"I tried to run down the stairs and saw someone running towards the top," Umar said.

"I ran back and hid behind one of the cars."

He said he played dead.

A gunman turned him over to make sure he wasn't alive, and left him lying there.

One man told the BBC he had hidden in a storeroom before being beckoned by restaurant staff into a kitchen, where a group of people had sought safety, barricading the doors with giant refrigerators.

Another witness told Citizen TV that he saw a foreign gunman change clothes into a maroon shirt and jeans and mingle with people escaping the mall.

He said he warned police, who took no action.

Cafe employee Patricia Kuria told reporters she saw two gunmen wearing black turbans.

For many Kenyans, the assault recalled al-Qaida's 1998 attack on the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi, which killed more than 200 people — most of them Kenyans.

Like previous terrorist attacks in Kenya, the assault is likely to severely affect the tourist trade, which is vital to the country's economy.

Kenya has long been concerned with the chaos across its northern border.

Somalia has not had a functioning central government for most of the last 20 years.

The instability has created a flow of refugees into Kenya.

It has also sparked piracy in the Indian Ocean, and threatens to spread Islamic militancy to Kenya.

Although the Shabab is linked to al-Qaida, it has focused narrowly on Somalia rather than a global, anti-Western agenda.

Militants have been pushed out of the Somali capital by an African Union force and the country's weak government, but they have conducted a number of high-profile bombing and shooting attacks in Mogadishu.

The group launched its first attack outside Somalia's borders in 2010, when two bombings in Uganda killed 76 people who were watching the World Cup soccer finals at a restaurant and rugby club.

It said the bombings were to punish Uganda for taking part in the African Union mission.

Kenyatta said in his television address that the military and police operation at the mall was "delicate" because the main priority was to save the lives of hostages.

He vowed that the gunmen would be caught and punished.

"We have overcome terrorist attacks before," he said.

"We have fought courageously and defeated them in and outside our borders.

We will defeat them again."

He added, "I urge all Kenyans to stand together and see this dark moment through."

Kenyans posted condolences and sympathy messages on social networks — and angry messages to the Shabab's Twitter feed before it was suspended.

Kenyan Secretary for Foreign Affairs Amina Mohamed condemned the attack as "inhumane and vicious," and aimed at "destroying our democratic values and our way of life."

