Scientists using the Kepler Space Telescope have found 715 planets outside of our solar system.

That doubles the number of planets scientists know about to around 1,700.

Nearly all of the new planets are smaller than Neptune.

Neptune is four times larger than Earth.

The 715 planets huddle around just 305 stars.

Four of them are at the right distance from their stars to support life.

When planets are too close to their star it's too hot for life to exist.

Too far away and conditions are too cold for life.

The four planets are close enough to their stars that liquid water could remain stable.

Water is necessary for life as we know it.

The telescope stopped working last year.

Yet before this happened the spacecraft turned up these strange and wonderful worlds.

This may bring us closer to finding another planet like Earth.

But, these planets are hundreds of light-years away.

So, it will be difficult to find out if there are other planets with life on them.

The scientists have delivered "more than 20 times as many planets as have ever been found and announced at once," said Jack Lissauer.

He's a planetary scientist at NASA.

It's the U.S. space agency that operates the Kepler telescope.

Before this, only about 1,000 planets had ever been found outside our solar system.

Those planets were found over the past 20 years.

Most of the new planets Kepler found are small.

All of them are in solar systems with several other planets, like our own.

The scientists found five times as many Earth-sized planets as were known about.

Super-Earths (larger than Earth but smaller than Neptune) increased by six times.

Neptune-sized planets went up by three times.

However, the number of Jupiter-sized worlds barely rose.

The Kepler mission has found 3,601 possible planets.

But, only 246 had been been definitely known to be planets.

Now, 715 more have been confirmed as planets.

Most of the first planets that Kepler found were big and filled with gas, like Jupiter.

The small planets Kepler found are more likely to support life.

They are in the right size range.

They are also the right distance from the star they orbit.

Kepler looks for planets by searching for tiny shadows.

Planets circle around their home stars in an orbit.

When they pass in front of their star, less light can be seen from the star.

Scientists make sure the dips in light are really from a planet.

Instead, Kepler might be picking up drops in light when two stars block each other.

Scientists used a new way of finding these 715 planets.

Planets seem to cluster in systems with other planets.

Stars don't usually orbit each other.

So, two stars blocking each other is unlikely.

The new method found that several planets orbiting around a single star is common.

That is just like in our own solar system.

It doesn't happen by chance, Lissauer said.

He said the new method could lead to finding new planets on a large scale.

Many planets have also been discovered with another method.

Scientists sometimes look for the gravitational pull of a planet on its star.

"I'm super excited about this," said Sara Seager.

She's a planetary scientist.

The findings will help scientists understand our own solar system, she said.

For example, many of these solar systems seem to have several planets clustered in a small orbit around their star.

The orbits Kepler found are smaller than the orbits of Venus or Mercury around our sun.

So, why are the planets closest to the sun in our solar system spread out?

The findings will also shed light on strange planets like mini-Neptunes.

These are planets with a rocky core and an atmosphere filled with gas.

No mini-Neptunes are found in our solar system.

Scientists hope the findings will help them find Earth-sized, possibly Earth-like, planets.

"Nature wants to make small planets," Seager said.

