Using a brand-new method, scientists using NASA's Kepler Space Telescope have found 715 new planets outside our solar system.

It doubles the overall number of planets ever found to about 1,700.

Nearly 95 percent of the new planets are smaller than Neptune.

The 715 planets huddle around 305 stars.

Four of them are in a zone at the right distance from their stars to possibly support life.

When planets are found too close to their star it's too hot for life to exist.

Too far away and conditions are too cold for life.

The planets are in a region where temperatures make liquid water — necessary for life as we know it — able to exist.

The telescope's ability to point was crippled last year.

Yet before this happened the spacecraft turned up a trove of strange and wonderful worlds, scientists said.

This could bring them ever closer to finding a planet like Earth.

The scientists have delivered "more than 20 times as many planets as have ever been found and announced at once," said Jack Lissauer.

He's a planetary scientist at NASA, the U.S. space agency.

The research covers the first two years of information after Kepler's 2009 launch.

It has turned up a bounty of smaller planets — and all in solar systems with several planets.

The findings increased the number of Earth-sized planets by 400 percent.

Super-Earths (larger than Earth but smaller than Neptune) increased by 500 percent.

Neptune-sized planets went up by 200 percent.

However, the number of Jupiter-sized worlds increased by just 2 percent.

Kepler's first finds were huge gas giants like Jupiter.

This new haul featured planets that are in the right size range to possibly host life as we know it.

It will certainly have effects "for any mission that finds planets," said Kepler project scientist Steve Howell.

Kepler finds planets by searching for the tiny shadows planets cast as they pass in front of their home stars.

This mission collected about four years of information before the spacecraft stopped functioning properly.

The Kepler mission has found 3,601 possible planets.

Only 246 had been previously confirmed.

It takes a lot of extra work to ensure that the dips in light that Kepler picks up really are from a planet.

Instead, Kepler might be picking up drops in light caused by two stars blocking each other.

Scientists used a new method to find and confirm these 715 planets.

It relies on the idea that planets seem to cluster in systems with other planets.

The method found that several planets orbiting around a single star is common.

That is just like in our own solar system.

It doesn't happen by chance, Lissauer said.

He calling the new method "a powerful technique" for verifying new planets on a large scale.

Scientists were able to design a method that focused on these multiplanet systems.

It is difficult for stars to orbit each other.

This allowed scientists to often rule out that two stars were blocking each other.

This resulted in the largest single haul of exoplanets (planets found outside our solar system) since the first one was discovered in the 1990s.

The haul nearly quadruples the number of planets found with Kepler (from 246 to 961).

Many exoplanets have also been discovered by looking for the gravitational influence of a planet on its star.

"I'm super excited about this," said Sara Seager, a planetary scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

She was not involved in the Kepler project.

The multiplanet systems will help scientists understand our own solar system, she said.

For example, many of these systems seem to have several planets clustered in an orbit smaller than Venus, or even Mercury, around our sun.

It raises the question: Why are the planets closest to the sun in our solar system fairly spread out?

The findings will also shed light on strange planets like mini-Neptunes.

These are planets with rocky cores and atmospheres filled with gasses.

No similar planets are found in our own solar system.

Scientists hope the findings will sharpen their search for Earth-sized, possibly Earth-like, planets.

"Nature wants to make small planets," Seager said.

