Over the next two years the United States will take in many more refugees than previously planned.

Secretary of State John Kerry announced the change on Sunday.

The increase is largely a response to the growing Syrian refugee crisis.

Though the boost in numbers is significant, it falls far short of what many activists and former U.S. government officials have called for.

The United States will accept 85,000 migrants from around the world next year, up from the 70,000 now permitted.

By 2017 the total for the year will rise to 100,000.

Kerry made the announcement during a news conference with German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier.

The two had met to discuss the mass migration of Syrians fleeing their civil war.

Most of the additional migrants would be Syrian.

Others would come from strife-torn areas of Africa.

Many people think the increase is not large enough.

Asked why the United States could not take more, Kerry cited both the need to carefully screen out possible terrorists and a lack of money made available by Congress.

"We're doing what we know we can manage immediately," he said.

U.S. lawmakers immediately expressed concerns about the wave of new arrivals.

The Islamic State group and other extremist organizations "have made it abundantly clear that they will use the refugee crisis to try to enter the United States," Senator Chuck Grassley and Congressman Bob Goodlatte said in a statement.

"Now the Obama administration wants to bring in an additional 10,000 Syrians."

The increase comes without "a concrete and foolproof plan to ensure that terrorists won't be able to enter the country," the two lawmakers said.

"The administration has essentially given the American people a 'trust me.'

That isn't good enough," they said.

Conditions in Syria have been growing increasingly worse as the country's civil war grinds on.

As many as 9 million people have been displaced, including more than 4 million who have fled the country.

Several former Obama administration officials have urged the U.S. government to accept 100,000 Syrian migrants, and to put in place special rules to speed the resettlement process.

Germany says it will accept as many as a million Syrians this year.

The newly announced increase falls far short of those numbers.

However, there will still be a significant jump in the number of Syrian migrants coming to the United States.

The new arrivals will be screened by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, to make sure they have no terrorist connections, then resettled around the country.

"This step is in keeping with America's best tradition as a land of second chances and a beacon of hope," Kerry said.

Earlier in the day, he and Steinmeier met with a group of Syrian refugees.

The Syrians said the uptick in migration five years into the civil war was being driven by a collapse of hope that the situation ever will improve.

"I personally came here in search of a future," a Syrian woman said.

She said her 5-year-old daughter had come to Germany with her but that her two other children were still in Syria with her parents.

She hopes they all can leave, too.

The Obama administration does not need Congressional approval to expand the number of refugees accepted each year.

However, Congress does have the power to block the release of money needed to pay for the increased resettlement.

Some lawmakers have expressed concerns that Islamic State fighters could slip into the U.S. posing as refugees.

In 2011, two Kentucky residents who had been resettled as Iraqi refugees were accused of being members of the al-Qaida terrorist group.

The two were convicted of terrorism charges after their fingerprints were linked to roadside bombs in Iraq.

Their case led to new steps in the process used to screen refugees.

Since then, the process has been criticized as too slow and too rigid.

So far the United States has taken in only 1,500 Syrians since the start of the war.

Even if as many as 30,000 more were admitted over the next two years, that number would be far less than the hundreds of thousands Germany is expected to accept.

In Washington, Democratic presidential candidate and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said in a television interview that the United States "has to do more."

She said she would "like to see us move from what is a good start with 10,000 to 65,000."

Clinton added that the goal should be to identify those Syrians who are most at risk, and to try to admit them first.

Kerry said the refugee crisis can be solved only by ending Syria's civil war.

For that to happen, he said, President Bashar Assad will have to be replaced.

