President Barack Obama announced Friday that he was rejecting the controversial Keystone XL oil pipeline project.

The project was conceived as a way to bring large quantities of Canadian crude oil into the United States.

It has been a controversial idea because the oil the pipeline would deliver is extracted from tar sands.

Many people believe the methods of extracting the oil from the sand are highly damaging to the environment and that in any case, the United States should be moving away from its dependence on oil.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20151106_Keystone_pipeline.png) Obama said the project would not serve U.S. interests.

He dismissed the pipeline's potential benefits in creating jobs and helping the overall economy as insignificant in the long run.

The president said he hoped his decision would close a long-running chapter in the political fight over global warming.

"For years, the Keystone pipeline has occupied what I frankly consider an overinflated role" in U.S. politics, Obama told reporters at the White House.

"It became a symbol too often used as a campaign cudgel by both parties rather than a serious policy matter."

The pipeline project was conceived nearly a decade ago.

Its goal was to carry more than 800,000 barrels of crude oil a day from Canada to U.S. Gulf Coast refineries, a shortcut intended to bring it to market more quickly.

Over time, however, it grew into a political symbol: for opponents, of energy interests run amok, and for backers, of the overreach of environmental advocates.

Opponents have long warned about the negative effects of tar sands oil mining on wildlife and people.

Construction of the pipeline would lock the United States into dependence on an oil that is destructive and hard to extract, foes said.

Supporters, meanwhile, argued in favor of the economic benefits.

They pointed to the jobs the construction of the pipeline would create as well as to the stream of North American oil as an important alternative to oil from the Middle East.

However, a State Department study found that the pipeline would create only about 35 permanent jobs after construction was complete.

In addition, fluctuating oil prices affect the economics of tar sands oil, which is difficult and costly to extract.

At various times over the past year, the price of oil dropped below the point that would allow Keystone investors to make any profit.

The years of fighting obscured the fact that Keystone was perhaps not as significant as it was made out to be.

The pipeline, Obama said, would "neither be a silver bullet for the economy, as was promised by some, nor the express lane to climate disaster proclaimed by others."

The president's announcement came days after TransCanada, the company building the pipeline, asked that its permit application be put on hold while a legal challenge to the project played out in Nebraska.

It had become increasingly clear in recent months that Obama would probably reject the pipeline.

TransCanada's request was widely seen as a way to buy time until a possibly friendlier new president moved into the White House after the 2016 elections.

Environmentalists "are well aware that the next president could undo all this, but this is a day of celebration," said Bill McKibben, co-founder of the environmental group 350.org.

Even as he dismissed the project's potential impact, Obama still argued that rejecting it makes an important statement about the U.S. commitment to fighting climate change.

Scientists say fossil fuels like oil are the major cause of global warming.

As a result, many environmental activists support a switch to cleaner sources of energy.

"We are continuing to lead by example," Obama said.

If world leaders are going to protect the environment, he said, "we're going to have to keep some fossil fuels in the ground rather than burn them."

A major international climate summit will be taking place in Paris next month.

Obama and other world leaders are expected to agree on significant new efforts to curb global warming during that meeting.

Such efforts would seemingly have to involve reductions in fossil fuel use.

"America," the president said, "is going to hold ourselves to the same high standards to which we hold the rest of the world."

Because the pipeline would cross a U.S. border, State Department officials were in charge of the review of the project.

For months, the agency had been gathering comments from the public.

However, the project had become so highly politicized that the decision about whether to clear or derail it was under consideration at the highest levels of the Obama administration.

Obama said he explained his decision earlier Friday to Justin Trudeau, Canada's prime minister.

Trudeau supports the pipeline but pledges oversight of its environmental impact.

Obama's decision swiftly drew a wide range of reactions.

Leading environmentalists pointed to the effectiveness of the opposition they organized.

"The power of the American people decisively beat out the fossil fuel special interests," said Tom Steyer, a California billionaire.

Steyer has poured tens of millions of dollars into fighting climate change.

"The D.C. establishment once called this pipeline a done deal, but a movement emerged that refused to accept" such an outcome.

Pipeline backers and political opponents said Obama gave in to the wishes of environmentalists.

"Obama today demonstrated that he cares more about kowtowing to green-collar elitists than he does about creating desperately needed, family supporting, blue-collar jobs," union leader Terry O'Sullivan said.

He represents the type of workers who might have built the Keystone.

House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy, Republican of California, called the long wait for a decision "troubling."

The president's "approach to this process" and his final decision reveal "a lack of leadership when facing tough issues," McCarthy said.

