Martin Luther King Jr. was in the hospital when he learned he won the Nobel Peace Prize 50 years ago this week.

The civil rights leader who fought for equality for black people had just returned to Atlanta.

He looked so ill that his wife, Coretta Scott King, took him to the hospital.

The doctor lectured King about eating unhealthy fried foods.

The doctor also told him that he was run-down, overweight and sick.

His wife called his hospital room the next morning, on Oct. 14, 1964, to tell him he had won the Nobel Peace Prize.

King thought he was dreaming.

"It was a shock," said Ambassador Andrew Young.

Young is a civil rights leader and was one of King's closest friends.

He didn't think King even knew he was being considered for the prize.

King, who was 35 years old, was the second African-American to win the peace prize.

At the time, he was also the youngest person to win.

King fought for equality for black people in the United States.

During that time, it was against the law for black children to go to school with white children and blacks were forced to sit at the back of buses.

In 1955, King led the Montgomery, Alabama, bus boycott after Rosa Parks, a black woman, refused to give up her seat to a white person.

The boycott was a protest where people stopped riding the buses, which cost the city a lot of money.

The prize wasn't just a turning point for King and the civil rights movement, but also for Atlanta.

Some say it changed the city in a very basic way.

It brought blacks and whites together for the first time in Atlanta to share a meal in public.

A dinner banquet in the new Nobel laureate's honor might seem like a simple thing.

Yet, it was controversial to those determined to make Atlanta a more just and equal place.

After King won the prize, the first question became how to honor a black man?

The problem was that the races did not mix at that time.

Some people in the black community wanted to give him a dinner at an Atlanta restaurant, where civil rights leaders would meet.

However, Young said it was important that the entire city celebrate King's Nobel Prize.

A group of important Atlanta residents decided to hold a huge banquet for the entire city at the Dinkler Plaza Hotel.

Two years earlier, the hotel had refused to give a room to Ralph Bunche, the first African-American Nobel Peace Prize winner.

Sam Massell, the current mayor of Atlanta, remembered it as an "apprehensive, anxious period."

Even after the dinner had been announced and a date set, no one bought tickets.

Atlanta's powerful business community refused go along with the idea of blacks and whites having dinner together in public.

On Dec. 16, six days after King had received the Nobel Peace Prize in Norway, the banquet organizers sent a letter to the Coca-Cola Company, which is in Atlanta.

J. Paul Austin, chairman of Coca-Cola, said that it was embarrassing for Coca-Cola to be located in a city that refuses to honor its Nobel Prize winner.

He threatened to move the company out of Atlanta.

Two hours later, every ticket was sold.

On the night of Jan. 27, 1965, about 1,500 people — black and white — packed the Dinkler's ballroom to greet King.

"It was a great and delicate moment," said Samuel DuBois Cook, a college classmate of King.

"Because of the race issue, it could have been very explosive," he said.

"It was a turning point, without question."

Today, 50 years later, King's Nobel Prize is in the news again.

In December, King's three children will appear before a judge, who will decide if their father's gold Nobel medal and Bible should be sold.

His two sons want to sell the personal objects, while his daughter does not.

