Many of Mary Visconti's students grow up in poor neighborhoods.

Crime is high, and many people never finish high school.

Four years ago, Visconti figured out an unusual way to keep kids safe.

She got shops to give her yarn and knitting needles.

She hired an art teacher to teach them to knit.

Soon, a new program called KnitLAB was started.

The neighborhoods can be a difficult place to grow up, Visconti said.

She is the head of the Better Boys Foundation.

The group helps boys and girls in poor neighborhoods through after-school programs like KnitLAB.

It also helps them find money for college.

"I thought that knitting would offer some peace and quiet.

It's a refuge where students can create things together and be peaceful, calm and safe."

The teenage knitters, Visconti said, have built a little community.

They have become a tight-knit group.

"At first, it hurt my hands a little bit," said Ariana Trimuel, age 15, one of the members of KnitLAB.

"My friends think it's pretty cool, and they're always asking me to make scarves for them.

It makes me feel really good to be able to do that."

Shukurieya McClennon, age 13, is another knitter.

She said the program has helped her develop her own sense of style.

"I don't have to buy things anymore," she said.

"I can just make them."

Knitting, she said, has made her open to new ideas.

KnitLAB works like a small business.

Students are paid small salaries.

They make $325 each for 10 weeks of knitting.

They make products ranging from hat and scarf sets to rugs and quilts.

They can keep one item each, and the rest are sold.

The after-school program's last sale brought in $500, Visconti said.

Ana Spencer, who is in charge of KnitLAB, treats the students like workers.

If they call in sick one day, they must make up the time.

She said the program teaches them that they can finish what they start and reach their goals.

"It's about being proud of yourself when you've finished something," Spencer said.

The teens live in a world where everything is instant.

Knitting teaches them patience.

"They're on their phones, they're texting and instantly getting a response," she said.

"With knitting, it can take weeks to finish a single project."

The lab has about 15 kids in each 10-week session.

Students have learned to dye yarn bright colors with Kool-Aid and weave rugs with strips of old T-shirts.

They also "knit bomb."

They knit around objects like chairs and bike racks.

On a gloomy day last month, the students gathered around a table in the KnitLAB to make scarves.

The room was small.

Boxes of yarn in a rainbow of colors crowded a huge bookshelf.

Knitting needles were stuffed in vases and cups.

Akenna Mack, age 13, laid magenta and orange fibers on a strip of plastic.

Artreuna Dotson, 14, rearranged the colors.

Then she sprayed them to fix the design.

"I thought this would probably be boring at first," Akenna said.

"You think of a grandma sitting in her front room knitting with all her cats."

"Yeah, we all love it here," Artreuna added.

It is not just girls who knit.

Michael King, now 13, learned to sew when he was 11.

"I really like it," said Michael, knitting a skinny yellow scarf.

"For knitting you have to be focused."

