Four years ago, Mary Visconti figured out an unusual way to keep her students out of trouble.

The Chicago neighborhoods where many of her students grow up are poor and crime rates are high.

In North Lawndale, where the program is located, nearly 40 percent of the residents live in poverty, and 30 percent do not graduate from high school, according to the 2010 U.S. census, a count by the government of the number of people in the country, how they live, and what they do.

Visconti is the CEO of the Better Boys Foundation, an organization that helps boys and girls through after-school programs and college scholarships.

She saw the dismal data on poverty and graduation rates.

She decided to combat it with something radically different — knitting.

"Our neighborhood can be chaotic," Visconti said.

"It's a hard space to move around in as a young person.

I thought that knitting would offer some peace and quiet.

It's a refuge where students can create things together and be peaceful, calm and safe."

Visconti rounded up donated skeins of yarn and plastic knitting needles and hired an art teacher.

Voila!

KnitLAB was born.

Once the kids learned to use the needles, "they really picked it up," Visconti said.

"Part of our logic behind the lab was that they would form a community."

The knitters, she said, have become a tight-knit group.

"At first, it hurt my hands a little bit," said Ariana Trimuel, 15, who added that she has gotten used to it.

"My friends think it's pretty cool, and they're always asking me to make scarves for them.

It makes me feel really good to be able to do that."

Shukurieya McClennon, 13, said it helped her develop her own sense of style.

"I don't have to buy things anymore," she said.

"I can just make them."

Knitting, she said, also forced her to be open to other ideas.

KnitLAB operates like a small business.

Students are paid small salaries, $325 for each 10-week session.

They are paid to create products ranging from hat and scarf sets to rugs and quilts.

Students can keep one item each; the rest are sold.

The KnitLAB program's last winter sale brought in $500, Visconti said.

Ana Spencer, who is in charge of KnitLAB, calls the students her "employees" and treats them like employees.

If they call in sick one day, they make up the time.

She said the program helps the students learn life skills.

It gives them the knowledge that they can finish what they start and reach their goals.

"It's about being proud of yourself when you've finished something and seeing it come to life in your hands," Spencer said.

"They're in a generation now where everything is instant.

They're on their phones, they're texting and instantly getting a response.

With knitting, it can take weeks to finish a single project."

The lab has about 15 kids enrolled in each session.

Students have learned to dye yarn lively colors with Kool-Aid, weave rugs with strips of ratty old T-shirts and "knit bomb" — knit around objects like chairs, handrails and bike racks.

On a gloomy day last month, the students clustered around a folding table in the KnitLAB to create scarves.

The room was small, and boxes of donated yarn in a rainbow of colors crowded a massive bookshelf.

Knitting needles were stuffed haphazardly in vases and cups.

Akenna Mack, 13, laid wispy strands of magenta and orange fibers on a strip of plastic.

Artreuna Dotson, 14, rearranged the colors with long, nimble fingers and sprayed them with a soapy solution to set the design.

"I thought this would probably be boring at first," Akenna said, smoothing a flyaway fiber.

"You think of a grandma sitting in her front room knitting with all her cats.

You get the hang of it and it's really fun."

"Yeah, we all love it here," Artreuna added.

"I like that we can make stuff.

The fact that I could be wearing or using something that I actually made myself is a good feeling."

Willow Messier is an art therapist at Ann & Robert H. Lurie Children's Hospital of Chicago.

She said crafts like knitting are important for teens as they explore their identity.

"It gives you that sense of control and mastery of what you're doing," Messier said.

"For kids from a challenging situation, it can bring a sense of grounding that they can take home with them."

Boys are knitting, too.

At KnitLAB, Michael King, 13, said his mother taught him to use a needle and thread so he could mend his much loved teddy bears.

"I really like it," said Michael, knitting a skinny mustard yellow scarf.

"For knitting, you have to be focused."

