The neighborhoods where Mary Visconti's students grow up are poor and crime rates are especially high.

Four years ago, Mary Visconti figured out an unusual way to keep her students out of trouble.

She decided they needed to learn how to knit.

The inner-city neighborhoods can be difficult places to grow up, said Visconti, the head of the Better Boys Foundation.

Her group helps at-risk boys and girls through after-school programs and college scholarships.

"It's a hard space to move around in as a young person.

I thought that knitting would offer some peace and quiet.

It's a refuge where students can create things together and be peaceful, calm and safe."

Visconti rounded up donated yarn and plastic knitting needles, and hired an art teacher.

KnitLAB was born.

Once the kids got over the difficulty of learning to use knitting needles, "they really picked it up," Visconti said.

Part of the program's goal was to create a community.

The knitters, she said, have become a tight-knit group.

"At first, it hurt my hands a little bit," said Ariana Trimuel, 15, one of the members of KnitLAB.

"My friends think it's pretty cool, and they're always asking me to make scarves for them.

It makes me feel really good to be able to do that."

Shukurieya McClennon, 13, said it has helped her develop her own sense of style.

"I don't have to buy things anymore," she said.

"I can just make them."

Knitting, she said, has forced her to be open to other ideas.

KnitLAB operates like a small business.

Students are paid salaries of $325 each over 10-week sessions to create products ranging from hat and scarf sets to rugs and quilts.

They are allowed to keep one item each, and the rest are sold.

The after-school program's last winter sale brought in $500, Visconti said.

Ana Spencer, who is in charge of the program, calls the students her "employees."

If they call in sick one day, they must make up the time.

She said the program teaches that they can finish what they start and reach their goals.

"It's about being proud of yourself when you've finished something and seeing it come to life in your hands," Spencer said.

"They're in a generation now where everything is instant.

They're on their phones, they're texting and instantly getting a response.

With knitting, it can take weeks to finish a single project."

The lab has about 15 kids enrolled in each 10-week session.

Students have learned to dye yarn bright colors with Kool-Aid and weave rugs with strips of old T-shirts.

They also "knit bomb" — knitting around objects like chairs, handrails and bike racks.

On a gloomy day last month, the students clustered around a folding table in the KnitLAB to create scarves.

The room was small.

Boxes of yarn in a rainbow of colors crowded a huge bookshelf.

Knitting needles were stuffed in vases and cups.

Akenna Mack, 13, laid strands of magenta and orange fibers on a strip of plastic.

Artreuna Dotson, 14, rearranged the colors and sprayed them with a soapy solution, setting the design.

"I thought this would probably be boring at first," Akenna said, smoothing a flyaway fiber.

"You think of a grandma sitting in her front room knitting with all her cats.

You get the hang of it and it's really fun."

"Yeah, we all love it here," Artreuna added.

"The fact that I could be wearing or using something that I actually made myself is a good feeling."

At KnitLAB, the kids joke that the smartest boys sign up for knitting.

They're surrounded by girls.

Michael King, 13, said his mother taught him to sew so he could mend his teddy bears.

"I really like it," said Michael, knitting a skinny mustard yellow scarf.

"For knitting, you have to be focused."

