When Olivia Hernandez was in middle school, she became hooked on K-wave — the global phenomenon of South Korean pop music, television and culture.

Inspired by the romantic series "My Lovely Sam Soon" and bands like Clazziquai, she taught herself the Korean alphabet and learned a few phrases.

This year, as a student at the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA), Hernandez jumped at the chance to take a beginning Korean language class.

She and other students are learning grammar basics and the proper way to address elders and bosses.

As a sweetener, the class usually watches a Korean rock music video.

Once, Hernandez might have appreciated it only for its tunes and production values.

"Now I understand what they are saying.

Now it makes sense," said Hernandez, a psychology major who wants to use her Korean language skills when she becomes a therapist.

According to a recent national study, enrollment in Korean language courses at U.S. colleges and universities is growing faster than any other foreign language.

The Modern Language Association reported that Korean language enrollment rose 45 percent from 2009 to 2013.

Overall, language studies declined 6.7 percent during that same period, and interest dropped in many popular languages, including Spanish, French and German.

The number of students in Korean classes nationwide is 12,230 — well below the most studied languages, including Japanese, Chinese and Arabic.

Currently, just 154 colleges offer Korean classes, but that is 70 percent more than a decade ago.

"There's no doubt that Korean popular culture in film and music has captivated the minds of young people," said Rosemary Feal.

She is the executive director of the Modern Language Association.

Feal attributed the dip in overall foreign language studies to campus budget cutbacks and the pressure on students to focus on career-oriented classes.

Students are taking science and business classes, at the expense of humanities like history and philosophy.

However, "knowledge of a second language often is helpful in many positions and translates into increased salary," Feal said.

According to university officials, some of the interest in Korean is coming from the children and grandchildren of Korean immigrants.

But non-Koreans fascinated with K-wave are driving the trend.

Some were drawn by the K-wave dance moves of Psy in his 2012 international video hit "Gangnam Style" or by the English-subtitled TV series "Queen of Housewives."

Others are interested in working at Korean corporations after graduation.

At UCLA, enrollment is up significantly in both in both beginners' courses and in so-called heritage classes.

Heritage courses are tailored to Korean-Americans who have some knowledge of the language but often do not have a good handle on the grammar.

Professors report waiting lists of students who want to take Korean.

Los Angeles "is a great place to study Korean," said UCLA humanities dean David Schaberg, who is a Chinese language and literature scholar.

Students can practice speaking with Korean-American friends and visit Korean institutions, restaurants and stores in Koreatown and other parts of Los Angeles.

In a recent heritage class, lecturer Jane Choi ran the 18 students through some of the complicated ways to address people politely, called honorifics, by using illustrations from the "Calvin and Hobbes" comic strip.

The examples showed the status differences between teachers and children.

The class also did vocabulary drills on modes of transportation and how to answer the phone.

Andrew Hahn, a senior at UCLA, said his first language at home was Korean but that he did not get much beyond a childhood level.

He became better in Spanish, which he studied in high school.

"As a Korean-American, it is only right to learn my native tongue and become comfortable with it.

And it is a way to connect back with the culture," said Hahn, a political science major in the heritage class.

Learning sentence structure, pronunciation and vocabulary, he said, also will help him in what he hopes will be a career in law.

In a recent beginning class, a music video of K-wave duo Akdong Musician helped ease students into a grammar lesson.

Among the exercises were sentences with contrasts, which instructor Jae Eun Im wrote on the board and the class repeated aloud.

They included Korean translations of "The food is cheap but it doesn't taste good" and "It is winter but it is not cold."

Non-Korean students say that learning the alphabet is relatively easy but mastering honorifics and pronouncing some consonants can be difficult.

Freshman Michelle King grew up in Salinas, California, not knowing anyone whose family was Korean.

She became a fan of such K-wave groups as the boy band Super Junior and the group Big Bang.

"It was so enticing, so different from American pop culture," she said.

Now majoring in linguistics and East Asian languages, she said she hopes to become fluent in Korean.

She and other members of a campus club of K-wave fans recently visited Koreatown.

They shopped at a music store, ate at a Korean restaurant and sang along to Korean music at a karaoke club.

Although it is still hard for King to read Korean song lyrics fast enough, she is learning another important lesson.

Learning another language, King said, "breaks down barriers between people and teaches them to look beyond surface level."

