Fewer students are taking language classes like French, Spanish or German in college.

One language, though, is becoming more and more popular.

More students are signing up to learn Korean.

Korean pop music, movies and television are popular in the United States.

Americans are listening to Korean music and watching Korean movies and shows.

The shows and music are part of a trend called K-wave.

When Olivia Hernandez was in middle school, she became a fan of K-wave.

Now Hernandez is in college.

She jumped at the chance to learn Korean in school.

To make class more fun, her teacher usually shows a Korean music video.

Once, Hernandez might have liked it only for the melody and dancing.

"Now I understand what they are saying.

Now it makes sense," said Hernandez.

She goes to the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA).

Hernandez wants to use her  Korean language skills after she graduates from college.

Recently, a group called the Modern Language Association did a study.

It found that fewer college students are learning foreign languages.

There is less interest in many popular languages like Spanish, French and German.

Yet, more people want to learn Korean.

A total of 12,230 students take Korean across the country.

Korean is still far from the most popular foreign language.

Many more students take Japanese, Chinese and Arabic.

Right now, just 154 colleges teach Korean.

Still, that is way more than in the past.

Ten years ago, less than 100 colleges had Korean classes.

Rosemary Feal is in charge of the Modern Language Association.

She has no doubt that K-wave is behind the popularity of Korean language classes.

Speaking a second language is often helpful, Feal said.

People who know foreign languages, for instance, may earn more money.

Children and grandchildren of people from Korea have become interested in learning Korean.

It is non-Koreans, though, who are adding to the signups for Korean language classes.

Some became interested in K-wave singer Psy and his 2012 hit "Gangnam Style."

Others are big fans of the Korean TV series "Queen of Housewives."

Also some students want to work at Korean companies one day.

At UCLA, Korean classes are popular.

The college offers two kinds of classes.

There is a beginner class.

There is also a "heritage" class for Korean-Americans who already know a little Korean.

Professors say both classes have waiting lists.

Andrew Hahn is a student.

He said his first language at home was Korean.

He still does not speak it very well.

As a Korean-American, Hahn wants to learn the language his family speaks.

He wants to become comfortable with Korean.

"It is a way to connect back with the culture," said Hahn.

Non-Korean students say that learning the Korean alphabet is easy.

Pronouncing some of the consonants can be hard.

Another student, Michelle King, grew up in California.

She did not know anyone whose family was Korean.

She became a fan of K-wave boy band Super Junior and the group Big Bang.

K-wave "is so different from American pop culture," she said.

King now studies East Asian languages.

She hopes to learn to speak Korean.

She and other members of a K-wave club recently visited Koreatown in Los Angeles.

They shopped at a music store and ate at a Korean restaurant.

They also sang along to K-wave music at a Korean club, It is still hard for King to sing the words to Korean songs.

She is learning another important lesson.

Knowing another language helps people understand each other better, King said.

