Kraft Macaroni &amp; Cheese — that favorite food of kids, packaged in the classic blue box — will soon be free of yellow dye.

Kraft announced Monday that it will remove artificial food coloring, notably Yellow No.

5 and Yellow No.

6 dyes, from its mac and cheese by 2016.

Instead, the pasta will maintain its bright yellow color by using natural ingredients: paprika, turmeric and annatto (which comes from achiote tree seeds).

The company said it decided to pull the dyes because more consumers want natural foods.

But claims that the dyes may be linked to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children have also risen recently.

On its website, Kraft says unnatural colors are not harmful, and the company is removing them because consumers want more foods with no artificial colors.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) maintains that artificial food dyes are safe.

However, some studies have found that the dyes can contribute to hyperactive behavior and attention problems in children.

Food dyes have been controversial since studies in the 1970s suggested a link between artificial colors and hyperactive behavior.

But scientists, consumers and the government do not agree on the extent of this risk or the correct path to address it.

A 2007 study in the United Kingdom showed that artificial colors contributed to an increase in hyperactivity in children.

In response, the European Union (EU) started requiring food labels to say that a product contains any one of six types of dyes that had been investigated.

The label states the product may have a bad effect on "activity and attention in children."

The FDA had a meeting in 2011 to review the research.

It concluded that there was not enough evidence proving that foods with artificial colors caused hyperactivity in the general population.

The FDA decided that further research was needed, and that a label was unnecessary.

But Joel Nigg, a professor at Oregon Health &amp; Science University, says the studies support the link between dyes and hyperactivity.

"On the one hand you can sympathize with those who want to take a wait-and-see attitude," he says.

Yet on the other hand, he says: "Do you want to take a chance that these initial studies are wrong and put kids at risk or do you want to take a chance that they're right?

We have to work on the (information) we have."

A comparison of studies by Nigg in 2012 concluded that color additives have an effect on hyperactivity in children.

He also concluded that further research was needed.

Many of the studies looked at only small numbers of people.

Studies have also shown that removing foods with artificial dyes from diets can decrease hyperactivity.

However, Nigg says this is probably because removing processed foods in general is healthier and leads to better behavior.

Companies typically add artificial colors to make their products look more appetizing.

The chemicals Yellow Nos.

5 and 6 have been in use since the early 1900s.

The FDA approved them for use in 1969 and 1986, respectively.

They are 2 of the 9 colors that food manufacturers must list on ingredient labels.

According to the FDA, 1 out of every 10,000 people are allergic to Yellow No.

5.

The amount of dye the FDA has decided is acceptable for daily intake, or ADI, is 5 milligrams per kilogram of body weight per day (mg/kg bw/day) for Yellow No.

5.

The limit is 3.75 mg/kg bw/day for Yellow No.

6.

An April 2015 study looked at how much dye was in recommended servings of processed foods; it found Kraft Mac &amp; Cheese contained 17.6 milligrams of Yellow Nos.

5 or 6 per 1-cup serving.

Because the chemicals are so similar in color, and difficult to tell apart in measurements, the researchers chose the dye with the highest concentration.

For a child weighing about 65 pounds, this translates to 0.59 mg/kg bw/day per serving.

Bernard Weiss, a professor at the University of Rochester Medical Center in New York, has researched this issue for many years.

He says he is frustrated that the FDA has not acted on the research showing the connection between artificial dyes and hyperactivity.

"All the evidence we have has showed that it has some capacity to harm," he says.

"In Europe, that's enough to get it banned.

In this country, it's up to the government to find out whether or not there are harmful effects."

Weiss supports banning artificial colors until companies prove they are safe.

Like most other scientists in this field, he thinks more research is necessary.

Nigg says the FDA should require manufacturers to label foods saying artificial colors could affect hyperactivity in some children, like the E.U.

does.

He said the research shows "that there's a subgroup of kids that seems to respond much more to these types of things, and that group is what I worry about."

The only way to protect that subgroup, he says, "is to protect everybody.

We don't have to alarm the public to inform the public."

