If you can't smoke a cigarette where you're standing, you can't smoke an e-cigarette either.

On Tuesday, Los Angeles passed a new law.

Now it will treat e-cigarettes the same as regular cigarettes.

It will ban their use in parks, restaurants and most workplaces.

E-cigarettes have been called safe by the companies that make them.

They are sold as a way to replace cancer-causing tobacco products.

The companies claim they can help get heavy smokers off their habit.

The e-cigarettes make a water-based cloud that contains nicotine.

Nicotine is what makes tobacco hard to give up.

E-cigarette users breathe it in.

It feels to them like they are smoking a real cigarette.

But some people warn that it might make young people use more tobacco.

Dr. Jonathan Fielding runs the Los Angeles Department of Public Health.

He said the comfort people have with e-cigarettes is dangerous.

For years, governments and health officials have tried to teach people about the dangers of smoking.

E-cigarettes could undo all their efforts, Fielding explained.

"We have a right to … choose to breathe clean air," Councilwoman Nury Martinez said.

What if "this device proves not to be safe," she asked.

"We cannot undo the harm this will create on the public health."

Meanwhile, if it turns out e-cigarettes are safe, the ban can be ended, she explained.

Five states have banned e-cigarettes.

They added them to anti-smoking bans that were already in place.

Last year, New York City included e-cigarettes in its anti-smoking rules.

Chicago recently decided to limit "vaping."

Bars, restaurants and most indoor public places are off-limits.

"Vaping" is how e-cigarette use is called.

Users don't call it smoking.

Los Angeles vapers will have to go outside with smokers.

The devices will be allowed in vaping bars or clubs.

But they will be outlawed in restaurants and farmers markets.

Cities are acting fast.

But the US government still has to catch up.

E-cigarettes are still treated differently than tobacco products.

Americans haven't seen a cigarette ad on TV for years.

But e-cigarette maker NJOY ran spots during the Super Bowl.

Tuesday's City Hall argument quickly turned personal.

Councilman Mitch O'Farrell pushed for the new restrictions.

He remembered his days breathing other people's smoke when he was a waiter in a restaurant.

Martinez sided with O'Farrell.

She described her husband's unsuccessful battle to quit smoking.

Councilman Joe Buscaino tried to let bars and nightclubs still allow e-cigarettes.

He also talked about a family member.

E-cigarettes "are not tobacco," he said.

"I don't think they should be regulated exactly the same way.

And I've heard from so many people, including my cousin Anthony, that they've stopped smoking from the help of e-cigarettes."

But Council President Herb Wesson didn't like Buscaino's idea.

He thinks it's not right to let bars allow vaping.

He told lawmakers that he has been hooked on cigarettes for nearly 40 years.

He said he will probably die because of them.

Wesson called himself "the council's No.

1 smoker."

He said he took up the habit as a 20-year-old factory worker because he wanted to be "cool."

"I'm telling you, the high percentage of kids that smoke, smoke because it's cool.

And when you're 15 you want to be cool," he said.

"I will not support anything — anything — that might attract one new smoker."

