Ocean waves often get in the way when scientists are studying earthquakes.

This especially happens in California.

As the water hits the coast, it creates tiny seismic waves.

These are waves of energy that move through the Earth.

The tiny waves make it confusing when scientists try to listen for the bigger waves created by quakes.

Now scientists have figured out a way to use ocean waves to help their studies.

They use the waves to recreate how the ground moves in real earthquakes.

They have also confirmed something that people already thought: Los Angeles is particularly at risk if there is a quake along the southern San Andreas Fault.

The San Andreas Fault is where two pieces of the Earth's crust meet in California.

The two pieces push against each other.

Sometimes that causes earthquakes.

A big earthquake could make Los Angeles shake a lot.

The shaking would be three times stronger than in areas nearby.

The reason is the city sits on top of a soft piece of the Earth, they said.

Scientists call the area a "soft sedimentry basin."

The scientists reported their finding in the magazine Science.

The new way the scientists studied the waves is known as the "virtual earthquake technique."

It is being used to better understand the effect of shaking on cities that have not had a large earthquake in several years, said Marine Denolle.

She helped write the Science study.

Scientists are not trying to figure out when an earthquake will happen.

Instead, they are trying to know how the shaking will happen.

They also want to know how it will affect tall buildings.

Ocean waves cause seismic waves.

But those waves are billions of times weaker than the seismic waves produced by earthquakes.

Scientists have a word for the effect of the ocean waves: noise.

Denolle and other researchers are starting to see this noise differently.

Scientists are using it to try to predict how the ground will move in an earthquake.

The weak seismic waves from the ocean move through the same ground that stronger earthquake waves move through.

Scientists have been getting better at picking out the weaker waves.

They can study how those waves move underground.

For the Science study, Denolle installed seismometers along the San Andreas Fault.

She did this in the spring of 2010.

The seismometers are devices that were used to measure the weak seismic waves.

The waves acted as substitutes for seismic waves caused by earthquakes.

They showed that seismic waves from the southern San Andreas Fault will become bigger when they reach the soft earth beneath Los Angeles.

Denolle said the effect can be compared to shaking a bathtub with water in it.

In this case, the water represents the soft ground.

The tub represents the solid rocks around it.

If you shake the tub, she said, the bathtub itself will not shake much, but the water will.

So would anything on top of it.

Donelle was a student at Stanford during the study.

She is now continuing her work at the University of California.

Other cities rest on top of sedimentary basins, too.

Those include Tokyo and Mexico City, said Denolle.

These cities all are in extra danger if there is an earthquake.

The shaking can be worse, said Greg Beroza.

He is a professor at Stanford and co-wrote the study.

He and Denolle plan to test the waves in other parts of Southern California and in other cities around the world, he said.

The virtual earthquake technique was developed as a way to test computer models of Southern California earthquakes, Beroza said.

And indeed, the virtual earthquakes confirmed the results from computer models.

They showed that L.A. will shake more strongly than areas close by.

"The earthquake threat is real for Southern California," Beroza said.

"Sometime in the future we'll have a big earthquake in Southern California."

The new studies can help show how far the quakes will reach.

This can motivate the public and governments to prepare for them, he said.

The new study "reinforces the need for earthquake preparedness," said Robert Graves.

He works for a government program that keeps track of  the dangers from earthquakes.

The research independently backs some ideas that have been around for years.

It is "another rung in the ladder for advancing knowledge," he said.

It is attractive in that it uses real seismic waves and "gives us some confidence that we're on the right track with the computer models," he said.

