If you can't smoke a cigarette where you're standing, you can't smoke an e-cigarette either.

On Tuesday, Los Angeles joined a growing list of cities to treat e-cigarettes the same as regular cigarettes.

It will ban their use in parks, restaurants and most workplaces.

E-cigarettes have been called a safer alternative to cancer-causing tobacco products.

The companies that make them claim they can help get heavy smokers off their habit.

The decision came after a passionate and personal debate at the City Council.

Just as the popularity of smokeless cigarettes has grown, so has their number of critics.

E-cigarettes make a vapor that contains nicotine.

Nicotine is the chemical in tobacco that makes it so addictive.

E-cigarette users breathe it in, just like they were smoking a real cigarette.

But critics warn that they could pave the way for today's young adults to pick up a tobacco habit.

Dr. Jonathan Fielding runs the Los Angeles Department of Public of Health.

He said the growing comfort with e-cigarettes is a threat.

It could undo years of public education efforts about the dangers of smoking.

"We have a right to … choose to breathe clean air," Councilwoman Nury Martinez told the council.

If e-cigarettes turn out to be safe, then the ban can always be undone.

"But if this device proves not to be safe, we cannot undo the harm this will create on the public health."

Five states and the District of Columbia have already included e-cigarettes in anti-smoking bans.

Last year, New York City passed a rule applying traditional anti-smoking rules to e-cigarettes.

Chicago recently moved to prohibit vaping in bars, restaurants and most indoor public places.

"Vaping" is how e-cigarette use is known.

The e-cigarette crackdown has come "much faster than what happened with smoke-free" laws, said Tim McAfee.

He runs the U.S. Centers for Disease Control's Office on Smoking and Health.

It has not yet released any numbers about the possible harm of secondhand vapor.

Los Angeles' decision means that within weeks, e-cigarette users will have to hang out with smokers.

The devices will be permitted in vaping lounges.

There, customers can sample flavored e-cigarette liquids.

But they will be outlawed in outdoor dining areas of restaurants and at city-sponsored farmers markets.

Cities are acting fast.

But at the national level, e-cigarettes are still treated differently than tobacco products.

Americans haven't seen a cigarette ad on TV for years.

But e-cigarette manufacturer NJOY ran spots during the Super Bowl.

Tuesday's City Hall debate quickly turned personal.

Councilman Mitch O'Farrell, who pushed for the new restrictions, recalled his days breathing secondhand smoke as a waiter in a downtown restaurant.

Martinez, who sided with O'Farrell, described her husband's unsuccessful battle to quit smoking.

Councilman Joe Buscaino led an unsuccessful attempt to let bars and nightclubs still allow e-cigarettes.

He too mentioned a family member while making his arguments.

E-cigarettes "are not tobacco," he said.

"I don't think they should be regulated exactly the same way.

And I've heard from so many people, including my cousin Anthony, that they've stopped smoking from the help of e-cigarettes."

But Council President Herb Wesson didn't like Buscaino's idea to allow vaping in bars.

He told lawmakers that he has been hooked on cigarettes for nearly 40 years — and will probably die because of them.

Calling himself "the council's No.

1 smoker," Wesson said he took up the habit as a 20-year-old factory worker because he wanted to be "cool."

"I'm telling you, the high percentage of kids that smoke, smoke because it's cool.

And when you're 15 you want to be cool," he said.

"I will not support anything — anything — that might attract one new smoker."

Manuel Suarez Jr., owner of Golden State Vape Shop, said fear about the devices is based on misunderstanding.

We're here for "people who've been smoking for over 20 years," he said.

"We're here to help them quit."

