Scientists who study earthquakes look for waves of energy.

The waves are caused when quakes shake the earth.

The waves move through the Earth.

They are called seismic waves.

But, sometimes ocean waves get in the scientists' way.

This happens often in California.

The ocean water hits the coast of California.

It makes tiny waves of energy.

These waves make it harder for scientists to hear bigger waves from an earthquake.

Now scientists have found a way to use the ocean waves to help them.

They use the waves to show how the ground moves in real earthquakes.

They have also found something that people already thought was possible: Los Angeles is particularly at risk if there is an earthquake.

The city sits near the San Andreas Fault.

The San Andreas Fault is where two pieces of the Earth's crust meet.

The two pieces push against each other.

Sometimes that causes earthquakes.

The scientists published their findings in the magazine Science.

A big earthquake could cause really bad shaking in Los Angeles.

The shaking would be three times stronger than in areas close by, scientists said.

The reason is the city sits on top of a soft piece of land.

It's called a "soft sedimentary basin."

The scientists tried a new way to study seismic waves.

It is known as the "virtual earthquake technique."

It is being used to understand the effect of shaking on cities that have not had a large earthquake in a long time, said Marine Denolle.

She helped write the Science study.

Scientists are not trying to figure out when an earthquake will happen.

Instead, they are trying to figure out how the shaking will happen.

They also want to know how it will affect tall buildings.

Ocean waves make seismic waves.

But those waves are much weaker than the seismic waves made by earthquakes.

Denolle and other scientists are starting to look at the weak waves differently.

Scientists use them to try to figure out how the ground will move in an earthquake.

The weak seismic waves made by the ocean move through the Earth.

So do the stronger waves from earthquakes.

Scientists have gotten better at picking out the weaker waves.

They can study how those waves move underground.

Donelle used devices called seismometers in the study.

The seismometers measure seismic waves.

Denolle installed seismometers along the San Andreas Fault.

The smaller waves became substitutes for seismic waves caused by earthquakes.

They showed that seismic waves from the San Andreas Fault will become bigger when they reach the soft earth beneath Los Angeles.

Donelle said this is sort of like what happens when you shake a bathtub with water in it.

In this case, the water is like the soft ground.

The tub is like the solid rocks around it.

If you shake the tub the bathtub itself will not move much.

But the water will.

So would anything on top of it.

Los Angeles is not the only city on top of very soft land.

Tokyo and Mexico City are also, said Denolle.

These cities are all in extra danger if there are earthquakes.

The shaking can be worse, said Greg Beroza.

He is a professor at Stanford.

He also helped write the study.

He and Denolle plan to test the virtual earthquake technique in other parts of Southern California.

They will also test it in cities around the world.

The virtual earthquake technique was made to test computer models of Southern California earthquakes, Beroza said.

The virtual earthquakes did back up what the computers found.

They showed that Los Angeles will shake more strongly than areas around the city.

"The earthquake threat is real for Southern California," Beroza said.

"Sometime in the future we'll have a big earthquake in Southern California."

The new studies can help show how far the earthquakes will reach.

This can help people and governments to prepare for them, he said.

