Seventy feet below Wilshire Boulevard, subway construction crews were hard at work.

As the jackhammers clattered noisily and an excavator whined, Kim Scott was busy with her own task.

As a paleontologist, she studies the history of life on Earth before humans.

She was there to search for remains from a long-buried beach.

She had plenty of choices.

Major construction to extend the Westside subway won't begin until next year.

But an exploratory shaft has already been dug at the corner of Ogden Drive.

The goal is to check soil conditions for future stations and tunnels.

This preparatory work has already burped up plenty of swag from the prehistoric period before humans.

Officials had anticipated encountering a large number of fossils: The dig is near the famed La Brea Tar Pits, where many prehistoric remains have been discovered over the years.

And it features sandy soil rich with natural asphalt.

That makes for ideal conditions for fossils.

Paleontologists have recovered mollusks, asphalt-covered sand dollars, pieces of driftwood and cones from Monterey cypress trees.

For Scott, two finds are particularly exciting.

One is a rock that seems to contain part of a sea lion's mouth, perhaps 2 million years old.

The other is a non-fossilized 10-foot limb from a digger pine tree.

That tree would look right at home today in Central California woodlands.

This stretch of Wilshire, said Scott, contains the world's "best record of life from the last great ice age."

In the shaft, she added, "you're walking along an ice age shoreline."

The surrounding area is indeed one of the world's richest when it comes to fossils.

Over many thousands of years, petroleum from underground oil fields oozed to the surface.

It formed into bogs.

Animals walking by became trapped in the bogs and the tar preserved their skeletons.

Fossil evidence is plentiful at the La Brea Tar Pits.

Scientists have uncovered remains of dire wolves, saber-toothed cats, ground sloths and other species.

All right in the heart of Los Angeles.

The shaft now being dug is 18 feet wide by 38 feet long.

It is yielding evidence of the cooler, wetter Pleistocene climate of 100,000 to 330,000 years ago.

Back then, Pacific Ocean waves lapped over what is now Wilshire Boulevard.

Materials from the upper 40 feet of the shaft are from a variety of ages.

They range from the modern era to 50,000 years old.

Below that is material from 100,000 to 330,000 years ago.

The completed shaft will be twice as deep as any other previous excavation in the area.

At this stage, the finds are quite portable: geoducks, clams, snails, mussels, tusk shells.

They're collected in takeout-food containers made of plastic, so that the asphalt doesn't stick.

As for the rock that possibly contains a sea lion's tooth root, Scott explained that it probably had floated downstream to the beach.

"Even though we're finding fossils older than what's found at La Brea," none are extinct, Scott said.

"We can still find all the plants and animals in California."

When Scott headed back down into the hole one recent afternoon, asphalt from an earlier climb down the shaft earlier already coated her clothes.

The uneven surface at the base made it tough to balance.

She stepped back with one foot, which sank immediately into ankle-deep water.

Above the fresh muck, wood and concrete had been installed to hold back the soil.

Bethany Ader, another paleontologist, scrambled up and down a slippery slope of tar sand carrying small finds.

The two scientists have routinely worked 15-hour days.

Work on the shaft began last April.

By the end of March, subway workers expect to hit 75 feet.

They will then dig an additional 2 feet to pour a floor of concrete.

Once the shaft is completed, it will be covered by street grating.

Over the next six months, engineers will enter the shaft from time to time.

They will check for water.

And they will try to determine how the soils will react during subway tunneling and station construction.

At some point years from now, commuters will walk through a finished subway station.

Few will realize that they're surrounded by the remains of a distant time.

Subway system spokesman Dave Sotero summed up the current activities: "L.A.'s prehistoric past," he said, "is meeting its subway future."

