Seventy feet below Wilshire Boulevard, subway construction crews were hard at work.

As the jackhammers clattered noisily and a mini-excavator whined, Kim Scott was busy with her own task.

As a paleontologist, she studies life on earth during the prehistoric period before man.

She was under the city streets to search for remains from a long-buried beach.

She had plenty of choices.

Major construction to extend the Westside subway won't begin until next year.

But an exploratory shaft has already been dug at the corner of Ogden Drive.

The goal is to check soil conditions for future stations and tunnels.

This preparatory work has already burped up a bonanza of prehistoric swag.

Officials had anticipated encountering a large number of fossils: The dig is near the famed La Brea Tar Pits, where many prehistoric remains have been discovered over the years.

And it features sandy soil rich with naturally occurring asphalt — ideal conditions for fossils.

Paleontologists have recovered mollusks, asphalt-covered sand dollars, pieces of driftwood and Monterey cypress cones.

For Scott, two finds are particularly exciting: a rock that seems to contain part of a sea lion's mouth, perhaps 2 million years old, and a non-fossilized 10-foot limb from a digger pine tree.

That tree would look right at home today in Central California woodlands.

"The best record of life from the last great ice age in the world is found" on this stretch of Wilshire, said Scott.

In the shaft, she added, "you're walking along an ice age shoreline."

The surrounding area is indeed one of the world's richest when it comes to fossils.

Over many thousands of years, petroleum from once massive underground oil fields oozed to the surface.

It formed into bogs that trapped and killed unwary animals, and then preserved their skeletons.

Fossil evidence is plentiful at the tar pits.

There, in the heart of Los Angeles, scientists have uncovered remnants of dire wolves, saber-toothed cats, ground sloths and other species.

The shaft now being dug is 18 feet wide by 38 feet long, roughly the size of a swimming pool.

It is yielding evidence of the cooler, wetter Pleistocene climate of 100,000 to 330,000 years ago.

Back then, Pacific Ocean waves lapped over what is now Wilshire Boulevard.

Materials from the upper 40 feet of the shaft range from the modern era to 50,000 years old.

Below that is "near shore" material from 100,000 to 330,000 years old.

This latest uncovering of prehistoric remnants follows major earlier discoveries in the same part of town.

In 2006, the largest known trove of fossils from the last ice age was uncovered nearby.

It was discovered during excavations for an underground parking garage.

In one spectacular instance back then, a worker scraped his bulldozer across what turned out to be a nearly complete skeleton of a Columbian mammoth with 10-foot-long tusks.

Researchers named the beast Zed.

Scientists were thrilled by the find: Previous discoveries in the tar pits had included only bits and pieces of mammoths.

Similar discoveries are expected once excavation begins for the Fairfax station.

The exploratory shaft now being dug will be twice as deep as any other previous excavation in the area.

At this stage, the marine finds are quite portable: geoducks, clams, snails, mussels, tusk shells.

They're collected in takeout-food containers made of plastic, so that the asphalt doesn't stick.

As for the rock that possibly contains a sea lion's tooth root, Scott explained that it probably had floated downstream to the beach.

"Even though we're finding fossils older than what's found at La Brea, none of the identified fossils found to date are extinct," Scott said.

"We can still find all the plants and animals in California."

Asphalt from an earlier descent already coated Scott's jeans, work boots and right forearm when she headed back down the steep metal steps into the hole one recent afternoon.

The uneven surface at the base made it tough to balance.

She stepped back with one foot, which sank immediately into ankle-deep water.

Above the fresh muck, wood and concrete had been installed to hold back the soil.

Bethany Ader, another paleontologist, scrambled up and down a slippery slope of tar sand carrying small finds.

The two scientists have routinely worked 15-hour days.

Work on the shaft began last April.

By the end of March, subway workers expect to hit 75 feet.

They will then excavate an additional 2 feet to pour a concrete slab floor.

Once the shaft is completed, it will be covered by street grating.

Over the next six months, engineers will enter the shaft periodically.

They will check for water and will try to determine how the soils will react during subway tunneling and station construction.

At some point years from now, commuters will walk through a finished subway station.

Few will realize that they're surrounded by the remnants of a distant sea.

Subway system spokesman Dave Sotero summed up the current activities: "L.A.'s prehistoric past," he said, "is meeting its subway future."

