As school districts across the country are moving classwork online, many of them are providing each student with a computer.

They are attempting to replace traditional textbooks as much as possible and give all students access to technology.

The computers also are intended to encourage students to be more engaged in learning.

But these technology upgrades come at a high price.

Los Angeles Unified School District is paying $1 billion to supply every teacher, student and administrator with Apple iPads, for instance.

And many districts are trying to figure out the best way to spend their money on personal computers and tablets for students.

"It's a huge, huge marketplace that is only going to grow," said Brian Lewis, chief executive of the Washington, D.C.-based International Society for Technology in Education.

The not-for-profit focuses on the use of technology in schools.

"Everyone is trying to figure out the best solution in the constantly changing landscape."

The Los Angeles Unified School District, the country's second-largest school system, also has one of the nation's most expensive technology programs.

It is paying $768 for higher-end iPads loaded with new math and English software.

Los Angeles' $1 billion technology effort stands out in part because California spends less per student than most states.

L.A. Unified is borrowing money to fund the computers — something that other school systems are unable or unwilling to do.

LA schools Superintendent John Deasy said it was important to buy a computer-based curriculum, or set of courses, that follow learning standards recently adopted by California and 44 other states.

He also wanted students to take tests on tablets that are permanently assigned to them.

"Our youth deserve the best we can afford," Deasy said.

Other school districts, meanwhile, have found other ways to provide the latest technology to students without the high price tag.

Many buy or rent computers that are cheaper or give students in grade school a less expensive computer than high schoolers.

Another way to save money is cheaper iPad models without educational software, which adds to the cost.

"The iPad is the gold standard," said Jay McPhail, a Riverside Unified School District administrator.

"Our problem is we don't have any gold."

Riverside Unified has purchased about 28,000 devices, including the Kindle Fire and iPad Mini, for as low as $150 each.

The district figures out which device is best for each school, and asks parents what they already own or would buy.

The district provides computers for students who don't have their own.

Nearby Perris Union High School District pays $344 for a Chromebook for every student.

District officials say Chromebooks are not only less expensive but a better fit for what the students are learning.

The Chromebook is a laptop-style device with a larger screen and keyboard that can connect to thumb drives, printers, or cameras.

These features are useful for researching online and writing papers, said Superintendent Jonathan Greenberg.

"We didn't pick Chromebooks and try to make it work," Greenberg said.

"The device was picked after we decided what is it we need to do."

Among the many districts opting for tablets, the vast majority have chosen iPads.

There are many education applications for it.

Schools also are more confident that Apple devices won't break as easily.

San Diego Unified is paying $551 for the iPad 2, a less expensive model that includes a three-year warranty but no educational software.

The district is saving money by giving younger students a Lenovo IdeaPad 7-inch tablet, which cost about $200 per device.

Township High School District 214 in Illinois is paying $429 per iPad 2.

They do not come with educational software.

The district didn't want to make every teacher use the same lessons.

"What we've seen is that there isn't one piece of (software) that fits the needs of every teacher," said Keith Bockwoldt, director of technology services at the Illinois district.

School officials in Huntsville, Ala., were concerned that Apple products were too much of a "money pit … you've always got to buy the next thing," said Chief Financial Officer Jason Taylor.

And the Chromebook, part of a Google system, could be a problem for students without Internet access at home.

"We want to give students the best and biggest screen possible," Taylor said.

Huntsville is leasing HP laptops for $750 apiece over three years.

District officials said they believe the laptops will be much less expensive over time than Apple devices.

Huntsville is moving all its subjects online and is beginning to replace its textbooks with web-based materials.

More than anything else, it is the educational software that has made the iPads at L.A. Unified so expensive.

A three-year license for math and English software added as much as $200 per device to the price tag, according to documents.

Instructors in Perris and Riverside in California typically use online lessons and resources, much of it free.

That allows students to use their own computers; in Riverside, that has saved the district a lot of money.

Teams of Perris educators also have developed their own technology-based lessons.

And that is an important point, says Greenberg, the Perris district superintendent.

These lessons may be delivered on a different kind of computer in the future.

"The device itself is a short-term thing," he said.

"New devices are always coming out."

