School districts across the country are giving students their own computers.

More and more, schools are asking students to do their work on computers.

So the idea is that all students should have computers — not just those who can afford them.

But buying everyone a computer is very expensive.

So schools are trying to figure out the smartest way to spend their money.

"It's a huge, huge marketplace that is only going to grow," said Brian Lewis.

He is in charge of the International Society for Technology in Education.

The group looks at how schools can use technology.

"Everyone is trying to figure out the best solution."

The Los Angeles Unified School District has one of the most expensive tech programs in the country.

It is costing $1 billion.

The district is paying $768 each for new Apple iPads.

Every student, teacher and principal will get one.

The iPads come with new math and English lessons.

The district is borrowing money to pay for the iPads.

Other school systems can't or don't want to borrow money for this.

John Deasy is the head of the LA school district.

He said it's important to buy computers that come with the latest math and English schoolwork.

Students also need to take tests on them.

"Our youth deserve the best we can afford," Deasy said.

Other school districts have found cheaper ways to provide the latest technology to students.

Many buy or rent less expensive computers.

Some give younger students cheaper computers.

Others save money by buying iPads that don't come with special lessons.

Those lessons add lot of money to the cost.

"The iPad is the gold standard," said Jay McPhail.

He works for the Riverside Unified School District in California.

"Our problem is we don't have any gold."

Riverside Unified has bought about 28,000 computers and tablets for students.

They include the Kindle Fire and iPad Mini.

They cost as little as $150 each.

The district gives them to students who don't have their own.

Perris Union High School District pays $344 for a Chromebook for each student.

The Chromebook is a laptop-style computer.

It has a larger screen and keyboard.

It can connect to memory drives, printers or cameras.

Students can look things up online and write papers, said Superintendent Jonathan Greenberg.

"We didn't pick Chromebooks and try to make it work," Greenberg said.

Instead, the district first decided what it needed the computers to do.

Most districts choose iPads.

There are many apps for it.

Also, schools feel that Apple products are more reliable.

Township High School District 214 in Illinois is paying $429 per iPad 2.

They don't come with math and reading lessons.

Keith Bockwoldt is in charge of technology there.

He said the schools don't want to make teachers use the same lessons.

School officials in Huntsville, Ala., thought that Apple computers were too expensive.

The Chromebook could also be a problem for students without Internet at home.

Huntsville is getting rid of its textbooks.

It's putting all school materials online.

The district is renting HP laptops for $750 each.

A big way schools save money is buying computers without education lessons on them.

In Los Angeles, that is what made the iPads so expensive.

They added nearly $200 to the cost of each one.

Teachers in Perris and Riverside in California often use online lessons and materials.

Many of them are free.

This lets students use their own computers, if they own them.

That has saved Riverside a lot of money.

Perris teachers have developed their own computer-based lessons.

And that is an important point.

These lessons may be used on a different kind of computer in the future.

"The device itself is a short-term thing," said the superintendent.

"New devices are always coming out."

