By law, a boss must pay workers at least a certain amount of money.

The amount is known as the minimum wage.

The minimum wage is different in some parts of the country.

In Los Angeles, it is now $9 an hour.

Workers in Los Angeles may soon be paid a lot more.

On Tuesday, the Los Angeles City Council announced a new plan for wages.

The plan would raise the city's minimum wage to $15 an hour.

The raise would happen over time.

Los Angeles' minimum wage would first rise to $10.50 an hour in July 2016.

It would finally reach $15 an hour by the year 2020.

A final vote on the plan will not happen until next month.

However, the plan will most likely pass.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti supports it.

He has promised to sign it into law.

As many as 800,000 workers in Los Angeles may see their pay go up.

Other cities like San Francisco and Seattle have raised their minimum wages already.

However, Los Angeles would be the largest city yet.

Los Angeles is now "leading the nation," said Councilman Paul Krekorian.

Maria Elena Durazo is a fighter for workers' rights.

A higher minimum wage in Los Angeles will be an example for the rest of the country, she said.

It will lead other cities to push for the same thing.

"Without a doubt, it was a very big victory," said Durazo.

City business groups are strongly against raising wages so much.

They warn that higher wages will be hard on businesses.

The raises could force bosses to lay off or let go of workers, they say.

Companies might have to leave the city altogether.

Ruben Gonzalez works for a group that fights for city businesses.

The higher minimum wage is a bad idea, he says.

He thinks it will hurt the very people it is supposed to help.

"It's simple math," Gonzalez said.

Businesses will not be able to pay workers that much more money in such a short time.

They will have to get rid of some workers.

Councilman Mitchell Englander was the only person on the council to vote against the raise.

A much higher minimum wage could "make it impossible" for many companies to do business in Los Angeles, he said.

Businesses may be forced to leave the city.

Some Los Angeles workers see things differently.

On Tuesday, the council heard from some low-wage workers.

Juan Moran is a cook who spoke up.

He told the council that $9 an hour is not enough to live on.

"Sometimes I have to walk half an hour from work to get to my apartment because money's not enough to pay a ride on the bus," Moran said.

"Or I work 12 hours straight without stop ... just to pay rent."

Not everyone who voted for the raise is completely happy about it.

Some worry there could be problems in the future.

"This is an experiment," Councilman Paul Koretz said.

"If anyone tells you they know exactly how this is going to go ... they're not being honest with you."

Councilman Mike Bonin was an early and big supporter of the wage raise.

He is sure the council did the right thing.

There could be some problems in the future, Bonin admitted.

However, he thinks worrying about that is less important than fixing what is already wrong.

Many people in Los Angeles are now being paid far too little, he said.

They work full-time but are still poor, he said.

He thinks they deserve a higher minimum wage.

