Minimum wage is the lowest amount of money employers can legally pay workers.

In Los Angeles, the minimum wage is now $9 an hour.

On Tuesday, the Los Angeles City Council backed a plan to raise the minimum wage to $15 per hour by 2020.

The increase would occur gradually, in stages.

It would benefit as many as 800,000 low-wage workers citywide.

Los Angeles is now the largest city in the nation to have adopted a major minimum-wage hike.

Chicago, San Francisco and Seattle already have approved similar increases.

"Make no mistake," said Councilman Paul Krekorian, who was involved in shaping the city's plan.

"Today the city of Los Angeles, the second-biggest city in the nation, is leading the nation."

A final vote on the increase will not happen until next month.

However, the measure seems likely to pass.

Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti has already promised to sign the wage increase into law.

The first wage boost — to $10.50 per hour — would take effect in July 2016.

The council's decision is part of a broader national effort to reduce poverty, said labor activist Maria Elena Durazo.

Raising the wage in Los Angeles, she said, will help spur similar increases in other parts of the country.

"Without a doubt, it was a very big victory," said Durazo.

City business groups criticized the wage increase harshly.

They warned that it would force employers to lay off workers or leave the city altogether.

The wage increase is going to hurt the very people it is intended to help, said business group leader Ruben Gonzalez.

"It's simple math," Gonzalez said.

Businesses cannot handle "a 50-plus percent increase in labor costs over a short period of time."

Councilman Mitchell Englander was the only council member to vote against the increase.

In a statement, he said the wage increase could "make it impossible for entire industries to do business" in Los Angeles.

Businesses in Los Angeles would not be able to compete with businesses in neighboring cities where wages would be lower, Englander said.

A big wage hike is "the very last thing we should be doing as a city," he added.

"That's a monumental change in wages," said business professor Jerry Newman.

Its effects on people's lives will be enormous, he added, both economically and socially.

The council's vote came after months of heated public debate and lots of back-room wrangling.

On Tuesday, the council heard testimony from some low-wage Angelenos before casting their votes.

Juan Moran, a cook, told the council the current minimum wage of $9 per hour is not enough to live on.

"Sometimes I have to walk half an hour from work to get to my apartment because money's not enough to pay a ride on the bus," Moran said.

"Or I work 12 hours straight without stop ... just to pay rent."

In recent years, the campaign to raise the minimum wage has spread across the nation.

If the increase is passed in Los Angeles, the city will be joining several other West Coast cities that have already introduced higher minimum wages.

New York City and Washington, D.C., are also weighing $15-an-hour minimum-wage proposals.

In Los Angeles, the move toward a higher citywide minimum wage was preceded by a plan to raise the wages of hotel workers.

Last fall, the minimum wage for workers at the city's large hotels was raised to to $15.37 per hour.

Newly elected council members representing very different areas of the city — Mike Bonin from a wealthy coastal district, Curren Price from South Los Angeles and Nury Martinez from the San Fernando Valley — led the push for the hotel pay increase.

Supporters saw that increase as a first step toward a citywide minimum-wage hike.

Last summer, those pushing for a hike found a key ally in Garcetti.

The mayor put forward his own proposal to raise base pay to $13.25 an hour.

In a telephone interview from New York City, the mayor praised the measure passed by the council.

The council plan approved Tuesday would raise wages higher than the mayor's proposal, though more gradually.

As city lawmakers congratulated themselves on raising the minimum wage, some council members sounded a cautious note.

They pointed out that the effects of their plan are not easy to predict.

"This is an experiment," Councilman Paul Koretz said.

"If anyone tells you they know exactly how this is going to go ... they're not being honest with you."

Bonin, one of the pay increase's early champions, acknowledged that uncertainty but said the council made the right choice.

Concerns about what might happen are outweighed by what people are already experiencing, he said.

Every day in Los Angeles, he said, people are "getting a poverty wage for working full time."

