For 21 years, Los Angeles, California, has not had its own professional football team.

Many have tried to bring a team to the county, but one plan after another has collapsed.  Now, at last, the wait is over.

On Tuesday a group of National Football League owners voted to allow the St. Louis Rams to leave Missouri and move to Los Angeles for the 2016 season.

The owners also voted to give the San Diego Chargers an option to join the Rams in Inglewood, a city in the greater Los Angeles area.

The Rams' new home will be on the site of the old Hollywood Park racetrack in Inglewood.

It will be the league's biggest stadium.

Due to open in 2019, it could end up costing as much as $3 billion.

The NFL owners met in a hotel to vote on rival proposals. In finding a way to return professional football to Los Angeles, they succeeded where a succession of local leaders and billionaires had failed.

The owners voted on two proposals.

Both involved relocating two teams to cities in Los Angeles County, with both sets of teams to share a newly built stadium.

One proposed plan was to move the Chargers and the Oakland Raiders to Carson.

The other plan was to move the Rams and a team to be determined to Inglewood.  In the end, the Inglewood proposal won out, 30-2\.

The Chargers were named as the team likely to share the new stadium with the Rams.

Forging the deal meant bringing together Rams owner Stan Kroenke and Chargers owner Dean Spanos.

Spanos previously favored the Carson plan, and the two men had resisted a partnership for the better part of last year.

Developers envision transforming the 298-acre Inglewood site into a multibillion-dollar entertainment, shopping and housing site.

The stadium and a performing arts venue will be the centerpiece of the site.

The new stadium will have 70,240 seats.

For large events, it will also be able to add an extra 30,000 people in standing-room-only areas.

In addition to regular season games, the stadium is expected to host special events such as college basketball's Final Four and the NFL Pro Bowl.

Designers plan to make the building 175 feet tall.

The design calls for a roof with an area over the playing field made of a strong transparent material.

The stadium will be open on the sides, to let in air.

Until the stadium is complete, the Rams are expected to play temporarily at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.

If the Chargers join them, it is unclear where they will play, though the NFL says Angel Stadium, Dodger Stadium and the Rose Bowl are all possible choices.

In the last several days, fellow owners worked behind the scenes to bring Kroenke and Spanos together.

Their new agreement allows them to be equal partners in the Inglewood stadium.

Right now, the only shared stadium in the NFL is in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which is home to the New York Giants and Jets.

The NFL's long absence from Los Angeles was not for lack of trying.

There were dozens of proposals for new stadiums, to be built in a range of locations throughout Los Angeles and Orange counties.

There were numerous plans for stadiums in downtown Los Angeles, none of which got off the ground.

As the failed plans piled up, the city's quest became so seemingly hopeless that the NFL's return to the city became a running joke.  Four mayors and numerous other political leaders tried to bring football back to Los Angeles, with no luck.

There were plans by high-powered businessmen such as Eli Broad, Peter O'Malley, Ed Roski and Casey Wasserman.

Even stars like Garth Brooks, Tom Cruise and Magic Johnson lent their names to various failed efforts.

Over two years, more than half the league's 32 teams were linked to plans to move to Los Angeles.

Things finally changed in January 2014, when Kroenke bought 60 acres of land for an estimated $101 million next to 238 acres of the Hollywood Park site.

The Hollywood Park site is owned by San Francisco-based developer Stockbridge Capital.  Later in 2014, Kroenke and Stockbridge Capital agreed to combine their properties and work together on a mixed-used development with the stadium at the center.

The site's developers say between 125 and 150 architects have been working full-time since mid-2014 on the stadium project.

The plan was designed by the architectural firm HKS Inc. All of the site's previous structures have been demolished except for the casino.

Even that building will be torn down once its replacement is finished nearby.  Developers have said stadium construction can start as quickly as two weeks after they receive league approval.

