A 21-year effort to bring professional football back to Los Angeles finally met with success on Tuesday.

A group of National Football League owners voted to allow the St. Louis Rams to leave Missouri and move to Los Angeles, California, for the 2016 season.

The owners also voted to give the San Diego Chargers an option to join the Rams in Inglewood, California.

The Rams' new home will be on the site of the old Hollywood Park racetrack in Inglewood.

It will be the league's biggest stadium, a low-slung, glass-roofed football palace with a projected opening in 2019 and a price tag that could approach $3 billion.

Meeting at an unremarkable suburban hotel, the NFL owners found a way to return professional football to Los Angeles.

They achieved something that a succession of billionaires, political heavyweights and Hollywood power brokers could not do for decades.

The historic vote was 30-2 in favor of the Rams and possibly Chargers sharing the Inglewood stadium.

An official announcement is expected shortly.

The owners set the stage for the decision early in the afternoon when they put two proposals to the group: the Chargers and Raiders in Carson, California, against the Rams and a team to be determined in Inglewood.

The Inglewood proposal was favored 20-12 in the first vote and it shifted to 21-11 in a second vote, falling three short of the number needed for passage.

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell then met with Raiders owner Mark Davis and Chargers owner Dean Spanos, along with the Los Angeles relocation committee.

Goodell then presented the options to the full membership minus the Oakland, San Diego and St. Louis owners before taking the final vote.

Reporters were monitoring the minute-by-minute developments as they awaited a conclusion to one of the country's most curious and longest-running sports sagas.

Left on the outside looking in are the Oakland Raiders and the $1.7 billion stadium they wanted to build with the Chargers atop an old landfill in Carson.

Forging this new deal meant bringing together Rams owner Stan Kroenke and potentially Spanos, whose family has owned the Chargers since 1984\.

The men had resisted a partnership for the better part of the last year and focused instead on promoting their rival stadium proposals.

Developers envision transforming the 298-acre Inglewood site into a multibillion-dollar entertainment, retail and housing complex.

The Los Angeles stadium and a performing arts venue are slated to be the centerpiece of the complex.

The stadium will have identical locker rooms, offices and owner's suites for two teams.

There will be 70,240 seats, with the potential to add an extra 30,000 people in standing-room-only areas for large events.

One NFL owner called the project "transformational."

The sleek Inglewood venue is expected to host indoor events such as college basketball's Final Four and the NFL Pro Bowl.

Designers plan to make the stadium building 175 feet tall.

The design calls for a roof with an area over the playing field made of a strong transparent material.

The stadium would be open on the sides.

Until the stadium is complete, the Rams are expected to play temporarily at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum.

If the Chargers join them, it is unclear where they will play, though the NFL sees Angel Stadium, Dodger Stadium and the Rose Bowl as potential options.

In the last several days, fellow owners worked behind the scenes to bring Kroenke and Spanos together in an accord that allows them to be equal partners in the Inglewood stadium.

The only shared stadium in the NFL is in East Rutherford, New Jersey, which is home to the New York Giants and Jets.

The NFL's long-standing absence from the country's second-largest market was not for lack of trying.

There were dozens of proposals for new stadiums, to be built in a range of locations spanning Los Angeles and Orange counties.

There were multiple plans for stadiums in downtown Los Angeles.

As the failed plans piled up, the city's quest became so seemingly hopeless that the NFL's return to the city became a running joke, inside and outside the league.  Four mayors tried to bring football back to Los Angeles, to no avail, along with a slew of other political leaders in the area.

There were plans by high-powered businessmen such as Eli Broad, Peter O'Malley, Ed Roski and Casey Wasserman.

Even celebrities Garth Brooks, Tom Cruise and Magic Johnson lent their names to various efforts.

Over two decades, more than half the league's 32 teams were linked to plans to move to Los Angeles, either overtly or by rumor.

Things changed in January 2014, when Kroenke bought 60 acres of land for an estimated $101 million next to 238 acres of the Hollywood Park site.

The Hollywood Park site is owned by San Francisco, California-based developer Stockbridge Capital.  Later in 2014, Kroenke and Stockbridge Capital agreed to combine their properties and work together on a mixed-used development with the stadium at the center.

The site's developers estimate between 125 and 150 architects have been working full-time since mid-2014 on the stadium project that was designed by HKS Inc. All of the site's previous structures have been demolished except for the casino, which will be torn down once its replacement is finished nearby.  Developers have said stadium construction can start as quickly as two weeks after they receive league approval.

