Scientists in England are growing noses, ears and veins in a lab.

They are making body parts for people who need them.

Scientists worldwide are now growing body parts.

Mayor Boris Johnson is showing off the London lab's work.

He hopes to attract more scientists to the London area.

Only a handful of patients have received the London-made body parts so far.

The parts include veins and windpipes.

They can also grow the part of the eyes that makes tears come out.

Scientists hope they will soon be able to make even more body parts and give them to people who need them.

One of their goals is to make the world's first nose using stem cells.

These are cells in the body that can be made into blood cells or skin cells.

"It's like making a cake," said Alexander Seifalian, a professor at University College London.

He is the scientist leading the effort.

"We just use a different kind of oven."

The British have invested $6.7 million to increase research in the London area.

A major research center will open in London next year.

The country wants to support the project.

It also hopes scientists from the different labs will work together.

Last year, Seifalian made a nose for a British man.

The man had lost his nose because he got sick with cancer.

Seifalian's team of scientists molded the nose from a chemical mixture.

They added a mixture of salt and sugar to create the sponge-like feel of a natural nose.

How did scientists grow the nose?

First, they took stem cells from the patient's fat.

They grew the stem cells in a lab for two weeks.

The lab-grown cells were used to cover the molded nose.

Then, they attached the nose into the man's forearm where skin will grow to cover it.

Seifalian doesn't know when the nose can be taken from the arm and attached to the patient's face.

He is waiting for the government to give him permission.

The material Seifalian uses to make body parts is protected.

Other scientists cannot copy the material without permission.

His team is creating other body parts, too.

These include parts of hearts and ears.

The ears will be tested in India and London later this year.

Ears are harder to make than noses, says Dr. Michelle Griffin.

That's because it's tricky to copy all the ear's lines and curves.

Griffin is a doctor who works in Seifalian's lab.

She has made dozens of ears and noses.

Today children who need new ears must have a major surgery, says Griffin.

Griffin also said the team plans to make a whole face.

They must first prove their material is safe.

Scientists have to make noses and ears perfect before making more challenging body parts, explains Eileen Gentelman.

She is a professor in London.

She is not involved in Seifalin's research.

The more complicated body parts to create are kidneys, lungs and livers.

Gentelman says what Seifailan has done is "pretty amazing."

Some scientists say that lab-made body parts will be used in hospitals in the future.

They are going to be on the market soon, said Suchitra Sumitran-Holgersson.

She is a science professor in Sweden.

Sumitran-Holgersson has used lab-made blood vessels with a handful of patients.

She plans to use more of them by 2016.

First, she must wait for the government's permission.

Seifalian has high hopes for lab-made body parts.

He says they may one day cost only a few hundred dollars.

Many different sized noses could be created quickly in a factory one day.

Doctors first choose the nose size.

Then they could change the nose a bit for each patient before attaching it.

