The National Mall is getting a new look — temporarily anyway.

The National Mall is the stretch of parks, museums and memorials that extends from the Lincoln Memorial to the U.S. Capitol building.

It is sometimes known as "the nation's front lawn" for its green open spaces and position next to some of the country's most important government buildings.

On a 6-acre section of the Mall, a new public art project has just been installed.

At ground level, all that visitors viewing the installation can see are swirls of alternating lines of dirt and sand with a few patches of gravel.

From above, however, visitors can see that it is actually the face of a young man.

The artwork, which will be open to the public from Saturday until Oct. 31, is called "E Pluribus Unum" and is the work of Cuban-American artist Jorge Rodriguez-Gerada.

The title is taken from one of the nation's best-known mottoes.

In English, the Latin phrase means "Out of many, one."

It is written on the Great Seal of the United States, which is the emblem of the bald eagle that is found on American passports, dollar bills and other federal documents.

"Out of many, one" refers to the fact that the American states are separate, but they combine to form a single country.

It also suggests that U.S. citizens, though they may come from different backgrounds or hold different sets of values, are unified as Americans.

"E Pluribus Unum" is a fitting title for Rodriguez-Gerada's "facescape," as he calls it.

To create the face, he photographed 30 men of all races, ages 18 to 25.

He then combined their faces, taking elements from each and merging them into a single image that represents all 30 men — and the American people in general.

"It's one of hundreds of millions of faces that America has," he said.

"They're all us."

He purposefully created the face at an angle with one eye peering out.

The effect is that no matter what angle from which visitors see the face, the eye will always appear to be watching them.

"It took me a month and a half to get it right," said Rodriguez-Gerada.

"It's always looking at you."

Once he knew exactly how he wanted the face to look, he used sophisticated digital and satellite technology to create 10,000 digital points.

With the satellite technology, he pinpointed the placement of the 10,000 wooden pegs that were the framework for the soil, sand and gravel.

Picture a massive connect-the-dots drawing, with 10,000 dots spread out across 6 acres with 8 miles of string connecting them.

Next, 2,500 tons of sand and 800 tons of topsoil were added to give the face its color and shading.

All materials were donated by companies, as was the transportation of the materials and the installation of the artwork.

"It's a unique project for us in the National Park Service," Robert Vogel said on Wednesday as the project was unveiled.

Vogel is the superintendent of the National Mall and Memorial Parks.

The project was dreamed up by Kim Sajet, the new director of the National Portrait Gallery, a part of the Smithsonian Institution.

The Smithsonian Institution is a group of museums and research centers dedicated to American history.

It has many museums that line the National Mall.

Sajet came up with the idea earlier this year and asked the Park Service for permission.

"When they said yes, we said, 'Really?'"

she recalled.

She was surprised that such a bold project would be allowed to be put in one of the nation's most recognized locations.

In some ways, however, the National Mall is the ideal setting for the "facescape."

"This is a beautiful piece of art not just for what it looks like, but what it stands for," Sajet said, referring to the artwork's theme of American unity.

Despite the months of hard work that went into creating "E Pluribus Unum," the installation will only last for one month, after which it will be covered over with grass.

This fact does not bother the artist, though.

Rodriguez-Gerada designs many art pieces that are only meant to last for short periods of time.

His National Mall "facescape" is not only an image, but also an experience.

Visitors walk around it and notice how it seems to change from different angles.

Like any experience, it is temporary.

For Rodriguez-Gerada, this is part of the artwork's meaning.

"I want to talk about living in the moment," he explained.

