The National Mall is the stretch of parks and museums in Washington, D.C. Its nickname is "the nation's front lawn."

It is called this because it is a green, open space and is next to some the country's most important government buildings.

Every year millions of tourists visit it.

This October, there is an extra reason to go.

On Oct. 1, a new art project opened at the Mall.

It is not made of paint.

It does not hang on a wall.

It is made out of dirt, sand and gravel.

It spreads across 6 acres of ground.

From the ground, it doesn't look like much.

But from high above you can see that it is actually the face of a young man.

The artwork can be seen until Oct. 31.

It is called "E Pluribus Unum."

It was made by Cuban-American artist Jorge Rodriguez-Gerada.

The title is taken from one of the nation's best-known mottoes.

In English, "E Pluribus Unum" means "Out of many, one."

You can find it on coins and dollar bills.

It means that the American states come together to make a single country.

The motto is also a reminder that even though Americans are different in some ways, they are united.

The artwork expresses the same idea.

To design the face, Rodriguez-Gerada photographed 30 different young men of different races.

He then mixed their faces, taking pieces from each.

The face he ended up with was a mix of the 30 men.

In this way, it represents the many faces of the American people.

"It's one of hundreds of millions of faces that America has," he said.

"They're all us."

Rodriguez-Gerada positioned the face at an angle with one eye peering out.

No matter what angle visitors see the face from, it will seem like the eye is looking at them.

Once he knew how he wanted the face to look, the next step was building it.

He figured out where to place 10,000 small markers in the ground.

They let him trace the lines of the face.

It was almost like a huge connect-the-dots drawing.

First, he put down 10,000 dots across the land.

Then he used 8 miles of string to connect them.

Last, he added 2,500 tons of sand and 800 tons of soil to the different sections.

These gave the face its color and shading.

It took months of hard work to make the huge face.

Yet, the artwork will only be up for one month.

After that time, it will be taken down and covered over with grass.

This does not bother the artist.

Most visitors will only see the artwork once before it disappears.

For this reason, they may feel that the experience of seeing the face is special.

