The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is using helicopters to stop crimes before they start.

"It's extremely cutting edge," says Captain Gary Walters, who heads the LAPD's air support unit.

"It's different.

It's nothing that we've ever done before."

With 17 helicopters, the LAPD has the largest police helicopter fleet in the nation.

The department is using technology and years of records to identify crime "hot spots."

Pilots then use their free time to fly over these areas.

The theory is that would-be criminals will not dare break the law when there is a helicopter hovering overhead.

However, what some see as a new and promising tool for keeping the peace, others consider loud and annoying.

The LAPD began exploring a preventive approach a few years ago.

It sent officers and patrol cars to areas where previous crimes had taken place.

Police keep logs of these crimes and use the numbers to predict where crime is more likely to occur.

Criminologists, people who study criminal behavior, say the use of helicopters is a natural use of that policing approach.

Still, they admit that it is highly unusual.

So far, LAPD officials say, the helicopters are working.

The number of serious crimes dropped when the helicopters conducted more flights.

During a week in June 2013, the helicopter unit flew 36 times over an area in South Los Angeles.

During that week, 125 crimes were reported.

In July of that year, police helicopters repeated the same experiment.

When pilots flew over the same area, the number of flights rose to 91 and the number of crimes dropped to 86.

The biggest difference came last September.

During the week of Sept. 13, the helicopter unit flew over the area 65 times and the police recorded 90 crimes.

A week later, the number of flights dropped to 40 and the number of reported crimes skyrocketed to 136.

Almost all types of crime went up, including burglary, car theft and thefts from vehicles.

Craig Uchida looks at the LAPD's numbers, called data.

He offers advice on crime prevention.

He says it is too early to prove a definite link between the flights and drops in crime.

But the results so far, he said, are encouraging.

And the project sometimes had unexpected results.

In March 2014, a pilot was checking out a hot crime spot.

Crooks had been stealing vehicles, burglarizing cars and attacking people there, says Sergeant Tony DeMolina, a veteran LAPD pilot.

While keeping an eye out for crime, the pilot spotted something else.

The pilot saw strobe lights spilling from an illegal dance party inside a huge warehouse.

The partygoers would park their cars in nearby alleys, which were easy for thieves to prey on.

After the dance parties ended, DeMolina says, the people themselves were robbed.

The LAPD sent extra patrols to shut the parties down, he says.

Professor Geoffrey Alpert of the University of South Carolina is a policing expert who studied the use of police helicopters.

He says the choppers can prevent crime in the short term.

Criminals will likely return when they're not around.

"You are deterring the criminals but you aren't getting rid of them and their intent," he says.

"Those criminals could strike in a different time and place."

Andrew Guthrie Ferguson, who teaches law at the University of the District of Columbia, agrees.

Helicopters have a "great deterrent value," he says.

But a loud and visible helicopter could make residents feel as if the police are an occupying military force.

Police departments increasingly say that one of their goals is to have a better relationship with the community.

A hovering helicopter can get in the way of that, Ferguson says.

Americans "are sending a message that they don't want our police militarized.

They don't want that occupying army feel.

And the use of helicopters fits in that frame."

Critics challenged the LAPD last year when it received two drones from Seattle police.

The police department does not use the unmanned aircraft.

The drones remain locked away until the Police Commission decides if and how they might be used.

Some people are concerned that drones, which carry cameras, could spy on people.

Peter Bibring is a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union.

He worries that if the helicopter project is successful, the LAPD could use drones the same way.

Commander Sean Malinowski says the helicopter project shows how exciting policing has become.

"The future of this thing is going to be how creative cops can be in using predictive or other data-driven strategies," says Malinowski.

He helped develop the method to prevent crime.

"That gets people pumped up to do something different.

It kind of injects life into the crime fighting."

