School officials in Los Angeles are punishing disobedient students in a new way this year.

Students who break rules will now receive help from a counselor.

In the past, they were often arrested and sent to court.

School officials hope the new system can keep students away from police and courts.

Many schools started using a "zero tolerance" policy during 1970s and 1980s.

That meant strict punishment for anyone breaking a rule.

Zero tolerance punishments were popular for many years.

But the system had problems.

It was unfair, with blacks and Latinos more likely to be punished than whites, activists say.

There were 9,000 arrests and tickets in the 2011-2012 school year.

More than 9 out of 10 of the arrests and tickets were for young black or Latinos.

One out of 10 of the students in the district were black in 2013-2014.

Of the students who were arrested, 3 out of 10 were black.

In 2011, the U.S. Department of Education looked at Los Angeles schools.

The department found that punishments were given out unfairly.

Los Angeles schools agreed to make changes.

Lately, schools around the country have been disciplining students differently.

In 2013, Los Angeles schools started suspending fewer students.

In 2012, students who skipped class no longer got tickets from the police.

The Los Angeles school district is huge.

It has more than 640,000 students.

There are more than 1,000 schools.

It is the largest district to try this new type of discipline.

"This is a huge breakthrough," said Zoe Rawson.

She works for an organization called the Community Rights Campaign.

Counseling and support can help troubled students, Rawson said.

In the past, students who were punished harshly with arrests or jail would go back to school.

Sometimes their behavior would be just as bad, or worse.

Jail did not fix what had caused the bad behavior.

Now, students who break the rules will sit down with a counselor.

Students can still be arrested for serious incidents.

Police will still be called for things like displaying a weapon or selling drugs.

More common examples of inappropriate behavior will now lead to counseling instead of court.

These would include fighting, breaking things in school or adding graffiti to school property.

The new policy is more about helping students than punishing them.

Jim Eichner works to fight injustice in Washington, D.C.

He said strict punishments are a bad idea because teens will always break the rules.

He said that the new system might seem easier for students, but it isn't.

The counseling and treatments students must go through work, but they are difficult, Eichner said.

The new system is tough because it makes kids look at their own behavior, he said.

