The moon sits low in the sky on this autumn evening as cars arrive at Wyoming's last drive-in theater.

Pokey Heny is ready for another night of entertainment in this small town.

At 52, the owner of the American Dream Drive-in leans out the snack bar door to collect an entry fee of $15 per vehicle.

She greets people by their first names, telling a 4-year-old girl she likes her stuffed hippo, named Martha.

Then a single mother and daughter roll up in an aging pickup.

Heny lets them in for 10 bucks.

Then she looks out toward the big screen looming in the night.

She sees families sprawled on car hoods, in lawn chairs and the beds of trucks.

Dogs crouch between toddlers buried under woolen blankets.

And she smiles, knowing she's helping to preserve a vital custom in this ranching town of 6,000 residents near the Montana border.

The theater first opened in 1949 as Wyoming's first drive-in.

Today, business is like a Saturday night thriller: the future is in doubt as Heny battles studios seeking to increase their profits while drive-ins keep shrinking in popularity.

This year Hollywood switches to a digital format, replacing standard 35-millimeter film prints at drive-ins countrywide.

Old movies had film on rolls that were put into projectors.

She faced a dilemma — go modern or go dark.

The digital projector cost $80,000 which is what she paid for the place in 2004.

Against her husband's advice, she borrowed the money this year and took the plunge.

At the first showing, the new machine malfunctioned, forcing her to tell 75 carloads of customers there would be no show that night.

But Heny sticks by her gamble.

"I'm investing in the town's future," she says.

"So many businesses have closed, the bowling alley and video store.

If I let this one go, it wasn't ever coming back."

Drive-ins have been failing for years.

Since the top of their popularity in the 1950s, 90 percent have closed.

Their numbers have tumbled from a high of 4,063 to just 350 this year, according to Kipp Sherer, who started the website Drive-ins.com.

Today, Alaska, Delaware and Louisiana have no drive-ins at all.

Maryland, Rhode Island and Mississippi each have one.

Wyoming once had 30, like the Sunset, Motorview and the Starlight, all of which are gone.

Sherer says that for small towns it's one of the last places "where families can watch a movie and be themselves."

It's an evening out "that doesn't break the bank."

Heny wants to keep it that way.

Despite updating to digital, she tries to keep everything else old-fashioned.

She likes maintaining the atmosphere of her own childhood.

She plays only family movies — no slasher flicks — because she doesn't want passing motorists to see bloody scenes on the big screen.

At the 7:15 p.m. start time for "Monsters University," a crowd waits outside the snack bar.

Old 45 records decorate the bar.

Snacks, such as retro candy Junior Mints, Dots and Hot Tamales, along with dill pickles on a stick, are for sale.

There's bug spray for the season's last hungry mosquitoes.

Heny soon plans to bring back those grainy ads with the dancing hot dogs and popcorn boxes singing "Let's all go the lobby…" to announce intermission.

Suddenly, the PA system springs to life on 1940s speakers that stand next to parking spaces.

Two girls in small voices instruct customers to tune to FM station 95.1 for sound.

Some nights, bands of 6-year-olds cluster outside the projector shack, making shadow puppets over the opening credits.

"Just kids being kids," Heny says.

The nation's first open-air movie theater opened in Camden, N.J.

In 1933, Richard Hollingshead placed a Kodak projector on his car hood to play "Wives Beware," a comedy about a womanizing car salesman.

The images flickered on a screen nailed to two trees, with a radio to provide sound.

Years later, Wyoming residents Paul and Winnie McCalmon opened Paul's Drive-in on a former hay field.

Besides movies, they offered extras like Shetland pony rides and boat rides in a small pond.

A storm blew down the screen in 1955.

But, the year after the drive-in returned with the twin bill "The Devil on Wheels" and "Tumbleweed Trail."

The place charged 50 cents for adults and 9 cents for children, advertising "bottles warmed free for the baby."

In the 1970s, the newly named Vali Drive-in was the center of Powell's teen social life.

"The girls came here because this is where the boys were," said Heny's sister Diana Fulton, who worked the snack bar as a youth and now helps Heny run the business.

"I met guys — that's why I worked here.

You got to see who came together and who left together."

In 2004, new owner Heny knew what to call the place — the American Dream Drive-in.

"It really is the American dream to be your own boss," she said.

"And there aren't that many female small-business owners in Wyoming."

Most weekends she clears $3,000 which includes money made from the snack bar.

Like most nights, she's the last to leave, switching off the marquee out by the mural of the American flag.

For a moment, she stands there, watching the lights dim on Wyoming's last drive-in theater.

