If Chester Nez dared to use his Navajo language in school, he was punished right away.

First, he had to scrub his tongue with a toothbrush.

Then, he had to wash out his mouth with bitter soap.

So, Nez was interested when Marine recruiters showed up in 1942: They were seeking young men like him who knew both English and Navajo.

That day, Nez was invited to join a top-secret group known as the Navajo code talkers.

Using the Navajo language, they developed an unbreakable military code.

Then, they risked their lives on battlefields across the Pacific.

For the rest of World War II, Navajo code talkers sent and decoded highly important military messages.

They helped win victories and save lives.

Nez didn't have to volunteer.

[Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Native+American) were hardly considered citizens back then.

But Nez's pride in his people spoke louder than years of rejection.

"I reminded myself that my Navajo people had always been warriors, protectors," he wrote years later.

"In that there was honor.

I would concentrate on being a warrior, on protecting my homeland."

Nez, the last of the original 29 code talkers, died Wednesday in Albuquerque, New Mexico.

He was 93.

In 2001 Nez received the Congressional Gold Medal for his wartime service.

Nez was born in 1921 in Two Wells, New Mexico.

His mother died when he was about 3.

When he was about 9, his father packed him off to government boarding schools to learn English.

The Marines showed up at his high school in the spring of 1942.

The recruiters did not say why they needed Navajos, but the promise of adventure appealed to the teenager.

"The Navajo feeling is to go to the top of the hill and see what's on the other side," he said in 2001.

Nez and the other 28 Navajos chosen for the project were sent to Camp Elliott in San Diego.

It was there that they learned just how challenging their task would be.

The Japanese had already broken every code used by the U.S. and its allies.

As a way to outwit them, the military had decided to try using the Navajo language.

Navajo was perfect for the task: It had no written form, its grammar was complicated and it featured unusual sounds.

For 13 weeks, Nez and the others were confined to a room.

They were instructed to come up with words to represent the letters A to Z, as well as a code for military terms.

At first "everybody thought we'd never make it," Nez recalled.

The men did finally come up with a code, however.

"Wol-la-chee," the Navajo word for "ant," represented A, "na-hash-chid," the word for "badger," was B, "moasi," the word for "cat," was C, and so on.

For key military words, they came up with things that were easy to remember.

So "a-ye-shi," the word for "eggs," for example, meant "bombs."

"Ni-ma-si," or "potatoes," meant "grenades."

The first message Nez sent was at Guadalcanal in November 1942: "Enemy machine gun next on your right.

Destroy."

The Allied forces blasted the target.

After Guadalcanal, Nez never stopped moving.

He was at the Battle of Bougainville in New Guinea in November 1943, Guam in July 1944 and Peleliu and Angaur in September 1944.

Everywhere he went, he sent and received top-secret messages.

Ultimately 400 Navajos served as code talkers.

They were highly important to the attack on Iwo Jima.

Code talkers sent and decoded 800 messages in that mission's first 48 hours.

"Were it not for the Navajos," wrote Marine Major Howard Conner, "the Marines would never have taken Iwo Jima."

"I worried every day that I might make" a mistake "that cost American lives," Nez told CNN a few years ago.

"But our code was the only code in modern warfare that was never broken.

The Japanese tried, but they couldn't" do it.

"Not even another Navajo could" decode it "if he wasn't a code talker."

