Roosemberth Palacios, a curly-haired 16-year-old, finds high school boring.

So after school, he logs onto his computer and hunts for challenges.

He's found them in difficult online courses offered by professors at Stanford University and  Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).

He says he's aced a course called "Machine Learning" by hot-shot Stanford professor Andrew Ng: He scored a perfect 100.

And he took a sophomore-level course by MIT professor Anant Agarwal called "Circuits and Electronics."

He got a 91 for that one.

To improve his math skills, he took a course called "Numerical Analysis."

It was offered online by a college in Switzerland.

The class was conducted in French.

So-called massive open online courses, or MOOCs, are creating disagreement at universities in the United States.

Some call them the future of higher education.

Others think they will bring about its downfall.

A few superstar professors are doing well in the new world of MOOCs: They pull in upward of 10,000 students from around the globe.

And these classes are free, or nearly free.

But others see the courses as dangerous.

They worry that MOOCs will greatly lower the number of teachers hired.

And they fear that classroom discussion will become a thing of the past.

But what people on both sides of the argument often forget is the effect MOOCs are having in distant countries around the globe.

They have certainly been a big plus for Roosemberth, according to his father, Dr. Roberto Palacios.

"At school, he hardly studies.

He just shows up and takes the exams."

But it isn't that he's lazy, Roberto added.

"He wants to learn."

It's just, Roosemberth explained, that "I don't like simple things."

That was easy to see minutes after arriving at the family's apartment.

There, the teenager showed off his workbench.

On it were circuit boards he has been soldering, and his own designs for an unmanned helicopter.

Because of his knack for acing tests, Roosemberth was selected more than a year ago to take part in a gifted students program at the University of El Salvador.

It is located in the capital, San Salvador, 20 miles to the east of his town.

It was there he heard a talk by engineering professor Carlos Martinez, who is strongly in favor of students taking online courses.

The teenager signed up for the "Circuits and Electronics" course offered by MIT.

He had to go to an Internet cafe a block from his home to listen to some of the courses.

"Sometimes I had to stay up very late.

I'd tell myself, 'It's worth losing a little sleep over,'" he said.

And Roosemberth was excited by the courses.

"They've been really worthwhile because I'm learning things I don't learn in school, and that I don't think they even teach in the university here," he said.

"For instance, we don't learn artificial intelligence here.

We don't have labs for it."

Indeed, reaching undiscovered bright students in poorer countries is one of the biggest benefits of online learning.

"Intelligence and ability are distributed equally around the globe," said Armando Fox, a computer scientist who is studying online courses.

"It's in everyone's best interest to find and cultivate that talent."

Online courses increasingly are offered in different languages, including Spanish, French and Chinese.

And technology makes it easier to follow lectures given in English.

Most lectures have subtitles, and a Google translating tool can also be used.

Word of the online courses also has spread to students outside of the sciences and engineering.

Nahiely Mendoza, 24, graduated with a law degree in December.

She said she grew excited after looking over the online listings.

"I wanted to take 'Intellectual Property,' but I got in too late.

So I signed up for 'Justice' by Professor Michael Sandel," Mendoza said.

Sandel is a hugely popular Harvard professor.

"I felt it was much harder than our university courses," Mendoza said.

"I was used to classes that were more controlled by the professor."

But the online course had study groups with people from all over the world.

She was soon hooked and has just signed up for two more classes.

"I'm entertained by studying," Mendoza said.

