Many men were recognized as heroes in the Battle of Gettysburg during the American Civil War.

It took more than 151 years, though, for one of them, First Lieutenant Alonzo Cushing, to be recognized with America's highest medal for heroism.

On Thursday, President Barack Obama awarded the Medal of Honor to Cushing's family in a moving ceremony.

Normally, the Medal of Honor is given within a few years of the brave deed.

"But sometimes even the most extraordinary stories can get lost in the passage of time," Obama said.

"This medal is a reminder that no matter how long it takes, it is never too late to do the right thing."

Cushing, who fought for the Union North, was 22 when he died on July 3, 1863.

Despite his terrible wounds, Cushing refused to leave his cannon, the only artillery piece in his unit that was helping to hold off the soldiers of the Confederate South.

His brave act, like so many others on the battlefield, helped the North win the war and end slavery.

Cushing was awarded the medal through the efforts of Margaret Zerwekh.

She is an amateur historian who began researching the Cushing family after moving to the Cushing family home in Delafield, Wisconsin, in the 1960s.

As she pored through accounts of Cushing's heroism, she felt he deserved the Medal of Honor.

Through more than three decades Zerwekh never gave up.

Zerwekh, now 94, was at the White House to witness a ceremony she spent so much time and effort to make happen.

"He deserved it," Zerwekh said.

During the ceremony, Obama singled out Zerwekh for her efforts.

Wisconsin Congressman Ron Kind attended the ceremony.

He is the descendant of two brothers who fought during the Civil War.

"This is the classic example of how two individuals can make a difference — Alonzo Cushing and Margaret Zerwekh."

It took an Army department weeks to track down members of Cushing's family.

Cushing died before having children.

Receiving the Medal of Honor was Helen Loring Ensign, 85, of Palm Springs, California.

She is a distant cousin of Cushing.

Wearing a button with Cushing's picture, Ensign stood next to the president.

Ensign has visited Gettysburg many times and stood at the spot where Cushing fell next to his artillery gun.

The spot is now marked with a stone monument.

"I remember being very, very proud to see a stone in his name.

Gettysburg was a part of our family history," Ensign said.

Family members attending the ceremony included several named Cushing or Alonzo.

Some learned of each other through efforts to trace the family for the Medal of Honor ceremony, said Ensign's niece Jessica Loring.

In Washington, D.C., this week, family members met Zerwekh for the first time.

"We owe a great debt to her for doing this," said Loring.

An 1861 graduate of West Point, Cushing was encouraged by his mother to attend the military college for officers.

There was no other way he could afford a college education.

While researching his 1993 biography "Cushing of Gettysburg: The Story of a Union Artillery Commander," Kent Masterson Brown read Cushing's letters and journals.

Brown learned that Cushing was a patriot who acted as a father figure to his younger brothers.

On July 3, 1863, Cushing was commanding Battery A, 4th U.S.

Artillery, stationed on Cemetery Ridge on the Gettysburg battlefield in Pennsylvania.

Before the South's desperate attack, called Pickett's Charge, Confederate guns fired at the Union position on Cemetery Ridge.

Cushing's unit was practically wiped out.

Paul C. Jussel, a military studies professor at the U.S. Army War College, said the battle was the last great effort Confederate General Robert E. Lee made for the South.

"Ultimately, it doesn't work and Cushing had a lot to do with that."

During the Confederate attack, Cushing was struck in the shoulder and abdomen, but continued to whisper commands to his soldiers.

Although he was urged to go get medical aid, Cushing refused to leave.

"He said 'No, I'll fight it out or die in the attempt,'" said Brown.

Cushing was among the 8,000 soldiers killed during the three-day battle.

More than 26,000 soldiers were wounded at Gettysburg.

When he was buried at West Point, Cushing was laid to rest underneath a tombstone inscribed "Faithful until death."

