On July 3, 1863, Alonzo Cushing died fighting off a Confederate attack.

Like so many others, his actions helped the North win the Civil War.

The war was fought between the Union Northern states and Confederate Southern states.

The end of the war led to the end of slavery.

On Thursday, President Barack Obama presented the Medal of Honor to his family.

The medal is America's highest award for bravery.

The award came 151 years after Cushing's death on the battlefield.

"It is never too late to do the right thing," Obama said.

Cushing fought for the North.

He died at age 22 during the Battle of Gettysburg in Pennsylvania.

Cushing was hit twice.

However, he refused to leave his cannon.

It was the last remaining large gun in his unit.

Badly wounded, he fought for two hours until he was killed.

Cushing was awarded the medal because of Margaret Zerwekh.

She learned about him after moving to the Cushing family home in Wisconsin.

Zerwekh read about Cushing's heroism and felt he deserved the Medal of Honor.

Through more than 30 years, she never gave up.

She was at the White House to witness the ceremony she spent so much time and effort to make happen.

Zerwekh is now 94.

Lawmaker Ron Kind of Wisconsin attended the ceremony.

He is the descendant of two brothers who fought during the Civil War.

He said the event showed how two people "can make a difference — Alonzo Cushing and Margaret Zerwekh."

Receiving the Medal of Honor was Helen Loring Ensign, age 85, of California.

She is a distant cousin of Cushing.

Ensign has visited Gettysburg many times.

She stood at the spot where Cushing died next to his gun.

The spot is now marked with a stone block.

"I remember being very, very proud to see a stone in his name.

Gettysburg was a part of our family history," Ensign said.

Cushing was raised in Wisconsin.

His mother encouraged him to attend West Point, a school for military officers.

There was no other way he could afford a college education.

He graduated in 1861.

On July 3, 1863, Cushing was commanding a group of soldiers and cannons on the Gettysburg battlefield.

Confederate guns killed many men in Cushing's unit.

They destroyed all the big guns, except his.

The attack became famous as Pickett's Charge.

Cushing was hit twice.

He was urged to go get medical help, but he refused to leave the battlefield.

"He said 'No, I'll fight it out or die in the attempt,'" said Kent Masterson Brown.

He wrote a book about Cushing.

The Battle of Gettysburg was the last great fight Confederate General Robert E. Lee made for the South, said Paul C. Jussel, He is a professor at the U.S. Army War College.

"Ultimately, it doesn't work and Cushing had a lot to do with that," Jussel said.

Cushing was just one of the 8,000 soldiers killed during the three-day battle.

More than 26,000 were wounded.

Cushing was buried at West Point under a tombstone.

The words on it read "Faithful until death."

