Yolanda Garcia's grandparents came from Mexico and worked many jobs to send six children to college.

Garcia's father attended one of the best universities in the United States and had five children.

In turn, Garcia graduated from the University of California, Santa Cruz (UC Santa Cruz).

She became a teacher, and now runs a gallery that sells Latin American art.

Along the way, the family moved from a poor neighborhood to a wealthy one.

They were the first Latinos in their area.

Now there are four other Latino families there.

The Garcias' story represents a California immigrant dream, but it's not true for all Latinos.

The U.S. Census Bureau says that Latinos have now become California's largest group.

The Census Bureau is a government office that keeps track of the number of people in the country.

Latinos now represent half of all Californians younger than 18, numbering 4.7 million compared with 2.4 million whites.

Although Latinos have made huge advances, they also face many challenges.

Latinos in California have lower incomes, education and job skills than the average white Californian.

However, the younger generation has a chance to close many of these gaps.

A study published last year found that second-generation Mexican-Americans have done better than their immigrant parents.

In California and Texas, they achieved more education, higher earnings and less poverty.

They also held better jobs and were more likely to own their own homes.

Only about one out of five Mexican parents had completed high school, for instance, but by 2005, four out of five of their children did.

University of Southern California (USC) Professor Dowell Myers said it's amazing how much progress the second generation has made.

They are still behind, though, according to Myers, one of the report's authors.

"We need to recognize how important these people are and how urgent their success is for the well-being of everyone," he said.

Marilyn Padilla represents the hope in this next generation.

She is the child of a Honduran immigrant mother who never attended school.

Padilla is now in college and hopes to become a Spanish teacher.

"We have come a long way," she said.

"Now we are becoming equals.

We are doing that for ourselves."

The growth in the Latino population is changing California.

It has already begun to reshape the state's politics, schools, businesses and neighborhoods.

Although many Latinos do not vote, their numbers are so large that the community has a lot of power.

In Compton, for instance, Isaac Galvan recently became the first Latino elected to the City Council.

Galvan and his four siblings were raised by a single mother.

He pushed for information in Spanish about City Council meetings and a translator at all city events.

He says that Spanish-speaking residents are attending more city events.

The growing importance of Latino shoppers has also attracted attention.

Businesses such as Target Corporation are targeting the Latino population in ads.

Nationally, Latino purchasing power has increased.

It has gone from from $700 billion in 2000 to $1.3 trillion in 2015, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

In 2013, California gave more money to help students who are low-income and learning English.

The goal of the money is to increase student achievement even more.

Statewide, Latinos have boosted their high school graduation rates and lowered their dropout rates, but they still haven't caught up with whites.

Latinos are going to college in greater numbers.

However, at the University of California there are more whites and Asians than Latinos.

Across Los Angeles, Latinos say education and voting are crucial to their future.

Haydee Reyes, for instance, is part of the "uprising of the second generation," as she calls it.

These are young Latinos who move easily between Latin and American culture.

She said her generation is living out the dreams of their parents.

Reyes' mother came from El Salvador, to escape a civil war in the 1980s.

She said the language barrier and cultural differences made everyday tasks difficult, such as asking for directions.

Yet both parents emphasized the value of education, and Reyes graduated from college and became a social worker.

As the Latino population grows, she said, more Latinos are in more public jobs.

This helps people see Latinos more positively.

Latinos are now seen as elected officials and government employees, not just as farm workers, she said.

"It's a wonderful thing," Reyes said.

"We are a voice that is being heard finally."

