Kris Ramirez never saw the police as a threat.

When he was growing up, the sight of police cruisers driving through his Southeast Los Angeles neighborhood did not make him nervous or angry.

"If someone is wearing a uniform," Ramirez said, "you show respect."

Then last year, four days before Halloween, a Los Angeles County sheriff's deputy shot and killed his brother, Oscar Jr., along railroad tracks near Paramount High School.

Deputies said the 28-year-old did not follow orders and moved his arm in "a threatening manner."

Ramirez was unarmed.

The Ramirez family protested in front of the Paramount sheriff's station, but they struggled to find wider support for their cause.

As the family grieved, the national Black Lives Matter movement picked up energy.

It was bolstered locally by the fatal shooting of Ezell Ford, a mentally disabled black man, by Los Angeles Police Department officers.

Watching the protests over Ford's killing, Kris Ramirez felt frustrated: "Why can't we get that same type of coverage or help?"

The muted reaction to the deaths of Latinos in confrontations with police tells a larger story: Black Lives Matter is starkly different from Brown Lives Matter.

In contrast to the fatal shootings of African-Americans such as Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Walter Scott in South Carolina, deaths of Latinos at the hands of law enforcement have not drawn nearly as much attention.

A federal judge in July ordered the release of a video showing Gardena police officers shooting two men, killing Ricardo Diaz Zeferino, an unarmed Latino.

The video has been viewed millions of times on YouTube.

It generated national media coverage, but very little protest.

Of the 23 people fatally shot by law enforcement in Los Angeles County this year, 14 were Latino.

Overall, Latinos make up about half of the county's population.

The different reactions to the shootings of blacks and Latinos is rooted, at least in part, in the country's history.

No group in America has experienced police brutality as much as the black community.

Police shootings of African-Americans, men in particular, outweigh those of any other group in L.A. County.

Although they make up only 9 percent of the population, since 2000, on average, blacks have represented 26 percent of those killed by police.

Despite overlap on some social justice issues, many differences shape the Latino and black experiences with law enforcement in the United States.

In Southern California, Latinos are a large and visible part of law enforcement.

Within the LAPD, the state's largest city police department, 45 percent of officers are Latino.

By contrast, blacks make up only about 11 percent of LAPD's officers.

In the overwhelmingly Latino neighborhoods of L.A.'s Eastside, many of the cops are "homegrown officers" raised in the surrounding neighborhoods, said Captain Martin Baeza.

The greater Eastside does have a history of protests and activism, but much of that protest is linked to immigration, and not police brutality.

Overall, support for police is strong.

Latino civil rights activist Amin David said he thinks black churches have played a large role in capturing attention for the Black Lives Matter movement.

In Catholic churches such as David's own, he said, priests do not talk about police killing Latinos.

"I really applaud the African-American churches," David said.

"They really know the buttons to press."

As a parent, Yolanda Dominguez told her son to get good grades, obey traffic laws and avoid gangs.

When it came to dealing with law enforcement, however, the 39-year-old Hawthorne resident had no special advice for him.

"My message has always been don't get involved in anything bad and that will limit your interaction with police," said Dominguez, who came to the United States from Mexico in the mid-1990s.

"It's not the police's motive to kill people anyway.

...

I never had this conversation with my son because the important issue was working and his schooling."

Dominguez, who owns the Dominguez Tire shop in Gardena, said she regarded police in the United States positively, especially compared with those in her native Mexico.

"Over there the police are always asking for bribes," she said.

"Here they try to help."

Luis Carrillo, an attorney who has represented Latino families in use-of-force cases, said that because of a history of oppression in Latin America, many Latinos have a "don't rock the boat" mentality.

Their mind-your-own business approach can leave families of people killed by law enforcement feeling isolated.

It is a feeling Kris Ramirez knows well — one he said he still struggles with.

He said he still sees reminders of his younger brother everywhere.

In the moments leading up to the October shooting, a 12-year-old student from a nearby school told her mother that she had seen two men armed with a knife and handgun.

Oscar Ramirez, a fit, 6-foot-tall Latino, matched the suspects' description, and authorities say he fled when they tried to question him.

The family disputes the official account, saying Oscar Ramirez never posed any threat to the deputies and that four or five bullets struck him in the back.

They filed a federal wrongful-death lawsuit against the Sheriff's Department in April.

Ramirez fears his brother's memory will be lost in the court process — but he will live on in the minds of his family.

On what would have been Oscar's 29th birthday in June, his father planted a tree near the train tracks.

