Many hardworking Hispanics came to the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina.

The devastating storm hit the area near Mississippi and Louisiana 10 years ago.

The workers had skills in construction, roofing and other types of manual labor.

They would sleep in their trucks in parking lots, in tents and on the bare ground.

There were no rooms to rent.

They helped tremendously in rebuilding the coast, the area along the Gulf of Mexico.

Their nail guns pounded from sunup to sundown.

In the early months, they worked seven days a week.

Without the Hispanic workers, recovering from the hurricane would have taken much longer.

Many of them came from other countries.

They were willing to deal with conditions that many American workers might not have accepted.

They came from large cities around the United States and from their home countries.

These included Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico and nations in South and Central America.

Early on in South Mississippi, the Hispanic population tripled to 60,000.

About one-third of them did not have the proper papers to be here.

The population settled closer to 30,000 in the years after the storm.

When the construction jobs dried up, some Hispanics opened their own businesses.

Some of the most popular businesses were restaurants and groceries, so people could eat their native food.

Many people sent for their families.

These newcomers have forever changed what the coast looks like.

The government says in the years after Katrina, the Hispanic population in several Mississippi counties increased quite a bit.

In one school district, the population of people learning to speak English more than doubled.

There has also been a steady increase in the number of students enrolled.

Not all of them are Hispanic, but most of them are.

Several groups that help Hispanics have come forward to address the needs of the community.

They help connect newcomers with nearby services and support.

The Diocese of Biloxi in Mississippi is trying make it easier for new, Spanish-speaking members.

It offers Mass, or services, in Spanish at nine churches around the state.

This year, the church brought in two new priests from Mexico, bringing the total number of Hispanic priests to five.

"They are very much better at taking care of the (Hispanic) community than I was," said the Rev.

Paddy Mockler.

He jokingly pointed out that he speaks Spanish with an Irish accent.

After the storm, Mockler served at Our Lady of Fatima, a church in Biloxi.

At first, he saw church attendance grow with Latinos, but then it eased off.

About one-third of the 380 families at Sacred Heart in Pascagoula, Mississippi, are now Hispanic.

But one of the biggest changes has been in the schools along the coast.

Inside these buildings, the number of Latino students has grown steadily.

Susan and Gustavo Santos lead a Spanish-speaking church in Vancleave, Mississippi.

It is family friendly and lively, and the number of members has reached 100.

The Santoses are training to be preachers.

The church has grown to the point where there is now a related church in Gulfport, Mississippi, with 50 to 60 members.

Gustavo Santos came nine years ago, not because of Katrina, but for the work in shipyards and other businesses.

He had learned welding in high school in Puerto Rico.

Susan Santos wanted to raise their children speaking English.

They eventually created their own business.

It's called Quality Marine Staffing.

The company is helped by the skilled Latino workers who came to the area during Katrina.

Gustavo, with his connections in the community, now hires crews and connects them with businesses in the area.

"We've been praying for this since 2012," Susan Santos said.

She said they want to offer benefits and fair pay, and "do everything legally and good."

And it happened.

Last month, he was able to pay his workers for the first time.

