Yolanda Garcia's grandparents came from Mexico.

They worked hard to send six children to college.

Now Garcia owns a store that sells art.

The Garcias are a success story.

Not all Latinos have done as well.

Latinos have now become California's largest group.

Half of all California children are Latino, the U.S. Census Bureau says.

There are 4.7 million Latino children.

There are only 2.4 million white children.

The Census Bureau counts the number of people who live in the United States.

Although Latinos have come far, they also face many problems.

Latinos in California make less money than white Californians.

They have less education, too.

A study found that younger Mexican-Americans have done better than their parents.

In California and Texas, they went to school longer.

They also made more money.

Only about one out of five Mexican parents had finished high school.

By 2005, four out of five of their children did.

The Latino population is changing California.

Isaac Galvan is Latino.

He became the first Latino elected to the City Council in Compton.

He made a big difference to the Latinos there.

He got someone to translate all city events into Spanish.

Now Latinos are going to more city events.

Businesses are also interested in Latinos.

Over the past 10 years, Latinos have been spending more.

Many companies are trying to get Latinos to buy their goods.

California is spending money to help students who are poor and learning English.

The goal is to help students do better in school.

Statewide, more Latinos are finishing high school.

Still, they have not caught up with whites.

Latinos say education and voting are important to their future.

Haydee Reyes belongs to the younger generation.

She said many Latinos are living out the dreams of their parents.

Reyes' mother came from El Salvador to escape a war.

El Salvador is in Central America.

Both of her parents believed that education is important.

Reyes graduated from college and became a social worker.

Reyes said many Latinos now have important jobs.

Many are leaders in the government.

She is proud of how well Latinos have done in California.

"It's a wonderful thing," Reyes said.

"We are a voice that is being heard finally."

