Yolanda Garcia's grandparents came from Mexico.

They worked many jobs to send six children to college.

Garcia's father attended one of the best universities in the United States.

Garcia also went to college.

She became a teacher.

Now she owns a store selling Latin American art.

Along the way, the family moved from a poor neighborhood to a rich one.

They were the first Latinos in their area.

Now there are four other Latino families there.

The Garcias are a success story.

Not all Latinos have done as well.

The U.S. Census Bureau says that Latinos have now become California's largest group.

The Census Bureau is a government office that keeps track of the number of people in the country.

Half of all Californians younger than 18 are Latino, numbering 4.7 million.

There are only 2.4 million whites under 18.

Although Latinos have made huge progress, they also face many challenges.

Latinos in California make less money than white Californians.

They also have less education.

A study last year found that younger Mexican-Americans have done better than their parents.

In California and Texas, they were better educated and made more money.

They also held better jobs and are more likely to own their own homes.

Only about one out of five Mexican parents had finished high school.

By 2005, four out of five of their children did.

Dowell Myers is a University of Southern California (USC) professor and one of the authors of the report.

He said the second generation has made a lot of progress, but still lags behind whites.

Marilyn Padilla represents the hope in this next generation.

Padilla's mother came from Honduras in Central America and never attended school.

Padilla is now in college and hopes to become a Spanish teacher.

"We have come a long way," she said.

"Now we are becoming equals.

We are doing that for ourselves."

The growing Latino population is changing California.

Many Latinos do not vote.

Their numbers are so large, though, that the community has a lot of power.

In Compton, Isaac Galvan became the first Latino elected to the City Council.

Galvan and his four siblings were raised by a single mother.

He wanted information in Spanish at the City Council meetings.

He also insisted on a translator at all city events.

He says that Spanish-speaking residents are attending more city events.

Businesses have become interested in Latino spending power.

In 2000, Latinos spent $700 billion in the United States.

This year, they are expected to spend $1.3 trillion.

Companies are trying to get more Latino shoppers.

Target, for instance, has created ads in Spanish.

In 2013, the state gave more money to help students who are poor and learning English.

The goal was to help students do better in school.

Statewide, more Latinos are graduating from high school, but still have not caught up with whites.

Latinos are also going to college in greater numbers.

At the University of California, there are more whites and Asians than Latinos.

Latinos say education and voting are crucial to their future.

Haydee Reyes is part of the younger generation.

Many are going to college and living out the dreams of their parents.

Reyes' mother came from El Salvador to escape a war.

It has not been easy for her family, but both her parents believe that education is important.

Reyes graduated from college and became a social worker.

She said as the Latino population grows, more Latinos are working in important jobs.

It helps improve what people think about Latinos.

"It's a wonderful thing," Reyes said.

"We are a voice that is being heard finally."

