Many hardworking Hispanics came into the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina, which hit 10 years ago this summer.

They had skills in construction, roofing and other types of manual labor.

They would sleep in their trucks in parking lots, in tents and on the bare ground because there were no rooms to rent.

They helped tremendously in rebuilding the coast.

Their nail guns pounded from sunup to sundown, seven days a week in the early months.

Without the Latino labor force, recovering from the hurricane would have taken considerably longer.

These workers, many of them immigrants, were willing to endure conditions that many American workers might not have accepted.

They came from large cities around the United States and from their home countries.

These included Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico and nations in South and Central America.

There are more than 21 Latin American countries or regions and today, each one of those is represented on the Gulf Coast.

That's according to organizations that work with the community.

Many workers moved on.

Early on in South Mississippi, the Hispanic population tripled to 60,000, although one-third of them were living in the United States without documentation.

The population settled closer to 30,000 in the years after the storm.

Government figures list the numbers considerably lower, but they are not necessarily accurate.

Those who stayed have taken root and the population is growing, no matter how you count it.

When the construction jobs dried up, some Hispanics opened businesses in landscaping, real estate and auto sales.

Some of the most popular businesses were restaurants and groceries, so people could eat their native food.

Those who sent for their families have changed the face of the coast forever.

The government says that between 2010 and 2013 in Harrison County, Mississippi, the Hispanic population increased nearly 8 percent.

In Hancock County, it was up 13.5 percent, and the boost was largest in Jackson County with a 15.5 percent jump.

In the Pascagoula-Gautier School District, the population of English learners more than doubled from 196 in 2005 to 463 in 2007.

In the following years, the district has seen a steady climb in the number of students enrolled.

This past school year there were 708 students, said Frank Catchings, director of federal programs for the district.

While not all of these students are Hispanic, more than 90 percent of them are.

The Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, the Gulf Coast Latin American Association and El Pueblo are all organizations that help Hispanics.

The groups stepped up to address the needs of the community, connecting new immigrants with local services and support.

The Diocese of Biloxi in Mississippi has Catholic churches that now offer Mass in Spanish at nine services around the state.

This year, the diocese has ordained two new priests from Mexico, bringing the number of Hispanic priests to five.

"They are very much better at taking care of the (Hispanic) community than I was," said the Rev.

Paddy Mockler, pointing out jokingly that he speaks Spanish with an Irish accent.

Mockler served after the storm at Our Lady of Fatima in Biloxi, where he saw the church attendance swell with Hispanics and then ease off.

Thirty percent of the 380 families at Sacred Heart in Pascagoula are now Hispanic.

The church has a Spanish service on Saturdays and offers classes in English as a second language.

It and other churches have for years taken turns hosting the annual feast day and pageant for Our Lady of Guadalupe and Saint Juan Diego.

But one of the more obvious changes has been in the schools along the coast.

Inside these buildings, the number of Hispanic students has grown steadily.

Susan and Gustavo Santos lead a Hispanic mission church on the grounds of the much larger Crossroads Church of the Nazarene in Vancleave, Mississippi.

It is family friendly and lively, and the number of members has reached 100.

They are training to be pastors for the faith.

Their mission church, El Taller Del Maestro, which means the master's workshop, has grown to the point where there is now a sister church in Gulfport, Mississippi, with 50 to 60 members.

Gustavo Santos came nine years ago, not because of Katrina, but for the work in shipyards and other industry.

He had learned welding in high school in Puerto Rico.

Susan Santos wanted to raise their children speaking English.

What has evolved for them is a new business, Quality Marine Staffing.

The company is aided by the skilled Latino workers who came to the area during Katrina.

Santos, with his connections in the community, now hires crews and connects them with local industry.

"We've been praying for this since 2012," Susan Santos said.

She said they want to offer benefits and fair wages, and "do everything legally and good."

And it happened.

Last month, he was able to pay his staff for the first time.

