In a bar in Beirut, Lebanon, Nasser Shorbaji and Marwan Alameh try not to knock over their microphones.

They're laughing during the weekly radio show they host.

Moments later, they turn more serious as they play Palestinian hip-hop.

The discussion turns to the war between Palestinians and Israelis in the Palestinian territory of Gaza.

Heads nod in the packed bar to the rhymes of Sati, a Palestinian rapper.

The duo are among several Lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to reach unhappy youth.

Lebanon — like much of the Middle East — is in the middle of political chaos and violence.

The artists are trying to bring young people into a debate about the turmoil.

"People don't want to be preached to.

So we're just doing a fun thing in order to put out serious issues," said Alameh, 32.

One example is Shorbaji's latest music video to his song "O.P.P."

The song takes its title from the 1991 hit by U.S. hip-hop group Naughty By Nature.

The remake by Shorbaji, 29, is about a suicide bomber working as a bank clerk.

The clerk is thinking through whether or not to carry out an attack at the bank.

Another example is rapper and graffiti artist Omar Kabbani, 31.

He runs Ashekman, a rap, graffiti and street clothing outfit, with his brother Mohamed.

"They say I was born with a microphone and my twin brother with a spray can," Kabbani said.

"We consider ourselves to be the eight o'clock news when we go out to do graffiti."

Kabbani wouldn't call Ashekman's work political.

Yet, the group's music and street art does not avoid Lebanese society's conflicts.

Ashekman's "Grendizer," a giant war robot from Japanese cartoons, features in many of the group's designs.

Ashekman uses it to mock what they see as mindless obedience to Lebanon's religious and political groups — and their private armies.

"Many people that were warlords in Lebanon are now ruling the country," he says.

Leaders of armed groups during Lebanon's 15-year civil war, which ended in 1990, are now major politicians.

Ashekman's latest graffiti mural responds to the recent wave of suicide bombings that shook Lebanon.

The mural features the popular 1980s video game character Bomberman.

He's shown running with a cartoon-like bomb, fuse lit, in his hands.

The character skips past the word "Wanted," written in Arabic.

Kabbani says the mural is meant to refer to Lebanese politicians' unfair use of the threat of terrorism to increase their power and scare off their rivals.

Jackson Allers is an American journalist in Beirut who writes about Arab hip-hop.

Allers believes Lebanese artists are just beginning to discover how much power they have.

"Their influence is increasing," he said.

They've turned their "critical gaze" to youth culture, which he considers positive.

Ali Rafei, 28, is a graffiti and street artist from Tripoli, Lebanon's second-largest city.

It is a cultural center of conservative Sunni Islam.

Sunni is the largest branch of Islam.

Ali said Tripoli has largely been left to survive on its own.

Since the outbreak of a civil war in neighboring Syria, Tripoli has seen fighting between Sunni fighters and supporters of Syria's government.

Rafei said decay in his city has provided plenty of space for his street paintings to be seen and appreciated.

"The emptiness that's there pushes you to create and change visual scenery," he said.

Rafei hopes to change locals' views and ease the anger there.

People "would prefer a drawing with colors and some meaning to them than a gray wall with pictures of politicians that do nothing for them."

