In a bar in Beirut, Lebanon, Nasser Shorbaji and Marwan Alameh try not to knock the microphones over while laughing.

They're in the middle of broadcasting their weekly radio show.

Moments later, they become serious as they talk about Palestinian hip-hop, discussing the war between Palestinians and Israelis in the Palestinian territory of Gaza.

Heads nod in the packed bar to the rhymes of Sati, a Palestinian rapper.

The duo are among several Lebanese graffiti artists and rappers trying to reach out to discontented youth.

They're trying to bring them into a debate about the country's latest wave of political turmoil and the problems facing the entire Middle East.

"People don't want to be preached to.

So we're just doing a fun thing in order to put out serious issues," said Alameh, 32.

One example is Shorbaji's latest music video to his song "O.P.P."

The song takes its title from the 1991 hit by U.S. hip-hop group Naughty By Nature.

The version by Shorbaji, 29, focuses on a suicide bomber working as a bank clerk who thinks through whether or not to carry out an attack at the bank.

Another example is rapper and graffiti artist Omar Kabbani, 31.

He runs Ashekman, a rap, graffiti and urban clothing outfit, with his brother Mohamed.

"We consider ourselves to be the eight o'clock news when we go out to do graffiti," Kabbani said.

"They say I was born with a microphone and my twin brother with a spray can."

While Kabbani is wary of calling Ashekman's work political, the group's music and street art does not avoid Lebanese society's many conflicts.

Ashekman's "Grendizer," a giant war robot from anime, Japanese cartoons, features in many of the group's designs.

Ashekman uses it to mock what they see as mindless obedience to religious and political groups — and their militias — in Lebanon's divided political landscape.

"Many people that were warlords in Lebanon are now ruling the country," he says, referring to leaders in Lebanon's 15-year civil war, which ended in 1990.

The former warlords have gone on to prominent political careers.

In its song "Deyman Ijebeh," Arabic for "Always Positive," Ashekman makes fun of what they see as attempts by the Lebanese to appear unaffected by their country's instability.

"They (leaders) are fighting over who will rule the Banana Republic," Ashekman raps.

He's referring to the idea that Lebanon is an unstable country with a primitive economy — like one that just exports bananas.

Ashekman's latest graffiti mural responds to the recent wave of suicide bombings that shook Lebanon.

The mural features the popular 1980s video game character Bomberman running with a cartoon-like bomb, fuse lit, in his hands.

The character skips past the word "Wanted," written in Arabic.

Kabbani says it is a reference to what Ashekman feels is Lebanese politicians' use of the threat of terrorism for greater personal power and to scare off their rivals.

Jackson Allers is an American journalist based in Beirut who writes about Arab hip-hop.

He said Lebanese artists are just beginning to discover how much power they have.

"Their influence is increasing," he said.

"They've turned the critical gaze of youth inward, at their own peer group, which I would say is positive."

Ali Rafei, 28, is a graffiti and street artist from Tripoli.

It is Lebanon's second-largest city and the cultural center of conservative Sunni Islam.

Sunni is the largest branch of Islam.

Ali said his home city has largely been left to fend for itself.

Since the outbreak of a civil war in neighboring Syria, Tripoli has seen fighting between Sunni fighters and supporters of Syrian President Bashar Assad.

Rafei said decay in his city has provided space for his street paintings to be seen and appreciated.

"The emptiness that's there pushes you to create and change visual scenery," he said.

Rafei hopes to change locals' views and ease the tension there.

People "would prefer a drawing with colors and some meaning to them than a gray wall with pictures of politicians that do nothing for them."

