It took a garbage crisis for the Lebanese people to finally snap.

Anger about the heaps of trash accumulating in Beirut's streets boiled over this week.

Thousands protested in the street against a government so dysfunctional it can't hold elections or pick a president, much less deliver basic services.

Tiny Lebanon has been relatively unaffected by neighboring Syria's civil war.

However, the Middle Eastern country could find itself plunging into chaos if further violence breaks out in its capital.

"It shows the Lebanese society to some extent catching up with the rest of the Arab world in terms of popular protests against the central government," said Rami Khouri.

He is a senior fellow at the Issam Fares Institute at the American University of Beirut.

In many ways, Lebanon never got over its civil war, which raged from 1975 until 1990.

Governments neglected the country's infrastructure, leading to water shortages and electricity cuts even now, 25 years after the war ended.

These longstanding grievances erupted after the government closed its main landfill July 17, offering Beirut no alternative site to dump its trash.

Mountains of garbage piled up on the streets, prompting a protest movement that is calling itself "You Stink."

Decades of putting up with an ineffective government and corrupt politicians exploded at once.

The "You Stink" movement, a rare, non-political grassroots movement, quickly picked up supporters and expanded its demands beyond just the trash in the street: It demanded the resignation of the entire government.

Lebanon's government operates a power-sharing system that is supposed to ensure that Muslims and Christians are represented equally.

However, the system often leads to constant arguing and favoritism among the country's politicians.

Lebanon has been without a president for more than a year, despite nearly 30 attempts by Parliament to pick a new one.

Parliament twice has extended its term without elections, though it isn't working because some lawmakers insist on electing a president first.

The "You Stink" protests, which began as peaceful demonstrations, turned violent over the weekend.

A small group of young men repeatedly tried to tear down a barbed-wire fence separating the crowds from the Lebanese government building, which houses the offices of the prime minister and top officials.

On Saturday and Sunday night, police fired tear gas and water cannons at the protesters, battling them in the streets of Beirut in dramatic clashes.

Gunfire could be heard, and dozens were wounded.

On Monday, workers swept up broken glass and the burned remains of the weekend's violence.

"We arrived in the morning and found everything broken, chairs on the floor, everything is a mess," said Joseph Khoury, who works at a car rental agency.

Protesters blamed the protest on thugs sent by politicians.

"Those who did this do not represent the Lebanese people," said Salah Noureddine, one of a handful of people protesting Monday morning.

The "You Stink" movement also says it will not back down.

"This movement has succeeded in reawakening the Lebanese, and we will not let them make us go to sleep again," said Marwan Maarouf, a group representative.

Maarouf called for a large protest Saturday, saying that the movement's goal is "toppling an entire corrupt political class."

But such a move risks plunging Lebanon into an even greater instability and further straining the country, which is already flooded with Syrian war refugees.

Although "You Stink" canceled a planned protest Monday, hundreds again gathered in downtown Beirut after sunset.

The event was peaceful in the early evening.

Large concrete barriers blocked those in Riad El Solh Square from reaching the government building.

Some are already calling the huge protests of the past 2 days a revolt similar to those of the Arab Spring that overthrew dictators across the Mideast beginning in 2011.

Anticipating more trouble, the Lebanese army took up positions around downtown Beirut, stationing armored vehicles on street corners.

Separately Monday, heavy clashes resumed in the Palestinian refugee camp of Ein el-Hilweh near the southern port of Sidon, Lebanon.

The violence, which began on Saturday followed a failed assassination attempt targeting an official from a political party.

Khouri, the analyst, said the protest, Lebanon's largest in years, likely will signal some kind of change.

"I see this potentially, if it grows, as the beginning of a serious challenge to the existing sectarian system," he said.

"So either ... (the government) has to change or it has to become more efficient and more equitable."

In an attempt to respond, Lebanese Environment Minister Mohammad Machnouk announced the names of companies that will be hired to manage Beirut's trash.

He described the hiring process as "transparent" and a "significant achievement."

The government also scheduled the next Cabinet meeting earlier, saying it will meet Tuesday to discuss the trash crisis.

Activists, however, quickly dismissed those actions as political game-playing.

American Ambassador to Lebanon David Hale also said he was "deeply troubled" by the images of violence at the protests and the reports of injuries.

He called for a thorough investigation and restraint on all sides.

After meeting Prime Minister Tammam Salam, Hale said: "Lebanon's citizens deserve to have basic services they can count upon, just as they deserve a Parliament that overcomes its divisions and elects a president."

