Smelly garbage has been piling up in Beirut's streets for more than a month.

This week, the citizens of Lebanon's capital finally had enough.

Thousands protested in the streets against a government that cannot work together.

It is unable to choose a president, much less take care of the garbage.

Now some protesters have come up with a new way to solve the problem.

They are demanding that the entire government quit.

Lebanon's citizens have been angry at the government for years over water problems and electricity cuts.

On July 17, the government closed the main garbage dump, and mountains of rotting trash filled the streets.

After years of frustration, a group began a protest movement calling itself "You Stink."

The "You Stink" movement quickly picked up supporters and expanded its demands beyond just getting rid of the garbage.

It says the entire government should quit.

The "You Stink" protests began peacefully.

They turned violent last weekend.

A small group of young men repeatedly tried to tear down a fence separating the crowds from a government building.

On Saturday and Sunday night, police fired tear gas and water cannons at the protesters and fought them in the streets.

Tear gas is a chemical that makes eyes water and is used to stop protests.

Gunfire could be heard in the street.

Dozens of people were wounded.

On Monday, workers swept up broken glass and other remains of the violence.

"We arrived in the morning and found everything broken, chairs on the floor.

Everything is a mess," said Joseph Khoury, who works at a car rental agency.

Protesters said they were not responsible for the damage.

"Those who did this do not represent the Lebanese people," said Salah Noureddin.

He was one of a handful of people protesting Monday morning.

The "You Stink" movement says it will not back down.

Marwan Maarouf is with the group.

He said the movement has stirred the Lebanese people to take action.

"We will not let them make us go to sleep again," he said.

Maarouf called for a large protest Saturday.

Another protest can be risky for the country, which is already trying to deal with thousands of refugees from the Syrian war.

"You Stink" canceled a planned protest Monday, but hundreds of people again gathered in downtown Beirut after sunset.

The protests were peaceful.

Lebanon's government expected more trouble and sent the army to guard downtown Beirut.

Armored vehicles were parked on street corners.

The protest was Lebanon's largest in years.

Rami Khouri, who is with the American University of Beirut, said it will likely lead to some kind of change.

He said if "You Stink" grows large enough, it will put pressure on the government.

Either the government has to change or it has to work better and become more fair, Khouri said.

Mohammad Machnouk is Lebanon's highest environment official.

He said the government is working to get rid of all the garbage.

He announced the names of companies that have been hired to handle Beirut's trash.

Also, he added, top government officials will meet sooner than they planned to discuss the problem.

Activists, though, quickly said that Machnouk was not taking the crisis seriously enough.

Ambassador David Hale is America's top official in Lebanon.

Hale said he was "deeply troubled" by the images of violence at the protests and also by the reports of injuries.

He said that there should be a thorough investigation and also that all sides should show more self-control.

Hale met with Lebanese Prime Minister Tammam Salam.

Afterward, Hale said, "Lebanon's citizens deserve to have basic services they can count upon."

Hale added that they also deserve a government that can overcome its differences and elect a president.

