In 1910, more than a year after Theodore Roosevelt departed the White House, he marched into Paris and delivered a timeless speech.

"It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better," said the former president.

"The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood … if he fails, at least (he) fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat."

Basketball superstar LeBron James used Roosevelt's speech as a map to find his way back home to Ohio.

James thought about those words during and after the 2010-2011 basketball season, when he was heavily criticized for leaving the Cleveland Cavaliers, the team where he got his start.

He posted Roosevelt's words on his Miami Heat locker in large letters.

Ultimately, the words had their effect.

On July 12, James signed a two-year contract with the Cavaliers and was soon back in that familiar No.

23 Cavaliers basketball jersey.

Basketball insiders believe he went back to help the Cavaliers get their first championship.

"He left (the Cavaliers) to win a championship and he won multiple championships," said James Jones, one of James' closest allies who followed him from Miami to Cleveland.

"He left to compete on the highest level and we went to four straight Finals."

The only thing missing, Jones said, was the chance to do that at home.

"LeBron is very driven and he takes that challenge seriously," Jones said.

"He feels that he's equipped and he's in this place, in this time, to be able to do it.

He's taking it on.

Even if it's not what other people thought or expected, he expects to be the guy to bring a championship to Cleveland."

James is 29 and was born in Akron, Ohio, to a single mother.

He said he left Miami for Cleveland, willingly sacrificing present success for future gains.

The Miami Heat team he left had just won two championships.

The Cavaliers never won even one.

"What's funny is the team was a small [part] of me coming back," James said.

"It had nothing much to do with the team, it was more about these fans and the city and the people here and the people who watched me grow from when I first picked up a basketball at age 8 to now at 29."

Just as Roosevelt was one of the most powerful and influential leaders of the early 20th century, so is James one of the most powerful and best known players of the 21st century sports world.

He is constantly atop "most powerful" player lists, he embraces social issues.

Locally, the Cavaliers sold out of season tickets the same day he announced his return.

When his essay announcing his intention to return to the Cavaliers was released on July 11, the sleepy lunch crowd inside Harry Buffalo sports bar exploded.

Suddenly they were celebrating as if the Cavs had already won a championship.

The night James left Cleveland, "people in here were running into the streets crying and screaming," Harry Buffalo General Manager Caitlin Cassidy said.

"When he announced he was coming back, people did not go back to work."

"There are not many players who can come in that young and understand the magnitude of what he stands for and what he brings," said Dallas Mavericks veteran Tyson Chandler, who won a gold medal with James during the 2012 London Olympics.

"Not only what he brings to this organization, but what he brings to the city he's playing in.

With that comes a lot of responsibility and he's never shied away from it."

A number of players in all sports would like to avoid playing in their hometown, but James is embracing it.

"It takes a special player to be able to do that," said Milwaukee Bucks coach Jason Kidd, who grew up in Oakland, California.

"But if there is someone who can do it, he can."

There was a time when James was obsessed with winning a title, when he foolishly proclaimed the Heat would win "not five, not six, not seven" championships.

That was before he truly understood how difficult it was to win just one.

"It's the hardest thing you can ever do in your basketball career," James says now.

James is now focused on simply bringing at least one championship title to Cleveland.

James stopped caring how others viewed his career about the time he stopped listening to social media and started listening to Roosevelt.

"I know deep down he really wants to bring a championship back to his hometown," Chandler said.

"As a young kid and then to get drafted here, that had to be his vision of what he thought his career would be.

I'm pretty sure that's why he came back.

He felt like it was the right thing to do and clearly that's what he's chasing."

Now, the dust is on James' face, and the sweat is on his brow.

The most powerful man in the NBA will soon discover whether he's strong enough to carry Ohio to glory.

