In July, basketball superstar LeBron James came back to his hometown team.

After four years of playing in Florida, he moved back to Ohio, where he is from.

He was inspired by words spoken more than 100 years ago.

In 1910, Theodore Roosevelt gave a famous speech in Paris, France.

It was a year after he left the White House.

Roosevelt said that it is easy to tell another person what to do.

He also said it is better to try and fail than never try at all.

"The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena," Roosevelt said.

"If he fails, at least (he) fails while daring greatly."

James, who is 29, was born in Akron, Ohio.

In 2003, he went to play for the Cleveland Cavaliers in his home state.

Seven years later, James moved to the Miami Heat in Florida.

He was attacked for leaving the team where he got his start.

During James' four years in Miami, he thought about Roosevelt's words.

He posted them on his locker.

On July 12, James went back to the Cavaliers.

"He left (Cleveland) to win a championship," said James Jones.

He is one of James' closest basketball buddies.

While James was with the Miami team, it won two National Basketball Association (NBA) championships.

The only thing missing, Jones said, was the chance to win a championship for his hometown.

"LeBron is very driven and he takes that challenge seriously," Jones said.

"He's taking it on.

Even if it's not what other people thought or expected, he expects to be the guy to bring a championship to Cleveland," he said.

On July 11, James announced he wanted to return to the Cavaliers.

The same day, the Cavaliers sold out of season tickets.

"What's funny is the team was a small [part] of me coming back," James said.

"It had nothing much to do with the team.

It was more about these fans and the city and the people here."

Harry Buffalo is a sports bar and restaurant near the Cleveland basketball arena.

Caitlin Cassidy is the manager.

She remembers the night James left Cleveland.

"People in here were running into the streets crying and screaming," she said.

When people there heard that James was back, they celebrated.

It was as if the Cavaliers had already won a championship.

Tyson Chandler is a basketball player with the Dallas Mavericks.

He won a gold medal with James at the 2012 Olympics in London, England.

Chandler said that few players that young understand how important they are to their team and city.

"With that comes a lot of responsibility and he's never (avoided) it," Chandler said.

Some players don't want to play for their hometown team.

James loves it.

"It takes a special player to be able to do that," said Milwaukee Bucks coach Jason Kidd.

"But if there is someone who can do it, he can."

There was a time when James wanted to win many championships.

That was before he understood how hard it was to win just one.

"It's the hardest thing you can ever do in your basketball career," James says now.

Chandler also thinks James wants to bring a championship to his hometown.

Cleveland has never won a single championship.

"I'm pretty sure that's why he came back," Chandler said.

"He felt like it was the right thing to do."

Some people call James one of the best players in the NBA.

He will soon discover whether he is strong enough to carry his home team to glory.

