Alice Finch builds things with Legos.

Big things.

She built a model of the Hogwarts Castle from the "Harry Potter" books.

It is shaped like a giant L. Each arm is 13 feet long and 5 feet wide.

There are multicolored bottles in the Potions classroom and leaves bursting out of pots in the greenhouse.

There is even a see-through ghost.

The castle took her a year to build.

It has about 400,000 pieces.

Finch used to be a middle-school teacher.

Now she lives with her family near Seattle.

She is an AFOL, or Adult Fan of Lego.

AFOLs call a Lego work a "build."

Her Hogwarts build was shown at BrickCon 2012.

BrickCon is a meeting for those who love Lego.

It happens every year in Seattle.

Her castle won two prizes there.

The following year, she teamed up with fellow builder David Frank to make Rivendell.

It was a 200,000-brick model of the place where elves live in J.R.R.

Tolkien's books.

It also won a prize.

Finch said that she enjoyed Legos as a child.

Her Lego building room at home holds about 2 million bricks.

They are all carefully sorted by color and size.

The Hogwarts build grew from reading the Potter books with her son.

It also came from her interest in architecture.

Her father was an architect and designed buildings.

Finch said that she is always looking for architectural details while traveling.

Finding those details is a big deal, she said.

The details make the difference between being a great builder and an amazing builder, she said.

A movie called "A Lego Brickumentary" is all about Legos.

Finch is in it.

The movie said people all over the world know about Legos.

The same Danish company has made the pieces since the 1940s.

Generations of kids have grown up with Legos.

Finch said that there are many other AFOLs in Seattle.

She is part of SeaLUG, or Seattle Lego Users Group.

The group has about 150 members.

Many of them specialize in building certain things.

Some work mostly on castles.

Others work on robotics or builds about space travel.

She is also part of a smaller group called ArchLUG.

This group is interested in Lego architecture.

It is currently working on something for BrickCon 2015.

The build is based on David Petersen's "Mouse Guard" books about the make-believe adventures of a mouse who lived 1,000 years ago.

Finch also teaches Lego camps for children.

She hopes that her visibility as a Lego master will make more girls want to make interesting things with the bricks.

She said that people were at first "confused and surprised" that a woman had built the Hogwarts Castle.

Sharing her work with the public was never her plan.

Still, she knows that her fame might convince some girls to build like her.

Finch's favorite Lego buddies are her two sons, Thorin, 11, and Hadrian, 7.

"We're always building together," she said.

She and Thorin worked together on a colorful build inspired by the movie "How to Train Your Dragon."

Hadrian, as a 5-year-old, did his own thing with Rivendell.

He built a train station in the middle of it, "so the elves could come to work," Finch said.

She calls Lego "its own language."

She said "you communicate by building together."

