For a young businesswoman still learning about finance, Mikaila Ulmer has made a pretty sweet deal for herself and her company.

Mikaila, 10, is chief executive of BeeSweet Lemonade, which she launched at age 4 1/2.

She began the company after participating in a children's business competition and in Lemonade Day, a national program that teaches children financial literacy by empowering them to open their own business.

BeeSweet has been so successful that Whole Foods, the upscale grocery store, is now carrying the drink.

In March, Mikaila accepted a $60,000 investment offer from Daymond John on the television show "Shark Tank" in exchange for 25 percent of the company.

The TV show matches aspiring company owners with successful businessmen and businesswomen who are looking to invest.

Not bad for any young business, much less one that started with a lemonade stand.

Lemonade Day was created in 2007 by Michael Holthouse, co-founder of the Houston nonprofit organization Prepared 4 Life.

The day is inspired by lessons he taught his young daughter when she set up her first lemonade stand.

Nationwide, more than 225,000 kids from pre-kindergarten through high school in 35 U.S. cities participated in last year's Lemonade Day.

Nearly 50 cities will take part this year.

Organizers are aiming for an eventual goal of 1 million lemonade stands in 100 cities across America.

The second annual Lemonade Day Greater Dallas was held earlier this month.

Lemonade stands were expected "all across the city," Peggy Bessellieu said of event.

She is the executive director of Lemonade Day Greater Dallas.

"Lemonade Day teaches youth about financial literacy and the value of a dollar and offers skills they need to become successful in all areas of their lives."

For example, the kids have to learn how to figure their costs and budget for producing lemonade.

"What I've seen a lot of times when we sit down with these kids, they want to do organic lemons and they want to have fresh raspberries in there," Bessellieu said.

Organic lemons cost more to buy because farmers grow fewer of them.

"When we put the numbers to it, they realize they would have to charge about $7 a glass to make a profit."

For Mikaila, the birth of BeeSweet came when she was 4.

Two events occurred at about the same time.

First, she got stung by two bees in one week.

"I hated the bees," Mikaila said.

"I would freak out, but my parents — they made me do some research on the bees and from that research, I found out how incredibly important bees were to our world."

Then, her great-grandmother sent Mikaila's family a 1940s cookbook, which included a special recipe for flaxseed lemonade.

"I decided to create a product that helped save the bees and use Great Granny Helen's recipe as well," Mikaila said.

"Mikaila took some license by adjusting the formula to make it her own," said her father, Theo, whose official title at his daughter's company is "Chief Worker Bee."

He added, "She used the original recipe as the basis for the lemonade."

BeeSweet's flavors include mint, iced tea and "Prickly Pear."

A ginger flavor was the idea of her 7-year-old brother Jacob, the top salesman at his sister's company.

Mikaila's mother, D'Andra, serves as "Chief Marketing Bee."

Mikaila is the first to admit that she's still learning about finances.

"When I first started BeeSweet, I had a little trace of finance, but I didn't know exactly what it was," she said.

"I had mentors along the way who helped me and I kept on learning, and I'm still learning right now."

Her most influential adviser has been her dad, who has a finance and business background.

Mikaila has had a bank account since she was in kindergarten.

Even when she was in kindergarten her parents tried to teach her good business sense, good judgment and social responsibility, Theo Ulmer said.

"The three things I do with my money, even before I started with BeeSweet, was I give, save and I spend," Mikaila said.

"So I give to organizations that help the honeybees or to church.

I also save for things that I may need in the future like college or fun things that may cost more money and I have to save up to get it, or I get to spend on fun things for me, my friends or my brother like arts and crafts and toys."

Her company also donates a portion of its profits to organizations fighting to protect bees.

One of the first lessons Mikaila learned from her parents was that to make lemonade, you're going to have to spend some money.

The first lesson is "you have to first have some money to start out, and if you're going to spend $20, you have to earn at least $21," Theo Ulmer said.

"The $1 is called a profit," Mikaila chimed in.

