For a 10-year-old, Mikaila Ulmer has made a pretty sweet deal.

Mikaila is in charge of BeeSweet Lemonade.

It is a company she started when she was just 4.

BeeSweet has been very successful.

It has done so well that a fancy grocery store is selling her lemonade.

In March, Mikaila went on the television show called "Shark Tank."

She told a group of businesspeople about her company.

One of them offered her $60,000.

In return, she gave him one-quarter of her company.

She has not done badly for a young businesswomen.

She started with a lemonade stand on Lemonade Day.

Lemonade Day was created in 2007 by Michael Holthouse.

He helped start the Houston group Prepared 4 Life.

His daughter had a lemonade stand when she was little.

He wanted other kids to learn about money and starting a business.

Last year, more than 225,000 kids took part in Lemonade Day.

They were from 35 cities across the United States.

Organizers hope that one day there will be 1 million lemonade stands in 100 cities.

Lemonade Day teaches kids about how to run a business, said Peggy Bessellieu.

She is the head of Lemonade Day Greater Dallas.

Lemonade Day also teaches them about money.

They learn the skills they need to become successful in all areas of their lives.

For example, kids learn to figure out how much it costs to make lemonade.

Often they want to make organic lemonade with fresh raspberries, Bessellieu said.

Organic lemons are grown without chemicals.

They cost more to buy, because farmers do not grow as many of them.

Kids learned they would have to charge about $7 a glass to make money, Bessellieu said.

Mikaila's family encouraged her to come up with a product for a children's business contest and Lemonade Day.

Then two important events happened to her at about the same time.

First, she got stung by two bees in one week.

"I hated the bees," Mikaila said.

Her parents made her learn about bees.

"From that research, I found out how incredibly important bees were to our world," she said.

Second, her great-grandmother sent Mikaila's family a cookbook.

It included her special recipe for lemonade.

Mikaila decided to create a product that helped save the bees.

She used her great-grandmother's original recipe from the cookbook.

Mikaila changed it, though, to make it her own, said her father, Theo.

His official job at his daughter's company is "Chief Worker Bee."

BeeSweet's flavors include mint and iced tea.

A ginger flavor was the idea of her 7-year-old brother Jacob, the top salesman at his sister's company.

Mikaila is the first to admit that she is still learning about money.

Her parents have tried to teach her about money, Theo Ulmer said.

She has had a bank account since she was in kindergarten.

They also have taught her to help the community.

The three things she does with her money is give, save and spend, Mikaila said.

She gives to groups that help the honeybees and to her church.

She saves for college.

She also spends the money on fun things for herself and others, like arts and crafts supplies and toys.

Mikaila knows that to make lemonade, you have to spend some money.

"You have to first have some money to start out," her father said.

"If you're going to spend $20, you have to earn at least $21."

"The $1 is called a profit," Mikaila said.

