Thirty years ago, Ashok Yadav noticed patches of pink skin on his arm.

He ignored it until the patches became sores.

He stopped being able to feel his fingertips.

He went to a doctor who told him the terrible news: he had leprosy.

Leprosy is an infection caused by bacteria.

People can have leprosy for years and not know it.

It waits before attacking the body and causing numbness.

The disease isn't deadly and it's hard to catch.

Still, many people are afraid of it.

The fear of leprosy is especially strong in India.

When his family found out about Yadav's leprosy, he was kicked out of his house.

His parents were worried his leprosy would bring shame to the family.

His sister might not be able to find a husband if her brother had leprosy.

Now, he lives in a leper colony outside of Delhi called Kasturba Gram.

People continue to hide their disease from families and loved ones.

They are afraid they will be forced to leave like Yadav.

Bosses often fire workers who have had the disease, even if they are cured.

The disease-free children of leprosy patients are also shunned.

The sign of leprosy is deformed arms and legs.

Hands and feet eventually become like claws.

Serious wounds often go unnoticed because no pain is felt.

People with leprosy sometimes lose their fingers or toes.

India has gotten better at treating leprosy.

For years, the number of people with leprosy has gone down.

Now the number of new cases has risen slightly.

Doctors say the fear of leprosy is hurting efforts to stop the disease for good.

The number of new leprosy cases in the world was around 10 million in 1991.

Last year it was around 230,000.

Countries have worked hard to fight the disease.

In 2012, India found 134,752 new cases of leprosy.

That was more than the 127,295 cases from a year earlier.

India makes up more than half of new leprosy cases in the world.

A government official spoke about the new cases.

He says the rise in cases is just because of a bigger push against leprosy.

He says health workers are reporting more cases.

People with leprosy wouldn't have reported the cases themselves.

But some activists don't think so.

They also say the problem might be worse than anyone realizes.

Leprosy can take five to 15 years before the first signs show up.

And by then, others could also become infected.

"Our children shouldn't have the shadow of leprosy hanging over their lives," said G. Venugopal.

He is one of the elders at Kasturba Gram.

Venugopal wants the government to pay people with leprosy more.

The money they get does not even pay for their daily care, said Uttam Kumar.

Kumar lives in Kasturba Gram.

Like many of the people there, Kumar was thrown out of his home.

Neighbors didn't want to have a leprosy patient nearby.

Kumar's bandaged feet are the only sign of his leprosy.

But he spent months on the road before finding a home in Kasturba Gram.

We don't know each other but we share the same suffering, Kumar said.

"Everyone has their own sorrows.

But our pain is the same."

