More than a year since Liberia's first case of Ebola, the West African nation has been declared free of the deadly disease.

In the world's worst outbreak since Ebola's discovery in 1976, more people died in Liberia than any other country.

Amid the celebration Saturday, there was a note of caution from the World Health Organization (WHO).

Liberia is not out of danger, because neighboring countries Sierra Leone and Guinea continue to struggle with the disease.

"While WHO is confident that Liberia has interrupted transmission, outbreaks persist in neighboring Guinea and Sierra Leone," the organization said in a statement.

The risk is high that infected people may cross into Liberia and begin another outbreak.

After the first case in Liberia was reported in late March 2014, the number of Ebola cases was at first limited and appeared to be contained.

But by June, the contagious disease had hit the capital, Monrovia.

It was the first time it had ever spread to a densely populated city.

Thousands died, and for a while health experts feared that the disease would spin out of control and become an awful new part of everyday life in Liberia.

The number of infections finally began to decline in October, and the burial of the last victim came on March 28.

Confirmed and probable deaths from Ebola have surpassed 11,000 in West Africa, including more than 4,700 in Liberia.

In Guinea, 2,387 deaths have been attributed to Ebola, and Sierra Leone recorded more than 3,900, according to WHO figures.

The Ebola epidemic began in Guinea in December 2013, spread to Sierra Leone and then skipped across the border into Liberia.

One reason why the virus spread so quickly was the large number of people crossing the borders and the persistence of unsafe burial practices, with the touching of the dead an important part of the region's culture.

People traveled across borders to attend funerals and returned home with the illness, infecting family members and neighbors.

Many of those who died were health workers, community nurses and faith healers, who treated people without protection particularly in the early stages of the epidemic.

In Liberia, 375 health workers were infected and 189 died.

More than 860 health workers were infected in the region and more than 500 died.

The WHO said Liberia's eradication of the virus was "a monumental achievement" in dealing with the most complex outbreak of the disease ever seen.

The incubation period for the virus is 21 days, and a country can be declared free of Ebola only after 42 days have passed.

As of May 6, the total number of suspected cases during the outbreak was close to 27,000.

As the disease peaked in Liberia in August and September, the number of cases was increasing rapidly, by 300 to 400 a week.

Patients often mistook their symptoms for typhoid or malaria.

Many of them tragically delayed seeking treatment, infecting members of their families.

Treatment facilities were swamped with cases, and patients often died in terrible circumstances at the gates of treatment centers.

In many cases, there was no room inside the overcrowded facilities to treat them safely.

Taxis bringing sick passengers for treatment may also have spread the disease.

Entire families were killed.

Some orphans were left as sole survivors.

To help stop the spread of the virus, schools were closed and public gatherings were banned.

Ambulances struggled to reach patients in time.

In some cases, community members left bodies in the streets.

In others, family members carried their loved ones to hospitals in wheelbarrows.

Survivors of the disease told horror stories of the conditions in treatment centers, with people suffering and dying next to them, or of mothers dying, leaving sick children behind.

Other patients often stepped in to help when children were left alone in treatment centers.

As late as September, the world's response to the crisis was disastrously slow.

The lack of enough beds in treatment centers led to thousands of unnecessary deaths.

At one point, almost no beds for Ebola patients were available in any treatment facility in the country, the WHO said in its statement.

"It is a tribute to the government and people of Liberia that determination to defeat Ebola never wavered, courage never faltered.

Doctors and nurses continued to treat patients, even when supplies of personal protective equipment and training in its safe use were inadequate," it said.

The statement gave much credit to local volunteers, who worked in treatment centers, on burial teams or as ambulance drivers.

They "were driven by a sense of community responsibility and patriotic duty to end Ebola and bring hope back to the country's people," the WHO statement said.

Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said that for many in the country, it will take a generation for the pain and grief to heal.

She referred to the slow response of the international community when she said that the epidemic was a "scar on the conscience of the world."

A White House statement urged vigilance to prevent the return of the disease to Liberia.

"We must not let down our guard until the entire region reaches and stays at zero Ebola cases," the statement said.

