A year after Liberia's first case of Ebola, the West African nation has been declared free of the deadly disease.

During the current Ebola outbreak, which is the worst since the disease was discovered in 1976, more people died in Liberia than any other nation.

Throughout the celebration Saturday, there remained a note of caution from the World Health Organization (WHO).

The danger is not over for Liberia.

Its neighboring countries, Sierra Leone and Guinea, continue to struggle with the disease.

The risk is still high that infected people may cross into Liberia and start the cycle over again, it said.

The Ebola epidemic began in Guinea in December 2013.

It spread to Sierra Leone and then skipped across the border into Liberia.

Liberia's trouble with Ebola began in March 2014.

At first, the outbreak was small and appeared to be contained.

However, by June, the contagious disease had hit the capital of Monrovia.

It was the first time it had ever spread to a densely populated city.

Thousands died, and for a while health experts feared that the disease would spin out of control and become an awful new part of everyday life in Liberia.

In October, the number of infections finally began to decline.

The burial of the last victim came on March 28 this year.

More than 11,000 are believed to have died from Ebola, including more than 4,700 in Liberia alone.

In Guinea, Ebola killed 2,387 people.

Sierra Leone recorded more than 3,900 deaths from Ebola, according to WHO figures.

One reason why the virus spread so rapidly was the large number of people crossing the borders, as well as unsafe burial practices.

In the region, it is a custom for friends and family members to touch the dead before burial.

People traveled across borders to attend funerals and returned home with the illness, infecting other family members and neighbors.

Many of those who died were health workers, community nurses and faith healers, who treated people without protection, especially in the early stages of the epidemic.

In Liberia, 375 health workers were infected and 189 died.

More than 860 health workers came down with Ebola in West Africa and more than 500 died.

The WHO said Liberia's victory against Ebola was "a monumental achievement" in the most complex outbreak of the disease ever seen.

After someone has been exposed to the virus, it can take up to 21 days for them to show symptoms.

A country can be declared free of Ebola only after 42 days have passed.

As of May 6, the total number of suspected cases during the outbreak was close to 27,000.

As the disease peaked in Liberia in August and September, the number of cases increased rapidly, by 300 to 400 a week.

Patients often thought their symptoms were typhoid or malaria.

Because of this, many of them did not go to get treatment right away and ended up infecting others.

Treatment facilities like hospitals were swamped with cases, and patients often died at the gates of medical centers.

In many cases, there was no room inside the overcrowded centers to treat them safely.

Taxis bringing sick passengers for treatment may also have spread the disease.

Entire families were wiped out.

Some orphans were left as sole survivors in their families.

To help stop the spread of the virus, schools were closed and public gatherings were banned.

Ambulances struggled to reach patients in time.

In some cases community members left bodies in the streets.

Survivors of the disease told terrible stories of the conditions in treatment centers.

People suffered and died next to them.

As late as September, the world's response to the epidemic was disastrously slow.

There were not enough beds and the lack of space in treatment centers led to thousands of deaths.

At one point, almost no beds for Ebola patients were available in any treatment facility in the country, the WHO said.

"It is a tribute to the government and people of Liberia that determination to defeat Ebola never wavered, courage never faltered," it said.

Doctors and nurses heroically continued to treat patients even when there were not enough gowns and masks to protect them from the disease.

The statement gave credit to local volunteers, who worked in treatment centers, on burial teams or as ambulance drivers.

They "were driven by a sense of community responsibility and patriotic duty to end Ebola."

The WHO praised them for bringing hope back to their countries' people.

Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf said that for many in the country, it will take a generation for the pain and grief to heal.

A U.S. government statement said the world must not let Ebola return to Liberia.

"We must not let down our guard until the entire region reaches and stays at zero Ebola cases," it said.

