Christina Morua waited at the library for her fourth-grader to get on a computer and start her math homework.

"We don't have any Internet at home," Morua said.

As she spoke, her oldest, 11-year-old Abel, clicked through an assignment on a library laptop while Alina, 9, waited for her turn at a desktop.

"We just reserved a computer.

We have to wait 70 minutes.

He got one of the last laptops."

With more school materials online, kids across the country can no longer do their homework at home.

That leaves libraries as the go-to place for homework.

However, money problems, shorter library hours and old equipment have left many libraries without enough computers for students.

"The laptops we do have, the batteries aren't working," said Patricia Readon.

She is a librarian working on the children's desk at the South Dade Library.

"The sad part is, if you don't have a computer, you can't do your homework."

The library system has been trying to figure out how to get more people to use its libraries.

Ideas have included offering office space for businesses, putting a Starbucks near the checkout counter, and even 3-D printers.

Yet for families without Internet, libraries are the place to be.

The lack of computers, though, has them complaining.

Pauline Theobolds' 12-year-old son does his homework at the library.

They have a computer at home, but it does not work properly with the school connection.

They have to leave the library by 6:30 p.m. so she can get to her job as a nurse.

"The other night was tight because they didn't have any computers," she said.

Miami-Dade's library system has an extra $4 million to spend this year, but there are claims on the money.

It is needed for salaries, keeping library branches open longer, children's books and online tutoring.

The libraries do not have the money to buy more computer stations, said Gia Arbogast, who is in charge of the library system.

On the bright side, Arbogast said, the library has replaced aging laptop computers with new tablets.

That should make it easier for kids on school nights.

More computers are needed, Arbogast said.

"It's an ongoing demand that we are struggling to keep up with."

Teachers shouldn't assign online homework if all students in the class don't have the Internet at home, said Sylvia Diaz.

She is an official with the Miami-Dade school system.

"We really shouldn't be requiring kids to go to the library to complete assignments," Diaz said.

"A project or something special is OK," but not daily homework assignments that depend on the computer.

Still, the school district recently shifted to digital history textbooks for high school freshman.

All ninth-graders were given tablets loaded with the books.

An online program called Reflex Math is used in lower grades.

It looks like a video game and can be accessed by students 24 hours a day.

Isaiah Goulbourne, a junior at Miami Norland Senior High School, said he uses an actual book for English, but it never leaves the classroom.

"We're not allowed to take them home because there aren't enough for everyone," he said.

Most of his school books are online.

Goulbourne said he relies on the library for his schoolwork because he does not have an Internet connection at home.

Internet is especially popular at the library in Miami Gardens.

One out of five residents there are poor.

A 2011 survey of young library-goers found that about 45 percent say they do not have the Internet at home.

Nationally, 19 percent of children live in households without Internet access, according to U.S. government figures.

People who support online access say that teachers have to make sure students from low-income families can do their homework at home.

Being forced to do it at a library or a coffee shop makes it harder for them to succeed in school.

Zach Leverenz is the CEO of EveryoneOn.

The company works with Miami-Dade to provide cheap online access for students at home.

He said schools should not rely on students finding public Internet hotspots.

Diaz is in charge of digital learning for Miami-Dade schools.

She said the district wants to get to a point where every student has a computer or tablet and Internet access at home.

"Unfortunately, so many of our kids are poor, so it's rather challenging," she said.

Michele Stiles is the manager of the South Dade Library branch.

She said there are long waits for computers at many libraries.

If a student can't finish homework because of the wait, Stiles said, the librarian gives "excuse" notes for teachers.

