Christina Morua sat in her library's busy children's section.

She was waiting for her fourth-grade daughter to get on a library computer and start her homework.

"We don't have any Internet at home," Morua said.

Her oldest child, 11-year-old Abel, was doing his homework on a library laptop.

Alina, 9, had just reserved a desktop.

Her wait time was 70 minutes.

With more schools giving homework online, many students can no longer do their homework at home.

They have to go to their local library for Internet access.

However, they find that many libraries do not have enough computers to go around.

"The laptops we do have, the batteries aren't working," said Patricia Readon.

She is a children's librarian.

"The sad part is, if you don't have a computer, you can't do your homework."

For families without Internet, libraries are the place to be on school nights.

Parents complain, though, that there are not enough computers.

Pauline Theobolds' 12-year-old son does his homework at the library.

They have a computer at home, but it does not work properly with the school's Internet connection.

They have to leave the library by 6:30 p.m. so she can get to her job as a nurse.

"The other night was tight because they didn't have any computers," she said.

Miami-Dade's library system has an extra $4 million to spend this year.

But that money is needed for salaries, new children's books and online tutoring.

There is no money left over for more computers, said Gia Arbogast.

She is in charge of the library system.

On the bright side, Arbogast said, older laptops have been replaced with new tablets.

Still, more computers are needed, Arbogast said.

"It's an ongoing demand that we are struggling to keep up with."

Silvia Diaz is an official with the Miami-Dade school system.

She said teachers should assign online homework only if all students in a class have Internet access at home.

"We really shouldn't be requiring kids to go to the library to complete assignments," Diaz said.

"A project or something special is OK." She added that daily homework assignments that depend on the computer are not OK.

Still, the school district recently shifted to digital history books for ninth-graders.

It gave all of them tablets loaded with the books.

Isaiah Goulbourne, 16, is a junior at Miami Norland Senior High School.

He uses an actual book for English, but it never leaves the classroom.

"We're not allowed to take them home because there aren't enough for everyone," he said.

Most of his school books are online.

Goulbourne said he relies on the library for his schoolwork because he does not have the Internet at home.

Going to the library to use the Internet is especially popular in Miami Gardens.

One out of five people who live there are poor.

A 2011 survey of young people at libraries found that nearly half of them said they did not have an Internet connection at home.

Nationally, one-fifth of children live in homes without Internet access.

Having to leave the house for homework makes it harder for them to succeed in school, experts say.

Zach Leverenz runs EveryoneOn, which works with Miami-Dade to provide cheap Internet for students at home.

He said that schools should not assume that students will find public Internet hotspots to do their homework.

Diaz said the district wants to get to a point where every student has a computer or tablet and Internet access at home.

She is in charge of digital learning at Miami-Dade schools.

"Unfortunately, so many of our kids are poor, so it's rather challenging," she said.

Michele Stiles runs the South Dade Library.

She said many libraries have long waits for computers.

If students cannot finish homework because of the wait, Stiles said, the library will give them an "excuse" note for their teacher.

