Ridwa Yakob thought libraries were just for books.

Then she saw the Teen Tech Center at the Minneapolis library.

The center has rows of new computers and iPads.

It has the latest video equipment.

It even has its own recording studio.

"I used to be super into reading.

That's what I thought libraries were for," said Yakob, 18.

Now she helps kids use high-tech materials at the library.

Shhhhhhh.

You may not know it, but libraries have become community tech centers.

They don't just offer computers with free Internet.

They also offer 3-D printers and e-books.

Librarians are experts at finding books.

But they also have become experts at finding information online.

They show people how to use a computer.

They can even show people how to use Facebook.

Library visitors wouldn't have it any other way.

The Internet has become almost as important as books.

A new study discovered this.

Most people said borrowing library books was "very important."

Most people also said free Internet was "very important."

Starting in 2008, many people lost their jobs.

They needed help looking for jobs online.

So, librarians began helping them with e-mail.

Librarians began teaching computer skills.

About the same time, e-books became popular.

People started walking in with e-readers, like the Amazon Kindle.

"They come and ask me for e-book help.

They usually end up with a little bit more," said Andrea Egbert.

She works for a library in Minnesota.

Most librarians are happy to help.

But they can't always fix the problem.

For example, your iPad doesn't work because you dropped it in the bathtub.

A librarian can't fix that.

But people don't need to go to the library to use it.

They may never meet the librarian they "chat" with.

People download e-books at home.

Students get free homework help on the Internet.

Librarians think these changes are a good thing.

Libraries let people use new technology.

A library in Minnesota bought a 3-D printer.

People print solid objects with it.

The library bought it mainly for teen programs.

It became very popular.

Now the library has 3-D printing classes for adults.

Still, libraries won't throw away their books anytime soon.

Most people still would rather read a real book than an online one.

