Ridwa Yakob thought libraries were just for books.

Then she saw the Teen Tech Center at the Minneapolis Central Library.

This new digital playground has rows of new computers and iPads.

It also has the latest video equipment and even its own soundproof recording studio.

"Growing up, I used to be super into reading.

That's what I thought libraries were for," said Yakob, who is 18.

Now she belongs to the library's Teen Tech Squad and helps other kids with all sorts of high-tech materials.

"It gives me access to tools I don't have at home."

Shhhhhhh.

You may not know it, but libraries have quietly become community tech centers that go far beyond computers with free Internet.

They now offer 3-D printers, e-readers and social media.

Their growing catalog of e-books and other online materials let libraries extend their reach far beyond their walls.

Librarians were once masters of the card catalog.

The card catalog is a filing system in which information for each book is written on a card.

Now, librarians have become masters of finding  information online.

They give people help with everything from basic computer skills to Facebook.

"We're still teaching literacy.

Now it's digital literacy," said Kim Johnson, manager of the Anoka County, Minn., Rum River Library.

Library visitors wouldn't have it any other way.

At the most basic level, library-users value the Internet almost as highly as books, according to a 2013 Pew Research Center study.

A total of 80 percent of people who go to the library said that borrowing books was "very important."

About the same number said free Internet access also was "very important."

The library's tech services really took off during the 2008 economic downturn, when many people lost their jobs.

Job seekers needed to brush up on tech skills, search online for jobs, and get help with resumes.

Library staff members quickly learned how to help set up e-mail accounts.

They taught computer basics, and guided people toward the most useful information online.

"If you were laid off in the last few years, you have to apply for unemployment online," said Maureen Gormley, information services manager for the Dakota County, Minn., Libraries.

Many people who lose their jobs receive unemployment pay — money from the government — while they look for new ones.

"We're the place to go to learn that and basic skills."

About the same time, e-books became popular.

People started walking in with e-readers, like the Amazon Kindle — and questions.

"They come and ask me for e-book help.

They usually end up with a little bit more," Anoka County library services assistant Andrea Egbert said.

Some walk in with new e-readers, still in the box, unsure how to turn them on.

Others ask how to share photos and videos online.

Usually, Egbert knows what to do.

If not, well, there's nothing like a question to motivate a librarian to search for answers.

"We all have that thirst for the hunt" to find answers, she said.

While most librarians are happy to help with tech questions, they can't always solve the problem.

If your tablet won't turn on or a screen is cracked, they will likely direct you elsewhere.

"We're not the (Apple) Genius Bar.

If somebody drops their iPad in the bathtub, I can't help you," said Ben Trapskin, assistant director for Anoka County Libraries.

In some cases, this means less face-to-face contact at the library.

People can download e-books without ever setting foot in their local library.

And students can get free homework help by live-chatting with tutors on the library's website.

Librarians like Bernie Farrell don't complain about these changes.

They are a way to expand access to information.

"What the library can do for you is not bound by" the physical library building, said Farrell.

He is a senior librarian at the Minneapolis Central Library.

"This size of the unseen library is pretty immense."

Gretchen Christenson of Eden Prairie, Minn., learned this after taking computer classes at local libraries.

Since then, she's used free online tutorials through the library to learn more.

"It gives you a start, the ability to learn on your own," Christenson said.

The library can also be a place to explore technology that is still rare in people's homes.

The Ramsey County, Minn., library system bought a MakerBot 3-D printer, which can make solid objects based on digital models.

The library system got it mainly for teen programs.

It became so popular that the librarians organized 3-D printing classes for adults.

"These are products that are new," said Marcus Lowry, teen librarian for the library system.

"And people are sort of figuring out how to use them."

Still, librarians say, there will always be books.

Barbara Stripling is the president of the American Library Association.

She said that most people still prefer reading the old-fashioned way, ink on paper.

Libraries aren't throwing away their printed books, she said.

"We are adding on and maybe deepening the reading experience through technology."

