A ship crowded with passengers tipped over off the coast of Libya this weekend.

Hundreds drowned in the Mediterranean Sea.

About 950 people were on board the boat.

So far, just 28 have been found alive.

The ship carried migrants from poor and war-torn countries.

These migrants were leaving their countries to seek a better life in Europe.

None of the passengers had permission to move to Europe.

However, they felt they had to try to get there anyway.

To them, it seemed like their only chance for a better life.

The terrible accident was not the first in the sea.

However, it was the worst yet.

Such accidents have become common as thousands of people set off from North Africa for Europe.

The boats carrying them are badly made.

Far too many people are packed on to them.

The passengers who drowned on Sunday came from many countries.

About 200 women and 40 to 50 children were on board.

The boat was easily unbalanced because it was carrying too many people.

Many passengers were locked in lower decks.

They were unable to escape when the boat tipped over.

The accident happened around 70 miles off the coast of Libya.

The boat went over after passengers suddenly shifted to one side.

They were trying to hide after a cargo ship, the King Jacob, arrived.

The King Jacob's crew wanted to remove people from the rickety boat.

Passengers feared they would be sent back home before reaching Europe.

Most migrants who make the risky Mediterranean voyage are from Africa.

However, some are Syrians and others escaping war.

Many women and children make the dangerous trip.

More and more migrants are dying while crossing the Mediterranean Sea.

About 900 had already died so far this year before the latest drownings.

Europe must try harder to rescue migrants, French President Francois Hollande said.

It should use more ships and more airplanes.

"Europe can do more," said Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament.

"Europe must do more."

Pope Francis from the Catholic Church asked people to pray "for these brothers and sisters."

Loris De Filippi is with a group called Doctors Without Borders.

He says a big problem is that Europe is not rescuing as many migrants as they did in the past.

Europe should do more patrolling near the shores of Libya, Filippi said.

Antonio Guterres is from the United Nations, an international organization.

Many countries in the world belong to this group.

Guterres agrees with the need for more rescues.

He also said Europe should create ways for migrants to make it to Europe in a legal and safe manner.

