A boat carrying migrants toward Europe capsized off the Libyan coast Sunday.

Hundreds of people are now feared lost in the Mediterranean Sea.

The disaster was the latest and the worst yet in a series of deadly mass drownings.

Such incidents have become commonplace along the migrant smuggling route from North Africa to Europe.

About 950 people were on board the vessel.

As of Monday afternoon, just 28 had been found alive as search-and-rescue vessels and aircraft combed the area.

The Italian government said that 24 of them had been picked up from the water.

"They are literally trying to find people alive among the dead floating in the water," Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat said.

Italian and Maltese vessels were searching the area, along with merchant ships.

Authorities said passengers were believed to be from Algeria, Egypt, Somalia, Nigeria, Senegal, Mali, Zambia, Bangladesh and Ghana.

They included 200 women and 40 to 50 children.

Many passengers were locked in lower decks and were unable to escape when the boat capsized.

With so many people crammed onto the boat, it would have taken little effort to unbalance the ship.

The boat had departed from a port about 30 miles from Tripoli, Libya's capital city.

It capsized late Saturday or early Sunday around 70 miles north of the Libyan coast.

Coastal Libya is the embarkation point for many Europe-bound vessels packed with migrants.

The boat tipped over when panicked passengers shifted to one side as a cargo ship, the King Jacob, approached about midnight Saturday.

King Jacob's crew was attempting to rescue those on the rickety craft.

Most migrants on the Mediterranean boats are from sub-Saharan Africa.

However, their ranks also include Syrians and others escaping warfare and poverty and hoping to start new lives in Europe.

Many women and children are among those risking the hazardous passage.

In recent months, the situation in the southern Mediterranean has become a full-blown crisis.

Warm, springtime weather has prompted many migrants to risk their lives on overcrowded and unsound boats bound for Italy.

Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi declared that Europe was experiencing "slaughter in the Mediterranean."

"Europe can do more and Europe must do more," said Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament.

Europe must employ "more ships, more overflights by aircraft," French President Francois Hollande said.

Pope Francis, too, called for greater efforts.

"I make a heartfelt appeal to the international community to react decisively and quickly to see to it that such tragedies are not repeated," he said.

The pope asked his followers to pray "for these brothers and sisters."

Officials have reported soaring numbers of migrant deaths in the Mediterranean.

Before the latest incident, about 900 migrants had already perished in Mediterranean Sea crossings so far this year.

During the first four months of 2014, by comparison, there were 96 deaths.

Last week, at least 400 Europe-bound migrants were believed to have perished at sea when a wooden fishing boat capsized.

One-third of those on board were reported to have been women and children.

For all of 2014, more than 3,200 migrants lost their lives during the treacherous sea crossing.

In the week before the weekend accident, around 10,000 migrants were rescued.

An Italian navy search-and-rescue operation, known as Mare Nostrum, was called off last year.

Opponents claimed it was encouraging migrants to set sail.

However, since it was replaced by a smaller European Union patrol known as Triton, sailings have continued at about the same level.

Meanwhile, drownings have soared.

Renzi said the incident would have happened even if Mare Nostrum had been operating.

"There was a ship next to the boat when it sank," he said.

Nevertheless, Loris De Filippi, president of the Italian branch of the organization Doctors Without Borders, blamed the European Union.

He said its decision to provide only a small-scale rescue effort this year was responsible for the disaster.

"A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea and European policies are responsible," he said.

"Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders," he said.

Such policy decisions are "forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea."

"European states must immediately launch large-scale search-and-rescue operations," he added.

Antonio Guterres, the United Nations' high commissioner for refugees, agreed.

The latest disaster confirms the urgent need to relaunch a vigorous rescue operation at sea, he said.

At the same time, he added, "legal routes to reach Europe" must be established.

