A ship full of migrants heading for Europe capsized off the Libyan coast this weekend.

Hundreds were feared lost in the Mediterranean Sea.

The disaster was the worst yet in a series of deadly mass drownings.

Such incidents have become common along the migrant smuggling route from North Africa to Europe.

These migrants were leaving their countries seeking a better life in Europe.

However, they did not have permission to enter Europe and had to sneak in after a dangerous journey.

Around 950 people were on board the boat.

As of Monday afternoon, just 28 had been found alive as search-and-rescue vessels and aircraft combed the area.

The Italian government said that 24 of them had been picked up from the water.

Italian and Maltese vessels continue to search the area, along with merchant ships.

Passengers came from Algeria, Egypt, Somalia, Nigeria, Senegal, Mali, Zambia, Bangladesh and Ghana.

They included 200 women and 40 to 50 children.

Many passengers were locked in lower decks and were unable to escape when the boat capsized.

With so many people crammed on board, the ship was easily unbalanced.

The boat had departed from a port near Tripoli, Libya's capital.

It capsized late Saturday or early Sunday, 70 miles off the Libyan coast.

Coastal Libya is the starting point for many Europe-bound vessels packed with migrants.

The boat tipped over after passengers panicked and abruptly shifted to one side.

Their panic was set off by the arrival of a cargo ship, the King Jacob, around midnight Saturday.

King Jacob's crew was hoping to remove passengers from the rickety craft.

Passengers feared being sent back ashore before reaching Europe.

Most migrants who make the risky Mediterranean voyage are from Africa.

However, some are Syrians and others escaping warfare and poverty.

Many women and children are among those risking the hazardous passage.

In recent months, the southern Mediterranean has seen a full-blown crisis.

Spring weather has encouraged many to attempt a crossing.

Tens of thousands of migrants have been risking their lives on overcrowded and unsound boats bound for Italy.

Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi declared that Europe was experiencing "slaughter in the Mediterranean."

"Europe can do more and Europe must do more," said Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament.

Europe must employ "more ships, more overflights by aircraft," French President Francois Hollande said.

Pope Francis from the Catholic Church also called for greater efforts.

"I make a heartfelt appeal to the international community," he said.

The countries of the world must "react decisively and quickly to see to it that such tragedies are not repeated."

The pope asked people to pray "for these brothers and sisters."

The number of migrants dying during Mediterranean crossings has been going up rapidly.

About 900 migrants had already perished so far this year before the latest incident.

During the first four months of 2014, by comparison, there were 96 deaths.

Throughout all of 2014, about 3,200 migrants lost their lives.

Last week, at least 400 Europe-bound migrants drowned when a wooden fishing boat capsized.

One-third of those on board were women and children.

In the week before Saturday's accident, around 10,000 migrants were rescued.

An Italian navy search-and-rescue operation, known as Mare Nostrum, was called off last year.

The operation had been criticized for encouraging migrants to set sail.

However, since it was replaced by a smaller, European Union patrol known as Triton, sailings have continued at about the same level.

Meanwhile, drownings have soared.

Renzi said the incident would have happened even if Mare Nostrum had been operating.

"There was a ship next to the boat when it sank," he said.

Loris De Filippi, president of the Italian branch of the group Doctors Without Borders, did not agree.

He said the European Union's decision to halt large-scale rescue operations was responsible for the disaster.

"A mass grave is being created in the Mediterranean Sea and European policies are responsible," he said.

"Faced with thousands of desperate people fleeing wars and crises, Europe has closed borders," he said.

Such moves are "forcing people in search of protection to risk their lives and die at sea."

"European states must immediately launch large-scale search-and-rescue operations," he added.

Antonio Guterres, the U.N.'s high commissioner for refugees, agreed.

The latest disaster confirms the urgent need to relaunch a large-scale rescue operation, he said.

At the same time, he added, "legal routes to reach Europe" must be established.

