These days, most people never think to look up at the stars.

And if they do look, chances are they won't see much.

The sad truth, says 62-year-old Dave Ingram, who heads a local group of dedicated dark-sky advocates, is that there isn't much real night sky left.

And that means, he says, that the current bunch of us will be the first in history to go through life failing to grasp our place in the universe.

Because we simply have never seen it.

"You can put anybody — I don't care who they are — out under the stars for 30 minutes, and they start asking the big questions," Ingram says.

But it's more complicated than that.

Even the small handful of people who do look up at the stars find to their horror that the night sky — not that greenish-gray thing that passes for dark, but the profoundly ink-black, starry night sky — simply is no more.

In the old world, you walked beneath the stars nightly because you had to, and they became your compass, your friends, even your gods.

In the new one, you don't because, well, you don't.

Humans have been walking under the stars — renewing, every night, a spiritual connection with the universe — for about 2.3 million years.

Only in the past 135 have most of us cut our connection with what shines above.

This is partly by choice, because "civilized" societies spend less and less time outside.

But it's also partly unintentional.

Since the invention of Edison's first light bulb in 1879, light has been blasting darkness off the map.

Today, the entirety of Europe and virtually all of the United States east of the Mississippi River never falls into true darkness.

The western U.S. is following suit, with small pockets of the deepest black now limited primarily to the desert Southwest.

Today, 99 percent of Americans never routinely see a true dark sky.

And by 2025, experts say, they'll be lucky to have two or three places left within our borders where one even exists.

Light pollution is the new normal in most of the developed world, says Paul Bogard, author of "The End of Night."

Only now are we beginning to fathom what this means.

Light pollution, some scientists argue, has become a threat to our very well-being.

Environmental effects range from disrupted growth cycles of trees to the mass deaths of formerly star-navigating birds — up to a billion a year in the U.S. alone — that are tricked into colliding with brightly lit buildings.

If the effect on animals is that severe, researchers now wonder, how does the lack of true darkness affect humans?

Research suggests links between constant light exposure and interruptions of the body's natural hormonal cycles.

And that might contribute to depression and disease, including cancer.

Beyond all those worries is a growing fear of an impact on our souls.

It's a question that author and English professor Paul Bogard thinks about daily.

"I think it has huge implications to our spirit," he says.

"For me, it's the difference between coming face-to-face with the universe and realizing your problems are just not that big — a real humility kind of thing.

It's pretty easy, if you never see the universe, to think this world is all there is."

Bogard added, "If you really see the night sky, you can't help but evoke feelings of awe and wonder and gratitude and spirituality — all those things we sort of pooh-pooh, but are actually really important."

It's a problem for us today, he believes, but perhaps a greater one for tomorrow.

Bogart says that throughout history, a fascination with the universe inspired art, science, religion, and philosophy, or the pursuit of truth.

"And now," he says, "it's just gone."

Fortunately, light pollution can be completely reversed.

Dark-sky advocates, though, know that they're up against modern human nature.

In society today, light is equated with progress and becoming modern.

Grids of lights in towns or cities signify man's victory over the elements of nature.

Along with that goes a strong belief that bright light means safety.

In the face of this, Ingram and other members of the International Dark-Sky Association argue that damage from light pollution can be contained, even reversed, without the loss of truly useful light.

"Nobody wants to go back to gas lamps and buggy whips," Ingram says.

There is a simple solution: "full cutoff" lights that prevent rays from shooting upward into the sky, where they reflect off particulates and create that yellow-green glow we're all beginning to begrudgingly accept as darkness.

Most industrial lighting — the worst offenders being the sort of glaring lights that illuminate parking lots, backyards and gas stations and even some streetlights — isn't designed that way, but could easily be modified.

"The technology exists to have a lot more control over our lights," Bogard says.

The notion is catching on slowly, though dark-sky advocates know things won't change easily.

But, even in areas lacking light, occasional clear nights can provide the sort of naked-eye viewing that allows people to re-establish the link to something they didn't realize they'd lost.

And that is why dark-sky crusaders like Ingram keep pushing.

Look up, they say, and reconnect with the sheer wonder that has, until recently, defined what it means to be human.

