Every morning, historian and author Daniel Stowell gets a head start on his workday.

He reads the day's news from the four-page Daily National Republican.

That is, the news of the day some 150 years ago.

Stowell is the director and editor of The Papers of Abraham Lincoln at the Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum in Springfield, Illinois.

Stowell and his co-workers are using modern technology to make historical Lincoln papers accessible to anyone with a computer.

They are in the process of digitizing more than 150,000 papers written by or to the 16th U.S. president.

So far, they have posted about 100,000 documents online, as well as many day-to-day events in Lincoln's life as possible.

"Millions of people around the world are fascinated by Abraham Lincoln," Stowell said.

He also is director of its Center For Digital Initiatives.

Wondering what Lincoln was doing on your birthday — or any date — more than a century ago?

Well, on March 9, 1844, he paid 25 cents for a pair of woolen mittens.

On Feb. 9, 1864, he was sitting for several portraits, including the one used for the $5 bill.

Not historic enough?

Read the details of Nov. 19, 1863, the day he delivered the Gettysburg Address, on Thelincolnlog.org.

So far, more than 7,100 days in Lincoln's life are documented, most of them from when he was an adult.

Stowell believes that even documents about Lincoln's death will give people a better understanding of the man who was assassinated 150 years ago this April.

On the project's citizenlincoln.org website, people can read a letter of sympathy from Queen Victoria to Mary Todd Lincoln.

In the letter was written on April 29, 1865, the English queen called Lincoln's death "so terrible a calamity."

People can also read what world leaders say about Lincoln today.

In October, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent a letter to the museum.

He said that he drew strength from Lincoln.

He noted that streets in Israel are named after Lincoln, who, according to the prime minister, had a desire to visit Jerusalem.

Another website, called mylincoln.org, will let anyone with a phone or tablet take part in museum activities.

The site also gives information about the museum displays.

"I definitely see digitalization and Internet as a way to reach a young audience, " Stowell said.

He said he also wants to reach museum-goers and Lincoln fans of all ages.

The Papers of Abraham Lincoln are making nearly 200,000 Lincoln documents available on papersofabrahamlincoln.org.

Stowell estimates about 50,000 more papers exist.

The project preserves these fragile papers and allows people to see them, he said.

Amy Henrikson and Joan Walters are among seven volunteers who work on the project.

They decipher and write out copies of handwritten letters and documents.

Poor handwriting and hurried script can make their job challenging, Henrikson said.

Sometimes it looks like the author was writing during a bumpy carriage ride.

All of it is interesting, she said, and "much of it is moving."

Henrikson was touched by a letter written to Lincoln by a Louisiana teacher, begging the president for a job up North.

The teacher feared for his family's safety because he spoke out against the Southern states separating from the United States.

Walters remembers a letter written by Lincoln in February 1861.

It was to the man who was going to rent Lincoln's Springfield home for $350 a year.

"Here is this man, inheriting one of the most difficult times in American history, and he is taking the time to write a contract for his house," Walters said.

"His feet were always planted on the ground.

He never was too big for any job that needed to be done."

"I think my job is terribly important because our goal is to make this accessible to everybody in the world who has a computer," Walters said.

Stowell said they have digitized documents from more than 400 libraries and more than 200 private collections worldwide.

But he knows there are many more to be found.

Recently, Daniel Weinberg, the owner of The Abraham Lincoln Book Shop in Chicago, alerted Stowell to a collection of 45 Lincoln documents in the shop.

Stowell came to Chicago with his scanner to make copies.

"I've seen a lot of Lincoln signatures," Weinberg said.

"Are there significant Lincolns still out there to be found?

I can't say there aren't because every once in awhile something significant does come out."

Weinberg called Lincoln a true genius.

"As a person, his moralities, his ethics, organization skills, use of mathematics," Weinberg said.

"Why would we not want people worldwide to be able to learn more from him?"

