More than 60 years ago, Kathryn "Tubby" Johnston Massar cut off her braids and tucked her hair under her cap.

She disguised herself to become the first girl to play Little League baseball.

Today she's delighted to see two girls in the Little League World Series.

"It's truly amazing.

I'm very happy to see girls playing," said Massar, now 78.

On Friday, Philadelphia's Mo'ne Davis and Canada's Emma March became the 17th and 18th girls to ever play in the tournament.

It is only the third time in the event's 68-year history that two girls are playing in the same series.

Davis pitched for Philadelphia as it beat Nashville 4-0.

She had eight strikeouts and didn't walk a batter.

She only gave up two hits.

Fans cheered loudly when Davis struck out the final batter.

With that final out, she became the first female pitcher to throw a shutout in Little League World Series history.

She did not allow any runs.

"It's very unreal.

I never thought at the age of 13, I would be a role model," Davis said.

"Hopefully, more girls play Little League."

March did not fare as well.

She played first base and batted fourth, just ahead of her brother, Evan.

March went hitless Friday in Canada's 4-3 loss to Mexico.

Still, March created some excitement when she stepped into the batter's box for the Canadian team.

She hit a ball deep into the outfield in the fourth inning that the crowd thought might be a home run.

However, the hit sailed foul into the stands.

Then in the fifth inning, March stepped to the plate with the bases loaded and Canada down by two runs.

She struck out watching a pitch go by that went over the outside corner of home plate.

As March trotted back to the dugout, the crowd let the umpire know it did not agree with the call.

Boos rained down from the stands.

Before every game, someone gets to throw out the first pitch.

It is a tradition.

Massar was chosen to throw out the ceremonial first pitch at one of Monday's games.

She believes more girls will start to play in Little League.

She said she is certain that someday there will be a woman in Major League Baseball.

Massar played in 1950, leading to a rule that said girls could not play Little League baseball.

The rule was reversed in 1974.

She describes herself as a "trailblazer" and said she celebrates her place in history.

"It's something I'm proud of," she said.

"Why not play baseball with the boys?"

Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett was at the game to watch Davis play.

"There's a lot of pressure on her, and she seems to be handling it very, very well for her age," Corbertt said.

"It goes to show you how sports have moved the last 30 or 40 years, and we wouldn't have thought of this 40 or 50 years ago.

And today, she's out there pitching, doing a great job and I'm sitting there thinking, 'Is she going to go into professional baseball?'

I don't know."

He added, "She's played as well as any kid out there right now."

