A group of children peeked inside a box of free books on Eve Pulver-Johnson's front lawn.

Some of them grabbed a book to go.

"The kids are excited about it," Pulver-Johnson said.

She thinks her Little Free Library, as the box is called, is the first one in her hometown of Aurora, Ill. "It's really fun to see them digging through and looking for something" interesting.

Who knows?

Maybe someone put one of Mo Willem's books inside.

Willems wrote "Don't Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus."

Little Free Libraries are handmade boxes filled with books for children and adults.

They can be found on lawns around the world.

People design and decorate their Little Free Libraries in all kinds of ways.

Each one contains about 20 to 100 books.

The little libraries stand on lawns, in parks and in gardens.

They are even in coffee shops where people can "take a book, leave a book."

In 2009, Rick Brooks and Todd Bol began Little Free Libraries in Wisconsin.

They wanted to encourage people to read.

But they discovered that little libraries help people get to know their neighbors, as well, said Brooks.

The two men think there will be at least 15,000 Little Free Libraries in 55 countries by the end of the year.

Book lovers can find little libraries in their area by looking online at www.littlefreelibrary.org.

The libraries themselves can look like large dollhouses or birdhouses.

"Some are stunningly beautiful," Brooks said.

Others may be clever or funny.

Some are so beautifully painted that they look more like art than a box of books.

But just because you take a book from a little library doesn't mean you have to leave one, Brooks said.

Most people do leave one, though, so the libraries can offer plenty of books, and a good variety.

Eve's two-story library was a birthday present from her dad.

Books for adults are on the top shelf and books for children are below.

Eve's mother said people come to their free library every day.

Many parents go there on walks with their children.

It gives them a good reason to read.

Martha Martinez enjoys visiting the library near her house with her 8-year-old daughter, Barbara.

Barbara loves to read.

She looks for "The Cat Who …" mystery books.

"This is a very beautiful idea and it's very nice of them to offer it for the neighborhood," she said.

"The kids are always excited to see what's in there.

But it's actually nice for all of us."

Mary Anne Mohanraj sees many adults stop at her Little Free Library on their way to the train.

She loved the public library as a child.

"I wanted to be a librarian when I was a kid," said Mohanraj, who lives in Illinois.

"Well, until a librarian told me that librarians don't get to read all the time."

She is a writer and teaches English at a university.

"Luckily, English professors have to read."

Mohanraj tends a flower garden around her library.

She enjoys talking with people who stop by.

That is one of the nicest things about Little Free Libraries, Brooks said.

The little libraries encourage reading and public libraries, he said.

But they also help connect people to their neighbors.

Bol built the first Little Free Library in the form of a schoolhouse.

Since then, the idea has spread around the world.

El Paso, Texas, for instance, has more than 60 little libraries.

In Seattle, bicycle tours take people from library to library.

There are many little libraries in Italy and also in the African country of Ghana.

People in Ukraine are starting to build them.

Ukraine is a country in Eastern Europe.

Su Erickson is the president of the Illinois Library Association.

She said the little libraries help people share new thoughts and ideas.

Little libraries are really useful in areas that do not have a public library, she said.

