A group of children clustered around a blue and white box full of free books on Eve Pulver-Johnson's front lawn in Aurora, Ill.

They peeked inside, some of them grabbing a book to go.

"The kids are excited about it," said Eve, who believes her Little Free Library is the first in her hometown.

"It's really fun to see them digging through and looking for something particular to their interest."

Little Free Libraries are handmade structures stocked with books for children and adults, and have started a free books movement that has spread onto lawns around the world.

Little Free Libraries are designed and decorated as the owner wishes, and generally hold about 20 to 100 books.

They stand on lawns, in parks and gardens, even in coffee shops where people of all ages passing by can "take a book, leave a book."

Little Free Libraries originated in Wisconsin in 2009, and in four years have become as much about building a sense of community as they are about encouraging people to read, said Rick Brooks of Madison, Wis. Brooks and Todd Bol, who co-founded the nonprofit organization, predict there will be at least 15,000 Little Free Libraries in 55 countries by the end of the year.

"Interest in them doesn't seem to be abating," Brooks said.

"It's always amazing."

Owners are encouraged to register their libraries online at www.littlefreelibrary.org to help book lovers find them.

But Pulver-Johnson, who recently hosted a little neighborhood grand opening for hers, hasn't registered it yet.

Brooks guesses many are not registered and also admits that the nonprofit's small staff is behind on getting some libraries added to its database.

The libraries themselves might look like large dollhouses or birdhouses to people passing by.

"Some are stunningly beautiful," Brooks said.

"Others are clever, funny or so skillfully painted that they are like sculptures more than just boxes of books."

Ideally, the books are enclosed to protect them from the elements.

Weatherproofing advice is offered on the website.

Just because you take a book doesn't mean you have to leave one, Brooks said, although most people do leave one to maintain a variety of books and keep the libraries well stocked.

Eve's little two-story library — with books for adults on the top shelf and children's books below — was a homemade birthday present from her dad, Tom Pulver, who built one for his lawn in Glen Ellyn, Ill., more than a year ago.

Eve's mother, Karen Pulver, said people come to their free library every day.

Martha Martinez enjoys visiting the library at a nearby house with her 8-year-old daughter, Barbara, who loves to read and was on the lookout for "The Cat Who …" mystery books.

"This is a very beautiful idea and it's very nice of them to offer it for the neighborhood," Martinez said.

"The kids are always excited to see what's in there, but it's actually nice for all of us."

From Mary Anne Mohanraj's window in Oak Park, Ill., she frequently sees adults stop at her blue-and-purple Little Free Library on their way to the train.

A writer and English professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, she remembers that the public library was her haven as a child.

"I wanted to be a librarian when I was a kid … well, until a librarian told me that librarians don't get to read all the time," she said.

"Luckily, English professors have to read."

So many people check the box on her lawn that the books change almost every day, she said.

"We get a good mix of books," she said.

"Popular fiction tends to go the fastest."

"I love the idea that people are sharing books in residential or pedestrian public spaces," said Laura Lynn Hsieh, who lives within walking distance of Mohanraj.

There are no expectations about what people think is worth reading, or how long it might take someone to read a book, she said.

Mohanraj, who tends a flower garden around her library, enjoys neighborly chats with people who stop by.

This is one of the appealing features of Little Free Libraries, Brooks said.

"It's about relationships as much as it is about the books and the box," said Brooks.

"It's a great tool for promoting literacy, reading and public libraries, but we have a yearning for a good feeling about neighbors and living in a society where we are not alone," Brooks added.

Bol, a retired teacher, built the first little library in the form of a miniature schoolhouse as a memorial to his mother, who was a teacher.

Now Madison and the Minneapolis-St. Paul area are little library hot spots, each boasting about 1,000 Little Free Libraries.

The idea has spread around the world.

El Paso, Texas, for instance, has more than 60 Little Free Libraries, while bicycle tours in Seattle take people from library to library.

Outside the U.S., there are many Little Libraries in Italy and the African country of Ghana, and they are being built right now in Ukraine.

Su Erickson, president of the Illinois Library Association, said the libraries are a wonderful way to give back to the community, while also helping people share new thoughts and ideas.

"It's a unique way to get people out and about reading and interacting about what they've read," Erickson said.

Little Free Libraries can be especially useful in areas lacking a public library, said Erickson.

Brooks said that he and Bol are trying to encourage Little Libraries in small towns without a public library.

