There's only one thing that comes between the grade school kids hopping off the afternoon bus near Eve Pulver-Johnson's Aurora, Ill., house and their after-school snacks — the Little Free Library on her family's front lawn.

The children like to take an extra minute near the stop to peek inside the free-standing blue and white box full of books, some of them grabbing a book to go.

Who knows?

Maybe somebody put one of Mo Willems' popular children's stories in there.

"The kids are excited about it," said Pulver-Johnson, who believes her Little Free Library along Sumac Drive is the first in Aurora.

"It's really fun to see them digging through and looking for something particular to their interest."

Little Free Libraries are handcrafted structures full of books for children and adults, a free-books movement that has spread not only around Illinois but onto lawns around the world.

They are designed and decorated to the owner's — or steward's — taste, and stand on lawns, in parks and gardens, even in coffee shops where passers-by of all ages can "take a book, leave a book."

Generally they hold 20 to 100 books.

Little Free Libraries originated in Wisconsin in 2009, and in four years have become as much about building a sense of community as they are about encouraging people to read, said co-founder Rick Brooks, of Madison.

Brooks and co-founder Todd Bol, of Hudson, Wis., expect to have at least 15,000 Little Free Libraries in 55 countries by year's end.

"Interest in them doesn't seem to be abating," Brooks said.

"It's always amazing."

According to the Little Free Library website, littlefreelibrary.org, there are about 60 stands registered in Illinois, with eight in Chicago and about 25 in the suburbs.

Owners are encouraged to register their libraries online to help book lovers find them, but Pulver-Johnson, who recently hosted a little neighborhood grand opening for hers, hasn't registered it yet.

Brooks guesses many are not registered and also admits that the nonprofit's small staff is behind on getting some libraries added to its database.

The "libraries" themselves might appear to passers-by as large dollhouses or birdhouses.

"Some are stunningly beautiful," Brooks said.

"Others are clever, funny or so skillfully painted that they are like sculptures more than just boxes of books."

Ideally, the books are enclosed to stay protected from the elements.

Weatherproofing advice is offered on the website.

Just because you take a book doesn't mean you have to leave one, Brooks said.

Most people do so in order to maintain a variety of books in the library and keep the circulation of the books flowing.

Pulver-Johnson's little two-story library — with books for adults on the top shelf and children's books below — was a homemade birthday present from her dad, Tom Pulver, who built one for his lawn in Glen Ellyn, Ill., more than a year ago.

Eve's mother, Karen Pulver, a librarian in Wood Dale, Ill, said that although the Glen Ellyn public library is less than a half mile from their home, she has foot traffic to their free library every day.

"I have talked to a number of parents who say that's often their destination on their walk, to bring a book or take a book," Karen Pulver said.

"It's handy.

It's a good incentive to read."

Martha Martinez enjoys visiting the library at the neighboring Johnson house in Aurora with her 8-year-old daughter, Barbara, an avid reader who was on the lookout for "The Cat Who …" mystery books.

"This is a very beautiful idea and it's very nice of them to offer it for the neighborhood," Martha Martinez said.

"The kids are always excited to see what's in there, but it's actually nice for all of us."

From Mary Anne Mohanraj's window in Oak Park, Ill., she frequently sees several adults stop at her painted blue-and-purple Little Free Library, most of them on their way to the CTA's Green Line.

A writer and English professor at the University of Illinois at Chicago, she remembers that the public library was her haven as a child.

"I wanted to be a librarian when I was a kid … well, until a librarian told me that librarians don't get to read all the time," she said.

"Luckily, English professors have to read."

So many people check the box on her lawn that the books change almost every day, she said, and although she has small children, she targets adult readers.

"We get a good mix of books," she said.

"Popular fiction tends to go the fastest."

Laura Lynn Hsieh lives within walking distance of Mohanraj's home and has used her Little Free Library.

But she currently is reading a book she got at a Little Free Library in Andover, Mass., where she and her son visited her parents.

When they went back to the site to return a book her son had chosen and read, "I was surprised that most of the books had completely turned over in less than a week," she said.

"I love the idea that people are sharing books in residential or pedestrian public spaces," Hsieh said.

"(There are) no expectations or presumptions about what people think is worth reading or sharing, or how long it might take one person or another to read a book."

Mohanraj, who tends a flower garden around her library, enjoys neighborly chats with people who stop.

Those types of encounters are one of the appealing features of Little Free Libraries, Brooks said.

"It's about relationships as much as it is about the books and the box," said Brooks, a retired outreach program manager for the University of Wisconsin.

"That sense of community that happens trumps all of our goals.

"It's a great tool for promoting literacy, reading and public libraries, but we have a yearning for a good feeling about neighbors and living in a society where we are not alone."

Little Free Libraries began when Bol, a social [entrepreneur](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) and retired teacher, built the first: a miniature schoolhouse that was a memorial tribute to his mother, who was a teacher.

Now Madison and the Minneapolis-St. Paul area are the nonprofit's hot spots, each boasting about 1,000 Little Free Libraries.

The idea has spread nationwide.

El Paso, Texas, has more than 60.

Bicycle tours in Seattle take people from library to library.

"Italy has a lot," said Brooks, based on online registration.

"Ghana has 70, and they are building them now in the Ukraine."

At the Starbucks at 1245 W. Fullerton Ave. in Chicago, the little library in the foyer is so popular that sometimes it has more books than can fit on the shelves, and sometimes it gets used textbooks from local students, a Starbucks representative said.

Su Erickson, president of the Illinois Library Association, said the libraries are "a wonderful way to give back and share thoughts and ideas that others may not normally be exposed to."

"It's a unique way to get people out and about reading and interacting about what they've read," Erickson said.

Such little libraries can also aid areas not served by a public library, said Erickson, the branch library coordinator at the DuPage campus of Robert Morris University in Aurora.

Brooks said he and Bol are currently focusing on those small towns without a public library.

