One of London's fastest-changing neighborhoods is feeling the snap, crackle and pop of conflict.

An East End cafe opened nine months ago, serving 120 varieties of breakfast cereal and 30 types of milk.

It has become a surprising flashpoint for protest in a city increasingly polarized between rich and poor.

The Cereal Killer Cafe has drawn both criticism and big crowds since it opened, offering a cornucopia of flakes, pops and puffs from about 3 pounds - or $4.50 - a bowl.

On the weekend, it attracted the anger of protesters who are against changes that make the neighborhood appealing to wealthier people, or gentrification.

The protesters surrounded the business with flaming torches and scrawled "scum" on its windows as customers sheltered in the basement.

"It is a bit weird," said Gary Keery, who runs the cafe with his brother, Alan.

"I don't see us as hateful people — but a lot of people seem to."

The Keery brothers are fashionably bearded 33-year-old twins from Belfast, Northern Ireland.

They are among the latest wave of migrants to this mixed part of east London.

Over the decades European Jews, Bangladeshi Muslims and hipsters from around the world have brought bagel shops and curry restaurants, espresso bars and independent fashion boutiques to Brick Lane and nearby Shoreditch.

It is that diversity that made the Keery brothers choose the area for their breakfast business.

"There's a lot of creative things happening," said Gary Keery.

"A cat cafe just opened up around the corner.

We just knew that if it was going to work, it would work in Brick Lane."

That hunch was correct, judging by the crowds of students, tourists and families lining up for a bowl of milk-soaked comfort food in the quirky cafe.

The cafe shelves are lined with brightly colored cereal boxes and a portrait of fictional serial killer Hannibal Lecter made from Cheerios hangs on one wall.

"It takes people back to their childhood, when cereal was fun," Gary Keery said.

But not everyone is a fan.

On Saturday, the anti-poverty protesters targeted the cafe as a symbol of all that is wrong with London's development.

Video shot from inside showed a group, some in pig masks and carrying torches, shouting outside as staff told customers to go downstairs.

Police say one officer was injured by a flying bottle during the protest, organized by a group called Class War.

Tony Travers, an expert on Britain's capital city at the London School of Economics, says the cereal storm is a war by "about something much, much bigger."

The squeeze on space in a booming city whose population, already 8.6 million, is growing by 120,000 people a year.

Developers are building just 20,000 to 25,000 new homes each year, so rents and property prices climb ever higher.

In the East End, a long-established working-class population has been joined — and sometimes displaced — by thousands of wealthy young professionals in renovated buildings and shiny new developments.

The result is an area where organic food shops sit alongside discount stores.

One-bedroom apartments sell for 500,000 pounds ($750,000) and up, but almost half of children in the local borough, Tower Hamlets, live in poverty.

Travers said the cereal cafe is "an innocent casualty of a wider struggle for territory in the city."

Class War says it is delighted with the publicity it has received and plans more protests outside independent businesses.

"The fight against gentrification has basically been lost and it's speeding up all the time," Class War founder Ian Bone told The Guardian newspaper.

"So our philosophy is to go back to areas which have already been gentrified and start taking the fight back to them."

The Keery brothers are undaunted.

They recently opened a second branch in London's tourist-heavy Camden Town, and have a cereal cookbook coming out next month.

And the attack has brought new customers to the cafe.

"There are worse things in the world than people eating cereal," said Tess Hoey, from Sussex in southern England, who came to the cafe to show her support.

She said those concerned about London's property crisis should talk about rich Russian oligarchs buying up homes — "not boys from Belfast."

