Some people in London's East End neighborhood are not happy about a new restaurant.

The restaurant serves 120 types of breakfast cereal, and 30 different types of milk.

Some people think the restaurant is a sign of how the neighborhood is changing for the worse.

The fight is part of the growing split between London's rich and poor people.

The restaurant is called the Cereal Killer Cafe.

A serving of cereal and milk starts at about 3 pounds a bowl.

Pounds are British money and three pounds is equal to about $4.50.

The restaurant is 9 months old.

One recent weekend it was surrounded by angry protesters.

The protesters are against gentrification, or changes that make the neighborhood appealing to wealthier people.

Gentrification can make a neighborhood too expensive for the people who have lived there for a long time.

Some people move out.

The protesters held flaming torches, and customers ran into the basement for safety.

"It is a bit weird," said Gary Keery, who runs the cafe with his brother, Alan.

"I don't see us as hateful people — but a lot of people seem to."

The Keery brothers are 33-year-old twins from Belfast, Northern Ireland.

They are among the latest wave of migrants to this part of east London.

Over the years European Jews, Bangladeshi Muslims and other migrants have arrived.

They brought bagel shops and Indian restaurants to the Brick Lane and nearby Shoreditch areas.

The mix of people made the Keery brothers choose the area for their breakfast business.

"There's a lot of creative things happening," Gary Keery said.

"A cat cafe just opened up around the corner.

We just knew that if it was going to work, it would work in Brick Lane."

That idea was correct, judging by the crowds lining up for a bowl of cereal.

The cafe shelves are lined with brightly colored cereal boxes.

"It takes people back to their childhood, when cereal was fun," Gary Keery said.

Not everyone is a fan.

On Saturday, the protesters targeted the cafe.

They are not really upset about the cereal cafe.

They are upset about the high cost of finding a house or an apartment in London.

They look at the cafe with expensive cereal as as symbol of this bigger problem.

Police say one officer was injured by a flying bottle during the protest.

A group called Class War organized the protest.

Tony Travers is a professor and an expert on London.

He says the cereal storm is a war "about something much, much bigger."

There are not enough houses and apartments for all the people in London.

There are already 8.6 million people in the city, and another 120,000 people are added each year.

Companies are building only 20,000 to 25,000 new homes each year.

Therefore, rents and home prices keep going up.

The East End has been home for many years to working-class people who make less money.

Now thousands of wealthy young professionals are moving in, sometimes pushing out the working class.

The result is an area where expensive food shops sit alongside bargain stores.

One-bedroom apartments sell for 500,000 pounds, or $750,000, and up.

However, almost half of the children in one part of the East End live in poverty.

Class War says it is delighted with the attention from the protest.

It plans more protests outside other businesses.

The Keery brothers are not worried.

They recently opened a second restaurant in London and have a cereal cookbook coming out next month.

The attack has also brought new customers to the cafe.

"There are worse things in the world than people eating cereal," said Tess Hoey, who lives in Sussex in southern England.

She came to the cafe to show her support.

Hoey said people worried about London's property problems should talk about rich Russian businessmen who buy up homes, "not boys from Belfast."

