In California, many students read the novel "Island of the Blue Dolphins."

The book tells the story of a Native American girl who is left alone on an island after her tribe is taken away on a ship.

She survives for many years.

She hunts and fishes for food.

The book is based on a true story.

The girl became known as the Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island.

The island is off the coast of Southern California.

In 2012, archaeologists were on San Nicolas island.

They were searching for evidence of the Lone Woman in a cave.

The team carefully removed sand from the cave, one bucket at a time.

They removed 40,000 buckets of sand.

Archaeologists study human history by finding and studying very old remains of human life.

Steve Schwartz was an archaeologist with the U.S. Navy.

He was a leader of the project.

Tom Holm was a member of the team.

He was a university student.

He was also making a documentary movie about the archaeological dig.

Holm felt lucky to be working side-by-side with experts.

He was impressed by their knowledge of the Native Americans who had lived on the island.

In April 2012, the team was finally getting close to the historical artifacts that would allow them to learn more about the Lone Woman.

Then, Schwartz was ordered to stop the dig.

His commanders on the naval base had sent the order.

He was shocked by a question they asked: "Is the work you're doing out there legal?"

Something else hurt, too.

The shutdown was caused by Holm.

He was worried about how the archaeologists were handling Native American cultural artifacts.

Holm went to the Pechanga Native American tribe.

He brought some of them to the island.

They said the dig needed to end.

Schwartz, 57, was angry and quit his job.

He had been researching one of the most important historical finds in California history.

Now, the work had to stop.

"It's a heartbreak."

Schwartz said recently.

"We may never learn what archaeological riches that cave is guarding."

The Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island was a member of the Nicoleno Indian tribe.

Very little is known about the tribe.

In the early 1800s, many members of the tribe were killed in fights with Russian fur traders and Alaskan  hunters.

After one battle in 1814, there were only a few dozen Nicoleno left.

In 1835, a ship was sent to bring the few remaining Nicoleno off the island.

The Lone Woman was left behind.

No one knows why the Lone Woman didn't get on the ship.

According to legend, she jumped overboard and swam back to shore after realizing that her baby had been left behind.

A storm forced the ship to leave without her, and the baby didn't survive.

"What actually happened to her remains a mystery," Schwartz said.

He was determined to find out.

It took Schwartz more than 20 years to find the cave.

He finally did in 2012.

It was 20 feet high and 75 feet long.

It was packed with sand.

Schwartz worked with an archaeology professor to carefully dig out and study the cave.

Soon, Holm was having loud arguments with Schwartz and the professor.

Holm talked to the Pechanga tribe and the dig ended.

"We're only trying to do what's right by our ancestors," Mark Macarro, the tribe's chairman, said.

For now, the mystery of the Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island will remain unsolved.

