Slowly, carefully, they removed bucket after bucket of sand — 40,000 in all.

The archaeologists were in a cave, trying to uncover evidence of the Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island.

A Native American woman had lived alone on this small island off the coast of Los Angeles for 18 years in the 1800s.

The team hoped they could find evidence of her life.

Navy archaeologist Steve Schwartz was a leader of the project.

He was impressed by one of the California State University graduate students taking part in the dig: Tom Holm, a filmmaker who wanted to make a documentary about the excavation of the cave.

Holm felt lucky to be working side-by-side with experts, impressed with their knowledge of the Native Americans who had lived on the island.

In April 2012, they were finally getting close to the historical artifacts that would shed light on the real-life story of the woman who inspired the novel "Island of the Blue Dolphins."

The book was one of the 20th century's most popular novels for young readers and required reading in many California schools.

Then, Schwartz was ordered to stop digging by the commanders at the naval base on the island.

The archaeologist was especially shocked by a blunt question in the order: "Is the work you're doing out there legal?"

Something else hurt as well.

The shutdown grew out of charges made by Holm.

Concerned that the archaeological dig was breaking laws designed to protect cultural resources, he brought members of the Pechanga Native American tribe to the island.

The closure interrupted research on one of the most significant historical finds in California history and led Schwartz, 57, to retire early in anger and frustration.

"It's a heartbreak," Schwartz said recently.

"We may never learn what archaeological riches that cave is guarding."

Very little is known about the Nicoleno Indians.

In the early 1800s, the group suffered huge losses in repeated fights with Russian fur traders and Alaskan sea otter hunters.

After an especially brutal battle in 1814, the Nicoleno population, which had been about 300, dropped to a few dozen.

In 1835, a ship was sent by  the Santa Barbara Mission to bring the few remaining Nicoleno back to the mainland.

All but one made the trip aboard the Peor es Nada —loosely translated as "better than nothing."

According to legend, the woman jumped overboard and swam for shore after realizing that her baby had been left behind.

A sudden storm forced the ship's captain to leave without her.

Her baby didn't survive and she was left alone on the island, according to the legend.

"What actually happened to her remains a mystery," Schwartz said.

He was determined to find out.

By 2012, Schwartz had already spent more than 20 years searching for the cave.

Then there was a breakthrough: the location of the cave was confirmed in the notes of a 19th century government surveyor.

One of his field stations on the island was, he wrote, "100 yards eastward of the large cave formerly inhabited by a wild Indian woman who lived there alone for 18 years."

Schwartz discovered the cave.

It was 20 feet high, 75 feet long and packed with sand.

Digging out the sand, Schwartz and his team uncovered two sets of initials and a date etched near the cave's mouth: "September 11, 1911."

They also found two glass bottles, left by late 19th century sailors.

At first, Holm was excited to be taking part in the dig, led by Schwartz and Rene Vellanoweth, Holm's archaeology professor at Cal State.

Holm's views began to change after he met with Pechanga elders who questioned the archaeologists' explanations of artifacts they had found.

He also disliked T-shirts worn by Vellanoweth and his team members that said "San Nicolas Cave Archaeology."

As Holm put it, "we did not have permission to do anything other than remove sand."

Later, teams of archaeology students were stunned to hear arguments between Holm and Schwartz and Vellanoweth.

Eventually, Holm invited three members of the Pechanga Band of Luiseno Indians to visit the cave with him.

A few weeks later, the tribe sent letters demanding that the Navy stop archaeological research in the cave and at 549 other sites across the island.

Now, the cave is closed indefinitely.

Its fate is being negotiated between the Navy and the Pechanga tribe.

The Pechanga people say they have a cultural connection with the island's mysterious ancient people, who survived for 8,000 years eating mostly shellfish, sea lions, small fish and roots.

"We're only trying to do what's right by our ancestors," Mark Macarro, the tribe's chairman, said in an interview.

"We must ensure that all applicable federal laws are followed."

Among the losers in the dig shutdown is Holm himself, who says he spent $100,000 on a film project that may never be completed.

Holm, 53, said he didn't know that bringing Pechanga tribal members to San Nicolas would stir up a "wasps' nest."

Still, he says he believes the Navy made the right decision.

Schwartz has retired, but said he wishes the research could continue.

"If the Navy hadn't stopped us, I'd still be out there continuing the research," he said.

For now, at least, the mystery of the Lone Woman of San Nicolas Island will remain unsolved.

In the years after she was left behind, fishermen occasionally reported seeing a person running along the deserted island's beaches.

In 1853, the woman — about 50 years old — was skinning a seal  when she was found by Santa Barbara fur traders.

She sailed to Santa Barbara with them.

Seven weeks later she died  of illness.

On her deathbed, she was baptized and named Juana Maria.

She is buried at the Santa Barbara Mission.

One hundred and sixty-two years after her death, she remains as alone and mysterious as ever.

