A new program is trying to help students in Los Angeles and other school districts.

English is not their first language.

The students have been in schools for many years.

But they are still not fluent in English.

Many speak languages like Spanish at home.

The students are called "long-term English learners."

Dasha Cifuentes is one of them.

Dasha has been in Los Angeles public schools for more than 11 years.

She still is not speaking or writing English at the level for her grade.

Dasha was born in the United States.

Her parents are from Mexico.

So Dasha was raised speaking Spanish at home.

Dasha is a junior at Fairfax High.

She said that the two languages get confused in her mind.

"I should be more confident in English because I was born here," she said.

Dasha said she was "embarrassed that I haven't improved myself."

Now a new law says the state has to find out which students are long-term English learners.

California is the first state in the country to do so.

The state released new information this week.

It found that many students still do not speak English well.

It looked at students in grades six through 12 who have gone to California schools for seven years.

Nearly 350,000 of them do not speak English well.

They make up three-fourths of all junior high and high school students still learning English.

Nearly 90,000 of them are long-term English learners.

It means that they also have failed to do well on the state's English test for two years in a row.

Shelly Spiegel-Coleman works for Californians Together.

The group pushed for the law.

She said that many of these students are sitting in regular classes and not getting the help they need.

Many teachers say that students who can speak their first language well learn English more easily.

But a 1998 law gets in the way.

It made it harder to teach classes in English and Spanish at the same time.

Things have changed since 1998.

Now some people are pushing for teaching two languages at one time.

Californians will vote on whether to get rid of the 1998 law.

To make a change now, Los Angeles schools added two new classes.

They are meant to strengthen language skills.

The district also improved teacher training.

At Fairfax, Dasha said the new classes have helped.

In one class, she and her classmates watched a TV news program on Los Angeles Lakers basketball player Jeremy Lin.

Her teacher then asked the students questions about it to check their understanding.

What made Lin want to play basketball?

How many colleges offered him money to go to school?

What helped him succeed?

Few of the students could answer the questions correctly.

However, it was hard to tell if they understood the show or not.

They may not have wanted to pay attention.

The teacher said keeping students interested is one of the biggest challenges in teaching English.

Dasha said she ignored her problem for years.

She was too scared to ask for help.

Now, she says, she regrets "not developing myself into a better person."

But she said the pace of the Fairfax classes is slower.

The teachers are more patient.

"I'm more motivated, like a turtle coming out of its shell," she said.

