After more than 11 years in Los Angeles public schools, Dasha Cifuentes still is not speaking or writing English as well as she should for the grade she is in.

Dasha was born in the United States, but her parents are Mexican immigrants.

Dasha was raised in a Spanish-speaking household.

The junior at Fairfax High admits that the two languages get confused in her mind.

"I should be more confident in English because I was born here, but I'm embarrassed that I haven't improved myself," Dasha said.

Now, however, she and other students like her are receiving more attention.

A new law requires California to identify a "long-term English learner."

It is the first effort in the nation to do so.

The state released its first information about the program this week.

It has identified nearly 350,000 students in grades six through 12 who have attended California schools for seven years or more and are still not fluent in English.

They make up three-fourths of all junior-high and high-school students still learning English.

Among them, nearly 90,000 are classified as long-term English learners.

This means that they also have failed to progress on the state's English proficiency exam for two years in a row.

They also score below grade level on English tests.

"These kids need to be visible," said Shelly Spiegel-Coleman of Californians Together.

The group promoted the law.

"In many instances, these students are sitting in mainstream classes and are not getting any specialized help."

A 2010 study by the group found that many students did not improve because schools failed to monitor their progress, provide appropriate courses or train teachers.

Last year, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the state.

The ACLU said the state did not provide services for students learning English that were required by law.

Fairfax High's principal also said more than 70 percent of her long-term English learners have educational disabilities.

Meanwhile, many educators say that students who achieve fluency in their first language can more easily learn English.

But a 1998 law severely restricts teaching classes in English and Spanish at the same time.

Yet there has been a shift in California's long fight over the use of languages besides English.

Since the 1998 law, a movement has grown.

It promotes teaching in two languages at one time, called bilingual education.

In November 2016, Californians will vote on whether to keep the law from 1998 or get rid of it.

In L.A.'s school district, about one-third of the 600,000 students are learning English.

More than 35,000 of them are still not at grade level after five years.

The district overhauled its services for such students after 2011, when the U.S. government found it had not provided students with enough help.

Now, L.A. schools have added two new classes.

They are aimed at strengthening language skills for students such as Dasha, and improving teacher training.

In addition, the district requires all teachers to try to develop relationships with parents, as well as their students, to keep them informed about progress.

At Fairfax, Dasha said the new efforts have helped.

On a recent morning, she and her classmates watched a "60 Minutes" TV news program on Los Angeles Lakers point guard Jeremy Lin.

Her teacher, Serafin Alvarez, then asked the students questions about it to check their understanding.

What inspired Lin to play basketball?

How many colleges offered him scholarships?

What helped him succeed?

Few of the 10 students answered the questions correctly.

However, it was unclear whether they did not understand the program or did not care to pay attention.

Alvarez said a lack of interest by students is one of his biggest challenges in teaching the more difficult vocabulary needed for college and careers.

A recent vocabulary list included "mandated," "effective," "interact" and "discipline," words few of the students hear at home, he said.

Dasha said she ignored her problem for years, failing to follow the advice of her teachers and parents to read books and use the dictionary.

She said she was ashamed of her limited skills and too scared to ask for help.

"Now, I'm regretting my life not developing myself into a better person, and that hurts me the most," she said.

But she said the pace of the Fairfax classes are slower and the teachers more patient.

In addition, a Fairfax program linking each student to a teacher who coaches them has helped her talk about her problems, she said.

"I'm more motivated, like a turtle coming out of its shell," she said.

