A major investigation of art hanging in Dutch museums has just been completed and the results are unexpected: 139 works may have once been Nazi loot from World War II.

They include paintings by masters like Matisse, Klee and Kandinsky.

The bombshell announcement on Tuesday by the museums raises a question: Why has it taken them nearly 70 years to thoroughly examine their collections after World War II?

It also suggests that even more looted art may show up in countries that have not done such an investigation.

"These objects are either thought or known to have been" taken by the Germans during the war or were forced to be sold by owners who did not want to sell them, said Siebe Weide.

He is the director of the Netherlands Museums Association.

Weide said returning them is "both a moral obligation and one that we have taken upon ourselves."

The art included 69 paintings.

One of them is French artist Henri Matisse's 1921 "Odalisque" painting of a half-nude reclining woman.

It hangs in Amsterdam's Stedelijk Museum, one of the country's top tourist draws.

All Dutch museums with art from before the war participated in the review.

They have identified the names of 20 people whose art was taken, or looted, and linked them with 61 of the works.

The museums said they are contacting or seeking the heirs, including those of Jewish art dealer Albert Stern.

He is the man who owned the Matisse.

Stern is now dead.

The museum had purchased the Matisse painting from Lieuwe Bangma in 1941.

Bangma was Stern's Dutch representative.

But Stern was its owner before the war and the Bangma family is known to have helped Stern's granddaughters during the war.

Other paintings included works by other well known painters such as Impressionist Isaac Israels and Modernists like Wassily Kandinsky.

Other pieces uncovered in the investigation included drawings, like one by Paul Klee.

There were also sculptures, old collectors pieces and Jewish ceremonial objects.

One painting by Dutch artist Jacob Cuyp had been purchased in good faith by the Museum of Dordrecht in 2002.

The 1627 painting "Shepherdess with Child in a Landscape" had changed hands multiple times over the decades.

Then the latest Dutch investigation revealed it had belonged to a Jewish woman.

It was sold by a bank that was known for working with the Nazis during the war.

The Dutch are not the first to undertake such a review following a 1998 international conference on looted art.

The Washington meeting found previous attempts to return looted art didn't go far enough.

Attendees from 44 nations proclaimed the Washington Principles.

They declared that "every effort should be made to publicize art that is found to have been confiscated by the Nazis" and have it returned.

Many American and British museums have already conducted thorough investigations that have led to the return of looted art.

But nothing has been done on a nationwide basis.

In Germany, a government-led, nationwide investigation is underway.

The Dutch investigation was the second in the Netherlands.

The first one in 2006 focused only on works that were bought and sold during the war.

"We're not the first with this investigation, but thanks to this investigation we're not far behind," said Rudi Ekkart, a professor of art history at the University of Utrecht.

He headed the investigating commission.

Critics wondered what took so long.

"While I applaud the Dutch for doing this, I also have to say: where were you all this time?"

said Chris Marinello, a London-based lawyer.

He assists clients in looted art cases.

He said many countries, including the United States, should be doing more to help recover looted art.

But some countries are less willing than others.

Russia rejects the Washington Principles, calling art taken during World War II its rightful "trophies."

Switzerland endorses the principles in theory, but has not conducted through research and turns a blind eye to the possibility of looted art hidden in its bank vaults, Marinello said.

The Dutch Museums Association launched a website on Tuesday.

The purpose is to publish its findings so far, ask for more information about looted artwork, and assist heirs in filing claims.

An English translation of the Dutch website is coming in 2014.

Investigator Ekkart acknowledged it's still possible that more looted artwork will be uncovered in the Netherlands.

He said the museum's research was not complete and new research ideas — such as the website — will lead to new findings.

In addition, there are probably pieces still held in private homes that will be eventually detected.

But "you'll never again have a hundred at once," Ekkart said.

