A verdict in the city of Jacksonville is again raising the issue of self-defense and race in Florida.

The jury's decision comes just seven months after George Zimmerman was found not guilty in the shooting of a black teenager, Trayvon Martin.

Michael Dunn, a white 47-year-old software developer, could face 60 years in prison following his conviction Saturday on several counts of attempted murder for shooting into a carful of teenagers.

The shooting happened outside a Jacksonville convenience store in 2012.

Jordan Davis, a black 17-year-old, was killed in the shooting.

But the jury couldn't reach a decision on the first-degree murder charge against Dunn.

The verdict is a far cry from one delivered in the Zimmerman case.

Like Zimmerman, Dunn said he felt his life was in danger when he fired the shots.

But the verdict suggested the jury struggled to see it that way.

The shooting came after an argument over loud music coming from the car that Davis was in.

Dunn said he shot at the car with his 9 mm handgun.

Dunn said he was afraid and thought he saw a shotgun in the car.

Legal experts say it's likely that at least one member of the jury believed Dunn's story.

After more than 30 hours of considering the case over four days, the jury couldn't agree on the first-degree murder charge.

"Although I don't think the evidence supports this, it is possible that the jury felt that Dunn was proper to stand his ground as to Davis, but his shooting of the others in the car was excessive," said Kenneth Nunn.

He is a law professor at the University of Florida.

Experts said Sunday that it's possible the jury was confused over the legal definition of first-degree murder.

Another area of confusion for the general public is a law in Florida.

The law is the stand-your-ground defense law.

The law was a source of conflict during the Zimmerman case and, to a lesser degree, in this case.

Zimmerman told police he shot Martin only after the African-American teenager physically attacked him.

Martin's family and supporters say Zimmerman decided Martin could be a criminal because he was black.

Zimmerman identifies himself as Hispanic.

In both trials, lawyers decided not to pursue a pretrial hearing to let a judge decide if they could not face charges.

Such a hearing is allowed by Florida's stand-your-ground law.

But in each case, jurors were told by the judges that they should vote not guilty if they found the defendant had no duty to retreat and had the right to "stand his ground."

Standard instructions given jurors when they weigh a case involving a claim of self-defense include the "stand-your-ground" language.

But the state's stand-your-ground law was technically not part of either trial.

"Dunn's attorney argued self-defense, which has been around forever," said Miami defense lawyer David Weinstein.

He used to be a prosecutor.

Judge Russell L. Healey could sentence Dunn to 60 years in prison.

State laws call for a sentence of at least 20 years for each second-degree attempted murder conviction.

But the Florida Supreme Court could reduce the total sentence to 20 years.

It could decide that separate sentences should not come from one criminal event, said Weinstein.

"This will make the decision to retry Dunn on the murder charge a little more complicated," Weinstein said.

Dunn could agree to  a sentence of less than 60 years and not appeal.

Such an agreement could "provide finality for the Davis family."

Dunn could also face 15 years in prison for shooting into the car.

A sentencing date won't be set until a hearing next month.

Meanwhile, Dunn's lawyer vowed to appeal.

"I basically told him to stay strong," the lawyer, Cory Strolla said Saturday night, "and we're still going to fight."

