People are talking about self-defense and race in Florida again.

The subject has come up because of a jury's decision in a shooting where a black teenager was killed.

Michael Dunn is a white 47-year-old software developer.

He could face 60 years in prison.

He was found guilty Saturday on several counts of attempted murder for shooting into a carful of teenagers.

The shooting happened outside a Jacksonville convenience store in 2012.

Jordan Davis, a black 17-year-old, was killed in the shooting.

But the jury couldn't reach a decision on the murder charge against Dunn.

A jury is made of a group of people.

The people are American citizens and are randomly selected.

When someone is accused of a crime, the jury decides whether the person is innocent or guilty.

The jury's decision with Michael Dunn was different from another similar case.

Seven months ago, George Zimmerman was accused of shooting a black teenager, Trayvon Martin.

He was found not guilty in the shooting death of a black teenager, Trayvon Martin.

Dunn said he felt his life was in danger when he fired the shots.

So did Zimmerman.

But the Dunn decision suggested the jury struggled to see it that way.

The shooting came after a fight over loud music coming from the car that Davis was in.

Dunn said he shot at the car.

Dunn said he was afraid and thought he saw a shotgun in the car.

Experts say it's likely that at least one member of the jury believed Dunn's story.

The jury considered the case for 30 hours over four days.

But it could not agree on the murder charge.

"It is possible that the jury felt that Dunn was proper to stand his ground as to Davis, but his shooting of the others in the car was excessive," said Kenneth Nunn.

He is a law professor at the University of Florida.

Nunn said he did not think the evidence backed up that reasoning.

Experts said Sunday that it's possible the jury was confused.

They may have trouble understanding the definition of first-degree murder.

First-degree murder means the person who killed wanted the other person dead.

It also means it was not in self-defense or an accident.

One law in Florida also confuses the general public.

The law is the stand your ground defense law.

The law was a source of conflict during the Zimmerman case and, to a lesser degree, in this case.

Zimmerman told police he shot Martin only after the African-American teenager  attacked him.

Martin's family and supporters say Zimmerman decided Martin could be a criminal because he was black.

Zimmerman identifies himself as Hispanic.

Lawyers in both cases decided not to ask the  judge to decide if Dunn and Zimmerman could not face charges.

They could have asked for this under Florida's stand-your-ground law.

But jurors in each case were told by the judges that they should vote not guilty if they found the accused did not have to retreat.

In other words, the jurors could decide Dunn and Zimmerman had the right to "stand their ground" and defend themselves.

The "stand-your-ground" language is part of instructions given to jurors in self-defense cases.

Judge Russell L. Healey could sentence Dunn to 60 years in prison.

State laws call for a sentence of at least 20 years for each second-degree attempted murder conviction.

But the Florida Supreme Court could reduce the total sentence to 20 years.

It could decide that separate sentences should not come from one criminal event, said Miami lawyer David Weinstein.

Dunn could be tried again on the first-degree murder charge.

But the decision to retry him could be complicated, Weinstein said.

Dunn could agree to a sentence of less than 60 years and to not appeal.

Such an agreement could let the Davis family move on.

Dunn could also face 15 years in prison for shooting into the car.

A sentencing date won't be set until a hearing next month.

Meanwhile, Dunn's lawyer vowed to appeal.

"I basically told him to stay strong," the lawyer, Cory Strolla said Saturday night, "and we're still going to fight."

