The oil-rich United Arab Emirates certainly has the wealth of a first-class nation.

Now it hopes to buy in the culture of a first-class nation for $550 million.

The Louvre Abu Dhabi museum will open its doors in December 2015 in the capital of the Arab federation.

The United Arab Emirates is a country known for its flashy hotels, arid deserts and the world's 7th biggest oil reserves.

Organizers hope the museum will put it on the map for its oil paintings instead.

But the project has been raising eyebrows among Europeans, who say that culture requires more than just a checkbook.

In Paris, the Louvre unveiled a preview Tuesday of the art that the Abu Dhabi project has bought since 2009.

French President Francois Hollande opened the exhibition of about 160 works entitled "Birth of a Museum."

The exhibition includes religious artifacts such as a 19th-century Yemeni Torah and a 13th-century Gothic Bible.

It also features a swath of Renaissance and modern masterpieces by artists such as Yves Klein, Rene Magritte and Pablo [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso).

The generous spending pot has produced a collection as impressive as it is varied.

"(We want to) establish Abu Dhabi as a place for cultural tourism," the Louvre Abu Dhabi's assistant curator, Khalid Abdulkhaliq Abdulla, said at the Paris exhibit.

He said the Abu Dhabi Louvre will be the centerpiece of a planned cultural district that will also include a branch of New York's Guggenheim and a national museum.

However, skeptics in France say the nation known for its "nouveau riche," French for newly rich, can't simply buy its way into being "cultured."

The museum's renowned architect, Jean Nouvel, brushed off such critics.

He suggested they are just annoyed or jealous that Europe now doesn't have the money to embark on such costly cultural projects.

"Do you think we did it any differently in Europe when we used to be more powerful?"

Nouvel asked.

"It's normal that an economic power translates this (power) through the act of acquiring cultural art."

The exhibit curator compared the Abu Dhabi of today to the United States of the early 20th century.

Then, the U.S. was emerging economically, and private collectors started founding museums to showcase their artistic wealth.

"During this period we said the same thing  ... but with hindsight what do we see?

It's that European and Asian art are present in the U.S. and participated in making the American culture ... in making the country's identity.

And I think that's what needs to be remembered," said curator Vincent Pomerade.

One expert noted that many European collections were built in less desirable ways.

"Buying in culture is far better than looting it, which is what most nations did for hundreds of years," said Julian Radcliffe of the Art Loss Register.

The Louvre project's next hurdle will be to convince the greater Arab world to accept the museum's bold artistic representations of sexuality and religion.

Beyond this, the project's founders believe Abu Dhabi is an ideal location for a universal museum as the United Arab Emirates is itself a cultural crossroad.

"This idea of a crossroad, this idea of dialogue between civilizations, the meeting of cultures, the meeting of art, was at the heart of the project from the beginning," added Pomerade.

