This month marks the 40th anniversary of the discovery of Lucy, one of the earliest ancestors of humans.

Lucy was about 3 feet, 6 inches tall and walked the Earth 3.5 million years ago.

The discovery forever changed people's understanding of where the earliest humans came from and how they evolved.

Donald Johanson is a paleoanthropologist.

He studies ancient humans using the fossils and tools they left behind.

Back in 1974, Johanson found the fossilized remains of Lucy's skeleton in the Hadar area of central Ethiopia.

He and his team named her after the Beatles song "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds."

The song played repeatedly the night he made the discovery.

Johanson now serves as the founding director of the Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University.

He spoke to the Los Angeles Times about Lucy's impact on his job in paleoanthropology and what he hopes to find next.

_The interview that follows with Johanson has been changed by Newsela.

There have been definitions added to scientific terms and some of his answers have been simplified._ **Q: Before Lucy, what was the accepted story of human evolution, the science of how living things began and evolved over time?

** A: In the early 1970s when I first started working in paleoanthropology, most people thought humans came from Africa, but really became human in Europe.

**Q: How did the discovery of Lucy change that?

** A: She shifted, very dramatically, anthropologists' view of where we became human.

She showed us that it happened in eastern Africa, and more specifically in the area of Ethiopia where she was found.

She also allowed us to say without a doubt that walking upright on two legs began as much as 3.5 million years ago.

That was a major leap in our understanding of the events of human evolution.

**Q: How do you know she walked upright?

** A: Because we had her pelvis.

The pelvis is a ring of bones that connect the abdomen to the legs.

It's a very rare discovery to find a pelvis.

Hers is so strikingly different from the pelvis of a four-legged animal like a chimp, which has a tall and thin pelvis with the hip bones facing forward.

Our pelvis is squat and wide with the hip bones forming a bowl.

Lucy's body still had relatively short legs and relatively long arms.

We see these kinds of arms and legs more in tree-living species, so she was an important bridge for us between the more ancient creatures and more modern ones.

**Q: Why was upright walking an advantage in Lucy's time?

** A: Walking upright freed up the front limbs for other tasks.

They could be used for carrying food back to a home base and sharing it with members of one's own tribe or band.

We don't know what all the benefits were, but it was obviously a major breakthrough.

Over time, the ape population has been growing less and less, but there are, what, 8 billion of us today?

**Q: How has the science of human origins continued to change since Lucy's discovery?

** A: When I started working in paleoanthropology, we had only six or seven different fossils of early human species like Lucy.

Now we have 15 or 20.

What has changed is that we understand that evolution was not a straight line from the earliest species to modern humans.

There were many false starts that died out.

**Q: Are there major holes in the story of our origins that you would especially like to see filled in?

** A: At the Institute of Human Origins we are working to answer the specific question — What are the origins of modern humans?

The features that distinguish us from all other animals are language, cooperation, and a culture that allows us to learn from each other and build on what others discover.

So, how did all of that come about?

**Q: Anything else?

** A: I'd also like to know where our genus came from.

The Homo genus, which is a more general category that includes other species, contains modern humans — Homo sapiens — and others closely related to us.

Lucy's species, Australopithecus afarensis, died out about 3 million years ago.

The oldest evidence of the Homo genus we have is from 2.3 million years ago.

That means the Homo genus began between 2.3 million and 3 million years ago, and that's the time period where people are looking.

**Q: Is there a specific geological place where you think the answer might be found?

** A: People are planning expeditions to the Afar region of Ethiopia north of where Lucy was found.

They will look at the layers of rock that date back from 2.5 million to 3 million years ago, and in Kenya.

These layers are hard to work with because there are few fossils in them.

There are some, though, so it's possible that we could finally link Australopithecus, Lucy's species, with the Homo genus.

**Q: Some people feel that the world has been picked over, and there is nothing left to discover.

Do you agree?

** A: There are thousands of fossils in vaults throughout the world that have not been really studied.

We can now look at those fossils and see what diets were like.

We can also use computerized tomography scans, a type of X-ray, to look at teeth and what they can tell us about life histories.

There are also rock formations throughout Africa that have not been thoroughly examined.

I think new discoveries will be made that will be surprising.

As I tell my students, you are only limited by your imagination.

