Forty years ago this month, one of our oldest ancestors was discovered.

Lucy was about 3 feet, 6 inches tall and walked the Earth 3.5 million years ago.

The discovery forever changed science's understanding of where the earliest humans came from.

Donald Johanson is the scientist who found Lucy's skeleton in the Hadar area of central Ethiopia in 1974.

He and his team named her after the Beatles song "Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds."

The song played over and over the night he made the discovery.

Johanson is now the director of the Institute of Human Origins at Arizona State University.

He spoke about Lucy's effect on paleoanthropology and what he hopes to find next.

Paleoanthropology is the study of early humans through examining their fossilized bones and footprints.

_The interview with Johanson below has been changed by Newsela.

His answers are rewritten to be simpler for readers to understand._ **Q: Before Lucy, what did scientists think was the story of human evolution?

Evolution is the science of how living things began and evolved over time.

** I started working in paleoanthropology in the early 1970s.

At the time, most people thought humans came from Africa, but really they really became modern human in Europe.

**Q: How did the discovery of Lucy change that?

** She changed, very dramatically, the idea of where we became human.

Lucy showed us that humans began in the area of Ethiopia where she was found, not in Europe.

She also showed us that walking upright began as long as 3.5 million years ago.

That was a big change in how we understand early humans.

**Q: How do you know she walked upright?

** We had her pelvis, a ring of bones around the hip area.

It is a very rare discovery to find a pelvis.

Hers is very different from the pelvis of a four-legged animal like a chimpanzee.

Lucy's body still had short legs and long arms.

We see this more in animals that lived in trees.

She was an important bridge between more ancient creatures and more modern creatures.

**Q: Why was upright walking an advantage in Lucy's time?

** Walking upright freed up the front limbs for other tasks.

They could carry food back to a home base and share it with members of the group.

We don't know what all the benefits were, but it was obviously a major breakthrough.

Today, there are fewer and fewer apes, but there are, what, 8 billion humans?

**Q: How has the science of human origins continued to change since Lucy's discovery?

** When I started working, we had only six or seven different fossils, or preserved bones, from early human species.

Now we have 15 or 20.

We now understand that evolution was not a straight line.

Not all early humans are ancestors of modern man.

There were many early human species that became extinct.

**Q: Are there major holes in the story of our origins that you would especially like to see filled in?

** At the Institute of Human Origins we are working to answer an important question.

What are the origins of modern humans?

There are things that make us different from all other animals.

These include language, cooperation, and the ability to learn from each other and build on the discoveries of other people.

So, how did all of that come about?

**Q: Anything else?

** I'd also like to know where our genus came from.

A genus is a more general category than a species.

The Homo genus includes modern humans — Homo sapiens.

Lucy's species, Australopithecus afarensis, died out about 3 million years ago.

In other words, the Homo genus — our genus — began between 2.3 million and 3 million years ago.

People are looking in that time period for the answer.

**Q: Is there a specific place where you think the answer might be found?

** People are planning trips to an area in Africa north of where Lucy was found.

They will explore layers of rock that are between 2.5 million and 3 million years old.

It is possible that we will find fossils that could finally link Australopithecus, Lucy's species, with the Homo genus, which contains Homo sapiens, or modern humans.

Kenya is another place where the answer might be.

**Q: Some people feel that the world has been picked over, and there is nothing left to discover.

Do you agree?

** There are thousands of fossils of early humans throughout the world that have not been really studied.

We can now look at those fossils and see what they ate.

We can also examine their teeth with a special kind of X-ray.

Teeth can tell us a lot about their lives.

We also have areas all over Africa that have not been thoroughly explored.

I think new discoveries will be made that will be surprising.

As I tell my students, you are only limited by your imagination.

