Leah Schmidt is a school nutritionist.

It's her job to come up with [healthy meals for kids](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school lunch).

Schmidt has always loved solving one particular puzzle: How do you serve up healthy meals that picky children will actually eat?

On Monday at Dobbs Elementary, the regular after-lunch parade by the trash cans revealed good news: The day's lunch had largely been a hit with kids.

True, a few apple-slice servings got dumped, but empty trays and empty milk cartons filled the bins.

Soon, the puzzle could become too hard, Schmidt fears.

That's because the government is gradually making food rules stricter.

Every few years, it is introducing new rules about what kids should and should not eat.

The idea is to get unhealthy food out of school cafeterias.

Nutritionists like Schmidt think that's a great idea, of course.

However, they worry the government is moving too fast.

Nutritionists worry about three upcoming rules in particular.

One would affect grains — things like bread, rolls, pastas and pizza crusts.

Under the new rules, servings of grains would have to be more than 50 percent whole grain.

Whole-wheat bread, for example, is a type of whole-grain food.

Another rule would make it so children must pick up a fruit or vegetable with each meal.

Schools fear it will lead to food waste: Kids may simply throw away what they don't want.

The government also is gradually lowering the amount of salt kids are allowed to have.

By 2017, Schmidt said, this is likely to be a real problem for school nutritionists.

Kids will not be allowed to eat a lot of salt.

Take "one deli turkey sandwich with cheese and mustard," she said.

That would use up most of the salt allowed for one week.

Schools already are feeling some stress.

Since the new rules were introduced in 2012, the number of children eating school-cafeteria food has fallen by 1.2 million: It has gone from 31 million to less than 30 million.

Dobbs fifth-grader Cree Crook said her school's lunch team has done fairly well at satisfying her and her classmates.

The switch to whole grains has taken regular macaroni and cheese out of the mix.

Whole-grain pasta just doesn't work with that kid favorite, Schmidt said.

But that's OK, said Cree.

"We have the Santa Fe Mac," she said, meaning the whole-grain pasta and cheese dish with red sauce.

"It's good, and it comes with a whole-wheat roll.

The wheat roll is very healthy for you."

Nancy Coughenour is in charge of food for the Shawnee Mission School District.

In her district, she said, nutritionists and students have done fine with the healthier demands.

"You have to mess with it," she said, meaning nutritionists have to come up with new recipes.

Coughenour agrees, however, that the upcoming rules may be pushing too far.

This is particularly true, she says, when it comes to the salt limits.

The 2017 rules may be too tough, Coughenour said.

Some student favorites may have to be dropped.

"Chicken nuggets, pizza, ketchup, mustard — I don't know what we'll do with those," she said.

Janey Thornton, who works for the government, says school nutritionists shouldn't be so concerned.

"Worry about today first before we imagine the worst down the road," she said.

Thornton says things will get easier.

For one thing, food companies will start making healthier products.

"I'll bet that five or seven years down the road, we'll see kids eating healthy food" and liking it, she said.

For her part, Cree's not going back to her old eating habits and her parents are happy, too.

"My mom and dad want me to have four vegetables and fruits (every day)."

The school nutritionists are not going back either, Schmidt said.

Of course they will push for healthier meals, she said.

After all, that's what nutrition is all about.

But as for the government's food rules, she said, "I hope they'll be realistic about it."

