November was Lung Cancer Awareness Month, but you'd never know it.

In October, NFL players or coaches wore pink for breast cancer.

Some people say the color blue should be worn to support the cause to stop lung cancer.

No one in the NFL wore blue in November.

"It just doesn't seem fair," said Meghan O'Brien, 31, a nonsmoker diagnosed with the worst level of the disease last year.

The lack of buzz is especially strange because lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States.

It claims more lives than breast, prostate, colon and pancreatic cancers combined.

Only 16 percent of people who get it live more than five years.

And that number has barely changed since 1975, according to the American Cancer Society.

But lung cancer is seen as a tobacco-related illness that patients are to blame for.

About 10 to 15 percent of the roughly 228,000 people diagnosed with the disease each year were never smokers, according to the LUNGevity Foundation, a support organization.

The negative view of lung cancer affects everything from emotional support to the weak November awareness campaign.

Even in death announcements, family members feel the need to say that the dead person was a nonsmoker, so the deceased isn't unfairly judged.

Nowhere is the difference felt more powerfully than in funding research.

The National Cancer Institute estimates that the government spends $17,835 on research for breast cancer for each person who dies of the disease.

But only $1,378 is spent on research for each person who dies of lung cancer, even though lung cancer accounts for almost 23,000 deaths annually among nonsmokers.

Not that it's easy to build awareness.

Forget the pink marketing blitz; just try to find a ribbon for lung cancer.

There's even a dispute over the appropriate color, according to Andrea Ferris, president of the LUNGevity Foundation, who says it's blue.

Others say it's clear or pearl.

"In every other disease, the first question people ask is, 'How can I help?'

But with lung cancer, there's no empathy.

It's always, 'Did you smoke?'

After a while, it's just easier not to say anything," Ferris said.

In O'Brien's case, doctors pinpointed a rare genetic mutation, called ALK.

The mutation, or change in the genes, is created when two normal genes fuse together to form a new, cancer-causing one.

The University of Chicago is one of the nation's major treatment centers because it is testing a drug designed to help patients by blocking ALK.

This drug helped contain O'Brien's cancer for a while, but now it has come roaring back, invading her lungs and brain.

Two months ago, a scan revealed a liver studded with tumors.

She is now in another early stage clinical trial.

She has started a blog to chronicle her lung cancer journey.

"I try not to get too mad when people ask if I smoked," she said.

"Instead, I try to turn it into an opportunity to talk about it … to educate.

I guess that's the teacher in me."

Even so, O'Brien immediately recited her good health habits: Physical education teacher.

Enthusiastic tennis player.

An "almost vegetarian" who hasn't rolled through a fast-food window since age 13.

No cigarettes, ever.

At first she had experienced back pain.

But in May 2012 it became unbearable.

She went ahead with X-rays, but the results were unclear.

By the end of summer she had landed a full-time job teaching physical education at a high school.

She now had the money to move out of her parents' home and into her own apartment.

However, just as her "grown-up life" was taking off, it splintered apart.

Doctors at first thought she might have a different disease.

On the first day of her new job, she went to her neighborhood clinic.

The physician took one look at her test results and sent her to the emergency room.

Two weeks later, a doctor confirmed that she had stage 4 lung cancer, and that it was already assaulting other organs.

O'Brien spent most of the next four months in the hospital.

Before she could start therapy, she needed to have tumors that were wrapped around her spinal cord removed.

Doctors also took out several of the vertebrae in her back, replacing them with titanium rods and screws.

After she was sent home, O'Brien couldn't keep her full-time teaching job.

O'Brien's eyes glistened with tears as she ticked off her unfulfilled dreams — having a profession, getting married, having kids, buying a home.

Dating isn't really on her radar now.

Treatment caused her to lose her hair, while steroids added 50 pounds.

Even with the side effects, she tries to find ways to stay attractive, such as having her makeup professionally done.

The most insulting thing, she said, "is when people ask, 'Are you sure you never smoked?'

As if I forgot."

Not that anyone deserves the deadly disease.

It wasn't so long ago that the military dispensed cigarettes to soldiers, and many lung cancer patients kicked the smoking habit years ago, she said.

"But it doesn't matter.

... People still think it's your fault."

