Lung cancer kills more people each year than any other type of cancer.

But, people think lung cancer is only caused by smoking.

So, people blame the patients for getting it.

November was Lung Cancer Awareness Month.

But most people didn't know it.

In October, NFL players and coaches wore pink ribbons to tell people about breast cancer.

Some people say the color blue should be worn to support stopping lung cancer.

No one in the NFL wore blue in November.

"It just doesn't seem fair," said Meghan O'Brien, 31.

She's a nonsmoker.

She was told last year that she had stage 4 of the disease.

It's the most severe level.

Lung cancer claims more lives than several other types of cancers combined.

Only about one out of every six people who get it live more than five years.

Roughly 228,000 people find out they have the disease each year.

But as many as one out of every six of them were never smokers, says the LUNGevity Foundation.

It's a group that gives money to find a cure for lung cancer.

Lung cancer has a bad reputation.

So, there's less emotional help for people who have the disease.

And it's hard to raise money to fight lung cancer.

The government spends $17,835 to find a cure for breast cancer for each person who dies of the disease.

But only $1,378 is spent for each person who dies of lung cancer.

That is surprising because almost 23,000 nonsmokers die of lung cancer each year.

But it's not easy to build awareness.

There isn't even a ribbon for lung cancer, like there is for breast cancer.

People aren't even sure what the right color is, says Andrea Ferris, president of the LUNGevity Foundation.

She says it's blue.

Others say it's clear or pearl.

"In every other disease, the first question people ask is, 'How can I help?'

Ferris said.

When people have lung cancer, "it's always, 'Did you smoke?'"

Ferris said.

In O'Brien's case, doctors found a problem with her genes.

It's called a mutation.

Genes decide how we look or if we get diseases.

A mutation happens when two normal genes join together to form a new one.

This mutation causes cancer.

O'Brien started taking a drug designed to help block the mutation.

It worked for a while.

But now the disease has come roaring back.

It is invading her lungs and brain.

She has started a blog about her lung cancer journey.

"I try not to get too mad when people ask if I smoked," she said.

"Instead, I try to turn it into an opportunity to talk about it … to educate.

I guess that's the teacher in me."

Even so, O'Brien immediately recited her good health habits: Physical education teacher.

Regular tennis player.

She hasn't eaten fast food since age 13.

No cigarettes, ever.

Two weeks after starting a new job, she was told that she had lung cancer.

And it was attacking her other organs.

O'Brien spent most of the next four months in the hospital.

She needed to have tumors removed from her spinal cord.

Doctors also took out several of the vertebrae in her back.

They replaced them with metal rods and screws.

O'Brien's eyes tear up as she thinks of the things she hasn't gotten to do.

She wanted to have a good job, get married, have kids, and buy a home.

The meanest thing, she said, "is when people ask, 'Are you sure you never smoked?'

As if I forgot."

