_In an old house in Paris that was covered with vines_ So begins "Madeline," the beloved children's book by Ludwig Bemelmans.

For 75 years, the little girls — who left the house at half past 9, in two straight lines, in rain or shine — has filled children with delight.

Especially loved is the title character, Madeline, the smallest and most fearless one.

In October and November,the Chicago Public Library is marking the storybook's 75th anniversary.

The library system is celebrating with "Madeline" birthday parties at six libraries.

Special activities and a costumed "Madeline" character will also be at the Bookamania children's book fair.

The book fair will take place on Nov. 22 at the Harold Washington Library.

Some of us, though, have been celebrating "Madeline," and other special books of our childhoods, all along.

Word for word, line by line, we have passed our love of them on to our own children.

Books like "Madeline" pack serious power.

You don't just read them.

You reread them, again and again, the words drumming into your memory so strongly that after 50 years, they are still there.

Or you are read to, in that magical cocoon spun by a parent's voice at bedtime.

Many years later, the book remains a gateway to our own childhoods.

All I have to do is read the last page of "Madeline" to hear my mother's voice whisper those last lines: _And she turned out the light — and closed the door — and that's all there is — there isn't any more._ Childhood books feel utterly real, even if they are filled with talking animals.

For years I was sure I had personally witnessed the last scene in Margaret Wise Brown's "Wait Till the Moon Is Full."

I thought I had seen the raccoon child playing ball with his raccoon and rabbit friends.

I could see their raccoon and rabbit mothers knitting and chatting under the full moon's light.

I wanted my daughters to see it too.

So when they were young I started reading that book and my other childhood favorites to them.

It turned out that I still loved them.

So do other parents, who pass along their beloved books.

A friend of mine remembers watching her husband reading "Little House on the Prairie" to their 7-year-old son.

The boy was asleep, but her husband was still reading to him.

Transferring the love of favorite books to children doesn't always work.

Mothers of sons sometimes face a challenge.

They may not be able to get their boys to like books about, say, horses.

And some books may simply be too old-fashioned.

A friend of mine tried three different times to introduce her sons to "Winnie the Pooh," which she adored as a girl.

"I really sold it," she sighed, "but it didn't take."

My daughters turned out to be an eager audience for my childhood favorites.

They include "Madeline," "Wait Till the Moon Is Full" and "The Story of Babar."

My children happily listened to them all.

They snuggled up to me as I had once snuggled up to my own mother.

Then it was on to my favorite chapter books.

These include "Chancy and the Grand Rascal," "Knight's Castle" and, of course, "The Phantom Tollbooth."

Night after night my husband or I read "The Phantom Tollbooth" to the girls.

We took them on travels with Milo.

In the book, the bored boy receives a mysterious gift of a tollbooth that leads him into adventures with characters like Tock the watchdog.

The girls loved all of them.

I knew these books so so well they seemed tattooed into my memory.

My older daughter had a couple of them tattooed onto her skin.

The little raccoon from "Wait Till the Moon Is Full" is inked on her right foot.

The watchdog Tock from "The Phantom Tollbooth" is on her left shoulder.

Actress Lena Dunham has tattoos from "The Story of Ferdinand" and "Eloise."

An Internet site posted photos of tattoos based on children's books.

They included "The Velveteen Rabbit," "The Little Prince," "Goodnight Moon," "Corduroy," "Winnie the Pooh," "The Phantom Tollbooth" — and "Madeline."

New and wondrous children's literature is being produced all the time.

Kids don't have to read their parents' old books.

But when they do, magic happens.

The bond is sweet.

You and your children love the same children's book.

