For the past 17 months, the fate of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has baffled people around the world.

The plane seemed to have simply vanished, leaving not a single trace behind.

The lack of any physical clues was eerie and unsettling, and led to all sorts of wild theories about what might have happened.

At times, Flight 370 almost seemed like the real-life version of the jetliner at the heart of the TV show "Lost."

Now, at last, a piece of the mystery plane has been discovered.

On Thursday, the Malaysian prime minister announced that a wing fragment found on an Indian Ocean island belongs to the missing plane.

Flight 370 disappeared on March 8, 2014, on its way from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China, with 239 people on board.

We now know it ended up in the ocean — but we still do not know why.

What does the discovery of the wing fragment change, if anything?

"The appearance of at least some wreckage takes it out of the realm of 'vanished without a trace,'" said Ric Gillespie, a former U.S. aviation accident investigator.

It is now clear, Gillespie said, that the plane "did go down in the ocean."

Most likely what happened was "an aviation accident," he said.

Before the discovery of the wing piece on the French island of Reunion, experts generally agreed that the Boeing 777 crashed in a remote stretch of the Indian Ocean.

With no physical evidence, however, no one could say so with certainty.

There were nagging suspicions that the experts had gotten it wrong.

Did the plane fly north to Asia, rather than south into the ocean?

Could those on board even be stuck on some far-flung island, like the characters on "Lost?"

Australia is leading the search for the plane in a desolate stretch of ocean 2,600 miles to the east of Reunion Island.

The country's prime minister, Tony Abbott, said the discovery provides at least one piece of the puzzle.

"What we have found in the western Indian Ocean does seem to indicate that the plane did come down more or less where we thought it did," Abbott said.

"And it suggests that, for the first time, we might be a little bit closer to solving this baffling mystery."

Yet in many ways, the mystery only deepens from here.

Discovering the wing piece is not expected to help narrow the vast body of ocean where the search for the main body of the plane continues.

Investigators examining the wing fragment in France are trying to find clues about the plane's fate based on the fragment's condition.

Their examination only opens up more questions: How, exactly, did the plane end up in the water?

Was it a controlled landing, or was there an explosion?

If it was not an accident, who was behind it and why?

Officials had already determined that the jetliner took a straight path across the ocean after it went off-course.

In turn, that led them to conclude that the plane flew on autopilot for hours before running out of fuel and crashing into the water.

However, there are plenty of other theories, and news of the wing flap's discovery did little to put an end to them.

After Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak's announcement, online commenters immediately began debating whether the flap could have been planted on the island by terrorists.

Some also raised the possibility that the plane landed on Diego Garcia, a British atoll in the Indian Ocean where the United States has a military base.

Such speculation is unlikely to stop, Gillespie said, unless officials find the plane's flight recorders, its so-called "black boxes."

These would give investigators definite answers about the plane's flight path, and about any mechanical failures or overrides that might have occurred.

For the families of those on board, the discovery of the wing flap does little to end the painful uncertainty they have endured since the plane vanished last year.

They are still not much closer to knowing what happened to their loved ones.

For some families, only the recovery of a body will bring any closure.

However, the discovery of at least one part of the plane marks a step in that direction, said grief counselor Angela Crawford, of the New Zealand agency Victim Support.

"It's a long journey — it's a piece of a wing," Crawford said.

"It's starting to bring that realization to them that they may be heading toward more understanding and closure, which can only be helpful."

Overall, though, officials were relieved that there finally seemed to be something concrete to cling to in what has been one of aviation's most confounding mysteries.

"At least it is a piece of evidence," Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop told reporters in Kuala Lumpur.

"I remember early on, somebody said it is not as if we are looking for a needle in a haystack — we are still trying to locate the haystack.

This gives us some indication that we are in the right place."

