A Malaysian jetliner that was headed to China's capital Beijing has been missing for more than a week.

Now, Malaysian officials are saying that they believe the plane's disappearance was no accident.

An official said on Saturday that the plane changed its course on purpose.

In other words, it is believed that the plane was diverted, or hijacked.

The prime minister of Malaysia said the plane continued flying for more than six hours after cutting off contact with the ground.

Now, investigators believe that the plane could have gone as far northwest as Kazakhstan or into the southern end of the Indian Ocean.

Prime Minister Najib Razak's statement confirmed days of rising suspicion that the disappearance of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 to Beijing was not an accident.

It also refocused the investigation.

More attention will be paid to the flight's 12-person crew and 227 passengers.

"Clearly the search for MH370 has entered a new phase," Najib said at a news conference.

Najib stressed that investigators were looking into all the possible reasons as to why the Boeing 777 ended up so far away from its original flight path.

Experts have previously said that whoever took down the plane's communication systems and then flew the jet must have had a lot of technical knowledge.

He or she also had flying experience.

They believe that it is possible that one of the pilots wanted to commit suicide.

The plane left for an overnight flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing at 12:40 a.m. on March 8.

Its communications with air controllers were cut off at about 1:20 a.m., and the jet disappeared.

It is now one of the most puzzling mysteries in modern aviation history.

Investigators are now fairly sure that one of the plane's communications systems was turned off before the aircraft reached the east coast of Malaysia, Najib said.

Shortly afterward, someone on board switched off the aircraft's transponder.

The transponder would allow the pilot to communicate with air traffic controllers.

Najib confirmed that Malaysian air force defense radar picked up traces of the plane turning back to the west.

Authorities previously had said they could not tell for sure where the plane went.

These movements are proof that someone on the plane could have knowingly turned it around, Najib said.

The aircraft was flying virtually blind to air traffic controllers at this point.

However, onboard equipment continued to send "pings" to satellites.

The prime minister said the last confirmed signal between the plane and a satellite came at 8:11 a.m.

It was 7 hours and 31 minutes after takeoff.

The flight was only supposed to take about six hours.

The satellite signal was more than five hours later than the time originally given by Malaysian authorities as the possible last contact.

Airline officials said the plane had enough fuel to fly for up to about eight hours.

The investigation team is looking into how far the aircraft may have flown after this last point of contact, Najib said.

He said authorities had determined that the plane's last communication with a satellite was in one of two possible spans of land.

There was one near northern Thailand through to the border of the Central Asian countries of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, and a southern one from Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean.

If the plane took the northern route, it could have taken the plane through China, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan — which hosts U.S. military bases.

It also could have gone through Central Asia.

If it did this, it is unclear how it wasn't noticed.

The area is also home to extreme Islamic groups, unstable governments and remote, sparsely populated areas.

Flying south would have put the plane over the Indian Ocean.

The ocean is 12,762 feet deep on average and thousands of miles from land.

Aviation security expert Chris Yates said it was highly unlikely the plane took the path across Asia.

Military planes from those countries would have spotted it.

Najib said search efforts in the South China Sea, where the plane first lost contact, have ended.

Two-thirds of the plane's passengers were Chinese.

The relatives of passengers want to know what happened to the aircraft.

The Chinese government's Xinhua News Agency said the Malaysian information was "painfully" slow.

It was resulting in wasted efforts and straining the nerves of relatives, the agency added.

Najib said he understood the need for families to receive information, but that his government wanted to release only fully verified reports.

He said his country has been sharing information with international investigators.

U.S., British and Malaysian air safety investigators have been on the ground in Malaysia to assist with the investigation.

In the Chinese capital, relatives of passengers who have anxiously awaited news at a hotel near Beijing's airport said they felt deceived.

They thought they should have been told about the plane's last signal earlier.

Malaysian police have already said they are looking at the psychological state, family life and connections of pilot Zaharie Ahmad Shah, 53, and co-pilot Fariq Abdul Hamid, 27.

Both have been described as decent, community-minded men.

Fourteen countries are involved in the search for the plane, using 43 ships and 58 aircraft.

