The FBI is sending agents and technical experts to assist in investigating the disappearance of a Malaysia Airlines jet.

It vanished while traveling from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

Three American citizens were on the lost flight.

This fact allows the FBI to involve itself in the investigation, a top federal law enforcement official in Washington said Saturday.

He said that a fourth passenger also may be a U.S citizen.

That person was an infant flying with the three Americans, he said.

The official could not reveal his name because the FBI investigation is just beginning.

"So far what happened is a mystery," he said.

U.S. officials said they are looking at whether this could be terrorism, as they would with any plane crash until they know otherwise.

Two passengers apparently used stolen passports.

But, a senior counterterrorism official said "there is no indication this is a terrorist attack; stolen passports are certainly not indicative of a terrorist attack."

The official said there was "no evidence" of terrorism thus far.

Law enforcement officials were not allowed to speak publicly.

The federal law enforcement official said FBI staff will assist in reviewing video of the airport in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia's capital.

They'll be looking for images of passengers at the ticket counter, the security sections and the boarding area.

He said images they find can be used with the bureau's vast counterterrorism technology.

Images can be matched with those of known members of al-Qaida or other terrorist organizations.

But he emphasized that no known terrorist link has surfaced.

So far, no organization has claimed responsibility for downing the plane.

The plane was en route to Beijing with 239 people aboard when it disappeared from air traffic control monitoring.

Vietnamese military aircraft participating in a search-and-rescue operation for the plane and its passengers spotted two oil slicks off the coast of southern Vietnam, the Associated Press reported.

The slicks were in line with a plane crash.

But, it hasn't been proven that they were associated with the missing jet.

The U.S. law enforcement official said that the federal National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) also will probably be brought into the investigation.

The NTSB could get involved because the jet was built by Boeing in the U.S. An official at the Department of Homeland Security said it would be a first if the plane was brought down by two terrorists who boarded the jet carrying stolen passports.

"We've never seen that," he said.

He noted that in the United States, passports and other travel documents are immediately run through a computer database.

That would have detected whether they had been stolen or lost.

In Malaysia, however, the security arrangement is not as tight, he said.

Stolen travel documents could have gotten two of the passengers through the security checkpoints, he said.

He cautioned that at this early stage, "we can't say what it means yet."

But he said that the two stolen passports have given investigators an open door to look for cracks in security.

The Homeland Security source said that one passport was stolen from an Italian.

It was taken from his rental car when he returned the vehicle in August in Malaysia.

The second passport was stolen from an Austrian man two years ago, he said.

"Just because they were stolen doesn't mean the travelers were terrorists," the Homeland Security source cautioned.

"They could have been nothing more than thieves.

Or they could have simply bought the passports on the black market."

Another U.S. law enforcement official said the international police organization, Interpol, keeps a list of lost and stolen passports.

Major international airlines routinely check it before passengers board a flight.

It would be unusual for a passenger on a major airline such as Malaysian Airways to be able to board using a stolen passport, he said.

Passenger lists for international flights are checked against intelligence databases if planes make a stop in the United States.

But the jetliner that disappeared did not have a U.S. stop planned.

