[Malala Yousafzai](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Malala) is a Pakistani teen who survived being shot in 2012.

Her attackers targeted her because she was defending the right of girls to go to school.

On Monday, Malala turned 17.

She celebrated her birthday with a visit to Africa.

Malala decided to head to the country of Nigeria because something terrible happened there: Three months ago, 219 girls were kidnapped at school.

Malala called the missing girls her "sisters."

"My birthday wish this year is 'Bring Back Our Girls' now," she said.

The girls were kidnapped in April from a school in the town of Chibok.

Their kidnappers are a group known as Boko Haram.

"Bring Back Our Girls" is the slogan of many people around the world who want the girls to be freed.

Boko Haram's goal is to turn all of Nigeria into a strict Muslim country.

They have been attacking both cities and villages.

Malala is a Muslim herself.

She practices Islam.

But she feels the rebels' understanding of Islam is completely wrong.

She spoke directly to the girls' captors.

"Lay down your weapons.

Release your sisters.

Release my sisters.

Release the daughters of this nation.

Let them be free.

They have committed no crime."

She said, "You are misusing the name of Islam."

The Quran — Islam's holy book — "teaches brotherhood," she said.

Boko Haram attacks continued over the weekend.

Witnesses blamed the group for the bombing of a bridge.

With the bridge gone, it now will be even harder to get to Boko Haram's camps in the Sambisa Forest.

Some of the missing girls are believed to be held in those camps.

Malala met with Nigeria's President Goodluck Jonathan on Monday.

She told reporters that he had "promised me that the girls will be returned as soon as possible."

She said he also promised to meet for the first time with the girls' parents.

Malala described an emotional meeting on Sunday with some of the girls' parents.

"I could see tears in their eyes," she said, "but they seem to have this hope in their hearts."

They were asking if they could meet the president.

Jonathan has not met with any of the parents so far.

Some of those parents regularly make the dangerous drive from Chibok to Abuja, Nigeria's capital.

They come to attend daily rallies.

The rallies are held by activists who want the girls freed.

In May, activists tried to march peacefully to the president's home.

Soldiers and police blocked their path.

That same month, Jonathan canceled a planned trip to Chibok.

On Monday, the president defended himself.

He told Malala that those who think his government is not doing enough are "very wrong."

The "great challenge," he said, is making sure the girls "are rescued alive."

Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau released a new video Sunday.

In it, he repeated the group's demand: Release jailed rebels.

Only after that happens, he said, will the girls be released.

"Nigerians are saying 'Bring Back Our Girls,'" he said in the video.

"We are telling Jonathan to bring back our arrested warriors, our army."

So far Jonathan has refused to release any rebel prisoners.

Since the kidnapping, Boko Haram has increased the number and deadliness of its attacks.

On June 25, bombs went off in Lagos, the country's largest city.

At least four people were killed.

Just hours before, another bomb went off at the biggest shopping mall in Nigeria's capital.

The explosion killed at least 21 people.

Nigeria's 170 million people are almost equally divided: Most in the south are Christians, while most in the north are Muslims.

Boko Haram's goal is to make the entire country follow the strictest kind of Islam.

The group's name means "Western education is sinful."

