[Malala Yousafzai](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Malala) is back in class.

The 15-year-old girl was shot in the head by the Taliban last fall.

Now she is attending a new school in England.

Malala is from Pakistan.

The Taliban are fighters who have extreme beliefs.

They do not want girls in Pakistan to go to school.

Malala was targeted by the Taliban because she spoke out for girls' education.

Gunmen fired at her in a school bus.

She was quickly flown to a hospital.

Five months later, she is fully healed.

Now she is attending Edgbaston, a girls school in England.

Malala got better from surgery fast.

Doctors put a metal plate in her skull and gave her an implant to help her hearing.

After only five months in the hospital, she was strong enough to return to school.

Malala showed it will take more than a bullet to keep her out of class.

"I am excited that today I have achieved my dream of going back to school," Malala told Time magazine.

"I want all girls in the world to have this basic opportunity.

I miss my classmates from Pakistan very much, but I am looking forward to meeting my teachers and making new friends here in Birmingham."

Malala thanked her supporters in a video shown on the Guardian website.

She also discussed her plans for the future.

She was wearing a pink backpack over her school uniform.

Her uniform was a green sweater with the Edgbaston symbol and a blue skirt.

She covers her hair with a scarf, just as she did in Pakistan.

She called her first day back at school her "happiest moment."

"I will hold my books, my bag, and I will learn.

I will talk to my friends, and I will talk to my teacher.

I think there's no more important day than this day," Malala said.

"I want to learn about politics, and about social rights, about the law.

I want to learn how to bring change into this world."

Malala is already bringing change.

She became famous in Pakistan and beyond while she was only 12.

She wrote a popular blog about her experiences as a schoolgirl.

She lived in the Swat Valley, a region of Pakistan.

When Malala was writing, Swat was under Taliban control.

The Taliban did not want girls to go to school.

They began bombing girls schools.

But Malala wanted to go to school.

So she stood up to the Taliban's threats to ordinary people.

After the Pakistani army beat the Taliban, Malala kept writing.

She pushed for all girls to have the right to an education.

But there were still a few Taliban fighters remaining in the Swat Valley.

They targeted Malala.

On Oct. 9, gunmen stopped the school bus Malala was riding.

They asked the other children to point her out, and fired a bullet into her skull.

Two other girls were wounded.

The Pakistani government sent Malala to England for treatment.

Many politicians called the gunmen "beasts."

One politician called Malala "a beacon of knowledge."

Pakistan's President Asif Ali Zardari said it was "an attack on all girls in Pakistan, an attack on education, and on all civilized people."

The outcry scared the Taliban.

They tried to justify their attack on a child.

They ordinarily do not justify their attacks.

"She was pro-West, she was speaking against Taliban and she was calling President Obama her ideal leader," a Taliban spokesman said in a statement.

Millions of Pakistanis disagreed.

They rallied and marched to support Malala's cause and pray for her recovery.

The Taliban shot Malala to silence her.

That plan backfired.

Not only is she alive, but she is still bravely campaigning for her beliefs.

Nov. 10 was named Malala Day in her honor.

On that day, people are encouraged to think about the 32 million girls in the world who are denied schooling.

Malala is now the youngest Nobel Peace Prize nominee ever.

A publisher is paying her $2 million to write a book about her life and work.

But first, there is homework to be done.

