A plane has been missing for more than a week.

It was going from China to Malaysia.

Now, Malaysian officials say the disappearance was no accident.

A Malaysian official said on Saturday that the plane changed its course on purpose.

He believes the plane was hijacked.

The plane left for an overnight flight from Malaysia to China at 12:40 a.m. on March 8.

At about 1:20 a.m., the plane lost contact.

No one on the ground could talk to the pilots.

Then, the jet disappeared.

At first, Malaysian officials said the plane lost contact about two hours into the flight.

Now, they say the plane could still be traced using satellites in space.

The prime minister of Malaysia said the last signal between the plane and a satellite came at 8:11 a.m.

It was 7 hours and 31 minutes after takeoff.

Prime Minister Najib Razak said the satellites proved that the plane kept flying more than six hours after losing contact.

This changes where search parties will look for the plane.

Officials say the plane could have gone northwest.

It could be as far as the country of Kazakhstan in Central Asia.

It could have also have gone into the southern end of the Indian Ocean.

Najib stressed that investigators were trying hard.

They were looking into all the reasons why the plane could have changed direction.

Experts have said that whoever cut off contact must have known a lot about planes.

He or she also had flying experience.

The investigators are looking at the pilots, flight crew and the 227 passengers.

Now investigators must find out how far the plane flew after it lost contact.

The plane had enough fuel to fly for about eight hours.

Satellites show that the plane was in one of two possible areas.

It could have been near northern Thailand through to the border of the Central Asian countries of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.

It could have also been near Indonesia to the southern Indian Ocean.

In other words, it could have flown northwest or south.

If the plane took the northern route, it could have taken the plane through China, India, Pakistan and Afghanistan.

The plane could have also could have gone through Central Asia.

If it did either, it is unclear how the plane was not noticed.

The military forces of those Asian countries should have spotted it.

Also, there are U.S. military bases in the area.

Flying south would have put the plane over the Indian Ocean.

The ocean is 12,762 feet deep on average and thousands of miles from land.

Two-thirds of the plane's passengers were Chinese.

China's government wants answers to the plane's disappearance.

The relatives of passengers want to know what happened.

Najib said he understood the need for families to receive information.

But he said his government wanted to double-check reports before releasing them.

In the Chinese capital, relatives of passengers have waited for information.

They say they feel cheated.

They thought they should have been told about the plane's last signal earlier.

Malaysian police are looking into the lives of the pilot and co-pilot.

Both have been called trustworthy men.

Fourteen countries are helping to search for the plane.

Combined, they are using 43 ships and 58 planes.

