Middle Eastern teen activist Malala Yousafzai was shot in the head in 2012.

She was shot by Taliban extremist fighters who were angry because she was trying to help girls go to school in Pakistan.

She was on her way home from school at the time.

Two other girls were also injured in the attack.

Since the attack, Malala has become famous around the world.

Although she is only a teenager, she acts much older than her age.

Since she was shot at age 15, she has spoken out about getting more girls educated in very religious areas of Pakistan.

Her views upset Islamic extremists.

They believe that girls should not go to school, and instead stay at home.

On Friday, Pakistan's army said that it had arrested 10 fighters suspected of helping to attack Yousafzai.

The fighters were part of a terror group.

Pakistani army spokesman General Asim Saleem Bajwa said the captured fighters attacked Yousafzai.

The men were acting on orders from Mullah Fazlullah, the head of the Pakistani Taliban, a terror group.

Malala is from the Swat Valley area of northwestern Pakistan.

Fazlullah lived there also, until 2009 when Pakistan began attacking the Swat Valley to kill extremists.

There were fighters living there that wanted to take over Pakistan and force everyone to obey strict Islamic laws.

Since 2009, Fazlullah has been on the run.

Pakistan believes he may be hiding over the border in Afghanistan.

Bajwa said they asked the Afghan government about Fazlullah, but the countries do not trust each other.

They have both accused the other of ignoring the fighters who come into their country to attack the neighboring nation.

"We will continue our efforts until (Fazlullah) is arrested or killed," Bajwa said.

"This is good news for our family and most importantly, for the people of Pakistan and the civilized world," Malala's father, Ziauddin Yousafzai, said about the arrests of the 10 men.

He said capturing Malala's attackers is important.

It gives hope to "the hundreds of thousands of people whose lives have been affected by terrorism."

Pakistan's army is also attacking Taliban fighters in North Waziristan.

The area is known to have a lot of fighters living there.

Pakistan started tracking down the fighters after they attacked one of the country's busiest airports, shocking the nation.

