In 2012 [Malala Yousafzai](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Malala), a Pakistani teen, survived being shot by the Taliban.

She had been targeted for defending the right of girls to go to school.

On Monday, Malala celebrated her 17th birthday with a visit to the African country of Nigeria.

Upon arriving, Malala called for the release of 219 schoolgirls.

They were kidnapped there three months ago by Muslim fighters.

Malala has become world famous for standing up against the Taliban, a strict Muslim group that doesn't believe that girls should be educated.

She called the missing Nigerian girls her "sisters."

"My birthday wish this year is 'Bring Back Our Girls' now and alive," she said.

People around the world have posted the slogan "Bring Back Our Girls" as a sign of support for the schoolgirls.

The girls were kidnapped in April from a school in the northeastern Nigerian town of Chibok.

Their kidnappers are a group known as Boko Haram.

The goal of the group is to turn all of Nigeria into a strict Muslim state.

Malala, who is Muslim, appealed directly to the girls' captors.

"Lay down your weapons.

Release your sisters.

Release my sisters.

Release the daughters of this nation.

Let them be free — they have committed no crime."

She added, "You are misusing the name of Islam."

The Quran — Islam's holy book — "teaches brotherhood," she said.

Muslims are believers in Islam.

Boko Haram attacks continued over the weekend.

Witnesses blamed the group for the bombing of a bridge on Saturday night.

With the bridge gone, it now will be even harder to get to Boko Haram's camps in the Sambisa Forest.

Some of the missing girls are believed to be held in those camps.

Malala met with Nigeria's President Goodluck Jonathan on Monday.

After the meeting, she told reporters that he had "promised me that the girls will be returned as soon as possible."

She said he also promised to meet for the first time with the girls' parents.

Malala described an emotional meeting on Sunday with some of the girls' parents.

"I could see tears in their eyes — they were hopeless.

But they seem to have this hope in their hearts," and they were asking if they could meet the president.

Jonathan has not met with any of the parents so far.

Some of those parents regularly make the dangerous drive from Chibok to the capital Abuja.

They come to attend daily rallies held by activists seeking the girls' release.

When activists tried to march peacefully to the president's home in May, they were blocked by soldiers and police.

Jonathan canceled a planned trip to Chibok that same month.

On Monday, the president told Malala that those who think his government is not doing enough are "very wrong."

The "great challenge," he said, is making sure the girls "are rescued alive."

Boko Haram leader Abubakar Shekau released a new video Sunday.

In it, he repeated the group's demand: Release imprisoned rebels.

Only after that happens, he said, will the girls be released.

"Nigerians are saying 'Bring Back Our Girls,'" he said in the video.

"We are telling Jonathan to bring back our arrested warriors, our army."

Jonathan so far has refused to release any rebel prisoners.

Since the mass kidnapping, Boko Haram has increased the number and deadliness of its attacks.

On June 25, bombs went off in Lagos, the country's largest city.

At least four people were killed.

Just hours before, another bomb went off at the biggest shopping mall in Nigeria's capital.

The explosion killed at least 21 people.

Nigeria's 170 million people are almost equally divided between Christians in the south and Muslims in the north.

Boko Haram's goal is to make the entire country follow the strictest kind of Islam.

The group's name means "Western education is sinful."

