An unusual form of malaria is spreading to people in Malaysian Borneo, and scientists say they may know why.

In a new study published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases, scientists say that deforestation in the Southeast Asian country is to blame for the spread of the mosquito-borne illness.

Cutting down trees in rain forests is causing the environment to change, and that may be increasing transmission of a form of malaria usually found only in monkeys.

The disease is caused by a parasite and spread by mosquitoes.

People with malaria often experience fever, chills and flu-like illness.

Some patients develop severe complications and can even die.

In 2013, there were almost 200 million cases of malaria worldwide and 500,000 patients died, mostly children in Africa. Most of the cases in the United States are in travelers from countries where malaria transmission occurs, such as south of the Sahara Desert in Africa and South Asia.

In Malaysian Borneo, scientists noticed an increase in a form of malaria caused by the parasite Plasmodium knowlesi.

Malaria of that type is usually found in a type of monkey called macaques.

In the last decade, the parasite has also become the leading cause of human malaria in the region that is also known as East Malaysia, and located on the island of Borneo in Southeast Asia.  The island of Borneo is just north of the equator and surrounded by the South China Sea on the west and the Sulu and Celebes Seas on the east.

It is the third-largest island in the world, and is shared by the countries of Malaysia, Brunei and Indonesia.

The island has a number of beaches, rain forests and national parks.  Scientists wanted to know what was causing the increase in human transmission of the parasite that causes this form of malaria.

While it is found heavily in macaques, it is transmitted to people by mosquitoes, the same way that other forms of malaria are spread.

Scientists guessed that an environmental disturbance was bringing humans and the monkeys closer together.

"That's when we started looking at deforestation," says scientist Kimberly Fornace.

She is the study's lead author based out of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in England.

Fornace says she and her team thought clearing trees in the rain forest was causing people, mosquitoes and macaques to be in closer contact.

Fornace and her team looked at information about malaria patients who had the disease between 2008 and 2012. It came from health clinics in Kudat and Kota Marudu, two Malaysian districts.

The scientists recorded where patients came from and compared it to satellite images of deforestation happening in the same time period.

The team found that areas where many trees had been cleared in the years before an outbreak of human malaria had higher rates of infection.

However, areas with more than 65 percent of their forest uncut also had high malaria rates.

The reason is known as the edge effect, when an ecosystem experiences a large amount of environmental change right at the edge of a habitat.

It tends to be strongest in places where people have left parts of the ecosystem standing, but have divided it up by logging and clearing.

Fornace says she and her team believe that malaria is transmitted at the edges of forests, where people and macaques are coming into contact.

Mosquitoes are carrying the parasite from the monkeys to humans.  Researchers suspect that as their habitat becomes more divided, the macaques are forced to crowd into smaller areas and even leave the forest to search for food. Because the animals are closer to people, mosquitoes can more easily spread malaria.

Fornace says the research gives scientists an opportunity to better understand which regions are experiencing the highest rates of disease transmission.

Then they can create better risk maps to help decrease infection.

She also says that human actions do not just alter the environment, they also can have an impact on human health.

Policymakers should plan to use land more responsibly when it comes to public health.

Margaret Kosek is an assistant professor at Johns Hopkins University in Maryland.

She says, "These findings are consistent with other studies emphasizing the importance of deforestation in the transmission of malaria."

 Kosek also says that it is important to offer good public health care to people who live in affected areas.

Kosek herself has done research on malaria transmission in the Amazon rain forest in the country of Peru.

She says that deforestation has been tied to malaria transmission in other parts of the world, but how much of a factor it is depends on the setting.

She says there are other things that might make the problem worse.

For example, people living in places where rapid deforestation is taking place might not have access to good medical care.

Research shows that deforestation has also affected the spread of other diseases such as dengue fever, yellow fever, certain tick-borne illnesses and Ebola.

Other research in recent years has focused on how environmental disturbances due to climate change such as warmer temperatures and poor water quality might affect the spread of disease. In addition, human populations forced to move due to conflict, disaster or development are also expected to spread disease.

