Pakistan freed eight of the 10 men accused in the shooting of teenage Nobel Prize winner Malala Yousafzai.

The eight men were found innocent, but Pakistani officials kept that fact secret.

The officials chose not to clear up confusion caused by incorrect news reports in April that all of them were sent to prison.

It was likely that the officials wanted to get credit for catching the men who attacked the teen activist.

At the time, it had been widely reported that all 10 men had been convicted by an anti-terrorist court.

The eight acquittals were revealed Friday by the popular British newspaper The Mirror.

Its reporters looked for the 10 men in prisons across Pakistan and only found two.

Saeed Naeem, the public lawyer for Malala's native Swat region, said he had not corrected the mistaken reporting.

He said it was not his responsibility and no one told him to do so.

He said the two men convicted — identified only as Izhar and Israrullah — have each been sentenced to 46 years in prison for the attack on Malala.

The gunman, Ataullah Khan, is one of four who have not been captured yet.

Naeem said the not-guilty verdicts against the eight suspects had been appealed to the high court in Peshawar.

However, human rights lawyers in Malala's hometown, Mingora, said the case against the 10 accused attackers was full of problems.

"This is totally beyond comprehension," said Sher Mohammed Khan, a Swat-based lawyer and representative of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.

He said there are no court files for any of the men.

"Nobody knows who they are, how their trial was conducted," who appeared in court and which lawyers represented the 10 accused men, Khan said.

"It's a classic example of denial of free trial."

The discovery that eight of the men were freed also raised suspicions about the timing of the September 2014 arrests.

The arrests came just a month before Malala was given the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is awarded to people or groups that have contributed to making the world a more peaceful place.

She shared it with Indian children's rights activist Kailash Satyarti.

Prior to that, Malala had been widely viewed with mistrust in Pakistan.

Public skepticism about Malala began to lessen only last September, when the military announced it had caught her attackers.

Malala first emerged as a celebrity in 2009 after admitting to being "Gul Makai."

That was the pen name of the author of a diary about life under Taliban rule.

The violent group has been fighting the government for control of the country and holds power in some parts of Pakistan.

Malala's diary was broadcast by the BBC in Britain and she became famous around the world.

At just 11, Malala highlighted how the Taliban prevented girls from getting an education.

She became the first Pakistani activist to defy the Taliban, who believe woman and girls are inferior.

For her activism, terror chief Mullah Fazlullah, also from Swat, ordered her killing.

Malala was shot in the head and neck by a Taliban killer in October 2012.

She was seated in a van parked outside her school in Mingora.

Two other teenage girls, Kainat Riaz and Shazia Rehman, were injured in the attack.

Malala survived because of a global effort to save her life.

She was flown to Britain for medical care in a United Arab Emirates government airplane.

There, she underwent surgeries to restore her eyesight and hearing.

After recovering, Malala won admirers worldwide by resuming her campaign for a child's right to education.

The Taliban "thought the bullet would silence us, but they failed," she told the United Nations General Assembly in July 2013.

