In October 2012, a group of men tried to kill Malala Yousafzai.

The 15-year-old had made many enemies for speaking out on education for girls in Pakistan.

Two years later, the news reported that 10 men were sent to prison for shooting her.

Now it turns out, eight of them were not sent to prison.

Instead, they were let go.

Pakistani officials kept the fact secret.

Pakistan is a country in Asia, near India.

The officials knew the reports were wrong but chose not to say anything.

Probably because they wanted the world to think they had caught Malala's attackers.

The truth came out Friday in the popular British newspaper The Mirror.

Its reporters looked for the 10 men in prisons across Pakistan.

They found only two of them actually behind bars.

Saeed Naeem is the government lawyer for Pakistan's Swat area, where Malala lived.

Naeem said he did not correct the mistake.

He said it was not his responsibility and no one told him to do so.

He said the two men found guilty are named Izhar and Israrullah.

They each were sent to prison for 46 years.

The man who actually shot her has not been caught.

Sher Mohammed Khan is a human rights lawyer in Malala's hometown, Mingora.

He said the cases against all 10 men were full of problems.

He said there are no court papers for any of the men.

Khan is also a member of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.

"Nobody knows who they are, how their trial was conducted," he said.

There is no information about who was in court during their trial.

Also, no one knows who their lawyers were.

Khan said the trial was not honest and open.

The timing of the 10 arrests makes even more questions.

The Pakistani military announced them in September 2014.

This was a month before Malala was given the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is very important.

It is given to people or groups that have worked to make the world a more peaceful place.

Malala shared it with a children's rights activist from India.

Malala first became famous in 2009 because of a diary about life under the Taliban.

The violent group has been fighting the Pakistani government for control of the country.

The diary became well known around the world.

At just 11, she told people how the Taliban prevented girls from getting an education.

For that, the group of men tried to kill her.

Malala was shot by a Taliban member in October 2012.

She was sitting in a van parked outside her school in Mingora.

Two other teenage girls were hurt in the attack.

Malala is alive today because many countries worked together to save her life.

She was flown to England for medical care in a United Arab Emirates'government airplane.

The Emirates is in the Middle East.

In England, an operation saved her eyesight and hearing.

After recovering, Malala won admirers around the world.

She again began speaking about a child's right to education.

She made an important speech only nine months after being shot.

The Taliban "thought the bullet would silence us, but they failed," she told the United Nations in July 2013.

The United Nations is an important government group that many countries belong to.

