In October 2012, a group of men tried to kill Nobel Prize winner Malala Yousafzai.

The 15-year-old had become an enemy of the Taliban for speaking out about education for girls in Pakistan.

The Taliban is a violent group fighting the Pakistani government for control of the country.

Two years later, news media reported that 10 men were sent to jail for shooting her.

Now, it turns out, eight of the men were let go, but Pakistani officials kept the fact secret.

The officials knew the news reports were wrong, but chose not to tell the truth.

Probably because they had wanted to get credit for catching Malala's attackers.

The truth came out Friday in the popular British newspaper The Mirror.

Its reporters looked for the 10 men in prisons across Pakistan and only found two of them.

Pakistan is in Asia, near India.

Saeed Naeem is the government lawyer for Pakistan's Swat region, where Malala lived.

He said he had not corrected the mistake.

He said it was not his responsibility and no one told him to do so.

He said the two men found guilty are named Izhar and Israrullah.

They have each been sentenced to 46 years in prison for the attack on Malala.

The man who actually shot her is Ataullah Khan.

He is one of four people who have not been captured yet.

Naeem said he has asked a higher court to find the other eight men guilty as well.

Sher Mohammed Khan is a human rights lawyer in Malala's hometown of Mingora.

He said the cases against all 10 men were full of problems.

He said there are no court files for any of the men.

Khan is also a member of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.

"Nobody knows who they are, how their trial was conducted," he said.

There is no information about who was in court and whom their lawyers were.

Khan said their trial was not honest and open.

The timing of the 10 arrests also raised questions.

The Pakistani military announced them in September 2014, a month before Malala was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is one of the best-known awards given to people or groups that have worked to keep peace between countries.

Malala shared it with Indian children's rights activist Kailash Satyarti.

Malala first became famous in 2009 after she admitted she was the author of a diary about life under the Taliban.

The diary became well-known around the world.

At just 11 years old, she showed how the Taliban prevented girls from getting an education.

She became the first Pakistani activist to defy the Taliban.

For that, terror chief Mullah Fazlullah ordered that she be killed.

Malala was shot in the head and neck by a Taliban gunman in October 2012.

She was sitting in a van parked outside her school in Mingora.

Two other teenage girls were hurt in the attack.

Malala survived because of a global effort to save her life.

She was flown to England for medical care in a United Arab Emirates government airplane.

There, she was operated on to restore her eyesight and hearing.

After recovering, Malala won admirers worldwide.

She again began campaigning for a child's right to education.

The Taliban "thought the bullet would silence us, but they failed," she told the United Nations in July 2013.

The United Nations is the world organization of countries.

She spoke only nine months after being shot.

