Pakistan freed eight men who were accused in the October 2012 shooting of teenage Nobel Peace Prize laureate Malala Yousafzai.

The men were acquitted of all charges but Pakistani officials kept that fact secret.

They chose not to clear up confusion caused by inaccurate media reporting in April, probably to gain political credit for acting decisively against Malala's attackers.

At the time, it had been widely reported that all 10 had been convicted by an anti-terrorist court and sentenced to life imprisonment or 25 years.

The eight acquittals were revealed Friday by the popular British newspaper The Mirror.

Its reporters looked for the 10 men in prisons across Pakistan and only found two of them.

Saeed Naeem, the public prosecutor for Malala's native Swat region, said he had not corrected the mistaken reporting.

"It is not our duty to issue rebuttals to the press, nor are we authorized to do so," Naeem said.

He said the two men convicted — identified only as Izhar and Israrullah — have each been sentenced to 46 years' imprisonment for the attack on Malala.

The shooter, Ataullah Khan, is one of four suspects who have evaded capture.

Naeem said the not-guilty verdicts against the eight suspects had been appealed to the high court in Peshawar.

However, human rights lawyers in Malala's hometown, Mingora, said the entire case against the 10 accused attackers was questionable.

"This is totally beyond comprehension.

There are no court case files for the accused and convicted," said Sher Mohammed Khan, a Swat-based lawyer and representative of the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.

"Nobody knows who they are, how their trial was conducted, who appeared before the prosecutor, and who represented the accused," Khan said.

"It's a classic example of denial of free trial."

The revelations also have raised suspicions about the timing of the September 2014 arrests just a month before Malala was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.

She shared it with Indian children's rights activist Kailash Satyarti.

Earlier, Malala had been widely viewed with mistrust in Pakistan, where many people considered her to be a poster girl for the West.

Public skepticism about Malala began to lessen only last September, when the military announced it had caught her would-be assassins.

Malala first emerged as a celebrity in 2009 after admitting to being "Gul Makai," the author of an Urdu-language diary about life under Taliban rule.

The violent, extremist Taliban group has been fighting the government for control of the country and holds power in some parts of Pakistan.

Malala's diary was broadcast by the BBC in Britain and she became famous around the world.

At just 11 years old, she highlighted how the Taliban forbade girls from getting an education, becoming the first Pakistani activist to defy the Taliban's repression of women and girls.

For that, she was targeted for killing by terror chief Mullah Fazlullah, who also is from Swat.

Malala was shot in the head and neck by a Taliban assassin in October 2012 while seated in a van parked outside her school in Mingora.

Two other teenage girls, Kainat Riaz and Shazia Rehman, were injured in the attack.

Malala survived because of a multinational effort to save her life.

She was evacuated to Britain for medical care in a United Arab Emirates government airplane and underwent surgeries to restore her eyesight and hearing.

After recovering, Malala won admirers worldwide by resuming her eloquent campaign for a child's right to education.

The Taliban "thought the bullet would silence us, but they failed," she told the United Nations General Assembly in July 2013, nine months after being shot.

