The mystery of Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 has puzzled people around the world for the last year and a half.

Somehow, the huge plane simply vanished.

No sign of it could be found anywhere.

Flight 370's disappearance led to all sorts of wild ideas.

Some thought the plane had been captured and hidden away.

Others thought the passengers might be stranded on an island somewhere.

Now, a piece of the mystery plane has finallly been found.

A part of one wing was discovered on Reunion, a French island in the Indian Ocean.

The piece is what is known as a wing flap.

It washed up on the beach.

Flight 370 disappeared on March 8, 2014.

It was on its way from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

There were 239 people on board.

Ric Gillespie is an airplane accident investigator.

He says it is now clear that the plane "did go down in the ocean."

The crash was most likely an accident, he added.

Experts had already guessed that Flight 370 had crashed in the Indian Ocean.

The newly discovered wing flap provides proof, though.

Now they know their guess was right.

They no longer have to worry that they are looking for the lost plane in the wrong place.

Australia is leading the search for the rest of the plane.

It is searching for it in a huge, empty stretch of the Indian Ocean.

Tony Abbott is Australia's leader.

The discovery of the wing flap provides at least one piece of the puzzle, he said.

We now know "that the plane did come down more or less where we thought it did," Abbott said.

"For the first time, we might be a little bit closer to solving this baffling mystery."

Investigators are now examining the wing flap.

They hope its condition may tell them something about what happened to the plane.

For example, the flap may show some damage from a fire.

If so, that could mean the plane caught on fire before it crashed.

Whatever investigators decide, there will still be many unanswered questions.

For example, was whatever happened an accident?

Or did someone blow up the plane on purpose?

Most experts believe the plane took a straight path across the ocean after it went off-course.

They suspect there was no pilot guiding the plane.

The plane was simply flying itself, they think.

It eventually ran out of gas and crashed into the water.

There are plenty of other ideas around, however.

Some say the plane was taken over by terrorists who still have the plane hidden somewhere.

They think the flap was planted on Reunion to make it look like the plane crashed.

People come up with crazy ideas whenever things are unexplained, Gillespie said.

They will not stop this time until more proof is found.

The discovery of the wing flap is certainly important.

However, it does little to help the families of those on board Flight 370.

They still do not know what happened to their loved ones.

Still, the discovery of the wing flap is a first step toward solving the mystery.

Now at least searchers know for sure where they should look for the rest of the plane.

