It is the time of year when kids of all ages can't wait to see Santa Claus.

Parents hoping to avoid waiting in a long line for Santa at Woodfield Mall near Chicago, can now save a spot in line.

They will have to pay, though.

It costs $10 to make an appointment to see Santa, who is at an Ice Palace.

The Ice Palace is decorated with characters from the "Minions" movie.

Shopping centers across the country are starting to charge money and are making holiday displays bigger and more fancy.

They are doing this to try to get people to come back to the mall instead of shopping online.

Holiday displays these days are like big Hollywood movies, said Ruth Rosenquist.

She works for Noerr Programs.

The company sends Santas and photographers to malls across the United States.

In recent years, people have been buying less in stores.

They have been shopping more online.

Store owners are trying many things to bring them back.

Malls in the Chicago area usually allow free visits with Santa.

They charge money for photos.

They also do not let parents take their own pictures.

Mary Jo Shepherd has brought her kids to Woodfield for years.

She said making people pay for a set time to see Santa is greedy.

Shepherd thinks about families who cannot afford the extra money to pay for photos.

Christmas displays at malls are something retailers should give back to their customers for free, she said.

Shelly Kunets was visiting the mall with her baby.

She said she would not pay to see Santa.

"I think it's taking away from the spirit of why we see Santa," Kunets said.

"The magic is in meeting Santa.

The rest is just extra."

Matthew Caczewe has two daughters and said he understands why malls are charging money.

Malls need it for the bigger holiday displays, he said.

Robert Thompson said it is hard to get angry at the store owners.

Thompson teaches at Syracuse University.

He said Santa has often been a symbol of money.

Just think about Santa's "bag bursting with presents," he said.

The presents must cost a great deal of money.

There are still choices for families that want a visit with Santa without paying, says John Sullivan.

John plays Santa at different events.

He also has a long list of free Santa events on his website.

Most cities, parks and business groups offer free visits with Santa.

They also let parents take their own pictures, he said.

Some malls go all out for holiday decorations.

One of the biggest Christmas scenes was at Oakbrook Center.

The mall is in Illinois.

It has teamed up with the movie company DreamWorks Animation.

They created "Adventure to Santa."

The adventure includes a 20-minute movie that leads visitors on a journey to find Santa.

Children get help from characters like Shrek.

They also attend a Sleigh Flight School.

Mall displays are certainly getting more fancy.

Yet some people just want simpler things.

Rob Albertson works in marketing. Not everybody likes how big and expensive Christmas has become, he said.

Some store owners refuse to do things like charge money for pictures with Santa.

When things get too big or become too much about money, people want a change.

Then Christmas celebrations at stores go back to being more traditional, Albertson said.

