Big crowds gathered outside the hospital to sing on Thursday.

They were there to wish Nelson Mandela a happy 95th birthday.

Mandela used to be president of South Africa.

Every July 18 is known as Mandela Day to celebrate his life.

Mandela became ill in June.

He is being treated in the hospital for a lung infection.

South Africans arrived outside to let him know how much they care.

Everyone danced, sang and laughed.

In South Africa, you can't go far without hearing a vuvuzela, a noisy horn.

People blew these outside the hospital.

It was deafening.

Mandela helped to end laws in South Africa that separated people by the color of their skin.

White people ruled South Africa.

Black people were not allowed to vote or own a home.

Mandela didn't agree with the rules.

He was locked up in prison for 27 years by the government.

In the country's first election in which everyone could vote, Mandela became South Africa's first black president in 1994.

On June 8 Mandela was taken to the hospital.

He has been very ill since then.

People have brought gifts.

A wall outside is full of flowers, art and letters for him.

Mandela is getting better.

On Wednesday, his daughter Zindzi said that his health had improved greatly.

She also said that he might be able to return home soon.

Mandela's family celebrated his birthday with him inside the hospital.

South African President Jacob Zuma visited the national hero on Thursday morning.

The people of South Africa love and respect Mandela.

They call him Madiba which is his old family name.

Zuma said that "Madiba remains in hospital" but his health is improving.

Many people were glad to hear this.

The president wished Mandela a joyous 95th birthday.

Zuma thanked the people for supporting Mandela through his illness.

He said they had given him the biggest birthday celebration ever this year.

South African newspapers also celebrated his birthday.

One paper showed a huge 95 with photographs of the leader.

The front page of another just said "Happy Birthday!"

To mark Mandela's birthday, many South Africans helped other people.

They all did 67 minutes of community work.

This matches Mandela's 67 years of work for his country.

Members of Mandela's family visited schools and hospitals.

Other South Africans gave food to the homeless, picked up garbage, or cleaned hospitals.

Grace Shongoane visited the hospital.

Then she was going to visit children who have been left with no mom or dad.

She said she wanted to tell them what Mandela did for South Africa.

"As a man, he's got a very good heart because he thought of us when he was fighting for freedom.

He thought of us."

Timothy Sepeng took a group of children to the hospital.

"I came today to wish our President Tata a speedy recovery," he said.

"He's very much important to me because he has made me what I am today.

I'm free because of him.

I'm free.

And I've got the freedom to do anything I like."

Tata is another name for Mandela.

It means father.

He is often seen as the "Father of the Nation."

