The singing washed like waves over the crowd gathered outside the hospital on Thursday.

Every July 18 is known as Mandela Day to celebrate the life of South Africa's former president Nelson Mandela.

It was his 95th birthday.

Choirs, political groups, schoolchildren and onlookers arrived one after another.

They danced, sang and laughed, each with their own loud musical tribute to the man they see as the one who brought them freedom.

And it wouldn't have been South Africa without the deafening vuvuzelas, the large and very loud plastic horns that are so popular in the country, blown at full blast to wish Mandela a very happy birthday.

Mandela led the fight to end apartheid, a set of laws that separated South Africans by the color of their skin.

White people ruled the country while black people were not allowed to vote or own land, and were sometimes moved from their homes by force.

Mandela believed that all people should have equal rights, and he spent 27 years in prison for his beliefs.

Apartheid ended in the 1990s.

In the first election where everyone in the country could vote, Mandela was elected as South Africa's first black president.

He ran the country between 1994 and 1999, greatly improving the relationship between blacks and whites.

On June 8 he was taken to the hospital with a lung infection, and he has been very ill since then.

A wall outside the hospital has filled with tributes to the former president, and the heaps of flowers, artwork, posters and letters have spread along the wall and spilled down a nearby hill.

Hopes rose on Wednesday evening when Mandela's daughter Zindzi said that his health had improved dramatically.

She told British television that her father might be able to return home "any time soon."

Mandela's family was planning to gather to celebrate his birthday inside the hospital.

Current South African President Jacob Zuma visited the national hero on Thursday morning.

Emerging from the hospital parking lot, Zuma stood in front of an honor guard while a brass band played South Africa's national anthem.

The president looked grave and stood motionless, with his hand over his heart.

The crowd sang a deafening "Happy Birthday" to the sound of the brass band, in honor of Mandela.

Zuma released a statement confirming that Mandela's health had continued to improve.

South Africans were relieved that the statement no longer used the word "critical" to describe the elder statesman's health.

Mandela is affectionately known as Madiba, the name given to him by his African clan.

Zuma's statement said: "Madiba remains in hospital in Pretoria but his doctors have confirmed that his health is steadily improving."

He added, "On behalf of the government and all the people of South Africa, we wish Madiba a joyous 95th birthday.

We are proud to call this international icon our own as South Africans and wish him good health."

South African newspapers marked Mandela's birthday with big headlines.

The Sowetan paper ran a huge 95, in front of a collage of Mandela's photographs.

The Citizen's front page headline was simply "Happy Birthday!"

Thursday was also Mandela's wedding anniversary.

He married his third wife, Graca Machel, on his 80th birthday.

She has been at his side throughout his hospitalization.

Around the country, South Africans contributed 67 minutes of community service to honor Mandela's 67 years of public service.

Members of Mandela's family visited schools and hospitals.

People distributed food to the homeless, picked up rubbish, cycled to collect money for charity, cleaned hospitals, or did work in homes for the elderly, disabled or orphans.

Grace Shongoane, 23, a receptionist, dropped in to pay tribute to Mandela at the hospital.

She then planned to go to Lesedi orphanage in Mamelodi township, east of Pretoria.

"I want to go to them and to be with them for the day just to educate them about what Mandela has done for the country," she said.

"As a man, he's got a very good heart because he thought of us when he was fighting for freedom.

He thought of us."

Timothy Sepeng, 50, drove a group of children to the hospital to pay tribute to Mandela.

"I came today to wish our President Tata a speedy recovery," he said.

"He's very much important to me because he has made me what I am today.

I'm free because of him.

I'm free.

And I've got the freedom to do anything I like."

Tata is another name for Mandela.

It means father.

He is often seen as the "Father of the Nation."

