S. Army Private Bradley Manning was found not guilty of aiding the enemy on Tuesday, the most serious charge he faced for leaking secret documents.

The case sparked a debate over military security versus the public's right to know.

A military judge convicted Manning, 25, of most of the other charges against him, including spying and theft.

Manning was accused of the biggest leak of classified information in U.S. history for delivering more than 700,00 pages of documents and videos to the Web site WikiLeaks.

Manning has been in jail for three years.

He already admitted to other charges.

The charges he was convicted of carry smaller sentences that could still add up to as much as roughly 130 years in prison, news organizations said.

On Twitter, WikiLeaks called the possible sentence: "Dangerous national security extremism from the Obama administration."

The judge, Colonel Denise Lind, will determine Mannings' sentence on those crimes during a second phase of the military trial, or court martial.

But the aiding the enemy charge could have landed Manning in prison for life without a chance of parole.

That charge has not been used since the Civil War, the Washington Post said.

Lind did not explain the reasoning behind her decision.

She said she would release detailed written findings, according to the Associated Press.

The process to determine Manning's punishment will begin Wednesday at Fort Meade, Maryland.

The military prosecutors, who made the case against him,  said that Manning is a "traitor" for sending the documents to the anti-secrecy Web site.

Some of the information wound up in the hands of al-Qaida, prosecutors argued.

Manning had access to the documents when he was a junior intelligence officer in Iraq in 2009 and 2010.

The documents included information about the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.

Messages to and from U.S. diplomats  were also leaked.

The Web site also showed combat videos from an army helicopter gunship.

A Reuters TV news cameraman and his driver were killed during the shooting that was shown.

So were other people.

One of the prosecutors, Army Maj. Ashden Fein, said that the documents Manning released could give the enemy a "playbook" of U.S. fighting secrets.

Prosecutors also said that Manning wanted to be famous.

They said that he did not care what the leaks would mean to U.S. security or his fellow soldiers.

The defense argued that Manning could have gotten a hold of much more information than he gave to WikiLeaks.

He only disclosed some information.

He wanted to get a debate going about U.S. war policies, his lawyers said.

"I believed if the public was aware of the data, it would start a public debate of the wars," Manning said during his trial, according to media reports.

Some Manning supporters showed up outside Fort Meade, carrying signs and banners.

One banner read: "Stop the Wars Expose the Lies Free Bradley Manning," a Reuters video showed.

One of Manning's lawyers, David Coombs, briefly spoke to the supporters.

"We won the battle, now we need to go win the war," Coombs said of the sentencing phase, The Associated Press reported.

"Today is a good day, but Bradley is by no means out of the fire."

Reporters, lawyers and civil liberties experts have been watching the case closely.

They want to see how it could affect others who might leak state secrets in the United States.

Some people were concerned that a guilty decision on the aiding the enemy charge could scare other people who wanted to leak military secrets.

Even the "not guilty" verdict on that charge offered only limited relief.

Even though there was no "evidence that he intended any harm to the United States, Manning faces decades in prison," said Elizabeth Goitein, a security expert at New York University School of Law's Brennan Center for Justice.

That sets a very scary example for anyone else, she added.

The U.S. government is currently involved in another high-profile leak case.

National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden recently revealed efforts by the NSA to monitor the cellphone and Internet traffic of U.S. citizens.

Snowden is currently stuck in a Russian airport.

He is  trying to get to another country to avoid facing U.S. criminal charges.

The Guardian newspaper, one of the main news sources that received Snowden's leaks, reported that Snowden said that one of the reasons he fled the country was the way Manning was treated by the military.

WikiLeaks has never publicly admitted that Manning was the source of the documents it released on the Afghanistan war in 2010.

The huge document disclosure made a household name out of WikiLeaks and brought the international spotlight on its founder, Julian Assange.

"We call those types of people that are willing to risk ... being a martyr for all the rest of us, we call those people heroes," Assange told CNN this week.

"Bradley Manning is a hero."

