In 2010 a U.S. Army private named Bradley Manning handed over secret files to website Wikileaks.

It was the largest leak of secret U.S. papers ever.

On Wednesday, Aug. 21 an Army judge sentenced him to 35 years in a military prison.

Manning is 25.

So the former soldier could eventually go free.

He had faced a sentence long enough to leave him in prison for life.

The judge who sentenced Manning was Col. Denise Lind.

Lind had found Manning guilty for the theft of an estimated 700,000 papers.

He was convicted of 20 charges.

They included spying.

Manning was an intelligence analyst.

His job involved studying information the army gathered about the enemy or other countries.

His leak included many kinds of materials.

He turned over messages between U.S. officials and other countries.

He gave away reports about U.S. enemies' strengths and weaknesses.

He even leaked a video of a U.S. helicopter attack that killed a reporter and his driver.

Lind did find him not guilty of aiding the enemy.

That charge would have meant life in prison.

Manning would never have been released.

Still, Manning could have been sentenced to 90 years.

Prosecutors had asked for a 60-year sentence.

Army Capt.

Joseph Morrow said "there may not be a soldier in the history of the United States Army who" ignored the judgment of the officers above him and the president's orders.

Morrow was one of the prosecutors.

Defense lawyer David Coombs asked for sentence that could let Manning "have a life" when he left prison.

He said that Manning thought the leaks could "make a difference."

But Manning also "believed that the information couldn't be used to harm the United States," Coombs said.

Manning gave the material to WikiLeaks.

The website publishes government and corporate secrets.

The secrets come from the United States and other countries.

Manning and Coombs had argued the leaks were well-intentioned.

They said Manning was under a lot of pressure at the time.

Manning can ask to be freed after serving one-third of his sentence.

The former soldier apologized during a sentencing hearing.

He said he thought he would help, not hurt people.

The court-martial was held at Fort Meade in Maryland.

Manning had agreed to plead guilty to certain charges.

Those crimes carried a possible sentence of 20 years.

But prosecutors charged him with more crimes.

The new crimes included spying.

His sentence will be shortened by more than 1,100 days for the time Manning was in jail before the trial.

Another 112 days will be subtracted for the bad treatment he received while being held in a Marine Corps jail.

Good behavior in prison could further cut time from his sentence.

Lind heard from witnesses before sentencing.

Witnesses talked about the damage done by Manning's actions and by WikiLeaks releasing the information.

Some foreign partners were concerned if the United States could still be trusted to keep secrets, said retired Brig.

Gen. Robert Carr.

Officials who work in other countries representing the U.S. testified about what happened after all their secret documents were made public.

A military official said the enemy also changed the way it made some bombs based on the leaks.

Defense witnesses focused on Manning's troubled upbringing.

He suffered from anxiety even before enlisting.

Manning was prescribed medication.

He received counseling for angry outbursts when he was in the Army.

"I understand that I must pay a price for my decisions and actions," Manning told Lind on Aug. 15.

After that, Manning said he wants to go to college and get a degree.

He also said he wants to have a "meaningful relationship" with his sister's family and his family.

