For many years, airplane makers like Pratt & Whitney have made engine parts by taking steel or another material and molding it or carving it or melting it.

Now, they're printing them instead.

But unlike your laser printer at home or school, there is no ink and no paper.

These 3-D printers use lasers to heat pieces of plastic or metal to build up solid parts, layer by layer.

They can build anything, no matter how complicated.

Airplane makers like Pratt & Whitney and GE Aviation are pushing the limits of this technology to make parts for their latest engines.

The printers let them come up with parts they could not have made in the past.

The companies also save money.

The printing is also called additive manufacturing.

It's different than the old method, which is called subtractive manufacturing.

Think of additive like building something with Lego blocks; you put small pieces together to make something larger.

Subtractive manufacturing is more like making a sculpture.

You start with a block or marble, and chip and shave away until a statue, or engine part, emerges.

The fact that 3-D printing can be used in a jet engine is a good sign.

"It's definitely progress … even call it a milestone," said Tom Maloney of the Connecticut Center for Advanced Technology.

That group helps companies that want to use the technology.

Pratt put more than two dozen 3-D-printed parts on its latest engine, said Thomas Prete, the company's head of engineering.

More are expected.

Pratt's designers can now make a part in one step.

In the past, it would have taken a lot longer.

Five or 10 pieces needed to be attached and heated before they were ready.

That improvement alone saves time and money.

But the main advantage is that engine designers can do things that would have been impossible, Prete said.

In the past, an engineer could design something that might have been too complicated to make.

Meanwhile, the military likes being able to print supplies with just a machine and materials.

That could turn an aircraft carrier into a "floating factory."

Some of the 25 parts Pratt prints are simple, such as brackets.

Others are more complicated pieces.

They go in part of the engine that faces high temperatures and constant stress.

Getting to the point that the parts will withstand the jet engine environment has been quite the process, experts say.

Materials and how the parts are made must be perfect.

Costs need to make sense.

Companies need to be able to print enough parts to keep up with traditional manufacturing methods.

For Pratt, 3-D printing parts at production speed is the next big step.

The company is deciding how many machines it needs and how they need to be arranged.

Pratt's rival, GE Aviation, bought a 3-D printing firm in November.

GE said that it would be 3-D printing the fuel nozzles on one of its engines.

When the parts were traditionally made, 18 parts were fused together.

Now they are made as one part and come out 18 percent lighter.

In 2012, the 3-D printing industry had a $2.2 billion slice of the economy, one report said.

By 2021,  the industry is expected to be worth $10.1 billion.

Putting these parts into jet engines shows that companies have figured out how to make the materials and the process work.

It's one thing to print a plastic toy.

It's another thing altogether to manufacture a metal component that will hold up under thousands of degrees of temperature, constant stress and years of operation.

Computing technology and material science of 3-D printing reached the point where critical parts can be made with the press of a button.

This means the military is close to using 3-D printers as a mobile factory.

Lt. Cmdr.

Michael Llenza of the U.S. Navy wrote in a May article in the Armed Forces Journal about the  possibilities for 3-D printed products.

Those include vehicles, parts, ammunition, shelters, artificial limbs and food.

Yes, a 3-D-printed pork chop.

