Twin bomb blasts exploded at the finish line of the Boston Marathon Monday, killing three people, wounding scores of others, and renewing fears that American cities are vulnerable to deadly terror attacks.

The explosions occurred amid a crowd of spectators who were cheering as fatigued runners lurched toward the finish line around the four-hour mark.

The two blasts, spaced just 12 seconds and one block apart, sprayed pellets and nails, sent debris flying, ripped apart limbs, ruptured eardrums and sent people scrambling.

Five thousand runners who had not finished the race had to be diverted.

The stunned crowd quickly was met by first responders who rushed to the scene.

Police, firefighters, marathon officials and regular spectators worked together to pull down fencing that separated them from the injured.

Medical tents meant to treat runners for dehydration, sprains and blisters suddenly were transformed into trauma units where the wounded were brought for treatment of bleeding, burns and shrapnel wounds.

The most seriously injured were spirited away to several world-famous Boston hospitals, where they were met by surgeons.

Among those killed was Martin Richard, an 8-year-old boy who had watched his father race in the marathon.

The other victims were a 29-year-old woman and a Boston University student from China.

Boston hospitals reported that many victims had severe leg injuries.

The total number wounded topped 180.

Authorities were quick to condemn the attack and vowed to find whoever was responsible.

FBI agent-in-charge Rick DesLauriers told reporters the bureau would "go to the end of the Earth to find the subject or subjects of this despicable crime."

DesLauriers asked for the public's help in gathering clues and encouraged people to send in their photos and videos of the marathon.

Already, investigators know that the devices were makeshift bombs packed in black duffel bags, made from pressure cookers loaded with metal intended to maim.

DesLauriers said authorities had already received many tips, photos and videos.

On Tuesday, President Barack Obama addressed the nation and described the attack as a terrorist act.

"Anytime bombs are used to target innocent civilians, it is an act of terror," he said.

Not since the Sept. 11 attacks of 2001 have American civilians been victims of terror on U.S. soil.

The New York Times noted that terror attacks have been on a decline since the 1970s, and especially in the past decade, after Sept. 11 led to more aggressive law enforcement.

Security for major events like the Super Bowl and the Olympics also has been heightened since 2001, but terrorism experts pointed out that a marathon is a very difficult event to secure since the course is so long and there is no single point of entry where spectators can be searched as they would be in an arena or stadium.

Authorities and leaders tried to keep the public calm and quell fears that daily life would be altered by the attack.

"We want people to come and go.

We want you to live your life," said Boston Police Commissioner Edward F. Davis.

But, he warned, "We want you to be vigilant."

Massachusetts Gov.

Deval Patrick said the attack would not change the 117-year-old tradition that has brought joy and excitement to the people of Boston.

"Next year's marathon will be bigger and better," he promised.

Obama praised the response to the bombings, mentioning "exhausted runners who kept running to the nearest hospital to give blood, those who stayed to tend to the wounded, some tearing off their own clothes to make tourniquets, first responders who ran into the chaos," and others.

"So if you want to know who we are, what America is, how we respond to evil, that's it – selflessly, compassionately, unafraid," Obama said.

The president will go to Boston on Thursday to attend an interfaith ceremony in honor of the victims.

For Bostonians, the timing of the attack dealt an extra blow.

"Marathon Monday," as it is called in Massachusetts, is a day when the city of Boston plays host to the entire world.

The Boston Marathon is the oldest race in the country and one that draws elite runners from nearly 100 countries.

The 26.2-mile race also coincides with Patriots Day, when the state of Massachusetts celebrates its revolutionary heritage and honors those who fought in the first battles for American independence.

Schools and offices close for the day, and many local residents take time off to enjoy watching the race.

In the wake of the tragedy, the Boston Bruins hockey game scheduled for Monday was canceled.

The Boston Celtics basketball game on Tuesday was also called off.

"Even a day later, the notion of playing a basketball game didn't feel right to us," said Celtics President Rich Gotham.

"Some things are bigger than basketball.

Out of respect to all of the people affected by this – all of the families – we decided that this was the best way for us as an organization to show our respects to all of the people who were impacted by this."

Meanwhile, The Boston Globe reported that the Museum of Fine Arts waived its $25 admission fee on Tuesday.

"Ours is the opposite of canceling," the museum director Malcolm Rogers told the Boston Globe.

"It's doing something positive.

You've just seen a horrible example of what a perverted human mind can do.

What the works of art in our care show is what the human mind and the human hands can do at their greatest and their most inspired."

Likewise, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum will also offer free admission on Wednesday to its stately galleries and oasis-like gardens to provide some solace to the stunned and heartbroken people of Boston.

