Two bomb blasts at the finish line of the Boston Marathon killed three people and wounded scores more on Monday.

The deadly attack fanned familiar fears that American cities are at risk of terrorism.

The explosions occurred amid a crowd of spectators.

People were cheering along the tired runners as they lurched toward the finish line at the four-hour mark.

The two blasts occurred just 12 seconds and one block apart.

The devices sprayed pellets and nails and sent debris flying.

Victims' legs were badly wounded and eardrums were pierced.

Race organizers had to head off the 5,000 runners who had not completed the race to keep them away from the bloodied finish line.

First responders rushed to assist the wounded and stunned bystanders.

Police, firefighters, marathon officials and regular spectators worked together to pull down fencing that separated them from the injured.

The marathon had set up medical tents to treat the usual running ailments, such as dehydration, sprains and blisters.

In an instant, they were transformed into trauma units, dealing with burns, heavy bleeding and flesh wounds.

The injured were rushed to nearby hospitals.

Boston is home to several of the world's best medical facilities.

Among those killed was Martin Richard, an 8-year-old boy.

He had been watching his father race in the marathon.

The other victims were a 29-year-old woman and a graduate student from China.

Boston hospitals reported that many victims suffered permanent injuries to their legs.

More than 180 people were wounded.

Authorities immediately vowed to find whoever was responsible.

FBI agent-in-charge Rick DesLauriers told reporters they would "go to the end of the Earth to find the subject or subjects of this despicable crime."

DesLauriers asked for the public's help in gathering clues.

He encouraged people to send in their photos and videos of the marathon.

Investigators know that the devices were made from pressure cookers loaded with metal intended to maim.

DesLauriers said authorities had already received many tips, photos and videos.

On Tuesday, President Barack Obama addressed the nation and described the attack as a terrorist act.

"Anytime bombs are used to target innocent civilians, it is an act of terror," he said.

Not since the Sept. 11 attacks have American civilians been victims of terror on U.S. soil.

The New York Times noted that terrorism in the United States has been on a decline since the 1970s, and especially in the past decade.

Since Sept. 11, law enforcement has been stricter.

Security for major events like the Super Bowl and the Olympics has also been increased since 2001.

However, terrorism experts pointed out that a marathon is not easy to secure; the racecourse is very long and there is no single point of entry where spectators can be searched as they would be in an arena.

Authorities and leaders tried to calm fears that daily life would be altered by the attack.

"We want people to come and go.

We want you to live your life," said Boston Police Commissioner Edward F. Davis.

But, he warned, "We want you to be vigilant."

Massachusetts Gov.

Deval Patrick said the attack would not change a race that has brought joy and excitement to the people of Boston for 117 years.

"Next year's marathon will be bigger and better," he promised.

Obama praised "exhausted runners who kept running to the nearest hospital to give blood, those who stayed to tend to the wounded, some tearing off their own clothes to make tourniquets, first responders who ran into the chaos," and others.

"So if you want to know who we are, what America is, how we respond to evil, that's it – selflessly, compassionately, unafraid," Obama said.

The president will go to Boston on Thursday to attend a ceremony in honor of the victims.

For Bostonians, the timing of the attack was especially cruel.

"Marathon Monday," as it is called in Massachusetts, is a day when the city of Boston plays host to the entire world.

The Boston Marathon is the oldest race in the United States and it draws the best runners from nearly 100 nations.

The 26.2-mile race takes place on a Massachusetts state holiday.

Patriots Day is when the state celebrates its revolutionary past and honors those who fought in the first battles for American independence.

Schools and offices close for the day, and many local residents take the time off to watch the race.

Following the tragedy, the Boston Bruins hockey game scheduled for Monday was canceled.

The Boston Celtics basketball game on Tuesday was also called off.

"Even a day later, the notion of playing a basketball game didn't feel right to us," said Celtics President Rich Gotham.

"Some things are bigger than basketball."

Meanwhile, The Boston Globe reported that several Boston art museums would drop their admission fees for the day and open their doors.

They hope their quiet and peaceful galleries will provide some comfort to the stunned and heartbroken people of Boston.

