Sebastien de la Cruz sounded great when he sang the National Anthem last week at Game 3 of the National Basketball Association Finals in San Antonio.

Still, some people did not like his performance.

And they used Twitter to let everybody know it.

The 11-year-old was called an illegal immigrant and much worse.

But the incident also turned into an example of the power of social media to rally to a cause.

Many of Sebastien's critics were shamed into deleting their tweets or removing their accounts.

Sebastien, who is known as El Charro de Oro – or the boy with the golden voice - sang the anthem before the San Antonio Spurs and Miami Heat tipped off.

He was dressed in a silver and black mariachi outfit.

Mariachi is a type of Mexican folk music.

Some people did not like the idea of Sebastien singing the anthem, especially because of what he was wearing.

Many of the comments, and some of the twitter accounts, have since have been removed.

But they can still be found on another social media site: Tumblr's Public Shaming blog.

"This lil Mexican snuck into the country like 4 hours ago and now he singing the anthem," wrote @A2daO.

"Is this the American National Anthem or the Mexican Hat dance.

Get this lil kid out of here," tweeted @A1R_STEVEN.

Several other tweeters were even more vicious.

Sebastien has been singing since he was 5.

In 2012, he was on NBC's "America's Got Talent."

He entered the competition to help his younger brother get surgery for a hearing problem, according to _CNN_.

The young singer was actually a typical representative of the San Antonio population.

More than 55 percent of the population is Hispanic and 90 percent of those people identify themselves as Mexican, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

In Miami, 65.7 percent of the people are Hispanic, Pew said.

The Hispanic population in the United States grew by 2.2 percent in 2012.

There are about 58 million Hispanic people in the country, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.

Hispanics are the second largest group in the country behind whites.

The Twitter storm over Sebastien's appearance quickly became national news.

_CNN_, _USA Today_, and other outlets picked up the story.

Firefighter Andrew Lacey in Georgia probably got more attention than he wanted.

He tweeted, "How you singing the anthem lookin like an illegal immigrant," the _Augusta Chronicle_ newspaper in Georgia reported.

Fire Chief Chris James said the department was aware of the tweet and taking a look at its options.

It did not appear that Lacey was on duty when he tweeted.

The firefighter "will be counseled for sure," James told the newspaper.

"It's completely inappropriate and not acceptable."

The Tumblr Public Shaming blog was just one example of people using social media in Sebastien's defense.

San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro took to Facebook to show his support.

"(Sebastien), don't let a few negative voices get you down," he said.

"You are a true talent and you represent the best of our nation's future!"

Actress Eva Longoria tweeted: "As a Mexican-American, I am so proud of (Sebastien) De La Cruz, a great symbol of what America is today!"

Sebastien himself took on his critics during a news conference on Wednesday.

He said that his father served in the U.S. Navy.

"People don't know; they just assume that I'm just Mexican.

But I'm not from Mexico.

I'm from San Antonio, born and raised, a true San Antonio Spurs fan," he said.

Some of Sebastien's critics also had second thoughts.

One, @bdub58713, who also goes by the name "THE_GREAT_WHITE" on Twitter, later tweeted: "I am sorry for the racist comment I recently posted during the nba finals game.

Due to the comments, I have changed my views."

As for Sebastien, he had the last word.

He sang the anthem again at Thursday's Game 4.

The publicity surrounding the tweets might also help his career.

On Friday, he tweeted: "My new cd will be available on iTunes by Monday.

Called Sentimiento"

