Sebastien de la Cruz hit all the right notes when he sang the "Star Spangled Banner" last week at Game 3 of the National Basketball Association Finals in San Antonio.

Still, his performance in mariachi garb set off a sour, racism-tinged storm on social media.

The 11-year-old was called an illegal immigrant and much worse over the Internet.

However, the incident also turned into an example of how people can use the web to stand up for others.

Many of Sebastien's critics were shamed into deleting their tweets or removing their accounts following the public backlash.

Sebastien sang the "Star Spangled Banner" before the San Antonio Spurs and Miami Heat tipped off.

The U.S. national anthem is known for being especially hard to sing.

Sebastien, who is known as el charro de oro - or the boy with the golden voice – sang it with ease wearing a silver and black mariachi outfit.

Some people did not like the idea of Sebastien singing the anthem, especially not in the Mexican folk music outfit.

They took to social-media site Twitter to let their feelings be known.

While many of the comments, and some of the twitter accounts, since have been removed, they were captured by another social media site: Tumblr's Public Shaming blog.

"This lil Mexican snuck into the country like 4 hours ago and now he singing the anthem," wrote @A2daO.

"Is this the American National Anthem or the Mexican Hat dance.

Get this lil kid out of here," tweeted @A1R_STEVEN.

Several other tweeters were even more vicious.

Sebastien has been singing since he was 5.

He gained fame in 2012 after being on NBC's "America's Got Talent" for singing his mariachi ballads.

He hoped his singing career would help his younger brother get surgery for his hearing problem, according to CNN.

The young singer was actually a typical citizen of San Antonio.

More than 55 percent of the population is Hispanic, and 90 percent of those people identify themselves as Mexican, according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

In fact, the NBA Finals is in some ways an example of the growth of the Hispanic population in the United States.

In Miami, 65.7 percent of the people are Hispanic.

More than half of those identify themselves as being of Cuban heritage, Pew said.

The Hispanic population in the United States grew by 2.2 percent in 2012 to about 58 million people.

Hispanics represent about 17 percent of the country, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, making them the second largest demographic group in the country behind whites.

The tweets about Sebastien's appearance quickly became national news, with_ CNN_, _USA Today_, and other outlets picking up the story and its aftermath.

Firefighter Andrew Lacey in Georgia probably got more attention than he wanted.

Lacey tweeted, "How you singing the anthem lookin like an illegal immigrant," as the _Augusta Chronicle_ newspaper in Georgia reported.

Fire Chief Chris James said the department was aware of the tweet and taking a look at its options.

It did not appear that Lacey was on duty when he tweeted.

The firefighter "will be counseled for sure," James told the newspaper.

"What he said by no means is reflective of our attitude.

It's completely inappropriate and not acceptable."

The Tumblr Public Shaming blog was just one example of social media members rushing to Sebastien's defense and tackling racism head on.

San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro took to Facebook to show his support.

"I'm proud of our young San Antonio superstar (Sebastien) de la Cruz for a spectacular rendition of our national anthem at last night's Spurs game," he wrote.

"(Sebastien), don't let a few negative voices get you down.

You are a true talent and you represent the best of our nation's future!"

Actress Eva Longoria tweeted: "As a Mexican-American, I am so proud of (Sebastien) De La Cruz, a great symbol of what America is today!"

Sebastien himself took on his critics during a news conference on Wednesday.

"My father was actually in the (U.S.) Navy for a really long time," he said.

"People don't know; they just assume that I'm just Mexican.

But I'm not from Mexico.

I'm from San Antonio, born and raised, a true San Antonio Spurs fan," he said.

Public discussion about Sebastien's appearance also caused some of his detractors to have second thoughts.

One, @bdub58713, who also goes by the name "THE_GREAT_WHITE" on Twitter, got into a debate with followers.

Later, he tweeted: "I am sorry for the racist comment I recently posted during the nba finals game.

Due to the comments, I have changed my views."

As for Sebastien, he had the last word.

He was invited back to sing the anthem again at Thursday's Game 4.

It appears the publicity surrounding the controversy might also help his career.

On Friday, he tweeted: "My new cd will be available on iTunes by Monday.

Called Sentimiento"

