When Jose Torres is home with his family, he likes to play mariachi, a style of traditional Mexican music.

Now he is not the only mariachi fan in his family.

His 12-year-old daughter Alexa has started learning mariachi at school.

Alexa is participating in a new program that teaches the Mexican music at public schools, linking her family's culture to her classroom.

"She's asking questions about her family, her background," Torres said, sitting outside Alexa's music classroom at Richard Edwards Elementary School, a magnet school on Chicago's South Side.

A magnet school is a public school that offers special courses, often attracting students from far and wide with special interests and talents.

In addition to standard classes like math, English and history, Richard Elementary features classes on Hispanic arts.

It is one of five Chicago schools that began mariachi programs this year.

The programs were introduced by the Mariachi Heritage Foundation, a nonprofit organization that brings mariachi to Chicago public schools.

According to foundation President Cesar Maldonado, mariachi connects schools and parents in Hispanic communities.

"It gives parents the opportunity to have a topic they can speak on," Maldonado said.

"Let's use that as a platform to bring parents into the conversation of everyday academic life."

Music teacher Maria Pulido has noticed how interested parents are in the mariachi program.

She said that the line was out her classroom door at this year's parent-teacher conferences.

"Last year, I never had any parents come talk to me," she said.

Pulido teaches mariachi students basic music skills on violins, and introduces them to Mexican folk songs.

The program eventually will include mariachi singing instruction.

"That's something the parents can say 'Wow, I know that song.

I used to sing that song when I was young,'" she said.

Mariachi is performed by groups of musicians, often wearing brightly colored costumes, playing string instruments and trumpets.

Mariachi songs can be fast or slow, and they come from various regions of Mexico.

Alexa said she appreciates mariachi music now more, instead of just thinking of it as her parents' music.

"I find it more interesting because I understand now what goes into it," she said.

Starting a mariachi program for elementary school students is not easy.

Marcia Neel, who helps organize mariachi programs in school districts around the country, said one hurdle is earning the same respect for mariachi music as for orchestra or band programs.

Because those programs have been offered at schools for much longer, some students and parents take them more seriously.

She hopes that will change.

"The key was to take mariachi from being an out-of-school thing and put it into the school day," she said.

Finances also are a concern, said Maldonado, who started this first year in Chicago using $300,000 in donations from individuals and companies.

He bought 450 violins with the money, and in January he hopes to buy additional mariachi instruments and expand to seven more schools.

Nearly 40 Chicago schools are on a waiting list.

"Until we get it to every school in the district that wants it we won't stop," he said.

Chicago is not alone in bringing mariachi into the classroom.

The traditional Mexican folk music is being taught in dozens of districts nationwide in cities including Las Vegas, San Antonio, Texas, and Tucson, Arizona.

