A newspaper that the famous writer Mark Twain wrote for more than 100 years ago is back in business.

The Territorial Enterprise was once a popular newspaper in Nevada.

It had stories that were true and some that might not have been.

It also had funny articles.

However, it struggled to make money and went out of business many times.

Now it is being published as a monthly magazine.

The new Enterprise is online as well.

Many people wonder what Twain would say these days.

Would he use the Internet to say that the press was doing poorly?

He did this once with pen and paper.

He also used humor to complain about the people who ran newspapers.

Even the Enterprise's new editor, Elizabeth Thompson, guesses that he would have had some fun.

"He'd have something to say," she said.

"He'd get a kick out of it."

The newspaper sold as many as 15,000 copies in the 1860s when it was most popular.

The Enterprise was Nevada's first newspaper.

It was also the largest west of the Mississippi River.

Its reporters wrote about the craziness and the money issues that came with the discovery of silver on the eastern slope of Mount Davidson.

The silver was called the Comstock Lode.

The mining business eventually died out, but the paper kept running.

Its reporters told the story of the town, a tough place where grimy men settled arguments with guns.

Then the original Enterprise went out of business in 1893.

Since then, the paper has started up again many times.

Scott Faughn, who also publishes the Missouri Times, is behind the latest attempt to get the Enterprise going.

In its best days, the Enterprise not only covered the news, it made news.

Reporters had names like William "Dan De Quille" Wright, James "Lying James" Townsend and Samuel "Mark Twain" Clemens.

That's right: Mark Twain's real name was Samuel Clemens.

The reporters were known for being smart and funny.

Thompson said the paper wants to do the same thing now.

The first new copy was published in March.

It includes news and an interview with Nevada's governor.

There was also a modern type of what used to be called "sagebrush humor," which Twain helped make famous before he became America's favorite writer.

Twain had traveled west from Missouri with his brother, Orion Clemens.

Orion helped run Nevada before the area became a state in 1864.

Historians say Samuel Clemens first used the name "Mark Twain" while at the Enterprise.

In three years, he wrote stories about people who ran Nevada, Wild West gun fights and the stock market.

Some of the stories were reprinted in his 1872 book "Roughing It."

In Virginia City, people are happy that the Enterprise is back in business.

"I'm excited about it," said Sandi Sweetwater.

She runs a gift shop and offers tours of the newspaper's original offices, which are one floor below.

She pointed to Twain's original desk and an in-office toilet.

There was also a spittoon, which is a pot for spitting tobacco juice.

Thompson has high hopes for the paper, which began with 2,500 copies being sold.

She has spent months studying Twain and his time period and is ready to try and match, if not exactly the wit of the original newspaper, then at least the spirit.

Thompson said that she thinks Twain would be pleased.

"We hope he's smiling upon this venture from either above or below," she said.

