Mark Twain is a famous American writer.

Before he was famous, he worked at a newspaper in Nevada.

That was more than 100 years ago.

The newspaper was called the Territorial Enterprise.

It went out of business more than once.

Now it is back.

The Territorial Enterprise used to be very popular.

It had stories that were true and some that might not have been so true.

Those are called tall tales.

It also had funny articles.

The new Enterprise is not a newspaper.

It is a monthly magazine.

The new Enterprise can also be read online.

Mark Twain was known for being smart and funny.

What would he say about the new Enterprise?

Would he use the Internet to say that the news today is poor?

He did this once with pen and paper.

He also used humor to complain about the people who ran newspapers.

Elizabeth Thompson is the new editor of the Enterprise.

She thinks that Twain would have fun with the idea of the new Enterprise.

The Enterprise was Nevada's first newspaper.

It was also the largest west of the Mississippi River.

Silver was discovered in the area.

The Enterprise wrote about the silver mining and the crazy things that went on around it.

The mining business eventually died out.

The paper kept printing stories.

Its reporters told the stories of the town.

They said it was a tough place.

Men there settled fights with guns.

Reporters had names like William "Dan De Quille" Wright and James "Lying James" Townsend.

Then there was Samuel Clemens.

Clemens took the name "Mark Twain."

The original Enterprise stopped printing stories in 1893.

It has been brought back a few times since then.

Thompson said the new Enterprise wants to be smart and funny.

It wants to be like the old days.

The first new copy was published in March.

It had news.

There was humor in the style of Twain.

People in Virginia City are happy that they can read the Enterprise again.

"I'm excited about it," Sandi Sweetwater said.

She runs a gift shop above the newspaper's original offices.

She also gives tours of the offices and shows people Mark Twain's desk.

Thompson hopes the Enterprise will do well.

She has spent months studying Twain.

Thompson thinks Twain would be happy that the Enterprise is back.

