There just might have been life on Mars after all.

At least, there was once a lot of water where something could have lived.

NASA's Curiosity rover has discovered evidence of a huge lake.

It once filled the huge Gale Crater.

This lake could have lasted for millions of years.

These new facts could go against an old idea.

Scientists used to think that most of Mars' water was only in ice or underground, not on the planet's surface.

The new results come from studying rocks.

The rocks come from the base of Mount Sharp, a 3-mile-high mountain on Mars.

It is right in the middle of Gale Crater.

The results seem to say that there was once a lake in Gale Crater.

It filled up and drained out over tens of millions of years.

The lake could have covered the entire crater, which is 96 miles wide.

Scientists say that the mud left on the floor of this lake could be what helped form Mount Sharp in the first place.

"The puzzle pieces are coming together," Michael Meyer said.

Meyer is the head scientist for the U.S. space agency's Mars Exploration Program.

The findings come from the Curiosity rover.

The rover is officially known as the Mars Science Laboratory.

It is a robot that NASA sent to Mars.

The findings show that water could have lasted a very long time.

The scientists say the water could have lasted long enough for tiny forms of life, called microbes, to possibly show up.

The results could also change other ideas of how Mars changed over time.

After all, if these lakes were able to last for so long, then Mars must have had a much thicker atmosphere.

The atmosphere would have had to be thicker than it is now or else all its water would have escaped into space.

"The climate system must have been loaded with water," Ashwin Vasavada said.

To keep a lake at Gale Crater for millions of years, Mars would have to have a lot of water pumping through the sky, too.

Vasavada is a scientist who works in the Mars Program.

The problem is that it's very difficult to make a good model of how Mars' atmosphere changed.

It would have to explain how it could have been warm enough, not just thick enough, Vasavada said.

The researchers looked at rocks that seemed to be forming at strange angles.

Those are the kind of rocks you get when fast-moving river water suddenly hits a lake.

When it does, it has to slow down.

Curiosity spotted these rocks at many different spots on the mountain.

That means this cycle probably happened many times through the crater's history, said Curiosity scientist Sanjeev Gupta.

The water must have moved many times over, Gupta said.

The rocks look like they must have been moved both by rivers and by desert dunes.

Curiosity is in its third year on Mars.

It was originally sent to study Mount Sharp.

Curiosity landed in August 2012.

But it soon took a side trip from its target.

It went to study a spot called Yellowknife Bay.

There, the rover drilled up rocks.

The rocks showed signs of a fascinating past.

It found that Mars once had a lot of water.

It might have been a place for life to grow.

Now, the rover is finally studying the base of Mount Sharp.

Its layers of rock could hold the answer.

We might finally find out if Mars was a much more livable planet than it looks like today.

