Laura Smith-Velazquez has been dreaming of space since she was 8 years old.

She still remembers looking into her telescope.

She used to watch "Star Trek" on TV.

She imagined herself leading the spaceship.

Every year, Smith-Velazquez tries out to be an astronaut at NASA, the U.S. space agency.

She has not made it, but she keeps trying year after year.

Smith-Velazquez might just get her chance to visit space after all.

A group called Mars One is putting together a new kind of space trip.

They aim to build a small colony on Mars by 2025.

They want to send astronauts to live there.

But they will not come back to Earth.

Smith-Velazquez and her husband, Matthew Velazquez, were very excited to hear about Mars One.

They both signed up for the program.

They wanted to go to Mars together.

They agreed that they would not go if only one of them got into the program.

About 200,000 people signed up to be a part of the Mars One program.

Now there are only 100 people left in the contest.

Smith-Velazquez still has a chance, but her husband was not chosen.

Smith-Velazquez says she is ready to leave her husband behind and he says he understands.

He knows this is something she has always wanted to do.

Mars One wants astronauts who are curious, trusting and good at solving problems.

They need smart people who will not get frustrated.

The trip to Mars will be very long and difficult.

The people who signed up had to make a video and study facts about Mars.

They also had to write essays.

They had to tell Mars One why they wanted to be in the program.

Smith-Velazquez also had to speak with someone from Mars One.

The company asked her whether she would ever want to come back from Mars.

Smith-Velazquez said she was sure she would not want to come back.

"The people you go with become your family," she said.

Smith-Velazquez is excited that she might make the final Mars One team.

She can think of reasons why Mars One might pick her.

She is an engineer and she knows how to fly planes, so she is not scared of being up high or riding in small spaces.

She is good at getting along with other people.

She thinks being a Cherokee Indian might also help her to stand out.

Even if she makes the team, Smith-Velazquez might not get to go to space.

There are still many problems Mars One needs to solve first.

Mars is very different from Earth.

There are no oceans.

Temperatures are a comfortable 50 to 70 degrees Fahrenheit in the sunshine.

But at night it can drop to 100 degrees below zero.

Supplies are another big problem.

The Mars One team needs to figure out how to take enough supplies with them.

They also need to figure out how to grow food on Mars.

Then they will need to make their own air, heat and oxygen.

Mars One is also having a hard time getting people to give them money.

They need it to buy rockets and spaceships.

Some people say Mars One's leader is not very serious about the project.

They say he is too busy making a TV show about it.

Still, Smith-Velazquez and other Mars One fans are not giving up.

They say it is OK if it does not work, but we will never get there if we do not try.

Humans will learn something either way.

