They haven't found any little green men yet, but scientists believe there could once have been life on Mars.

NASA's Curiosity rover landed on the Red Planet in August 2012 to look for signs of living things.

Last Monday, scientists said it had found the remains of an ancient lake.

This was filled with just the right chemical ingredients for life to thrive.

This existed billions of years ago at around the same time that early life was just taking hold on Earth.

By drilling into the rock, the Curiosity rover discovered that Gale Crater was once full of water, and perhaps ringed with ice and snow.

This could have hosted a Martian world made of simple lifeforms that also exist on Earth.

They feed on chemicals found in rocks and make their own energy.

John Grotzinger said that it might have been easier for life to survive on Mars than they previously thought.

He is the lead scientist for the Curiosity mission.

This wet, Earth-like environment could have lasted for tens of millions of years.

If so, that would have given forms of life a long time to emerge.

The findings were announced on Dec. 9 in San Francisco.

Other scientists who were not involved with the mission were very impressed with the results.

"They're really quite amazing," said Malcolm Walters, who is a professor in Australia.

Walters said this information is a "great leap forward" in what we know about Mars.

The history of the Red Planet is written in its many layers of rock, and Curiosity set out to read this story.

The rover's main goal was to search for life-friendly environments at Mount Sharp, a 3-mile-high mountain.

But rather than head straight to Mount Sharp, the rover took a months-long detour to an interesting spot called Yellowknife Bay.

There, Curiosity drilled into two rocks.

It was a risk to turn away from the planned mission, but it paid off, Grotzinger said.

The rocks, dated to roughly 3.6 billion years ago, contain lots of the chemicals needed for life.

These include hydrogen, oxygen and sulfur.

What's more, the water that was once there would have been drinkable.

This is very different from the very acidic water that was detected by another NASA rover on the other side of the planet.

David Catling is a scientist at the University of Washington.

He believes that the water in this lake could have supported a wide range of Martian life.

Curiosity has not yet found any carbon from plants or animals, which is the most important element for all life on Earth.

The scientists may not have found carbon on Mars so far because the rover heats up soil samples to test them.

Heating up the soil may destroy some information in the process.

Life on Mars could have thrived without this carbon.

Some simple lifeforms would have done just fine with the ingredients already found on the planet.

Yet scientists do want to find proof of this carbon because it would mean that Mars once had a large range of life-friendly places.

The scientists feared that the planet's surface had been damaged by cosmic radiation, high-energy particles that travel through space.

Over billions of years, this material could have destroyed any traces of carbon that were once on Mars.

If this had happened, even carbon that had once been on this planet would be impossible to find now.

One scientist said it was "a pretty serious concern" that this material had been destroyed over time.

Then Curiosity took soil samples from Mars and discovered gases that helped pin down the age of the surface of the planet.

It was only about 78 million years old, much younger than scientists had expected.

That meant the amount of radiation exposure was also lower than they had expected.

The team then noticed a small cliff located some distance from where Curiosity landed.

The scientists realized that the cliff had once covered the rocks they wanted to sample.

But over time the cliff had worn away, showing the new, younger rock underneath.

The rover will now dig at the foot of one of these cliffs.

The scientists hope to find some of the all-important carbon that would tell them about life on this planet.

If any carbon exists on Mars, this is the best place to search for it.

So the scientists plan to take this information and run with it.

But, they can only run as fast as the Curiosity rover's top speed (of just 1.57 inches per second on flat ground) will allow.

So in two months, Curiosity will take a detour to an interesting cliff called KMS-9.

Scientists are not sure whether it held a lake.

But they hope to ride the rover right up to a protected spot of rock.

Then they will use Curiosity's drill for more rock testing and hopefully some more exciting findings.

"You just never know what you'll encounter," said NASA scientist Douglas Ming, who led the study.

"One thing I've come to expect, doing Mars research, is to expect the unexpected."

