Long ago, there might have been a lot more water on Mars than people had thought.

NASA's Curiosity rover has discovered evidence of a huge lake in Gale Crater that could have lasted millions of years.

These findings may contradict the idea that much of the planet's water reserves were held only in ice or underground, and made only brief appearances on the surface.

The new results come from studying rocks at the base of Mount Sharp, the 3-mile-high mound in the middle of Gale Crater.

They suggest that there was a lake that filled and drained over tens of millions of years.

The lake could have spanned the 96-mile-wide crater, said scientists at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in La Canada Flintridge, California.

And the mud deposited in this lake could be what helped form Mount Sharp in the first place.

"The puzzle pieces are coming together," Michael Meyer, lead scientist for the U.S. space agency's Mars Exploration Program, said in a press briefing.

The findings are from the Curiosity rover, known formally as the Mars Science Laboratory.

They show that water could have lasted long enough for microbial life potentially to emerge, the scientists said.

The results could also affect other theories of Martian planetary evolution.

After all, if these lakes were able to survive for so long, then Mars must have had a much thicker atmosphere in order to protect that water from escaping into space.

"The climate system must have been loaded with water," Ashwin Vasavada said.

"To sustain a lake at Gale Crater for millions of years, Mars would need a vigorous hydrological cycle to keep the atmosphere humid."

Vasavada is Curiosity's deputy project scientist.

The problem is, it's very difficult to generate a realistic model of Martian atmospheric change.

It would have to explain how it could have been warm enough, not just thick enough, Vasavada said.

The researchers looked at rocks that seemed to be forming at strange angles.

Those are the kind of rocks you get when fast-moving river water suddenly hits a lake and has to slow down.

Curiosity spotted these rocks at many different elevations.

That means this cycle probably happened many times through the crater's history, said Curiosity scientist Sanjeev Gupta.

"We believe what we're seeing is multiple cycles of delta migration interspersed between river deposits and probably desert dune deposits, creating quite a complex collage of ancient environments," Gupta said.

Curiosity is in its third year of exploration on the Red Planet.

Originally sent to study Mount Sharp, the $2.5 billion laboratory-on-wheels landed in August 2012 and took a detour from its looming target to study a spot called Yellowknife Bay.

There, the rover drilled up rocks that revealed signs of a past, water-rich environment on Mars that might have been able to sustain life.

Now, the rover is finally studying the base of Mount Sharp, whose sedimentary layers could hold the key to whether Mars was a much more livable planet than it appears today.

