Do you hate math?

Relax — the problem may not be you.

It could just be the way math is taught.

Having trouble with math should not be seen as a personal failure or as the result of a missing gene.

Instead, it is likely the result of wrongheaded "one-size-fits-all" ways of teaching.

So, at least, runs the theory behind a new approach to math education that is exciting teachers nationwide.

More and more math instructors are embracing ideas developed by Stanford professors Carol Dweck and Jo Boaler.

Their approach includes more visual and creative exercises.

It favors discussions of ideas over a focus on memorization and speed.

In place of the one-size-fits-all approach, it offers individually tailored lessons.

David Foster of the Silicon Valley Mathematics Initiative said that for many people math class was a bad experience.

He says if that if you tell people you teach math, they all "launch into a horror story about high school math.

The only mystery is if they blame the algebra teacher or the geometry teacher" for their hatred of math.

Foster believes a more positive approach to math instruction is the way to get kids to love learning.

"Learning to do math is no different from learning to play the piano or learning to play a sport," he said.

"A lot of it is about hard work and practice," rather than a natural ability that only some have.

His thinking is rooted in the ideas of Dweck and Boaler, whose approaches to teaching math are spreading quickly.

Dweck argues that math education should focus on helping students persevere even if they do not succeed at first.

She says failure helps students to learn, grow and get better.

Boaler offered a free online math course last summer that attracted 85,000 people.

Her approach involves less memorization — instead, lessons focus on different ways to solve problems and on the uses of math in everyday life.

Lessons are tailored to individual levels and feature small-group discussion.

"We're in a crisis in math," Boaler said.

"These poor kids are given the idea that math is about performance, and then they get the idea that they can't do it."

As sixth-grader Sahib Dokal put it: "It feels like you have to do it faster and I can't think that hard."

Teachers say that bad classroom experiences with math have led to math failure.

Just 36 percent of U.S. eighth-graders score at their grade level on national math tests.

To underline the importance of effort, the Khan Academy — an educational organization that provides free education through YouTube video lectures — has launched a math contest that recognizes not just mastery, but effort as well.

It posts weekly scores online and so far has attracted 41,000 students from the San Francisco Bay Area.

"I thought I would bring a little more excitement to my students," said David Hicks of San Francisco 49ers Academy in East Palo Alto.

His school was in first place in effort after the contest's first week last month.

The contest tallies student progress in mastering Khan Academy lessons.

A computer program analyzes each student's work and tailors lessons to their level.

Thus, Hicks said, in his mixed-level class, "my algebra students don't have to wait for my students who are at a third-grade ability."

Khan's "dashboard" shows each student's progress, level and effort.

"When I complete it, it makes me feel smart," 49ers eighth-grader Fernando Ibarra said.

Online tools do not work for everyone, however.

Ana Wallace, a senior at Summit Rainier in San Jose, finds Khan's video lessons confusing.

"You can't ask Khan questions," she said, and the daily 30 minutes on Algebra II just get her more confused.

There are other approaches, such as talking through a math problem step by step.

At the 49ers Academy, Hicks will often pose a puzzle-like question, then illustrate on the whiteboard students' step-by-step thinking as they solve the problem.

However, much of what makes math more understandable comes down to just good teaching: keeping track of each student and not leaving anyone confused.

Michelle Rojas, 12, said she hated math in elementary school.

When she asked a question, teachers "explained it in their own college way, instead of for the grade level you were in," she said.

Now a sixth-grader at Alpha Blanca Alvarado Middle School in San Jose, she is understanding lessons better.

Teachers and students say that relating math to everyday problem-solving and daily life is also important.

"The more you can connect the math to their life," the better, said math teacher Mona Keeler.

It makes it meaningful and "takes off that pressure."

What is the evidence that these new ways work?

For one thing, there are plenty of stories from teachers themselves.

"I've seen humongous growth" in math achievement, Keeler said.

So can everyone learn trigonometry and calculus with the right kind of teaching?

"Most of humanity is capable," Khan Academy founder Salman Khan said firmly.

What about those with a math-learning disability?

"It's hard to know who's born with a math disability, or who becomes disabled because of the way they've been treated in math," Boaler said.

"I know we can transform it.

We can have kids loving math."

