General Plastics Manufacturing Co. in Tacoma, Washington, is hiring.

But anyone who wants a job must first take a math test.

The test has 18 questions, takes 30 minutes, and using a calculator is OK.

The company makes foam products for aircraft.

It asks applicants how to convert inches to feet.

They also must show they know how to read a tape measure.

They are quizzed on how to find the density of a block of foam.

Answer: divide the mass by the volume.

Basic middle school math, right?

It's supposed to be.

But only 1 in 10  job seekers pass, even though the company only gives the test to applicants with a high school education.

This troubles Eric Hahn, a vice president at General Plastics.

Hahn said that scores on his company's math test have been poor for the past six years.

And that is not just bad luck at a single factory.

He talks with other Washington state suppliers in his line of business.

Most of them have been seeing the same problem.

"You could think that even for production, do you really need to know math?"

said Jacey Wilkins, a spokeswoman for the Manufacturing Institute.

"But the truth is, you do."

Wilkins explained that today's factory jobs are very complex.

Workers need to understand and work with multiple functions and systems.

When it comes to working with precise machinery "people really do need a basic understanding of math," she said.

But math has been a problem.

The United States ranks below average in math.

Other wealthy countries performed much better.

The National Math and Science Initiative noted that more than half of high school graduates are not ready to go on in math.

After many tough years, U.S. businesses are starting to perform better.

They are looking to hire new workers.

However, a lack of basic math skills could be a problem for people seeking work.

Factories are willing to train people about their machines and technology, explained Linda Nguyen, CEO of Work Force Central, a partnership that trains workers in Washington.

"But they can't afford to hire someone who needs to relearn basic math."

Teachers are aware of what factories like General Plastics face.

They are looking for ways to make math relate to the real world.

That way, students will grasp why math is necessary.

And that will make them want to stick with it.

Some educators want to change the way math is taught.

"It's really been rote memorization," said Dave Yanofsky of ConnectEd: The California Center for College and Career.

Rote learning means committing something to memory, often without really understanding the meaning.

The center encourages what it calls "linked learning" in high school.

Linked learning combines academics, technical education and work experience.

The center has developed a middle-school math program that uses projects and encourages group work.

Linda Gojak is president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

She complains that the traditional style of teaching math is like "practicing the piano."

Students are told to practice until they can finally do it.

But her group is trying to "help teachers teach mathematics so kids make sense of what they're doing."

She adds, "and it really does stick beyond what they learn in class."

A new program is being tested in 20 school districts in California.

The program is designed to make classroom learning more relevant to the working world.

Math learning also will change with the [Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core) standards.

The Common Core is an effort to set new goals in math and English.

Forty-five states will teach the Common Core.

It will apply to all students in kindergarten through high school.

The Common Core standards will teach students what they need to know for success in college and jobs, said Sam Houston, president and CEO of the North Carolina Science, Math and Technology Education Center.

North Carolina is one of the states that will be using the Common Core.

"In the hands of a trained professional," Houston said, "the Common Core should give everyone a better means to answer the question, 'Why do I need to know this?'"

For factory bosses like Hahn, changes in teaching math cannot come soon enough.

"Manpower training for manufacturing is a critical issue right now," he said.

"The development of highly skilled workers is essential if we are to produce good products and grow our industry."

