General Plastics Manufacturing Co. makes foam parts for aircraft.

The Washington company is hiring.

But anyone who wants a job must first take a math test.

The test has 18 questions, takes 30 minutes, and using a calculator is OK. Job seekers must know how to convert inches to feet.

They also need to read a tape measure.

They are quizzed on how to find the density of a block of foam.

Answer: divide the mass by the volume.

Basic middle school math, right?

It's supposed to be.

But only 1 in 10 job seekers pass.

And the company only gives the test to people with a high school education.

This troubles Eric Hahn, a vice president at General Plastics.

Hahn said that scores on his company's math test have been poor for the past six years.

And that is not just bad luck at a single factory.

He talks with other Washington factories.

Most of them have the same problem.

Some people might think if you are a factory worker, do you really need to know math?

said Jacey Wilkins, a factory expert.

"But the truth is, you do."

Wilkins explained that today's factory jobs are very complex.

When it comes to working with cutting-edge machines "people really do need a basic understanding of math," she said.

But math has been a problem.

The United States ranks below average in math.

Other wealthy countries performed much better.

The National Math and Science Initiative noted that more than half of high school graduates are not ready to go on in math.

After many tough years, U.S. businesses are doing better.

They are getting more orders for products.

So they need new workers.

But people who lack basic math skills could have trouble getting hired.

Linda Nguyen is the boss of Work Force Central.

Her organization trains workers in Washington.

She said factories are willing to train people about their machines and technology.

"But they can't afford to hire someone who needs to relearn basic math," she explained.

Teachers are aware of what factories like General Plastics face.

They are looking for ways to make math relate to the real world.

That way, students will understand why math matters.

And that will make them want to stick with it.

Some teachers want to change the way math is taught.

Linda Gojak is president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics.

She complains that the traditional style of teaching math is like "practicing the piano."

Students are told to practice until they can finally do it.

But her group is trying to "help teachers teach mathematics so kids make sense of what they're doing."

She adds, "and it really does stick beyond what they learn in class."

A new program is being tested in twenty school districts in California.

The program is designed to make classroom learning more like the working world.

Math learning also will change with the [Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core) standards.

The Common Core is a plan to set new goals in math and English.

Forty-five states will teach the Common Core in kindergarten through high school.

Students will learn what they need to know to do well in college and jobs, said Sam Houston, president of the North Carolina Science, Math and Technology Education Center.

"The Common Core should give everyone a better means to answer the question, 'Why do I need to know this?'"

Houston said.

For factory bosses like Hahn, changes in teaching math cannot wait.

They can only produce good products if the country produces more highly skilled workers.

