Robert McDaniel was puzzled when the Chicago police commander dropped by his West Side home unannounced last month.

The visit was cordial, but Barbara West's message was clear: Don't commit any more crimes or face the consequences.

Revealing that she had a folder on him back on her office desk, West told the 22-year-old that she knew his best friend had been slain last year in Austin, their crime-plagued South Chicago community.

She cautioned that he could meet the same fate if he didn't change his ways.

McDaniel, who has a history of only minor offenses, was surprised that he had made the so-called "heat list."

That put him in the company of more than 400 others across the city who have been identified by the department as the most likely to be involved in violence.

"I haven't done nothing that the next kid growing up hadn't done.

Smoke weed.

Shoot dice.

Like seriously?"

a disbelieving McDaniel said.

With the help of mathematical analysis, Chicago police hope to home in on people it believes are most at risk of shooting someone or being shot themselves.

The strategy calls for warning those on the heat list that further criminal activity, however petty, will result in the full force of the law being brought down on them.

At the same time, police extend an olive branch of sorts: an offer of social services or of help in obtaining a job.

The effort is formally known as Two Degrees of Association — an acknowledgment of the importance of the interconnections among those involved in crime.

Police officials said they came up with a heat list of 420 names through a computer analysis weighting numerous risk factors.

These include the extent of a person's rap sheet, whether he or she is on parole, has any warrants out for his or her arrest, or has been arrested in the past on any weapons or drug charges.

Who a person knows is important too; the arrest histories of his or her acquaintances, and whether any of those associates have been shot in the past, also factor into the equation.

Those with the highest ranking are more than 500 times more likely to be involved in violence, according to police.

McDaniel probably made the list in spite of his limited criminal background because a childhood friend with whom he had once been arrested on a marijuana charge was fatally shot last year in Austin.

Interviewed at his Austin home, McDaniel said he was offended at being singled out by West, who is commander of the Austin police district.

"Like I said, I have no background, so what would even give you probable cause to watch me?"

said McDaniel.

"And if you're watching me, then you can obviously see I'm not doing anything."

But the list proved prophetic in the case of Jacobi Herring, who was fatally shot this month in his South Chicago neighborhood.

The 21-year-old had just left a late-night party a few blocks from his home when he was gunned down at East 79th Street and South Yates Boulevard.

His uncle, Koland Herring, was not surprised to learn that his nephew was on the heat list, saying he had succumbed to neighborhood peer pressure.

"He wasn't a hard-core gangbanger.

He was never a shooter."

And he never burglarized or stole cars, Herring, 49, said outside his nephew's home as friends and relatives stopped by to pay their respects.

"Some of the people that he knew did.

They're hard-core.

And in order to get around and to be accepted out here, you have to be around them."

Cook County court records show Herring was arrested only a handful of times, mostly on suspicion of trespassing and gang loitering.

However, four others who were once arrested with Herring also made the list.

In addition, another man who was once arrested with Herring was shot and killed in March in broad daylight.

And Herring himself was shot in 2008 at 79th Street and Essex Avenue.

"We talked about him getting shot all the time," said Herring's father, Floyd Redmond, 41.

"I used to see my son hanging out, and I used to ride down on him.

I feared for my son being out on these streets because I know what these streets are all about, man."

Another Austin resident who made the heat list is Terry McCoy, 20.

McCoy's legal guardian, Yvonne Carroll, wasn't surprised to hear McCoy was singled out.

After all, he's currently in the Cook County Jail awaiting trial for a 2011 armed robbery.

But she questioned the value of the list and wondered if police were merely profiling her son.

"They stereotype a lot of the blacks anyway," said Carroll, who is African-American.

"The black community is not the only community that has violence.

They have it in other neighborhoods, but they don't stereotype it like they do in the black community."

But police officials defended the list, pointing out that the names aren't chosen randomly.

As for McDaniel, in spite of his misgivings over being named to the list, he's considering taking up the Police Department's offer of social services.

A high school dropout, he has a 2-year-old daughter and another child on the way.

But he insisted he doesn't belong on the department's radar.

"As far as them trying to make me a product of their work," he said, "I don't too much appreciate that."

