Do you hate math?

Are you bad at it?

It is probably not your fault.

The problem may be the way math is taught in schools.

Many students have a hard time in math class.

Carol Dweck and Jo Boaler say lessons that are confusing can be the reason.

Both are college professors.

They are experts in how people learn.

The two women say they have come up with better ways to teach math.

More and more math teachers think Dweck and Boaler are right.

They are using the women's ideas in their own classrooms.

In a regular math class, kids do a lot of memorizing.

They are expected to solve problems as quickly as possible.

In the new kind of class, students talk about math problems.

Kids no longer simply memorize.

Teachers often use pictures to explain ideas.

Each student is given a lesson at their own level.

Teachers make sure no one is still confused at the end of the class.

There is nothing special about learning math, David Foster says.

Foster helps teachers improve the way they teach math.

It is just like learning anything else, Foster says.

It is the same as learning "to play the piano or learning to play a sport," he said.

He does not think some people are just born bad at math.

Everyone can learn to understand math, Foster says.

"A lot of it is about hard work and practice," he said.

Dweck says that teachers should spend more time with students.

They should help students try again if they get an answer wrong.

Getting an answer wrong is nothing to be ashamed of, Dweck says.

Mistakes can help students learn.

Last summer Boaler offered a free online math course.

About 85,000 people took the class.

Boaler's lessons looked at the ways people use math in everyday life.

Students talked about math problems.

They did not simply memorize the right answer.

Talking through problems helped students better understand how math works.

Many kids think that math class is only about getting the right answer quickly, Boaler said.

"Then they get the idea that they can't do it," she added.

Regular math classes make you feel "like you have to do it faster," said sixth-grader Sahin Dokal.

"I can't think that hard."

Math classes should not be just about solving problems quickly, Dweck and Boaler say.

They should be about getting all students to understand.

One good way to teach math is to talk through a problem.

At the 49ers Academy in California, teacher David Hicks often asks his students to figure out a math puzzle.

The students then solve the problem out loud, step by step.

Hicks writes everything the students say on the class whiteboard.

Good teaching is very important.

A good teacher will make sure no one is still confused at the end of a lesson.

Sixth-grader Michelle Rojas said she hated math when she was younger.

Teachers were no help when they answered her questions.

They "explained it in their own college way," she said.

They did not match their answer to "the grade level you were in."

These days she is understanding lessons much better.

Connecting math to everyday life is also important.

"The more you can connect the math to their life," the better, said math teacher Mona Keeler.

It makes math meaningful, she added.

Do the new ways of teaching math really work?

Plenty of teachers certainly think so.

Keeler said her students have gotten much, much better at math.

"I've seen humongous growth," she said.

"We can have kids loving math," Boaler said.

