Before job seekers fill out an application at General Plastics Manufacturing Co. in Tacoma, Washington, they have to take a math test.

The test has 18 questions, takes 30 minutes, and using a calculator is OK.

The company, which makes foam products for the aerospace industry, asks applicants how to convert inches to feet.

They also need to know how to read a tape measure and find the density of a block of foam (mass divided by volume).

Basic middle school math, right?

It's supposed to be.

The company only considers applicants with a high school education, but only 1 in 10 who take the test pass.

And that is not just bad luck at a single factory or in a single industry.

This troubles Eric Hahn, an executive at General Plastics.

Hahn said that the poor scores on his company's math test have been evident for the past six years.

He also sits on an aerospace workforce training committee and said that most other Washington state suppliers in his industry have been seeing the same problem.

"You could think that even for production, do you really need to know math?"

said Jacey Wilkins, a spokeswoman for the Manufacturing Institute.

"But the truth is, you do, because these jobs are incredibly complex and integrate multiple functions and systems."

Indeed, in working with machinery and making products with precision, "people really do need a basic understanding of math," she said.

But math is a problem.

The United States ranks below average in math compared with other developed countries and regions participating in the Program for International Student Assessment test.

The National Math and Science Initiative noted that 54 percent of high school graduates are not ready to go on in math.

The figure is based on students who took ACT's "college and career readiness" exam in 2012.

As the economy begins to perk up, businesses are looking to hire new employees.

However, a lack of basic knowledge about mathematics could present a problem to people looking for work.

"Manufacturers are willing to train people about the specifics of their machines and technology," said Linda Nguyen, CEO of Work Force Central, a partnership that trains workers in Tacoma and surrounding Pierce County.

"But they can't afford to hire someone who needs to relearn basic math."

Educators are aware of what manufacturers like General Plastics face.

They are looking for ways to make math relate to the real world so students will grasp why it is necessary and stick with it.

Some want to change the way math is taught.

"It's really been rote memorization," said Dave Yanofsky, director of media and youth development at ConnectEd: The California Center for College and Career.

The center encourages what it calls "linked learning" in high school, a combination of academics, technical education and work experience.

It has developed a middle school math curriculum that uses projects and encourages group work.

Linda Gojak, president of the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, likens the traditional style of teaching math to "practicing the piano," because students are told to practice until they can finally do it.

But her group is trying to "help teachers teach mathematics so kids make sense of what they're doing and it really does stick beyond what they learn in class."

Twenty school districts in California are testing a program designed to make classroom learning more relevant.

Math learning also will change with the [Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core) standards.

The Common Core is a state-led effort to set educational standards in math and English for kindergarten through high school.

Forty-five states have adopted the standards.

They will match up with what students need to know to be successful in college and jobs, said Sam Houston, president and CEO of the North Carolina Science, Math and Technology Education Center near Raleigh.

North Carolina is among the states that have adopted the Common Core.

"In the hands of a trained professional," Houston said, "the Common Core should give everyone a better means to answer the question, 'Why do I need to know this?'"

For manufacturers like Hahn, changes in teaching math cannot come soon enough.

"Manpower training for manufacturing is a critical issue right now," he said.

"The development of highly skilled workers is essential if we are to produce good products and grow our industry."

