Eric Garcetti is the mayor of Los Angeles.

He recently made an official visit to the Mexican capital, Mexico City.

The mayor arrived in Mexico on Sunday.

He was joined by a group of LA city officials.

A number of area business leaders came along and paid their own way.

There are many Mexican-Americans in LA.

Because of this, it is important as mayor to understand them.

Getting closer with Mexico on the business front also makes good sense.

Many goods sold in LA are made in Mexico.

Historians will know that Garcetti wasn't the first LA mayor to make an trip.

He wasn't even the first to make the visit and speak Spanish.

Garcetti speaks Spanish.

So does Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of LA before him.

But it's a kind of Spanish that might be called Funky American Business Spanish.

Villaraigosa and Garcetti have Latino roots.

But both had to learn much of their Spanish in school or on the job.

They speak Spanish, but it is far from perfect.

Both have acknowledged this with good humor.

During a 2009 visit to Mexico City, Villaraigosa referred to himself jokingly as "el pochito."

"Pocho" is slang.

It is Spanish for an Americanized Mexican who may not speak Spanish well.

Garcetti used Spanish often during last year's election for mayor.

He talked about his Mexican background.

Some well-known Latino leaders supported the other candidate.

At least one of them questioned Garcetti's Latino roots.

Garcetti called his Spanish "good community meeting Spanish."

He said he learned most of it while he was a City Council member.

He represented a district in LA where a lot of people speak Spanish.

Garcetti's grandfather on his father's side was born in Mexico.

The Mexican press was very eager to talk to him.

They were fascinated by the new LA mayor.

On Monday the mayor answered questions from reporters in Spanish.

He talked about the two cities' shared challenges.

He brought up his Jewish-Latino background.

His answers were also full of little mistakes.

At one point, he appeared to have invented a word.

He said "agrecimiento" to mean "acuerdo."

"Acuerdo" is Spanish for "agreement."

Moments later, he stuck the English word "between" in the middle of a Spanish sentence.

Mexicans tend not to be purists.

They have also built up years of tolerance for visitors from the United States.

"There's no gotcha involved here," Gil Cedillo said.

Cedillo is an LA City Councilman who is traveling with the mayor on the four-day trip.

Cedillo's parents didn't teach him Spanish.

Like many Latino parents at the time, they saw how hard it was for Spanish speakers.

They decided it best that their son join the English speakers.

"I know I'm limited," he said.

"I know my grammar is not correct.

But I know people here appreciate the effort."

