Facing protests from workers around the country asking for higher wages, McDonald's is making changes: Some workers will see a $1 per hour raise, starting in July, and the company also announced paid time-off policies and education programs.

There are about 750,000 McDonald's employees in the United States, but most of these do not work directly for McDonald's.

Instead, these restaurants are franchised — independently owned and operated, and each owner, or franchisee, can make his or her own decisions about wages and other issues.

The $1 pay increase will apply to about 90,000 employees who work at McDonald's-owned locations.

McDonald's has been facing a prolonged sales slump and it must reinvent itself as "a modern, progressive burger company," said Steve Easterbrook, the company's new CEO.

A major protest movement called "Fight for $15" has put McDonald's and other fast-food giants on the defensive.

Fast-food workers are organizing and asking for a living wage.

Some workers said Wednesday that they would continue to press McDonald's on the pay issue, calling the $1 bump insufficient.

Still, the wage increase could help improve McDonald's reputation, said Tim Calkins, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University's business school.

Happy employees, in particular, are critical to the company's turnaround efforts, he said.

"One of the most important insights about brands is that if your employees aren't excited about the brand, it is difficult to get them to deliver great service and enable them to drive growth," Calkins said.

"A lot of this is about the employees and getting them to feel better about working at McDonald's."

Calkins expects that other fast-food chains will follow McDonald's lead.

"Companies don't want to seem like they're lagging behind when it comes to high-profile issues like this," he said.

Competitor Wendy's said it routinely reviews wages and benefits for employees at company-owned restaurants to remain competitive.

At Wendy's, like McDonald's, the vast majority of restaurants are run by franchisees.

Burger King declined to comment.

The federal minimum wage is $7.25, but state and local minimums can be higher.

The average hourly wage across company-owned McDonald's U.S. restaurants is currently $9.01 an hour, but it will go up to $9.90 with the change announced Wednesday, said Karen King, the company's chief people officer.

McDonald's projected that by the end of 2016, the average wage rate for employees at its company-owned locations would exceed $10 an hour.

The company will also give paid personal time off to employees who have been with McDonald's for at least a year.

If workers choose not to take their earned paid leave, they will receive a check for the value of that time.

"We understand that life balance is important and believe that this will make a difference for our people," Easterbrook wrote in a newspaper opinion piece.

It's not clear if franchisees would follow McDonald's lead and improve pay and paid time off benefits.

The third pillar of the new plan is offering employees at all restaurants educational opportunities.

McDonald's said it would help employees pay to finish their high school diploma or take certain college courses.

The company is also expanding access to its free English classes for those who speak English as a second language.

For many fast-food workers who have been protesting for better conditions and higher wages, the $1 raise is insufficient.

It's still not a living wage, they say.

Workers at Wal-Mart recently saw pay and benefit programs improved after a protest campaign.

Kendall Fells, organizing director of the Fight for 15 campaign, said McDonald's is raising wages in response to protests and strikes, which will not stop "until workers get what they've been fighting for."

Workers protested in front of McDonald's stores across the nation on April 2, and nationwide protests are also scheduled for April 15.

Fells said workers have been acting like a union and forcing McDonald's to make changes.

Still he said, the changes have been "meager."

The next step, he said, is for employees as a group to bargain directly with McDonald's over wages, benefits and working conditions.

"McDonald's was forced to pay up, but it's not nearly enough," said Mary Kay Henry, international president of the Service Employees International Union.

The SEIU is a major financial supporter of the Fight for 15 campaign.

Nancy Salgado, a McDonald's worker at a franchised restaurant in Chicago, said McDonald's new policies are one victory for the Fight for 15 movement, but it won't affect her or thousands of others who work for franchisees.

"It's just a slap in the face," said Salgado, who often protests with Fight for 15.

Salgado said she makes $8.35 per hour and will get a bump to $10 in July under the city's new minimum.

"It's still not enough," Salgado said.

"We are fighting for a living wage."

