For months, McDonald's workers and their supporters have been protesting.

The movement is called "Fight for $15."

McDonald's workers want to earn $15 an hour.

It's impossible to survive on less than that, they say.

This week, McDonald's announced changes.

Some workers will be getting a $1 more per hour.

McDonald's is trying to turn things around.

It has been facing slow sales and bad press.

The company brought on a new CEO a month ago named Steve Easterbrook.

McDonald's must reinvent itself as "a modern, progressive burger company," Easterbrook said.

The company also announced plans to give employees paid time off.

They will also offer employees educational opportunities.

There are about 750,000 McDonald's workers in the United States.

However, only about 90,000 actually work for McDonald's.

Most restaurants are owned by individuals who have a deal with McDonald's.

This is called the franchise system.

The owner of a McDonald's franchise can make his or her own decisions about wages and other issues.

The $1 per hour raise, for example, will only affect the workers at 1,500 restaurants.

It is not clear if McDonald's franchise owners across the country will follow the company's example on higher pay.

McDonald's and other big fast-food companies are responding to a nationwide protest movement: low-paid workers are organizing, protesting, even striking, calling for higher wages and better working conditions.

The key demand is a "living wage."

They consider their current wages to be too low to live on, even if they work 40 hours per week.

A living wage depends on the region's cost of living, but workers have chosen $15 as a target.

Many of these workers said they would continue to pressure McDonald's on the pay issue.

They said the $1 bump was not enough.

Tim Calkins teaches marketing at Northwestern University.

He said McDonald's hopes the pay bump and new benefits will make employees happier.

"If your employees aren't excited about the brand, it is difficult to get them to deliver great service," Calkins said.

"A lot of this is about the employees and getting them to feel better about working at McDonald's."

Calkins expects other fast-food chains will follow McDonald's example.

"Companies don't want to seem like they're lagging behind when it comes to high-profile issues like this," he said.

The national minimum wage across all 50 states is $7.25.

Some cities and states have set their own, higher, minimum wages.

The average hourly wage for the 90,000 McDonald's employees is currently $9.01 an hour.

It will go up to $9.90 with the change announced Wednesday.

The company also announced plans to give vacation time to employees who have been with McDonald's for at least a year.

If workers choose not to take their paid leave, they will receive money for the value of that time.

"We understand that life balance is important and believe that this will make a difference for our people," Easterbrook said.

McDonald's is also building more school programs for its workers.

The company will help pay for employees to finish high school or take college classes.

For workers who have been demonstrating for a living wage, the $1 increase is a step in the right direction.

Still, they say the battle has just begun.

Protests and strikes will continue "until workers get what they've been fighting for," said Kendall Fells, who helps lead the Fight for 15 campaign.

Workers protested in front of McDonald's stores across the country on April 2.

Nationwide protests are also scheduled for April 15.

Fells said that by organizing and protesting, workers have forced McDonald's to make changes, though the changes have been tiny.

The next step, he said, is for employees as a group to talk directly with McDonald's about wages, benefits and working conditions.

Nancy Salgado is a McDonald's worker at a franchised restaurant in Chicago.

She said the new policies are a win for the Fight for 15 movement.

Still, they will not affect her or the thousands of other workers who work for franchises.

"It's just a slap in the face," Salgado said.

