Want a burger off a fast-food dollar menu?

Better have more than a dollar.

McDonald's is changing its Dollar Menu.

The menu offered burgers, fries and other items for less than a dollar apiece for more than 10 years.

The menu is popular.

McDonald's gets as much as one-seventh of its U.S. sales from the Dollar Menu.

But soon, the list will change.

McDonald's is calling it the Dollar Menu &amp; More.

It will have the standard $1 items.

But there will also be $2 food and $5 family meals.

The fast-food giant isn't the only one making a change.

Rising costs and changing tastes are pushing prices above a dollar.

The world of fast-food now has a lot of pricier restaurants.

People also want better ingredients.

So the dollar deal may be doomed.

In January, Wendy's 99-cent bargain menu became the Right Price Right Size menu.

It has items that cost as much as $2 each.

The Burger King value menu recently included a limited-time $1.29 Whopper Jr. deal.

John Gordon gets paid to give advice to restaurant chains.

He said dollar menus will have to change.

Talking about the dollar too much over time makes customers think a restaurant is not as good, he said.

Companies make less money off dollar menus than they do on drinks, some experts say.

Limited-time sale items also make more money for restaurants.

More companies are experimenting with prices.

They offer different levels of deals instead of a flat menu of super-cheap options.

Restaurants have raised prices to cover increases in food and other costs.

Some favorites have moved above a dollar.

Rising health care costs might also make restaurants raise their prices.

Dollar menus could face additional pressure from higher pay for workers.

California will raise the minimum wage in the state to $10 an hour from $8 by Jan. 1, 2016.

The [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) is the lowest amount a company can pay a worker.

Gordon said that move probably will push the fast-food industry to raise the lowest prices.

Prices for fast food are rising.

But customers also have begun questioning the quality of budget menus.

Those menus seldom include fruits and vegetables.

Budget menu orders at fast-food restaurants fell by one-eighth in 2011.

Some formerly loyal customers would now rather buy a bag of dried beans for dinner.

Stay-at-home mom Aesha Adams Roberts once was proud of her ability to save money using value menus.

But she switched to natural food after she was sick while she was pregnant.

"Dollar menus are horrifying to me now," she said.

"They may be budget-friendly, but the food is just really bad."

McDonald's is trying to bring back health-minded customers.

The company plans to offer side salads, fruit or vegetables as a choice instead of french fries in value meals in some cities.

Other companies are trying other ideas.

Burger King last summer launched a $1 burger.

It is stuffed with french fries.

KFC last month unveiled a container called the Go Cup.

It is targeted at people who are like to eat small snacks while they drive.

The container contains seasoned potato wedges and a choice of chicken for less than $3.

KFC may be on the right track.

A meal can still be convenient even if it costs more than a dollar, said William McCarthy.

He teaches about health and law at the University of California.

Money is only partly what drives people to choose fast food, he explained.

"As appealing as the low cost is, the time cost is even more important, if you ask me.

Fast-food places will not lose too many customers if they do away with dollar menus."

