Want a side salad with that Big Mac?

Now, you might be able to get one.

McDonald's says it will start giving customers the choice of a salad, fruit or vegetable.

They would be with its value meals instead of french fries.

McDonald's will roll out the change early next year in the United States.

People will not have to pay more to pick a salad instead of fries.

McDonald's says it already lets customers make such swaps in other countries.

But now it says it will work to make the choice available in 20 of its biggest markets around the world.

McDonald's gets 85 percent of its sales from those markets.

McDonald's has more than 34,000 restaurants around the world.

It said the change will be in place in 30 to 50 percent of the areas within the next three years.

It will be in all of the regions by 2020.

McDonald's is the world's biggest hamburger chain.

It made the announcement at the Clinton Global Initiative in New York City.

McDonald's CEO Don Thompson made an appearance on stage with ex-President Bill Clinton.

In an interview, Thompson said McDonald's is looking at developing other healthy sides.

It already sells cups of corn and kiwi on a stick in some parts of the world.

McDonald's could sell fruits and vegetables it offers in some countries in other places.

"What is it that customers will choose, and what will they eat?"

Thompson said.

"What we don't want to do is just put something on the menu and say, hey, we did it.

We really want consumption."

McDonald's also announced that it would change its packaging.

It will try to make healthier choices more appealing to kids.

For example, a side of carrots might come in a more colorfully designed bag.

Parents will still be able to order soda with Happy Meals.

But McDonald's says it will only feature milk, juice and water on menu boards and in its ads.

All advertising to kids will include a "fun nutrition or children's well-being" message, the company said.

Margo Wootan works for a group that pushes for healthy eating.

She said taking soda off the Happy Meals menu was a big step.

Other fast-food chains should follow it, she said.

But she still criticized the push to include nutrition messages in ads to kids.

She warned it could make McDonald's seem healthier than it actually is.

"The changes McDonald's are making make the food somewhat healthier.

But I don't think a hamburger, some apples and fries is something I'd call healthy," she said.

People who push for better health target McDonald's.

They say McDonald's promotes bad eating habits.

After years of outperforming its rivals, McDonald's is also struggling to shake its fast-food image.

It needs to keep up with shifting tastes.

Late last year, the company reported that its monthly sales went down for the first time in nearly 10 years.

Sales around the world have been choppy ever since.

It wants to better reflect the way people are eating.

McDonald's recently began to let customers put egg whites in all its breakfast sandwiches.

It also started selling chicken wraps.

They are partly intended to attract people who want foods they feel are fresher or healthier.

The way McDonald's sells to children has been criticized for years.

A study found that the chain's ads targeting children usually feature toy giveaways and movie tie-ins, not food.

And a 9-year-old girl made headlines at its latest shareholders meeting.

She stood up to ask Thompson to stop "tricking" kids into eating the company's food.

The girl was with her mother, who was affiliated with a group called Corporate Accountability.

It has pressured McDonald's to change how it sells to kids.

The comments are clearly a tough topic for Thompson.

He noted that the Alliance for a Healthier Generation was among the first groups that approached the company to use its "marketing might" to help kids.

They are working with McDonald's on its new health goals.

The Alliance was founded by the Clinton Global Initiative and the American Heart Association.

"Others have said, 'McDonald's, don't advertise to kids,'" Thompson said.

But McDonald's always felt if it really had as much power as people thought, why not use it to "do something great for kids?"

Howell Wechsler is the CEO of Alliance for a Healthier Generation.

He said the final agreement could help change the way people eat over time, given McDonald's enormous reach.

