McDonald's has changed how it will buy eggs.

It decided to only buy "cage-free" eggs.

Those eggs come from hens that have more room.

They can move around.

The hens are not stuck in small wire cages.

McDonald's buys 2 billion eggs each year.

It is hard to ignore.

Its decision will change how hens that lay eggs are treated.

Many famers will change their farming.

Animal rights supporters are happy with the decision.

Some farmers are not.

Many other companies have also made the switch.

Burger King, Dunkin' Donuts and Starbucks have.

The companies buy so many eggs that egg farmers will do what they ask.

California passed a cage-free law in 2008.

The law means egg-laying hens get more space.

Other states have passed laws like California's.

McDonald's decision is a big deal.

It means that cage-free eggs are the future, said Paul Shapiro.

He works for the Humane Society.

The group supports animal rights.

Ken Klippen runs a group that speaks for egg farmers.

He agrees that the McDonald's decision changes things.

He is not happy, though.

He wrote to McDonald's.

He said it is not always better to give chickens more room.

If they can walk around they get dirty.

He says that can make the eggs bad.

Glenn Hickman is an egg farmer.

He has already made changes because of McDonald's decision.

He plans to build a large building for millions of hens.

The hens will have more space.

The California law says that hens have to be able to turn around.

They have to be able to lie down and stand up.

They need room to stretch out.

Hickman used to house chickens in stacked wire cages.

They are known as battery cages.

The birds did not have much space to move in the cages.

The shift to cage-free eggs has increased costs.

This week, the average price for a dozen eggs was about $2.40 in California.

That is up by $1.26 from last year, said the USDA.

The average price in the U.S. was $1.78.

It was up about 82 cents from last year.

A disease called bird flu has been blamed for much of the price increase.

The disease killed more than 42 million hens.

Egg farmers have said cage-free rules will make prices much higher.

Klippen said egg farmers will keep fighting.

They want to keep cage-free rules from spreading.

