For many young people in Vietnam, the question has been loaded with impatience: Why isn't there a McDonald's there?

Decades after the Vietnam War, the communist country's first McDonald's will open next year in Ho Chi Minh City.

The coming of the Big Mac will be the next signal that Vietnam has become a player in the worldwide economy.

McDonald's already operates around the globe.

Getting to Vietnam has taken a little more time.

But there was little doubt one of the world's most recognizable brands would enter another developing country with a growing middle class.

McDonald's partner in Vietnam is a man named Henry Nguyen with a uniquely American background.

He is an investor with a medical degree and masters in business from Northwestern University who worked at the Golden Arches as a teenager.

Nguyen was born in Vietnam and fled with his family as a toddler in the final days of the war.

He returned to the country more than 12 years ago and is a well-known businessman today at the age of 39.

His father-in-law, Nguyen Tan Dung, is the country's prime minister.

Nguyen recalls the french fries and hot fudge sundae he enjoyed on his first trip to McDonald's as a 4-year-old.

He was making fries and working the front counter 10 years later.

"It's a love affair with the brand that started as a young boy," he said.

Vietnam will be the 119th country for McDonald's.

Nguyen and McDonald's think rising income and a young, city-dwelling population in the country of 90 million will lead to success there.

"This current young generation is Vietnam's golden generation," Nguyen said.

"They will be the ones leading the market and economic development."

They will also change what people eat and buy, he said.

McDonald's has had difficulty translating its food in other parts of Asia like Japan, where consumers aren't accustomed to touching their food, Nguyen said.

But Vietnam was once a French colony, and people there are used to bread and using their hands to eat.

And just because there isn't a McDonald's, Nguyen doesn't think consumers there have much learning to do.

"More than two-thirds of the people here in Vietnam have heard of McDonald's brand, and the vast majority think of it in very positive light," he said.

Nguyen's bet is a symbol of a big change underway in Vietnam.

The nation joined the World Trade Organization in 2007 and has loosened rules for foreign companies to operate there since then.

"It's a market we've wanted to get into, and one of the things was finding the right partner," said Mike Flores.

He is a McDonald's executive who develops restaurants around the world.

Flores said McDonald's has watched Vietnam's highly educated young population.

He's also seen big factory operations moved there from China, another country where the chain has had success.

"As China has been building its middle class, manufacturing is moving more into Southeast Asia, and Vietnam is picking up the overflow," he said.

Starbucks opened its first location in Ho Chi Minh City this year.

The city was known as Saigon when it was the capital of South Vietnam and fell to North Vietnam in 1975.

"I've had so many friends, colleagues and others ask, 'Why isn't there a McDonald's here?'

" Nguyen said.

"'Do they think there's something wrong with Vietnam?'

" Elizabeth Friend studies the food business for the company Euromonitor.

She said Vietnam has a $33 billion food service industry, making it the 20th-largest market in the world.

But chain restaurants are a fraction of that market.

Although Pizza Hut, KFC and Subway also have locations in Vietnam, receipts at chain restaurants only totaled $216 million last year.

"Maybe people haven't caught on to chains," she said.

"But you can also see there is a huge untapped potential to move in and claim that market share."

The average amount of spending money people have in Vietnam has doubled since 2007, to nearly $1,000 per person, Friend said.

Vietnam's currency is called the Dong.

Nguyen [founded](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) Good Day Hospitality, a company that will run his McDonald's franchise in Vietnam.

The businessman has taken on an even more public life since marrying the prime minister's daughter.

He said he was surprised by news reports that seemed to link his McDonald's deal to his family.

He has been talking with McDonald's about coming to Vietnam for more than a decade.

He was selected through a drawn-out search, during which the burger giant interviewed more than 50 people or companies for the first franchise, Nguyen said.

As the businessman got set to introduce the Big Mac — and the drive-thru — to Vietnam, Nguyen said he understands he will face challenges.

Those include questions about whether the food is healthy.

Other challenges include keeping the food safe, finding the right places to put restaurants, and hiring the right people to work in them.

"I think about all of these challenges, and to me, it's exciting," he said.

