McDonald's is finally coming to Vietnam.

People in Vietnam have been wondering when the world's largest restaurant chain would to come to the communist country in Southeast Asia.

They wondered why there was not one there already.

After all, the Vietnam War ended almost 40 years ago.

But next year, a McDonald's will open in Ho Chi Minh City.

A man named Henry Nguyen will work with McDonald's to bring the first restaurant to the country.

Nguyen was born in Vietnam.

He left with his family as a toddler in the last days of the war.

They settled in the United States.

As a teenager Nguyen worked at McDonalds.

Then he went on to study medicine and business at Northwestern University.

He returned to Vietnam more than 12 years ago.

Today he is a well-known businessman there.

His father-in-law is the leader of Vietnam.

Nguyen said he fell in love with the company as a young boy.

The first time he went to McDonald's was when he was four.

Nguyen remembers the french fries and hot fudge sundae he ate then.

Ten years later he was making fries and working the front counter.

Vietnam will be the 119th country McDonald's enters.

People in the country have been making more money as the economy grows.

There are also a lot of young people who live in cities.

Nguyen, 39, and McDonald's think they can be do well in the country of 90 million people.

"This current young generation is Vietnam's golden generation," Nguyen said.

They will change what people eat and buy, he added.

McDonald's has had problems bringing its food to other parts of Asia, Nguyen said.

In some places like Japan, people are not used to touching their food.

But Vietnam was once a French colony.

People there are used to bread and using their hands to eat.

People also know McDonald's, even if there isn't one in the country, he said.

Most think it is a good company.

Nguyen's bet is a sign of a big change going on in Vietnam.

The country has made it easier for large companies from other countries to enter Vietnam since 2007.

Mike Flores works for McDonald's opening restaurants around the world.

He said McDonald's has watched Vietnam's young people growing more educated.

Money to set up factories is flowing into the country from China.

McDonald's has already done well among Chinese customers.

Starbucks opened its first location in Ho Chi Minh City this year.

The city used to be called Saigon, and was the capital of South Vietnam.

It fell to North Vietnam in 1975.

"I've had so many friends, colleagues and others ask, 'Why isn't there a McDonald's here?'

" Nguyen said.

"'Do they think there's something wrong with Vietnam?'"

Elizabeth Friend works at a company called Euromonitor.

She studies the food business.

Vietnam spends $33 billion on restaurant food, she said.

Only 19 other countries spend more.

KFC, Pizza Hut and Subway are already in Vietnam.

But big restaurant companies still take only a small slice of that market's pie.

Last year, they only sold $216 million worth of food in Vietnam.

Aside from the Big Mac, Nguyen will also be bringing the first drive-thru to Vietnam.

He said he knows he will face challenges.

People will question whether the food is healthy.

They may wonder how the restaurant will keep the food safe.

He will also have to find the right places to put restaurants, and hire the right people to work in them.

"I think about all of these challenges, and to me, it's exciting," he said.

