The Supreme Court has given gay couples the right to marry across the country.

Its decision last Friday marked a huge change in law, and created the most important new liberty in years.

The court's 5 to 4 decision focused on same-sex marriages.

However, its meaning goes far beyond the 20-year-long battle for gay marriage.

The ruling will likely lead to the end of any laws that treat gay people unfairly.

The ruling was cheered by some as recognizing the human right to choose whom to marry.

Others, however, condemned it.

They called it an effort by justices to take over a matter that should be decided by state lawmakers.

The court's decision lets same-sex couples marry in the 13 states that still outlawed gay marriage.

"No longer may this liberty be denied to them," Justice Anthony M. Kennedy wrote of the decision.

"No union is more profound than marriage."

He said marriage represents the highest ideals of love, loyalty, devotion, sacrifice and family.

"In forming a marital union, two people become something greater than once they were," he said.

Same-sex couples, he wrote, "ask for equal dignity in the eyes of the law.

The Constitution grants them that right."

Kennedy described gay marriage as a struggle for equal rights.

He based the court's decision on a 1967 case that ended the laws that prevented African-Americans and white people from marrying.

He also based it on other court rulings that said husbands should not have greater rights than their wives.

The decision will likely encourage more people to accept gay marriage.

Most Americans now support it.

This was not the case just a few years ago.

Kennedy said that some places still may not accept equality for gays and lesbians.

"The nature of injustice is that we may not always see it in our own times," he wrote.

The four judges on the opposing side were angry with the five in the majority.

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said the Constitution does not deal with marriage.

He said the Supreme Court should not get involved in it either.

Roberts said that gay marriage should be decided by each state's lawmakers.

He called the court's decision "act of will, not legal judgment."

On Friday, supporters of gay marriage celebrated on the Supreme Court steps.

Also there was James Obergefell, who took a phone call of congratulations from President Barack Obama.

Obergefell brought the case to the Supreme Court.

He had sued the state of Ohio for refusing to recognize his marriage after his husband, John Arthur, died.

Obama applauded the ruling, calling it a "victory for America."

He praised the hard work of same-sex marriage supporters, who had pushed for change.

"Sometimes," he said, "there are days like this, when that slow, steady effort is rewarded with justice that arrives like a thunderbolt."

Allowing gay couples to marry makes communities stronger, the president said.

Obama said the decision declares what millions of Americans already believe in their hearts: "that when all Americans are treated as equal, all are free."

Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan voted for gay marriage.

Justices Clarence Thomas, Antonin Scalia and Samuel Alito Jr. voted against it.

Before Friday's decision, gay marriage was legal in 37 states.

Two years ago, Supreme Court made a key statement about gay marriage.

It said that gay marriages deserved equal dignity and respect under the law.

Friday's ruling took that a step further.

It may send a message that any laws against gays and lesbians are on shaky ground.

In some places, people do not have to rent apartments to gay couples, for instance.

Sarah Warbelow is a lawyer for the Human Rights Campaign in Washington, a group that pushes for the rights of gay people.

She said lawmakers in states across the country are trying to pass 115 laws that target gay people.

The Supreme Court decision will help fight them.

Warbelow and others, however, thought Kennedy did not go far enough.

They wanted him to say discrimination against gay people is the same as discrimination against African-Americans or women.

She said that would make it clear that the government cannot discriminate against gay people.

