Five children at a KinderCare Learning Center in suburban Chicago have been diagnosed with measles, Illinois and Cook County health officials announced Thursday.

Public health officials are investigating the cluster of measles cases at the center in northwest suburban Palatine, Illinois, according to a statement.

Two of the cases have been confirmed with laboratory testing while the other three diagnoses are pending test results, according to a joint statement from health officials.

All five children are under the age of 1.

The announcement comes about a week after Cook County officials announced the state's first confirmed case this year of the respiratory disease, traced to a suburban Cook County resident who officials would only identify as being older than 18.

At the time, officials listed three locations where others might have been exposed to the patient in mid January — including two in Palatine.

Cook County officials say it's not clear if the adult's diagnosis is linked to the children at the day care or to the outbreak associated with Disneyland, which has grown to more than 100 cases, many of them in California.

Students and staff at the Palatine facility have been notified, and anyone who hasn't been vaccinated with the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine has been instructed to remain at home.

Anyone at the facility who did not have an updated vaccination record is "excluded from the center" until Feb. 24, said Colleen Moran, spokeswoman for KinderCare, which runs 1,500 learning centers in the U.S. that offer care and schooling for infants through 12-year-olds.

Moran said the center was following the guidance of the Cook County Public Health Department by keeping unvaccinated children and staff away from the center until that date, calling it "a precaution."

"We just want everyone to recover quickly and to stay safe," Moran said.

Cook County officials say any resident who is unvaccinated and experiences measles symptoms of a high fever and rash should call their local health department and their doctor.

Measles is a highly contagious respiratory disease that can cause severe health complications, including pneumonia, encephalitis and death.

It's transmitted by contact with an infected person through coughing or sneezing and can remain in the air and on surfaces for up to two hours.

Infected people are contagious from four days before their rash starts through four days afterward, according to state and county health officials.

Children as young as those who were diagnosed with measles from the child care center are not recommended for the vaccine.

That's because "their immune response doesn't last," Ingalls Memorial Hospital Dr. Wendell Wheeler said.

"It's a temporary response, which is why we wait until 12 months."

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), American Academy of Pediatrics and American Academy of Family Physicians all recommend that children get their first dose of the MMR (measles-mumps-rubella) vaccine at 12 to 15 months old and a second shot at 4 to 6 years old, before starting kindergarten.

Despite a national MMR vaccination coverage level of 92 percent, one child in 12 in the United States is not receiving the first dose of MMR vaccine on time, underscoring considerable measles susceptibility across the country, according to the CDC.

Unvaccinated children are among the most vulnerable to measles, which is among the most contagious of all diseases, Wheeler said.

"The very young have small airways," Wheeler said.

"The disease has thick mucus and the two don't go together.

They are not moving air well and they get into trouble," he said, adding that pneumonia is often a complication.

If your child has only the first dose of the measles vaccine, he or she may not be fully protected.

About 5 to 10 percent do not develop an adequate immune response after one dose, which is why a second dose is necessary, said Dr. Tina Tan, an infectious disease specialist at Lurie Children's Hospital.

"If given at the appropriate interval and age, after two doses of measles vaccine a person is considered protected for life," she said.

Those who are too young to get vaccinated are protected by the majority who are inoculated, called herd immunity.

However, when the vaccination rate drops below 95 percent, a community loses its herd immunity to highly contagious diseases such as measles, Tan explained.

"(Herd immunity) matters because the virus has no place to go," Wheeler said.

"If it hits person 1 and they're immune and person 2 and they're immune … But if it hits person 1 who is not immune, well, it can increase exponentially."

The vaccine is required for Illinois students.

Statewide, the percentage of school children who have complied with measles vaccination rules has remained about 98 percent over the past decade, according to the Illinois State Board of Education, which collects data from public and nonpublic schools.

But that includes both those who got the vaccine and those who officially opted out of vaccinations for religious or medical reasons, according to the agency.

Heather Robinson took her 15-month-old for the MMR shot last month.

The child broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body — "it was even in her ears," said her mother.

"I was totally freaking out.

I thought it was measles."

It turned out to be a reaction to the shot.

Still, the Homewood mother is glad she was proactive.

"I have friends who don't vaccinate … they admit that they're depending on others to be responsible, which is kind of hypocritical."

