An outbreak of measles that started at Disneyland in Southern California continues across the state.

As a result, some students are being kept home from school to prevent the very contagious disease from spreading to even more people.

Most people get a vaccine, or a shot, to prevent measles when they are young.

Students who did not get the vaccine are more likely to get measles and spread it to others.

Two dozen students at one school in California were told to stay at home until they could show they had been vaccinated.

The measles outbreak that started in Disneyland is the worst in California in 15 years, health officials said.

More than 70 people now have the disease across California, six other states and Mexico.

Measles causes a rash that first appears on the head and then spreads to the rest of the body.

Other symptoms include fever, red eyes and a runny nose.

The disease can sometimes be serious.

Because the measles is spread by coughing and sneezing, the disease can be extremely contagious.

It can be spread four days before the rash appears and four days after.

Experts believe this measles outbreak began in December.

It has drawn attention to parents who choose not to vaccinate their children for personal reasons.

Scientists and doctors say the vaccines are safe.

Still, some parents do not want their children to get them.

They worry that the shots may cause children to become autistic or have other health problems.

Scientific studies have shown that the shots do not cause autism.

In Orange County, California, there are some wealthy areas where many parents choose not to give their children the shots.

Experts say if 8 or more people out of a group of 100 are not vaccinated, then the disease can begin to spread faster and faster.

In California, about 3 out of every 100 kindergartners have not had the measles vaccine.

In some elementary schools in Southern California, the rate is more like 10 or 11 out of 100 children.

"The vaccine is safe," Dr. Eric Handler said.

He is the Orange Country public health officer.

"We can prevent this disease if people get vaccinated."

Handler said that when a school has one case of measles, it is important to be very careful.

All children who have not had the measles shot must be kept out of school for 21 days.

This keeps the disease from spreading, he said.

One person with measles walking though a group of unvaccinated people can infect 12 or more of them, experts say.

The measles vaccine has been around since 1963 in the United States.

Still, there were still major outbreaks of the disease nationwide in 1976-77 and 1989-91.

In 1977, about 50,000 students in Los Angeles County were told to stay home from school.

These students either had to get the shot, or prove they had gotten it before.

Within days, most returned to school, and the number of measles cases dropped quickly.

Today, with measles spreading in California, some parents are rethinking their decision to not vaccinate their children.

One mother at a park in Newport Beach said she chose what shots to give to her 2 1/2-year-old daughter.

She did not follow the official schedule.

Instead, she took the advice of "The Vaccine Book" by Dr. Robert Sears, which skips or delays some shots.

"I didn't want to flood her system with a bunch of chemicals all at once.

I wanted to be informed and not trust what medical professionals said," said the mother, Stephanie, who did not want to give her last name.

The outbreak worries her though, and she said she is going to get her daughter vaccinated next month.

"It was a hard decision," she said.

Some parents who did vaccinate their children are concerned by the risk caused by those who did not.

"It scares me," said Julie Angus, a mother who is 40 years old.

She talked about her fear of measles while walking her 4-year-old and 6-year-old home from school.

"They're making a decision for their child that affects other children.

I personally feel that if that's your choice you should home-school your child," Angus said.

