Five babies have come down with the measles at their day care center.

All five of them are under the age of 1.

Health officials are trying to figure out how the babies caught the disease.

The babies all go to KinderCare Learning Center in Palatine, Illinois.

Measles can cause severe health problems.

It spreads quickly from child to child.

About a week ago, Illinois discovered a case of the measles.

An adult had the disease.

It was the first case of measles this year.

Health officials said it was an adult who lives near Chicago.

The person visited a Palatine health center and grocery store.

Palatine is where the day care center is located.

Officials do not know if the babies caught the measles from the adult.

They also do not know if the Illinois outbreak is connected to Disneyland.

This winter, more than 100 people caught the disease at the California theme park.

There is a shot that keeps most people from getting the measles.

The shot is called a vaccine.

Doctors say children should get the first shot at 12 to 15 months old.

Children are supposed to get the second shot at 4 to 6 years old, before starting kindergarten.

Measles used to be very common.

Because of the vaccine, it is rare.

Most doctors have never even seen a case of it.

The shot works and is safe, experts say.

Still, some parents choose not to get their children vaccinated.

Some say it is against their religion.

Others worry that it could be dangerous.

The babies at the day care were too young to be vaccinated.

Colleen Moran is the spokeswoman for KinderCare.

She said that day care students and workers who did not get the vaccine must stay home.

KinderCare runs 1,500 centers in the United States.

"We just want everyone to recover quickly and to stay safe," Moran said.

Measles symptoms can include a high fever.

People with the measles get a red rash.

The illness is spread through coughing and sneezing.

It can remain in the air and on surfaces for up to two hours.

The measles is catching from four days before the rash to four days afterward.

In the United States, nearly all children receive the vaccine.

Still, one child in 12 does not get it on time.

If a child only gets the first shot of the vaccine, he can still get the measles.

That is why a second dose is necessary, said Dr. Tina Tan.

She is a doctor at Lurie Children's Hospital in Chicago.

Children also need to get both vaccines at the right age.

Then they are "protected for life," Tan said.

A child who does not get the vaccine is much more likely to catch the measles.

The child also can spread it to others.

If even six children out of 100 do not get the shot, the disease spreads faster and faster.

Last month, Heather Robinson took her 15-month-old daughter for the measles shot.

The girl broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body.

"It was even in her ears," said Robinson.

She lives near Chicago.

"I was totally freaking out."

Robinson thought her daughter had come down with the measles.

The rash was not the disease.

But it was caused by the shot.

Still, Robinson is glad she had her daughter vaccinated.

"I have friends who don't vaccinate," she said.

"They're depending on others to be responsible."

