Five babies at a day care center near Chicago have come down with the measles.

All five babies are under the age of 1.

Measles is extra dangerous for children that young.

They are too young to get the measles shot to protect them from the disease.

Public health officials are trying to figure out how the babies caught the disease.

They all go to KinderCare in Palatine, Illinois.

Measles is a highly contagious disease that spreads quickly from person to person and can cause severe health problems.

Measles used to be a common childhood disease.

Because of the vaccine, it has become so rare that most doctors have never seen a case of it.

About a week ago, Illinois discovered its first case of the measles this year.

Health officials said that the measles patient was an adult and lived near Chicago.

In mid-January, the adult visited a health clinic and grocery store in the town where the day care center is located.

Health officials do not know if the five babies got the measles from the person.

They also do not know if the outbreak in Illinois is connected to one at Disneyland.

More than 100 people have caught the disease at the California theme park this winter.

There is a shot that keeps most people from getting the measles.

The shot is called the MMR vaccine.

It protects against three diseases: measles, mumps and rubella.

Most children get two shots of the MMR vaccine.

Doctors groups say children should get their first MMR vaccine at 12 to 15 months old.

They should get the second shot at 4 to 6 years old, before starting kindergarten.

The shot works, and it is safe, experts say.

Still, some parents choose not to give their children that shot, because of their religion or because they think it could be dangerous.

Colleen Moran is the spokeswoman for KinderCare, which runs 1,500 day care centers in the United States.

She said that students and workers who did not get the vaccine must stay home from the day care center.

"We just want everyone to recover quickly and to stay safe," Moran said.

Measles symptoms can include a high fever and red rash.

It is spread through coughing and sneezing, and can remain in the air and on surfaces for up to two hours.

People with measles are contagious, meaning they can spread the disease, from four days before the rash starts to four days afterward.

Nationally, 92 percent of children receive the MMR vaccine.

Still, one child in 12 does not get the first dose of MMR vaccine on time.

If a child has only the first dose of the measles vaccine, the child may not be fully protected.

That is why a second dose is necessary, said Dr. Tina Tan, a disease expert at Lurie Children's Hospital in Chicago.

Children who get both vaccines at the right age are "considered protected for life," she said.

An unvaccinated child is more likely to catch the measles and spread it to others, said Dr. Wendell Wheeler.

He is a doctor at Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Illinois.

If even six people out of 100 are not vaccinated, the measles spreads faster and faster.

Heather Robinson took her 15-month-old daughter for the MMR shot last month.

After, the child broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body.

"It was even in her ears," said Robinson, who lives near Chicago.

"I was totally freaking out."

Robinson said she thought it was measles.

The rash was not the measles.

But it was caused by the shot.

Still, Robinson is glad she had her daughter vaccinated.

"I have friends who don't vaccinate," she said.

"They admit that they're depending on others to be responsible."

