Five babies at a day care center near Chicago have been diagnosed with the measles, health officials announced Thursday.

Public health officials are investigating the cluster of measles cases at the KinderCare Learning Center in suburban Palatine, Illinois.

Laboratory testing has confirmed two of the cases, while the other three are waiting for final test results.

All five babies are under the age of 1 and are too young to be vaccinated.

The announcement comes about a week after the state's first case of measles of the year was confirmed.

Cook County health officials would only identify the person with measles as a suburban resident who is older than 18.

At the time, officials listed three places where others might have come into contact with the measles patient in mid-January — including two in Palatine.

Cook County officials say it's not clear if the adult measles case is linked to the children at the day care center or to the outbreak at Disneyland.

More than 100 people have caught the respiratory disease at the California theme park this winter.

Students and staff at the Palatine daycare center have been notified of the measles cases.

Anyone who has not received the measles, mumps and rubella vaccine (MMR) has been told to stay at home until Feb. 24, said Colleen Moran.

She is the spokeswoman for KinderCare, which runs 1,500 centers in the United States.

Moran said the center was following Cook County Public Health Department guidelines.

"We just want everyone to recover quickly and to stay safe," Moran said.

Officials say anyone who is unvaccinated and experiences measles symptoms should call their local health department and their doctor.

Symptoms include a high fever and rash.

Measles is a highly contagious respiratory disease that can cause severe health problems, including pneumonia, brain swelling and death.

It's spread by contact with an infected person through coughing or sneezing and can remain in the air and on surfaces for up to two hours.

Infected people are contagious from four days before their rash starts through four days afterward.

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), American Academy of Pediatrics and American Academy of Family Physicians all recommend that children get their first dose of the MMR vaccine at 12 to 15 months old.

Children should receive a second shot at 4 to 6 years old, before starting kindergarten.

Nationally, 92 percent of children receive the MMR vaccine.

Despite this, one child in 12 in the United States is not receiving the first dose of MMR vaccine on time.

According to the CDC, this highlights why so many children are exposed to catching the measles.

Unvaccinated children are among the most likely to get the measles, said Dr. Wendell Wheeler of Ingalls Memorial Hospital in Harvey, Illinois.

Measles is one of the most contagious of all diseases.

"The very young have small airways," Wheeler said.

"The disease has thick mucus and the two don't go together.

They are not moving air well and they get into trouble," he said.

If a child has only the first dose of the measles vaccine, he or she may not be fully protected.

About 5 to 10 percent are not immune after just one dose, which is why a second dose is necessary, said Dr. Tina Tan.

She is an infectious disease expert at Lurie Children's Hospital in Chicago.

"If given at the appropriate interval and age, after two doses of measles vaccine a person is considered protected for life," she said.

Those who are too young to get vaccinated are protected by the vast majority of people who are vaccinated.

This effect is called herd immunity.

However, when the vaccination rate drops below 95 percent, the community loses its herd immunity, Tan explained.

Herd immunity "matters because the virus has no place to go," Wheeler said.

"If it hits person 1 and they're immune and person 2 and they're immune … But if it hits person 1 who is not immune, well, it can increase exponentially."

The MMR vaccine is required for Illinois students.

Statewide, the percentage of school children who follow the state rules has remained about 98 percent over the past decade, according to the Illinois State Board of Education.

But that figure includes both those who got the vaccine and those who officially opted out of vaccinations for religious or medical reasons, according to the agency.

Heather Robinson took her 15-month-old daughter for the MMR shot last month.

The child broke out into a rash that covered every inch of her body — "it was even in her ears," said her mother, who lives in Homewood, a suburb of Chicago.

"I was totally freaking out.

I thought it was measles."

The rash turned out to be just a reaction to the shot.

Still, Robinson is glad she got her daughter vaccinated.

"I have friends who don't vaccinate … they admit that they're depending on others to be responsible, which is kind of hypocritical," she said.

