Ethan Brown's company makes fake meat.

He was at a cafe near the company's California office recently.

He peeled apart his chicken strips.

Except they were not made of chicken.

They were made from protein from soybeans and peas.

But they looked a lot like real chicken.

"That's the beauty," said Brown.

His company is called Beyond Meat.

The protein is blasted with very hot heat and high pressure.

That makes the fake stuff seem like the real thing.

Brown's imitation chicken is so convincing that important people have put money into getting it made.

These people include Microsoft's Bill Gates.

Whole Foods helped make the product better.

Then the retailer put it in stores last year.

Brown started out in the energy business.

To him, fake meat is about more than health.

It is also a way to limit harmful gases that come from animals.

Some of these gases are believed to cause [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

The effect of those gases could change weather patterns and nature.

And it may be hard to provide enough meat for everybody by the middle of the century.

Fake meat can help, he thinks.

Janet Corvin, 52, has been a vegetarian since she was a child.

She doesn't eat meat.

She eats the fake stuff at least six times a week.

Vegetables alone just won't do.

She loves how meat tastes and feels.

"It's salty; it's greasy," Corvin said.

Everybody really wants grease, she said.

Brown doesn't expect everyone to be like Corvin.

But he hopes enough people switch from animal protein to protein from plants to make a difference.

"Things like (real) fried chicken taste great," he said.

"So why give it up?

Just don't have it every day."

The United Nations expects people around the world will eat a lot more meat by 2050.

The increase would strain the world's water and grain supplies.

A survey said one out of every 20 of people in the U.S. were vegetarians.

Slightly more people were vegetarians in 1999.

It doesn't seem like there will be lots more vegetarians anytime soon.

Janet Riley works for the American Meat Institute.

It represents the meat business.

She said she does not think tofu or fake meat will make people stop eating steaks.

Brown, 42, agrees that his biggest challenge is making fake meat seem like real meat.

He grew up visiting a dairy farm that his father ran as a hobby.

He started cutting back on meat at 13.

He has been a vegan for the past 12 years.

Vegans do not eat or use any animal products.

Brown worked for a Canadian energy company.

He became interested in how animals raised in big farms might cause climate change.

Gas produced by animals caused more pollution than cars, trains and planes together, a study said.

Brown put money into vegan restaurants in the Washington area in 2006.

More people became interested in vegan food.

But he didn't think any of the food was good enough.

It needed heavy seasoning or sauce to taste good.

Then he saw a paper written by Fu-hung Hsieh and Harold Huff.

They were at the University of Missouri.

Hsieh and Huff spent years looking for a fake meat that was just like the real thing.

They developed a new way.

It broke down soy proteins by using high temperatures and high pressure.

The trick was finding the right mix of the two.

The proteins are pressed through a large machine.

They ooze out like pale Play-Doh.

Lots of tinkering brought the sludge closer to the feel of real chicken.

Stores will soon be offering Beyond Meat's new line of imitation cooked ground beef.

The company also may sell chicken nuggets and fake drumsticks.

"We're not trying to get people to eat kale and quinoa," Brown said.

"We're just trying to get your kids and my kids to have a healthier chicken nugget."

