Ethan Brown peels apart his ready-to-eat vegetarian chicken strips.

The stringy strands mimic the moist meat of the real thing.

"That's the beauty.

That's absolutely everything," said Brown, founder of Beyond Meat, admiring the strings of fake chicken at a cafe near the company's Southern California headquarters.

The company gets close to creating that real feel by blasting protein from soybeans and peas with high heat and high pressure.

The result is mock meat that is real enough to make people forget springy tofu turkey and other fake meat.

Brown's imitation poultry is so convincing that tech giants such as Microsoft's Bill Gates and Twitter co-founders Biz Stone and Evan Williams have put in money to get it made.

Whole Foods helped refine the product.

The retailer then put it in its stores last year.

"They said they weren't just going after the meat market; they wanted to be meat," Stone said.

"They said their competitors are the people who make chicken."

Brown started out in the energy industry.

To him, mock meat is not only much healthier than the real thing.

It is also a way to reduce methane and other harmful gases emitted by animals.

Some of these gases are believed to cause [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

The effect of those gases could change weather patterns and nature.

It can also ease a meat shortage predicted to occur by midcentury.

Beyond Meat and other makers of meat substitutes are cooking up grub that captures more of the bite and appearance of animal flesh.

All are fighting for a piece of the meat-alternatives market.

That business has grown 8 percent from 2010 through last year to $553 million, according to research firm Mintel.

Janet Corvin, 52, has been a vegetarian since she was a child.

Still, she wants the taste and texture of meat.

She turns to the fake stuff at least six times a week.

Vegetables alone just won't do.

"It's got a flavor and texture we all learn to like," Corvin said recently as she stood in front of the mock-meat section at a Whole Foods in Glendale, Calif. "It's salty; it's greasy.

We all crave grease."

Brown doesn't expect everyone to be like Corvin.

But he hopes enough people switch from animal protein to a plant-based version to make a difference in the long run.

"Things like (real) fried chicken taste great," he said.

"So why give it up?

Just don't have it every day."

The United Nations projects global meat consumption will rise 73 percent by 2050.

The increase would put massive strains on the world's water and grain supplies.

"Put simply, there's no way to produce enough meat for 9 billion people," the expected global population then, Gates wrote.

"Yet we can't ask everyone to become vegetarians."

Beyond Meat and others are betting on a shift in consumer attitudes.

People are eating a lot more protein.

It's perfectly normal to see it advertised in forms other than meat.

Even Baby Ruth candy bars tout their protein.

But this hasn't necessarily led to mobs of Americans giving up pork chops and bacon-wrapped hot dogs.

A Gallup poll last year placed the percentage of vegetarians in the U.S. at 5 percent.

It was 6 percent in 1999.

The meat industry doesn't expect that to change in the near future.

"It's hard for me to imagine that tofu or tempeh will compete with T-bones any time soon among people who enjoy the beefy taste and texture of a steak," said Janet Riley, a spokeswoman for the American Meat Institute.

Brown, 42, agrees that his biggest challenge is re-creating that experience.

He grew up visiting a dairy farm that his father ran as a hobby.

He started cutting back on meat at 13 and has been a vegan the past 12 years.

Vegans do not eat or use any animal products.

Having worked for a Canadian energy company, he became engrossed in the link between industrialized livestock and climate change.

In 2006, the United Nations estimated that the livestock industry produced 18 percent of the world's greenhouse gas emissions each year.

That's more than cars, trains and planes combined.

In 2009, former World Bank environmental adviser Robert Goodland placed the industry's share of annual global emissions at 51 percent, saying the U.N. had underestimated methane and other pollutants.

Such studies prompted Brown to put money into vegan restaurants in the Washington area in 2006.

The menu featured sandwiches stuffed with wheat gluten patties and Chinese popcorn "chicken" smothered in brown sauce.

Demand was growing.

But he didn't think any of the food was good enough to eat without heavy seasoning or sauce.

Then he came across a research paper written by Fu-hung Hsieh and Harold Huff at the University of Missouri.

Hsieh and Huff spent years seeking the perfect imitation meat: a fake that couldn't be distinguished from the real thing.

The team developed a method that broke down soy proteins by alternating high temperatures with high pressure.

The trick was finding the right combination of the two.

Pressed through a large, stainless steel machine, the manipulated proteins ooze out like pale Play-Doh.

Constant tinkering brings the sludge closer to the feel of real chicken.

Brown was impressed.

He struck a licensing agreement in 2010 to use the technology.

Stores will soon be offering Beyond Meat's new line of imitation cooked ground beef.

The company also is exploring chicken nuggets and fake drumsticks.

"We're not trying to get people to eat kale and quinoa," Brown said.

"We're just trying to get your kids and my kids to have a healthier chicken nugget."

