When Ethan Brown peels apart his ready-to-eat vegetarian chicken strips, the stringy strands mimic the moist meat of the real thing.

"That's the beauty.

That's absolutely everything," said Brown, founder of Beyond Meat, admiring the strands of faux chicken at a cafe near the company's Southern California headquarters.

The company gets close to creating that authentic texture by blasting soy and pea proteins through an alternating cascade of high heat and high pressure.

The result is mock meat that replicates the genuine product enough to make people forget the tastes of springy tofu turkey and other unappetizing fake meat.

Brown's imitation poultry is so convincing that it has attracted investment from tech giants such as Microsoft Corp.'s Bill Gates and Twitter Inc. co-founders Biz Stone and Evan Williams.

Whole Foods Market helped refine the product before rolling it out at its stores last year.

"They said they weren't just going after the meat market; they wanted to be meat," Stone said.

"They said their competitors are the people who make chicken."

Brown started out in the energy industry.

To him, mock meat is not only a much healthier alternative.

It is also a way to reduce methane and other harmful gases emitted by animals.

Some of these gases are believed to cause [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming).

The effect of those gases could change weather patterns and nature.

Building up the fake meat industry may also cushion the blow from a meat shortage predicted to occur by midcentury.

Beyond Meat and other makers of such substitutes are chasing increasingly picky taste buds by cooking up grub that captures more of the bite and appearance of animal flesh.

All are fighting for a piece of the meat-alternatives market, which has grown 8 percent from 2010 through last year to $553 million, according to research firm Mintel.

Janet Corvin, 52, has been a vegetarian since she was a child, but still desires the taste and texture of meat.

She turns to the fake stuff at least six times a week.

Vegetables alone just won't do.

"It's got a flavor and texture we all learn to like," Corvin said recently as she stood in front of the mock-meat section at a Whole Foods in Glendale, Calif. "It's salty; it's greasy.

We all crave grease."

Brown doesn't expect everyone to be like Corvin, but hopes enough people switch from animal protein to a plant-based version to make a difference in the long run.

"Things like (real) fried chicken taste great," he said.

"So why give it up?

Just don't have it every day."

The United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization projects global meat consumption will rise 73 percent by 2050.

The increase would put massive strains on the world's water and grain supplies.

"Put simply, there's no way to produce enough meat for 9 billion people," the expected global population then, Gates wrote in a blog post titled "The Future of Food."

He added, "Yet we can't ask everyone to become vegetarians.

We need more options for producing meat without depleting our resources."

Beyond Meat and others are betting on a shift in consumer attitudes.

Protein is so prized in these low-carb times that it's perfectly normal to see it marketed in forms other than meat — even a Baby Ruth candy bar.

But this hasn't necessarily led to horde of Americans giving up pork chops and bacon-wrapped hot dogs.

A Gallup poll last year placed the percentage of vegetarians in the U.S. at 5 percent.

It was 6 percent in 1999.

The meat industry doesn't expect that to change in the near future.

"It's hard for me to imagine that tofu or tempeh will compete with T-bones any time soon among people who enjoy the beefy taste and texture of a steak," said Janet Riley, a spokeswoman for the American Meat Institute.

Brown, 42, agrees that his biggest challenge is re-creating that experience.

He grew up visiting a dairy farm that his father ran as a hobby.

He started cutting back on meat at 13 and has been a vegan the past 12 years.

Having worked for a Canadian energy company, he became engrossed in the link between industrialized livestock and climate change.

In 2006, the United Nations estimated that the livestock industry produced 18 percent of the world's emissions each year — more than cars, trains and planes combined.

In 2009, former World Bank environmental advisor Robert Goodland placed the industry's share of annual global emissions at 51 percent, saying the U.N. had underestimated methane and other pollutants.

Such studies prompted Brown to invest in vegan restaurants in the Washington area in 2006.

The menu featured sandwiches stuffed with wheat gluten patties and Chinese popcorn "chicken" smothered in brown sauce.

Demand was growing.

But he didn't think any of the food was good enough to eat without heavy seasoning or sauce.

Then he came across a research paper written by Fu-hung Hsieh and Harold Huff at the University of Missouri, an institution that prides itself on its agricultural programs, particularly meat.

Hsieh and Huff spent years seeking the holy grail of imitation meat: an indistinguishable fake.

The team developed a method that broke down soy proteins by alternating high temperatures with high pressure.

The trick was finding the right combination of the two.

Pressed through a large, stainless steel machine, the proteins ooze out like pale Play-Doh.

Constant tinkering brings the sludge closer to the feel of real chicken.

Brown was impressed.

He struck a licensing agreement in 2010 to use the technology.

Stores will soon be offering Beyond Meat's new line of imitation cooked ground beef.

The company also is exploring chicken nuggets and fake drumsticks.

"We're not trying to get people to eat kale and quinoa," Brown said.

"We're just trying to get your kids and my kids to have a healthier chicken nugget."

