Chris Carroll remembers the first time he saw someone hack into an insulin pump and make it deliver a deadly dose.

The pump, which helps people with diabetes regulate their blood sugar, wasn't connected to anyone.

Still, Carroll, a 34-year-old from Texas, got the point: The danger was real.

It hit home, too.

Carroll has Type 1 diabetes.

He wears a pump that delivers insulin directly into his body.

Insulin is a hormone that is usually produced by the pancreas.

People with Type 1 diabetes do not produce enough insulin.

More and more medical devices and hospital equipment are connected to the Internet or networks where they can become targets for criminals or hackers.

These people might try either to harm the users or make points about their own technological skills.

"The health care industry is not technically prepared to combat against cyber criminals' basic" ways of breaking in online, an April FBI report said.

It also said the industry is not as prepared for cyber attacks as banks and retailers.

Experts also are worried that deaths could happen accidentally.

As people become more dependent on medical devices that share information, the chance increases that their codes could be scrambled, causing malfunctions.

Frank Painter advises health care companies.

He said we most have to worry about "an unsecure system being able to be violated by accident."

The technology magazine Wired published a report in April.

It said that an information security official from Essentia Health found that cyber intruders can change how drug infusion pumps, which deliver antibiotics and chemotherapy directly into patients, work.

They can do the same thing to X-rays and defibrillators, which provide a shock to the heart.

They can even change temperature settings on medical refrigerators that store drugs and blood.

The security official, Scott Erven, conducted the study in the Midwest over two years, Wired reported.

Erven couldn't be reached to comment for this article.

Hospitals are moving patient records to network databases.

Money can motivate hackers to break into the networks.

The FBI report notes that even partial electronic health records are selling for $50 each on the black market.

Social Security cards and credit card numbers only fetch $1 apiece.

Electronic health records contain a great deal of patient information.

This allows all the patient's health care providers to share that information.

These records are attractive targets to hackers because they can be used to sell drug prescriptions.

Michael Carome is the director of health research at Public Citizen, a consumer rights group in Washington.

He said that the risk of private medical information leaks was hard to quantify.

But "it is a concern and it should be on the radar screen of public health officials and those who are responsible for security."

The FBI report mentions research from the SANS Institute.

SANS is a private company that specializes in Internet security training.

It concluded that some systems and devices were insecure for extended periods, and that companies, when notified of the vulnerabilities, did not repair them.

"The time to act is yesterday," the report says.

Carroll is familiar with manufacturers' indifference to security concerns.

After he saw the insulin pump hacking demonstration, he contacted his own pump provider.

"Both of the people I talked to had no idea this was possible, and had no answer regarding plans to fix the issue," he said.

"They tried the whole, 'Well, even if it's possible, no one would do it.'"

So far Carroll's pump manufacturer has been right.

The Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) website says the agency isn't aware of any patient injuries or deaths related to hacking.

Still, at least some users think the risks are real.

In 2007, then-Vice President Dick Cheney had the wireless function on his heart defibrillator disabled.

He feared it made him more at risk of a terrorist attack.

But most people don't face the same level of personal risk.

Carroll said that he does not think that he is important enough for people to go after."

But, he said, "some people try these types of things just for the hell of it."

Typically, problems with medical devices are identified by or reported to the FDA.

But the quickly growing number of new devices calls into question the FDA's capacity to monitor them.

"The FDA really can't legislate down to the line and code of security for every situation," said Painter.

Painter also said the FDA's general standards were sufficient.

The responsibility for ensuring device security lay with the manufacturers, he said.

"Good designers can build good, safe, secure designs in the first place, pretty simply."

If they did that, it would stop "somebody from doing something bad."

In an email, the FDA referred to an online statement about when it allows devices to be marketed.

The devices can be sold "when the probable benefits to patients outweigh the probable risks."

Like Painter, the FDA maintains that ultimately it is the manufacturers that are responsible to find risks associated with medical devices.

This includes "risks related to cyber security."

