Brad Zupp sits at his desk each morning and shuffles a deck of playing cards.

He has 70 seconds to memorize the order.

Zupp then sets a timer and grabs another deck.

He is about to see how fast he can replicate the order of the shuffled cards.

His fastest time so far is 65 seconds.

"I don't do anything bizarre," said Zupp, who performs this drill at least 10 times a day.

But what's normal to Zupp and other competitors in the Memory Championship can seem strange to others.

Many of us forget to buy milk at the store or forget people's names when we first meet them.

Memory competitors don't.

On a rainy Saturday in March, 65 of them gathered in a Manhattan office tower for the 17th USA Memory Championship.

The competition is one of several contests held each year around the world.

It went on for nearly eight tense hours.

Competitors scrambled to rearrange playing cards, match names with faces of strangers, and remember random numbers.

They had to memorize a 25-line poem and write it down word for word.

There were dentists, students, nurses, teachers, writers and magicians, ranging in age from 16 to 50.

They seemed to have little in common beyond their love for memorization and their difficult training methods, which usually involve sitting in isolation for several hours a day practicing.

Most give visual images to just about everything.

Then they create places in their minds to store those pictures, which serve as memory triggers.

Sue Jin Yang, a nurse in San Francisco, calls it the cookie crumb method.

"I imagine that I am walking a pathway … stopping at distinct locations, dropping off 'cookie crumbs' of visual images," said Yang, 32, who was competing in New York for the third time.

When Yang needs to recall something, she envisions walking the path, which she models after a familiar place.

In her mind, she stops at particular locations to pick up the correct cookie crumbs.

Yang's system associates numbers with sounds and letters.

That nudges Yang to remember her chosen images, which tend toward famous faces.

For example, three is associated with "m," one with "d." "So when I am given a digit such as 31, I see actor Matt Damon," Yang said.

"Sixty-two is Sean Penn."

Images, when tied together, can lead to fantasy-like pictures.

Lance Tschirhart, 25, a competitor from Texas, explained how the number 141251213 is embedded in his memory: 141 brings to mind a dart; 251 is an electrical outlet; 213 is a nutmeg.

"So I can imagine throwing a dart into an outlet and sparks shooting out around a nutmeg," Tschirhart said during a break between drills in the competition.

The competitors nodded knowingly.

Spectators looked baffled.

"You have to use your imagination," Tschirhart said.

The first New York contest, in 1997, drew 18 players.

The winner was Tatiana Cooley, a secretary who joined the competition minutes before it began.

Last year, Ram Kolli, a businessman from Los Angeles, beat the reigning champion, mountaineer Nelson Dellis, who had won the previous two years.

Other winners have included Ron White and Scott Hagwood.

White is a war veteran who has won twice, and memorized the name and rank of every U.S. service member killed in Afghanistan.

Scott Hagwood competed after doctors warned that the radiation treatment he had for his cancer could hurt his memory.

Hagwood won four years straight from 2001 to 2004.

