A long list of schools have been struck by violent student attacks in recent years.

Officials say to prevent student killings, kids should be taught alternatives to violence and have more school counselors available to them.

But officials say progress on limiting school violence nationwide has been held back by a lack of money.

At the same time, school-safety programs haven't worked.

And schools have failed to properly train staff and students.

"We're 15 years after Columbine, and you'd have thought we would have solved that problem," said John Matthews, who heads up the Community Safety Institute in Texas.

Matthews was referring to the 1999 rampage at Columbine High School in Colorado.

In that attack, seniors Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold fatally shot 12 students and a teacher and injured about 20 others before committing suicide.

A new Vanderbilt University study suggests teaching younger students "conflict-resolution skills."

Such skills would teach kids to think before they act.

The study found that this method could be more effective than others for reducing school violence.

Vanderbilt professor and surgeon Manny Sethi was involved with the study.

He said it may be necessary to teach those problem-solving skills before the high school years.

"At that point, it's very hard to kind of change behavior," Sethi said.

While conflict-resolution skills may help, demand also is growing for improved mental-health services in and out of school.

"There's a lot of hurting kids in our schools," said Beverly Kingston.

She's the director of the Center for the Study of the Prevention of Violence at the University of Colorado Boulder.

Like Sethi, Kingston said the earlier that kids are helped, the better.

"We need to put in place social-emotional learning programs, starting in preschool," she said.

After the mass stabbings at Franklin Regional High School in Murrysville, Pa., Gov.

Tom Corbett emphasized the need to focus on mental-health services.

But mental-health professionals in Pennsylvania schools say funding cuts in recent years have prompted reductions in school counselors, social workers and psychologists — doctors who treat mental illnesses.

"Schools are the first line of defense for mental-health supports for students," said Julia Szarko, president of the Association of School Psychologists in Pennsylvania.

She said it's important to recognize that there is a shortage of school counselors.

Szarko said the School District of Philadelphia last year eliminated all of its school counselors.

The cuts were made to save enough money to maintain its academic program.

Steven Berkowitz is a psychiatry professor at the University of Pennsylvania.

He said politicians often follow school tragedies with speeches about dealing with mental-health problems, but they don't follow up with laws or commit to funding them.

"Politicians often aren't specific about these plans because it sounds good, but they are not willing to pay for it," said Berkowitz.

U.S. Rep. Tim Murphy, R-Pa., has been encouraging Congress to overhaul mental-health services.

He's pushing for a new law called the Helping Families in Crisis Mental Health Act.

If passed, it would attempt to improve access to mental-health care by integrating it into the practices of doctors.

Violent acts in schools are rarely done in the heat of the moment, Murphy said.

Many had "been developing over a long period of time."

He says this offers many opportunities to step in to fix mental-health problems before they become a crisis.

Schools have embraced a variety of measures to keep schools safe.

They've tried everything from anti-bullying and zero-tolerance programs to metal detectors and programs that allow students to report threats without revealing that they've told on another student.

But some programs simply don't work, Sethi said.

The Vanderbilt team reviewed 27 school-safety programs nationwide.

After choosing one they thought might work, he and his team tried it in a violence-plagued Nashville middle school.

Before the study, the students completed questionnaires regarding their beliefs about violence and ability to manage explosive situations.

Over several weeks, students used role-playing to learn how to avoid violence at heated moments.

They worked through scenarios such as when a student calls another a name or hits on a peer's girlfriend.

Sethi said the exercises helped students in "understanding conflict and how it progresses and how to get yourself out of it."

After the exercises, researchers handed out a second questionnaire.

Students reported that they were less likely than before to be a target of bullying, and less likely to hit or push others.

They were also less likely to cheer if a fight broke out and more likely to try to defuse a potential fight.

Schools may be able to identify troubled students.

Yet, even then students often don't get the help they need, especially not on a consistent, long-term basis, Matthews said.

He said Seung-Hui Cho, who killed 32 people and himself during a 2007 shooting rampage at Virginia Tech, received care and monitoring at home.

"When he went to college, that was all out the door, and you saw that downward spiral," Matthews said.

