After his father was diagnosed with cancer, a 15-year-old Champaign, Ill., teen spun out of control.

He skipped school, yelled at teachers and punched holes in walls.

Sometimes, he retreated to his room paralyzed by an overwhelming sadness.

When a school administrator suggested he seek help, the student said no, he didn't need it.

Eventually diagnosed with major depression, he finally agreed to participate in group therapy sessions at his school.

As stories about school violence increase, experts say many teens are struggling with untreated mental illness.

However, school mental health screenings are not required, although federal health officials recommended them nearly a decade ago.

An Associated Press review of policies around the nation shows that screenings vary widely from state to state, as well as within school districts.

Schools screen for all kinds of rare diseases, but not for common behavioral disorders that can be costly to the individual, the family and society, said Mike Dennis.

Dennis, of Chestnut Health Systems in Normal, Ill., teaches health care professionals in 49 states how to assess and treat patients with mental illness and substance abuse.

The lack of universal mental health screening "doesn't make any sense from a public health perspective," he said.

The 15-year-old Illinois student was not diagnosed through a school program.

But in the school therapy sessions, he's learning practical tips to identify what sets him off and also to calm himself down before he acts out.

"I think it is a good idea because a lot of people think they don't need help but they actually do," said the teen.

The federal government does not keep track of school mental health screening, so it's unknown how many schools offer it.

"No state is providing high-end services in all of their schools," said Sharon Stephan, co-director of the Center for School Mental Health.

The University of Maryland-based center provides training for schools and mental health providers.

Baltimore and Chicago have strong screening and treatment programs.

Teachers in one South Florida school district screen children as young as kindergarten by filling out a short questionnaire.

In Minnesota, students answer anonymous surveys about drug use and depression.

In Olympia, Wash., 21,000 students were screened for substance abuse and mental health problems in 2010.

But in 2012, only 7,500 were screened due to a lack of funding.

Mental health problems typically start during adolescence.

If left untreated, they can lead to substance abuse, dropping out of school and, in adulthood, difficulty maintaining steady jobs and relationships.

Yet many people are not diagnosed until later in life.

The U.S.

Surgeon General reports that 10 percent of children and adolescents suffer from serious emotional and mental disorders that significantly affect their daily lives.

However, mental health screening in schools can raise complex issues and emotions.

Some people warn that universal screenings will over-diagnose students and stigmatize them.

"People have to be very cautious when they are talking (casually) about screening these kids.

How do people feel if they are over-identify or under-identify?"

said Linda Juszczak, president of the School-Based Health Alliance.

"The consequences to that are big."

Others say mass screenings could uncover mental health problems that schools don't have the resources to treat.

Behavioral Health System Baltimore developed a system that targets the most at-risk students by using a team of school officials and community mental health experts.

The team identifies children who may need help based on factors like whether they have a parent in prison or a parent who struggles with substance abuse.

It looks for those struggling academically and behaviorally, including those with high absence or suspension rates.

The team then may offer counseling or family therapy.

In South Florida, a fourth-grader was hospitalized for a week last August after threatening to attack a teacher's face with a pencil.

The child, who was diagnosed with two different disorders, was put on medication and returned to school.

A counselor is also working with his mother on parenting skills.

Dr. Seth Bernstein, a psychologist who consulted on the case, called it a missed opportunity.

The child was never screened for social and emotional or behavioral problems because screenings weren't offered at his school.

A year earlier, a program that offered academic support and family counseling had been cut at his school and 69 other elementary schools in Palm Beach County.

In contrast, Matthew Palma, 10, attended play sessions as a kindergartener.

He was identified through a project that screens 3,000 kindergarten kids and first-graders in Palm Beach County each year.

Children who have trouble expressing themselves or making friends attend play therapy weekly for three months.

The program, which costs $560,000 a year, is in 12 schools — about 10 percent of the schools in the district.

But progam leaders say they get daily requests to expand.

Matthew's mother says his confidence improved dramatically and he isn't afraid to talk to adults or raise his hand in class.

However, even when services are offered, some parents are reluctant to use them.

Michelle Anderson said her son's third-grade teacher at a Davenport, Iowa, elementary school referred him for a mental health screening.

A psychiatrist diagnosed him with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, commonly called ADHD, and prescribed medication.

Anderson eventually took him off the medicine after she said he repeatedly came home from school sobbing and overwhelmed.

She pushed the school to instead test her son for learning disabilities and found he had a problem organizing information.

But the school refused to give him extra help in the classroom.

Earlier this year, he was prescribed an antidepressant, but she never filled the prescription after her pharmacist warned of side effects for teenagers, which include suicidal thoughts and seeing or hearing things that are not real.

"It just seems like they want to medicate rather than provide education support," said Anderson, who is now home-schooling her son.

