Mexico's president is taking aim at soft drinks.

He wants Congress to impose a tax on sugary drinks to combat a growing health problem.

A recent United Nations report showed Mexico is in poor health.

The country has the highest obesity rate of the world's larger nations.

According to the report, 32.8 percent of Mexican citizens are overweight, compared to 31.8 percent of U.S. citizens.

Mexico bumped the U.S. down to No.

2.

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) is a medical condition where people are seriously overweight.

They are at risk of developing Type 2 diabetes and other diseases.

Diabetes alone claims 70,000 lives a year in Mexico.

The soda tax is part of President Enrique Pena Nieto's tax overhaul.

The overall aim is to raise money.

The money collected will broaden programs that help the poor.

What happens if Congress passes the proposed tax?

Mexicans would pay an extra peso (7.6 cents) for every liter of sugary drinks they buy.

They would also pay a tax on flavored drinks, powders and syrups.

Soft drinks sold at movie theaters would not be taxed.

Alejandro Calvillo is the head of the watchdog group Consumer Power A.C.

He applauds the proposal.

But he said a higher tax would have a greater impact on public health.

The tax only amounts to about 10 percent of the cost of a bottle of soda.

"It's good that there would be a tax," Calvillo said.

But the tax needs to be 20 percent to significantly cut the amount of sugary beverages people drink, he pointed out.

Mexico consumes more Coca-Cola Co. drinks than any other nation.

The average Mexican drank 728 servings in 2011.

A serving is considered 8 ounces.

The average American drinks 403 servings each year.

These numbers come from the company's website.

Coca-Cola de Mexico did not respond immediately to a request for comment.

Many countries are calling for taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages.

Or they want to limit the sizes of the drinks.

France, Finland, Algeria and Hungary all tax sugary drinks.

California is considering a penny-per-ounce tax on sodas.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg pushed to improve public health.

But a New York appellate court shot down his effort to stop restaurants from selling soft drinks in cups larger than 16 ounces.

Public health experts applauded Bloomberg's campaign against sugary drinks.

Critics made fun of it as part of an over-reaching "nanny state."

One public health expert said studies show that a tax on sugar-sweetened beverages in the United States would reduce consumption.

"A 10 percent increase in the price should result in a 10 to 12 percent decrease in consumption," said Roberta R. Friedman of Yale University.

Friedman said soft drink consumption has been linked to obesity, Type 2 diabetes, heart disease, dental disease and gout.

Calvillo said the Mexican government should provide details of how it would spend the 2 billion pesos (about $152 million) likely to be raised by the soda tax.

He said some of the money should go toward putting drinking fountains back in schools and public places.

"High consumption of sugar drinks in the nation is highly linked to the lack of drinking water in public places," Calvillo said.

