When you look through the magazines celebrating Mexico's high society, there is one thing you will rarely find: dark-skinned people.

No matter that nearly two-thirds of Mexicans consider themselves moreno, the Spanish word for dark.

Mexico has strong laws against treating people worse because of their skin color or national background.

But publicity firms and the news media lag behind.

They promote the idea that light skin is better and dark skin unappealing.

The issue came up this month.

Mexico's largest airline wanted to make a commercial.

The ad asking for people to try out to be in it specifically asked for  "no one dark."

The Internet buzzed with outrage.

Magazine editor Tamara de Anda said she had never seen anything so obvious.

"All in capital letters: 'NO ONE DARK,'" she pointed out.

She wrote on the Internet about the ad.

In response, Aeromexico and the Catatonia publicity firm apologized.

Catatonia blamed a modeling agency that had issued the casting call.

De Anda wrote about her feelings on her popular blog, Crisis of the 30s.

She said the incident was part of a far larger problem.

A majority of the population is being pushed aside.

"I've been swallowing Mexican advertising for 30 years of my life, 11,000 days," she wrote.

It's as if "dark-skinned people don't exist."

It might seem like a harsh judgment.

After all, Mexican tourism campaigns promote the nation's multicultural history.

They highlight the history of the Aztec and Mayan empires.

The nation of 118 million people includes 15.7 million who consider themselves indigenous, or native to the region.

Also, an estimated 450,000 Afro-Mexicans live mostly along the coasts.

Lawmakers amended Mexico's constitution in 2001 to bar all forms of discrimination.

They set up the National Council to Prevent Discrimination.

Twenty-two of Mexico's 32 states now have laws against treating people differently due to skin color, family background or other reasons.

The nation has signed more than two dozen international treaties banning unfair treatment.

But the distance between law and practice is great, said Mario Arriagada Cuadriello at the London School of Economics.

He edits a magazine called Nexos.

Arriagada published an article this month about widespread discrimination in Mexico.

He received a flurry of responses.

"People wrote to say that if you are light-skinned, you get better treatment in restaurants," he said.

One person told him about an area of the capital where treatment of dark-skinned Mexicans is especially harsh.

People who live there ask that their dark-skinned servants not walk in the common gardens "because it is anti-aesthetic and makes the areas ugly."

Jose Vasconcelos was one of Mexico's top thinkers in the early 20th century.

He held up the mestizo as a superior race with greater values that had nothing to do with earthly goods.

Mestizo is a person of mixed Indian and European blood.

The government embraced the mestizo as an ideal after the Mexican Revolution that began in 1910.

Images of dark-skinned Mexicans appeared on lottery tickets and other items.

But that changed by midcentury.

The Institutional Revolutionary Party was in power.

It adopted images of European-looking Mexicans wearing Indian clothing.

This was an apparent effort to win over the upper class.

Yet people of all color filled the Congress, and still do.

At the end of the century, Mexico condemned discrimination along with the rest of the world.

Yet magazines featuring mostly light-skinned rich people sill exist, even though there are few of those people in the country.

The government conducted a survey on discrimination in 2010.

Only 13 percent of Mexicans considered themselves light-skinned or blonde.

About 65 percent said they were "dark."

The rest described themselves as "cinnamon," "chocolate," "brown," "yellow," "a little tanned" or "black."

Arriagada flipped through a copy of Clase.

The magazine is an insert in the El Universal newspaper.

Clase's pages are filled with photos of wealthy families celebrating social events.

He compared them with people in a northern European country known for fair-skinned people with blond hair.

"Look," he said of the people in the magazine, "it's like Norway."

