Young Americans wanting to study in Latin America have stopped looking to Mexico.

A decade ago it was the No.

1 place for U.S. students to attend a university in the region.

Now it's in fourth place.

Only about 4,000 U.S. students now study in Mexico.

Crime and drug violence have discouraged students from heading there.

More go to Costa Rica, Argentina and Brazil.

Most U.S. colleges and universities have exchange programs.

These programs offer their students the chance to spend a year or half a year at another school elsewhere in the world.

In exchange, the U.S. schools invite some foreign students for the same period.

The U.S. government wants more Americans studying in Latin America.

This was one reason for visits to Mexico Wednesday by both Secretary of State John Kerry and Janet Napolitano, the former Department of Homeland Security secretary.

Kerry is responsible for managing relations between the United States and other countries.

Napolitano now heads the University of California (UC) system.

Napolitano said she wants more exchanges between University of California schools and Mexican universities.

She added that it should also include professors, not just students.

There are 233,000 students in the UC system.

Yet, only about 40 study in Mexico each year.

About 1,900 Mexicans were at UC schools last year.

Student exchanges would help correct misperceptions on both sides of the border, Napolitano said.

Among them, is that Mexico is dangerous and the United States is unfriendly to Mexicans.

"The best way to change that is to have an actual experience," she said.

Kerry said he wants to start a discussion about higher education between the two countries.

President Barack Obama has launched a new higher education exchange project.

Its aim is to have the United States and Latin America exchange 100,000 students by 2020.

A similar program in Mexico, "Proyecta," has the goal of sending 100,000 Mexican students a year to the United States by 2018.

Just over 14,000 Mexicans come to the United States on exchange programs today.

"I'm convinced this is a way to strengthen our ties," Kerry said.

Mexico was once the top location for U.S. students studying in Latin America.

It was a natural choice.

Strong family ties and trade exist between the two neighbors.

But the numbers have dropped with the spike in drug violence, especially during the presidency of Felipe Calderon, who left office in 2012.

Calderon stepped up attacks on drug networks when he was president.

Shannon O'Neill works at the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.

Once the exchanges are postponed or stopped, they're hard to restart, O'Neill explained.

Colleges set up relationships with programs in other places and the result can be a long-term drop in the number of students who participate.

Even if violence drops, "it can be hard for the numbers to rebound," she said.

Current Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto argues that violence is down.

However, several pockets of violence around the country still exist.

There have been a high number of killings in western Michoacan state and the state of Tamaulipas bordering Texas.

Morelos and Mexico state surrounding Mexico City are two other hot spots.

Justin Bogda, 21, took a summer job at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City in 2013 while studying at the University of Southern California.

He said when he told his family about his plans, they were frightened.

"They said, 'Oh my God, there's all the violence,' because of what they see on the news,'" said Bogda.

He said that in places like Mexico City it may not be the reality.

But the view that violence is there may be affecting people.

The Institute of International Education reported 8,360 Americans studied in Mexico in the 2000-2001 academic year.

That dropped by more than half to 3,815 by the 2011-2012 school year.

Allan Goodman is the president of the Institute of International Education.

He said the main reason for the drop is that people think Mexico is violent.

Today, laid-back Costa Rica is the No.

1 pick of U.S. students.

Nearly 8,000 Americans participate in exchanges there.

The increase in students there may also be due to the popularity of environmental studies in the United States.

Costa Rica's rain forests and conservation programs provide opportunities for study in that area, Goodman said.

The Mexican government realizes that students may think it is a dangerous country.

It also points to a language barrier.

There's a lack of English speakers in Mexico and Spanish speakers in the United States.

One additional obstacle is that most Americans know little about educational opportunities in Mexico.

Goodman said both countries would benefit from more student exchanges.

The growing number of Americans with Mexican backgrounds makes it all the more important.

"To have Americans growing up and know nothing about our Spanish-speaking citizens ... means that our education is incomplete," he said.

