Cradling a flat-screen television set in her arms, Tomasa Lopez beamed at her good fortune: She had just taken part in the world's biggest distribution of free digital televisions.

"We've always wanted a digital television," Lopez said.

"We'll see more channels.

The kids will see cartoons."

Lopez, a housekeeper, was among thousands of people who gathered at a huge tent in Iztapalapa, a crowded working-class district.

It is just one of the hundreds of venues across Mexico where the government is handing out 10 million free digital television sets to the poor.

Giving the sets away will help Mexico convert from old-fashioned analog TV service to the new digital format — a move the United States made in 2009.

The program will cost the Mexican treasury $1.6 billion.

Jose Luis Rodriguez was among the people receiving new TVs, but scolded a government official for suggesting the sets were free.

"Stop using that word.

It's paid for with our taxes.

It's not free," sputtered Rodriguez, who works for the federal social security institute.

Mexicans are eligible to receive free TVs if they take part in one of several government social service programs.

These include Prospera, the national crusade against hunger, and Liconsa, which makes milk more affordable.

Other nations, such as Argentina, have given away digital television sets, but none on the scale of Mexico's program.

Each 24-inch flat-screen television costs around $145, which has created quite a controversy.

Critics question why the Mexican government is not simply giving out decoder boxes like the United States did.

The boxes would keep older analog televisions working on the new system and would cost only about $40 each.

So far, the government has given away 4.6 million televisions.

The massive operation requires fleets of trucks to deliver the sets and masses of workers.

To ensure that each family gets only one TV, workers must check documents, take fingerprints and scan the bar codes of the sets — and they must do it all very quickly.

Program officials are in a hurry to meet the government's Dec. 31 deadline to convert the nation to digital television.

In recent weeks, government teams have been handing out 30,000 to 40,000 sets a day, but will have to double that figure to finish before the analog TV service is shut down.

Officials say the free digital TV program will boost Internet access and cut down on electricity use.

"An analog television consumes 320 to 340 watts, and if you add a decoder then it's another 9 watts," said program adviser Javier Lizarraga Galindo.

Energy-efficient digital TVs like the ones being given away consume less than 40 watts, he explained.

Professor Gabriel Sosa Plata, a television expert, says the program might actually increase energy consumption instead.

He thinks that, when analog signals end on Dec. 31, many people will buy decoder boxes and move their old TV sets into their children's rooms.

"Instead of having just one television, they will have two, and that means more electricity consumption," Sosa Plata said.

Skeptics also question whether the TV program will really make the Internet more accessible.

The free TVs offered have all the right hookups, but connecting them to the Internet would still require additional hardware.

Owners would also need to set up contracts with an Internet provider, though the government has pledged eventually to offer free wireless service.

Mexico already provides free Wi-Fi at or near public parks, squares and government buildings in most of the nation's 2,400 cities and is scheduled to expand the service to as many as 250,000 sites by 2018.

For now, only about 50 percent of Mexico's 120 million citizens regularly access the Internet.

The process the government used to purchase the TV sets has also raised questions.

Telecommunications regulation expert Jorge Negrete Pacheco said the government was not very clear about how it decided which brands of TVs to buy for the nation.

Most people were not familiar with the brands they selected in the end, and that made everyone suspicious, said Negrete.

Mexico is the world's largest assembler of TVs, producing between 35 million and 40 million a year.

Seven different companies with plants in Mexico, mostly along the U.S. border, have taken part in supplying the free TV program.

Mexico's switch to digital TV means changes for TV providers, too.

The nation's two television networks, Televisa and TV Azteca, are busy installing digital transmitters around the country.

TV Azteca broadcasts on 180 channels while Televisa operates 220 channels, and together they capture a majority of the money spent on media advertising in Mexico.

By next year, however, a third network called Cadenatres will begin broadcasting on 123 new channels.

Negrete is pleased to see a new competitor making more information and different newscasts available.

As new channels become favorites, family discussions about where to put the televisions and who gets to hold the remote might become even more intense.

Sylvia Perez Gonzalez, 32, said her young son and daughter were already pestering her.

"They say, 'Mama, who is this going to be for, for you or for us?'"

