Violent drug gangs have brought Mexico international attention.

But now the government is focusing on another form of violence: school bullying.

President Enrique Pena Nieto spoke against [bullying](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=bullying) during a visit to a Mexican state with a violence problem, Tamaulipas.

Mexican celebrities spoke out on Twitter.

They held signs with the hashtag "#ElBullyingNoEsUnJuego," or "Bullying is not a game."

On June 11, Mexico's human rights commission said that it would work with teachers as part of a national campaign to stop bullying.

"The government has made a commitment … to make schools free of acoso escolar," Pena Nieto said during a visit to Tamaulipas.

He used the Spanish term for "abuse of students."

The anti-violence campaign picked up steam when a 12-year-old boy died from bullying in May.

He was grabbed by a group of students and flung against a wall.

Newspapers said the boy complained to his teacher about being bullied but was ignored.

Roberto Campa, a top official in the government, said President Pena Nieto has been working on this issue since last year.

He has been working on it since shortly after he took office.

It was part of a larger program to stop violence.

Campa said that the issue had been mostly ignored.

"I think it was given less importance for many years.

It was considered normal," he said.

"Clearly, it's not normal, and things have changed and the issue is becoming more visible and central in public discussions."

Campa said the problem of bullying originates outside school, often within families.

But he said that schools should at least be a protective space for students.

Mexican journalist Monica Garza said the word risks becoming a trendy term in a country full of social ills.

Bad treatment and abuse of people of all ages has been a problem for a long time, she says.

And it's often come from authorities or gangs.

"Mexico is a violent country that tolerates violence," Garza wrote.

"Bullying," she said, "has become the word of the moment, signaling any kind of violence, at school or at work, and it's time to call things by their names.

Murder is not bullying, it's murder.

Assault is not bullying.

It's assault."

The anti-violence message was inspired in part by big anti-bullying efforts in the United States.

So it's not surprising that in Mexico the English word has been adopted into regular speech.

Because there is no single Spanish word for "bullying," children outside a middle school in Tetelpan on the southern edge of Mexico City use the English word.

They pronounced it "boo-leeng."

Sometimes they used Spanglish verbs like "buleando."

"We're very worried about the bullying," said Brenda Quiroz Arteaga, 42.

"My daughter was harassed for a long time because she's a little chubby and she suffered a lot … I'm all for expelling from the schools all the students who bullean their schoolmates."

Using the word "bullearon," 12-year-old Julian Perez said, "I've been bullied because of my stature.

I'm short.

But I've become used to it and if I don't pay it any mind, they leave me alone."

Parent Renata Fernandez, 44, had a slightly different thought.

"I think bullying has always existed," she said.

"But now it's in fashion to talk about this theme.

Before it didn't get a lot of attention."

