Tomasa Lopez hugs a new flat-screen television in her arms, her smile beaming.

She'd just taken part in the world's biggest digital television giveaway.

"We've always wanted a digital television," said Lopez, a housekeeper.

"We'll see more channels.

The kids will see cartoons."

Thousands of people were gathered at the huge tent where Lopez received her new TV.

It is just one of the hundreds of places where the Mexican government is handing out 10 million free digital television sets to the poor.

Mexico is in the process of changing the way it sends TV signals.

Old-fashioned analog service will be replaced with the new digital format, which means older TV sets will no longer work.

The United States made the same switch in 2009.

Jose Luis Rodriguez works for the government.

He received one of the new TVs, but was still frustrated to hear a government official calling the TV sets "free."

"Stop using that word.

It's paid for with our taxes.

It's not free," Rodriguez said.

The program will cost the Mexican treasury $1.6 billion.

Mexicans can receive a free TV if they take part in one of several government social service programs.

These include Prospera, which fights hunger, and Liconsa, which makes milk more affordable.

Other nations have given away TV sets when their countries made the switch to digital television.

Their programs were much smaller than Mexico's — and less expensive.

The high cost of Mexico's program has left some people confused and frustrated.

Each 24-inch, flat-screen television costs about $145, so many people wonder why Mexico is not trying to solve the problem a cheaper way.

Mexico's government could just give out decoder boxes, which is how the United States helped people make the switch.

The boxes hook up to the old style of TVs and make it so they work on the new system.

Decoder boxes cost only about $40 each.

So far, the government has given away 4.6 million televisions.

The huge operation requires fleets of trucks to deliver the sets and many workers.

To make sure that each family gets just one TV, workers must check documents and take fingerprints — and they must do it all very quickly.

Program officials are in a hurry to meet the government's Dec. 31 deadline to switch the whole country over to digital television.

Government teams have been handing out 30,000 to 40,000 sets a day, but will have to work twice as fast to finish before the old-fashioned analog TV service is shut down.

Officials say the free digital TV program will connect more people to the Internet and cut down on electricity use.

"An analog television consumes 320 to 340 watts," said program adviser Javier Lizarraga Galindo.

"If you add a decoder, then it's another 9 watts," he said.

Energy-efficient digital TVs like the ones being given away consume less than 40 watts, Galindo explained.

Television expert Gabriel Sosa Plata says the program might actually increase the amount of energy people use.

He thinks that many people will buy decoder boxes and set their old TVs up in their children's rooms.

They will be using energy for two TVs instead of just one, Sosa Plata said.

Some people doubt whether the TV program will really help more people get online.

The free TVs have all the right hookups, but people would need to buy extra parts to connect them to the Internet.

Owners would also need to pay an Internet provider for service.

Mexico currently provides free Wi-Fi at or near public parks, squares and government buildings in most of the nation's 2,400 cities.

The service is scheduled to expand to as many as 250,000 sites by 2018.

For now, only about 50 percent of Mexico's 120 million citizens use the Internet regularly.

Mexico's switch to digital TV means changes for TV providers, too.

The nation's two television networks, Televisa and TV Azteca, are busy installing systems to get customers ready for the switch.

TV Azteca broadcasts on 180 channels and Televisa has 220 channels.

Most of the money spent on advertising in Mexico goes to one of these two companies.

By next year, however, a third network called Cadenatres will begin broadcasting on 123 new channels.

Many people are pleased to see a new competitor making more information and different newscasts available.

