The country of Mexico has a big job to do.

Mexico has to change the way it sends shows to people's TVs.

TV shows are a kind of message.

The messages travel through TV wires and cords.

Then they show up on the TVs.

Mexico's TV wires are old.

The country needs everyone to use new wires.

They will all start using new wires on the same day.

Mexico has a problem.

The new wires will not work with old TVs.

Most people will buy new ones, called digital TVs, to go with the new wires.

Some people cannot.

The new TVs cost too much.

Now Mexico has a plan.

It will give away 10 million free TVs.

Mexico is setting up big tents all over the country.

People can go to the tents to get free TVs.

Each family will get only one TV.

Workers will check their names.

They will look at their fingerprints, too.

Tomasa Lopez cleans houses.

She went to one of the tents.

Tomasa hugged her new flat-screen TV.

It put a huge smile on her face.

"We have always wanted a new TV," said Tomasa.

"We will see more channels.

The kids will see cartoons."

The United States used to have old TV wires, too.

It changed them in 2009.

The U.S. fixed the problem a different way.

Some people bought new TVs.

Other people did not have enough money.

The United States gave them special boxes.

People hooked the boxes up to their old TVs.

The boxes kept the old TVs working.

It cost the U.S. much less money.

The boxes cost $40 each.

A new TV costs about $145.

Some people say Mexico should have done the same thing.

They say Mexico is wasting money.

Javier Galindo works for the free TV program.

He says the new TVs will help people.

New TVs use less electricity.

They will save people money.

Gabriel Sosa Plata knows a lot about TVs.

He does not think the new TVs will save electricity.

Gabriel thinks people will watch more TV.

Gabriel says people will not stop using their old TVs.

He says they will move them into another room.

They will buy the special boxes to keep the old TVs working.

People will have twice as many TVs.

Gabriel says they will use more electricity than they did before.

