Most large U.S. retailers and restaurant chains import much of their produce from farms in Mexico.

Over the years, many of those farms have been accused of treating their workers poorly.

In recent weeks, however, some of Mexico's largest export farms have acted to improve conditions.

They have installed toilets and beds.

They have reformed pay methods and have ousted labor camp stores that charge workers inflated prices.

Then last week, the drive to end abusive practices endured by thousands of laborers received another boost.

Mexico's produce industry, acting under the leadership of the secretary of agriculture, created an alliance aimed at improving working conditions.

At the same time, Wal-Mart, which imports more fruits and vegetables from Mexico than any other U.S. company, announced its own effort to bring about improvements.

The moves came two months after The Los Angeles Times documented mistreatment of farm workers at big Mexican export farms.

The question now confronting the Mexican produce industry, and its American retail customers, is how these changes will actually work.

What will it take to move from the broad strokes announced in press releases into life-changing improvements for the workers at loosely regulated farm labor camps?

One thing that is clear is that Wal-Mart and other U.S. retailers will probably have to take on a bigger role in enforcing worker standards, despite the expense.

"Retailers are stuck between a rock and a hard place," said Jim Prevor, a produce industry analyst.

"On the one hand, they really don't want to take on this responsibility.

...

It's expensive, and in many cases they don't even have that capability.

But on the other hand, they feel that consumers care and want the retailer to assure whatever is sold in their stores meets certain standards."

It is unclear how much it would cost large farming companies, which number in the hundreds, to create better living conditions for their produce workers.

Some would have to upgrade their housing and bathroom facilities, replacing old corrugated-metal siding with modern materials.

Others would have to outfit their dormitories with beds and better ventilation.

Some would have to subsidize new labor camp stores that offer everyday goods cheaply.

One major expense would be developing and maintaining a system that ensures workers' rights, including weekly access to wages.

Wal-Mart for years has had teams of inspectors overseeing its suppliers.

Their inspectors visit farms and hold seminars on how to comply with Wal-Mart standards.

However, the failures of the oversight system suggest that the current approach is superficial.

Establishing a better verification system will be essential for any plan to succeed.

The task may prove difficult, especially when farm labor camps are scattered in remote locations and owners are not forthcoming about their operations.

"When you go down to these places, you basically see what they choose to show you," said Devon Zagory, a produce industry expert.

"You're relying entirely on this company and their openness and transparency to tell you where their worst secrets are so you can go and give them a hard time about it."

Monitoring systems that focus on surprise or multiple inspections annually and interviewing workers are among the best ways to get a clearer picture of labor conditions, experts say.

However, such an approach takes longer and costs more, and thus conflicts with Wal-Mart's drive to cut costs.

Some growers with good reputations on labor issues say Wal-Mart consistently partners with producers with the lowest prices, regardless of labor conditions.

Such an approach is risky, as more consumers demand that their food be produced in a fair and just manner.

The extra cost is less damaging than being linked to labor abuses, said Emily Miggins, a former manager at Safeway.

Inspections, she said, rarely cost more than $1,400.

"It's a pretty great deal to assure that you don't have child or forced labor taking place behind your product," she said.

"At a minimum, these retailers need to take a little more pride in their product, in their brand, in their labor."

So far, however, there has been no agreement among U.S. companies on standards for social responsibility.

Farms are left trying to meet different standards for different buyers, a time-consuming and costly task.

Experts said American retailers should work together to reach an agreement on basic worker welfare standards.

They could even team up and share costs to bring down inspection expenses, they said.

