When tax time comes, artist Teresa Cito doesn't worry.

She knows the state isn't after a single peso — instead, what the taxman wants is a donation of her artwork.

An unusual program in Mexico allows painters, sculptors and other artists to donate part of their annual production of artwork to the state instead of paying taxes.

The program, begun in 1957, has helped the government build a huge collection of modern art.

It has also left artists such as Cito content, as they are free from the bother of tax forms and from worry over owing the government large sums of money.

The program is simple: If an artist sells up to five pieces in one calendar year, he or she donates one of equal value to the state.

If he or she sells six to eight pieces, two pieces are donated — and so on, up to a maximum of six pieces donated per year.

Cito, who does colorful oil paintings as well as chalk drawings on paper, doesn't try to give the state her lesser works.

She knows whatever she donates will be exhibited, perhaps in a government ministry or museum, or a Mexican Embassy abroad.

"My priority is to offer a nice piece," Cito said, praising the program known simply as Payment in Kind.

"I admire it very, very, very much.

The government says, 'Pay your taxes in artwork.

Keep on painting.'"

Hundreds of artists take part, and it's hard to find one with even the faintest hesitation.

Many hail the program as unique in the world.

"I think it's fantastic," said Naomi Siegmann, a sculptor born in New York who's lived in Mexico for five decades.

Her tax payments are on display "in offices all over the country, government offices as well as public buildings."

Siegmann said she got a thrill when she saw one of her pieces — often large objects carved in wood — gracing a public space.

"I walk in and see my work hanging or on pedestals.

I think, 'How nice!'"

Siegmann said, adding that she recalls seeing one in the boardroom of the Secretariat of Foreign Relations.

"Every big artist is in this program — I mean the top, top artists.

It's not just the new artists, the beginners," she said.

The program is thought to have had its genesis in a 1957 encounter between a tax official and artist David Alfaro Siqueiros.

Siqueiros told the official that an artist friend was facing jail time for not paying taxes.

Siqueiros argued forcefully that "a painter knows nothing about accounting or complications of tax law.

The only thing we have, he said, are pictures, and if you like, we can pay our obligations to the government with the delivery of some paintings," the tax official, Hugo B. Margain, later wrote.

"It doesn't seem like a bad idea, I told him," Margain wrote.

The program was approved, and since then the federal government has taken in well over 4,000 works of art.

A committee of artists and curators looks at proposed donations to see whether they fairly represent the body of work of a given artist.

"The experts decide if the work is representative," said Christina Lopez Beltran, who oversees the Payment in Kind program.

The program has generated good will among artists.

It also has helped build an impressive collection of works by some of Mexico's best-known artists and has beautified the walls and open spaces of public buildings.

"It was a totally visionary thing to do," said Patricia Sloane, a museum curator in Mexico City.

"The artists have a much more generous attitude because they know their work will be shown in a museum."

If the program has a fault, it's that the state takes too much art, some of it of poor quality that ends up gathering dust in vaults.

Lopez Beltran said changes were in the offing to reduce the number of donations and to ensure they were of higher quality.

"There are many very bad artists who pay in kind," said Victor Guadalajara, a sculptor, wood craftsman and lithograph printer.

"One supposes that the committee doesn't have members with the background or level" to judge what's good or bad.

Of course, not every artist who makes a living from selling his or her work is endowed with enormous talent.

Mexico has plenty of artists who sell their work at park fairs or in markets.

They, too, have a right to take part in the program even if the state finds itself swimming in work that might not belong in a museum.

Still, the overall collection contains works by some of Mexico's most famous painters and sculptors.

What's more, widely known artists try to donate work they're proud of.

"They are aware that their pieces may be exhibited not only in Mexico but also abroad," said government official Jose San Cristobal Larrea.

"They don't dare donate works of bad quality."

San Cristobal said authorities were careful not to pass judgment on the work collected from artists.

They are conscious that high artistic talent isn't always immediately obvious.

"Emerging artists who aren't important today might be important tomorrow," he said.

