Mexico's president wants people to cut down on soft drinks.

He is asking Congress to place a tax on sugary drinks.

The goal is to combat a growing health problem.

A recent United Nations report showed Mexico is in poor health.

The country has the highest obesity rate of the world's larger nations.

According to the report, 32.8 percent of Mexican citizens are overweight, compared to 31.8 percent of U.S. citizens.

Mexico bumped the U.S. down to No.

2.

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) means people are seriously overweight.

They could develop diabetes and other diseases.

Diabetes alone claims 70,000 lives a year in Mexico.

The soda tax is part of President Enrique Pena Nieto's larger tax plan.

The overall aim is to raise money.

The money collected will expand programs that help the poor.

How will the tax affect Mexicans?

They would pay an extra peso for each liter of sugary drinks they buy.

A peso is equal to about 8 cents.

They would also pay a tax on flavored drinks, powders and syrups.

Soft drinks sold at movie theaters would not be taxed.

Alejandro Calvillo is the head of the watchdog group Consumer Power A.C.

He applauds the idea.

But he said a higher tax would have a greater effect on public health.

The tax only amounts to about 10 percent of the cost of a soda bottle.

"It's good that there would be a tax," Calvillo said.

"We have to acknowledge that."

But the tax should be 20 percent to make people to drink less sugary drinks, he said.

Mexico drinks a lot of soda.

The country consumes more Coca-Cola Co. beverages than any other nation.

The average Mexican drank 728 8-ounce servings in 2011.

The average American drinks 403 similar-size servings each year.

These numbers come from the company's website.

Coca-Cola de Mexico did not immediately comment.

Many countries are calling for taxes on sugar-sweetened beverages.

France, Finland, Algeria and Hungary all tax sugary drinks.

California is considering a soda tax.

It would be a penny for each ounce.

There are 12 ounces in a can of soda.

New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg pushed to improve public health.

But a New York appellate court shot down his plan to stop restaurants from selling soft drinks in cups larger than 16 ounces.

Public health experts applauded Bloomberg's campaign against sugary drinks.

Critics made fun of it.

They said it was part of a "nanny state."

One public health expert said studies show that a tax on sugar-sweetened drinks in the United States would make people drink them less.

"A 10 percent increase in the price should result in" people drinking 10 to 12 percent less, said Yale University's Roberta R. Friedman.

Friedman said soft drink consumption has been linked to several diseases.

Those include obesity, diabetes, and heart disease.

Calvillo said the Mexican government should say more about how it would spend the money that would be raised by the soda tax.

The tax is expected to be 2 billion pesos.

That is about $152 million.

He said some of the money should be spent to put drinking fountains back in schools and public places.

"High consumption of sugar drinks in the nation is highly linked to the lack of drinking water in public places," Calvillo said.

