Many of the fruits and vegetables people in the United States eat are grown in Mexico.

Big U.S. companies like Wal-Mart buy the food from large Mexican farms.

Then the companies sell the fruits and vegetables in the U.S.

But there was a problem.

Many of the farms in Mexico treated their workers badly, experts said.

The houses the workers live in are often rundown.

Some do not even have a real bathroom.

Workers usually live on or near the farms.

Their housing is provided by the farm owners.

Things have been getting better over the past few weeks.

Some of the biggest farms have given workers new toilets and beds.

Workers also are being paid more quickly.

Now, things may improve even more.

Last week, many of Mexico's largest farms said they would work together to improve working conditions.

Wal-Mart also announced it would try to make things better.

Experts said Wal-Mart is an important company.

It buys more fruits and vegetables from Mexico than any other U.S. company.

It will not be easy to bring about real change, though.

Wal-Mart and other U.S. companies might have to do more than they have been doing, experts said.

Most likely, that will mean spending more money.

The Mexican farms will have to spend more money too.

Some will have to improve worker housing and bathrooms.

Others will have to give workers better beds.

Wal-Mart already has inspectors who visit farms.

The inspectors give talks on how Wal-Mart wants farmworkers to be treated.

Wal-Mart's approach has not worked well, however.

One problem is that it is not always easy to get to the places where the workers live.

The farms are located all over Mexico.

Another problem is that farm owners are not always truthful.

"You basically see what they choose to show you," said farming expert Devon Zagory.

He said the inspectors are asking the farm owners "where their worst secrets are."

Often, the farm owners simply hide problems, Zagory said.

It is possible to find out how workers are being treated.

Inspectors can make surprise visits.

They can talk to the workers.

But it takes longer and costs more to do things that way, experts said.

Wal-Mart has preferred a faster and cheaper approach.

Some Mexican farm owners treat their workers well.

Some of them said Wal-Mart only cares about cost.

They said the company buys from farms with the lowest prices.

It does not make a difference to Wal-Mart how the workers are treated, owners said.

It is risky for Wal-Mart to only think about cost, experts said.

Many U.S. customers want their food to come from farms that treat workers fairly.

They could turn against Wal-Mart if they think it does not care about the farmworkers.

They might shop elsewhere, experts said.

Emily Miggins used to work at the supermarket Safeway.

She said Wal-Mart and other companies should check the farms more carefully.

The extra cost is not important, she said.

It is not as bad as making customers feel the companies do not care about the farmworkers.

It rarely costs more than $1,400 to check a farm carefully, Miggins said.

The price is well worth it, she added.

It allows companies to be sure that the farmworkers are not being mistreated.

It makes the companies look good to their customers, she said.

