lot of the produce, or fruits and vegetables, sold in the United States comes from farms in Mexico.

Over the years, many of those farms have been accused of treating their workers poorly.

Just two months ago, a study of farm workers at big Mexican export farms revealed widespread mistreatment.

In recent weeks, however, some of Mexico's largest export farms have acted to improve conditions.

They have installed toilets and beds.

They have reformed pay methods and have gotten rid of labor camp stores that overcharge workers.

Then last week, the drive to improve conditions for farm laborers received another boost.

Mexico's produce industry announced that it has formed an alliance aimed at improving working conditions.

At the same time, Wal-Mart announced its own effort to bring about improvements.

Wal-Mart's involvement is important because it imports more fruits and vegetables from Mexico than any other U.S. company.

The question now is how best to bring about real change.

Wal-Mart and other U.S. companies will probably have to take on a bigger role in enforcing worker standards.

Most likely, that will mean spending more money than they have been.

Supermarkets, restaurants and companies like Wal-Mart are "stuck between a rock and a hard place," said Jim Prevor, a produce industry expert.

"On the one hand, they really don't want to take on this responsibility.

...

It's expensive, and in many cases they don't even have that capability."

On the other hand, more and more of their customers care about the treatment of farm workers and are demanding that "whatever is sold in their stores meets certain standards."

It is unclear how much it will cost to create better living conditions for produce workers.

Some farms would have to upgrade housing and bathrooms.

Others would have to outfit their dormitories with beds and better ventilation.

Some would have to help pay for new labor camp stores that offer everyday goods cheaply.

Just making sure that workers get paid every week could be difficult and costly.

Wal-Mart has long had teams of inspectors overseeing the farms it buys from.

Inspectors visit farms and give talks on how to follow Wal-Mart standards.

However, that system clearly has not been working well enough.

One problem is that the labor camps where farm workers live are often scattered in remote locations.

Another is that farm owners are not always truthful about their operations.

"When you go down to these places, you basically see what they choose to show you," said Devon Zagory, a produce industry expert.

"You're relying entirely on this company and their openness and transparency to tell you where their worst secrets are."

Naturally enough, farms often simply hide problems from inspectors, he said.

Experts say frequent and surprise inspections and interviewing workers are among the best ways to get a clearer picture of labor conditions.

However, such an approach takes longer and costs more.

For that reason, it may have been avoided by Wal-Mart, which is dedicated to keeping its costs low.

Some Mexican growers who treat their workers well are critical of Wal-Mart.

They say the company consistently buys from farms with the lowest prices, regardless of labor conditions.

Thinking only about cost is risky, however.

Such an approach may end up damaging a company's reputation.

More U.S. customers these days are demanding that food be produced in a fair and just manner.

The extra cost of inspections is less damaging than being linked to labor abuses, said Emily Miggins, a former manager at the supermarket chain Safeway.

Inspections, she said, rarely cost more than $1,400.

"It's a pretty great deal to assure that you don't have child or forced labor taking place behind your product," she said.

Companies like Wal-Mart "need to take a little more pride in their product, in their brand, in their labor," she added.

