Young Americans wanting to study abroad have stopped looking to [Mexico](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Mexico).

Ten years ago it was the No.

1 place for U.S. students to attend a university in Latin America.

Now it's in fourth place.

Only about 4,000 U.S. students now study in Mexico.

Crime and drug violence have discouraged them from heading there.

More go to Costa Rica, Argentina and Brazil.

Most U.S. colleges and universities have exchange programs.

These programs offer their students the chance to study at another school elsewhere in the world.

The programs usually last one school year, or half a year.

In exchange, the U.S. schools invite some foreign students for the same period.

The U.S. government wants more Americans studying in Latin America.

On Wednesday, Secretary of State John Kerry visited Mexico City.

He is responsible for managing U.S. relations with other countries.

Janet Napolitano joined Kerry.

Napolitano heads the University of California (UC) schools.

One reason for their visit was education.

Napolitano said she wants more exchanges between University of California schools and Mexican universities.

She added that it should also include professors, not just students.

There are 233,000 students in the UC system.

Yet, only about 40 study in Mexico each year.

About 1,900 Mexicans were at UC schools last year.

Mistaken beliefs are held on both sides of the border, Napolitano said.

Student exchanges would help correct that, she believes.

Among these misperceptions, is the view that Mexico is dangerous.

On the other side, some Mexicans think the United States is unfriendly to them.

"The best way to change that is to have an actual experience," she said.

Kerry said he wants an open discussion about higher education between the two countries.

President Barack Obama has launched a new higher education exchange project.

Its aim is to have the United States and Latin America exchange 100,000 students by 2020.

A similar program exists in Mexico, called "Proyecta."

Its goal is to send 100,000 Mexican students a year to the United States by 2018.

Just over 14,000 Mexicans come to the United States on exchange programs today.

"I'm convinced this is a way to strengthen our ties," Kerry said.

Mexico was once the top location for U.S. students studying in Latin America.

It was a natural choice.

Strong family ties and trade exist between the two neighbors.

But the numbers have dropped with the spike in drug violence.

Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto says there is less violence.

However, several pockets of violence exist around the country.

Areas bordering Texas have been plagued with killings.

States surrounding Mexico City are other hot spots.

Justin Bogda, 21, took a summer job at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City in 2013.

He was studying at the University of Southern California at the time.

When he told his family about his plans, they were frightened.

"They said, 'Oh my God, there's all the violence,' because of what they see on the news,'" said Bogda.

Yet, this is just their view.

It might not be true, he said.

The Institute of International Education reported 8,360 Americans studied in Mexico in the 2000-2001 school year.

That dropped by more than half to 3,815 by the 2011-2012 school year.

Allan Goodman is the president of the Institute of International Education.

He said the main reason for the drop is that people think Mexico is violent.

Today, laid-back Costa Rica is the No.

1 pick of U.S. students.

Nearly 8,000 Americans participate in exchanges there.

The increase in students there may also be due to the popularity of environmental studies in the United States.

Costa Rica's rain forests and conservation programs provide opportunities for study in that area, Goodman said.

The Mexican government realizes that students may think it is a dangerous country.

Language is also a challenge.

There's a lack of English speakers in Mexico and Spanish speakers in the United States.

Additionally, Americans may not realize there are opportunities to study in Mexico.

Goodman said both countries would benefit from more student exchanges.

Growing numbers of Americans have Mexican roots.

That makes it all the more important.

"To have Americans growing up and know nothing about our Spanish-speaking citizens ... means that our education is incomplete," he said.

