The archaeologists were digging near where the Miami River meets the ocean.

They were looking for artifacts from the Tequesta Indians but found something else as well.

They found strong proof that South Florida's sea level is rising.

The proof the archaeologists found is 10 bricks, an iron plate and some coconut palms.

"It's the first line of evidence something had really changed here in terms of sea level," archaeologist Bob Carr said.

Carr was speaking at the Met Square construction dig on downtown Miami's Fourth Street.

His team is there to dig up a 2,000-year-old Tequesta Indian village.

The village lies buried on land where a hotel and other buildings are being built.

The bricks Carr and his team discovered are from the 1860s.

They were dug up about four months ago.

The bricks were found along a slice of old shoreline long buried a few feet deep under a parking lot.

Carr was not surprised to find 1860s-era bricks.

After all, he knew Fort Dallas had stood on the site during the 1800s.

What surprised Carr was where he discovered the bricks.

He found them about a foot under the water table, below where the dirt becomes wet from water underneath the ground.

In coastal areas, a rise in sea level makes the water table level rise, too.

Neither the bricks nor coconut palms would have existed on land that was underwater.

Therefore, they prove that sea level in the area had risen more than a foot in the last 100 years.

This is proof of a change in sea level, Carr said as he toured where the dig occurred.

Scientists think rising sea levels are connected to a steady rise in temperature known as global warming.

Experts believe global warming is caused by pollution.

Climate change has happened naturally over millions of years.

A lot of factories were built in the 1800s.

They burned coal, which began pumping carbon into the Earth's atmosphere, and temperatures started rising.

Later, cars burning gasoline emitted even more carbon.

Scientists were already convinced Florida sea levels are rising.

Still, it is rare to find proof from history.

In the 1800s, very few people lived in Florida.

Most people lived in the areas near the Miami River.

Carr began looking at the downtown site in 2004.

In a slice of river bank far underneath the water table, Carr found something unexpected.

He discovered a brick pier, which possibly was once part of a building foundation.

He also found an iron plate and some coconut palm trees.

Carr and his team have also found many artifacts that provide a glimpse into the daily life of the Tequesta Indians.

The team discovered 11 ceremonial sites.

They have found conch shells fashioned into shovels and shards of distinctive pottery.

"We're getting pieces of an ancient jigsaw one post at a time," Carr said.

"It's a huge reservoir of scientific information."

