Archaeologists in Miami have unearthed strong evidence that South Florida's sea level is rising.

The evidence, which was discovered near the mouth of the Miami River, consists of 10 bricks and some coconut palms.

"It's the first line of evidence something had really changed here in terms of sea level," archaeologist Bob Carr said Tuesday at the Met Square construction dig on Fourth Street.

His team is there to excavate a 2,000-year-old Tequesta Indian village in downtown Miami.

The site will eventually be showcased within a towering entertainment complex.

The submerged bricks date back to the Civil War.

Four months ago, Carr and his team discovered them along a slice of old shoreline long buried a few feet deep under a parking lot.

The find was not unexpected: Carr knew Fort Dallas occupied the site in the 1800s before famed industrialist Henry Flagler built his Royal Palm Hotel there at the end of the 19th century.

What surprised Carr was where he discovered the 1860s-era bricks.

They were about a foot below the water table — that is, below the level where the soil becomes saturated with water.

In coastal areas, a rise in sea level creates a corresponding rise in the water table level.

Because neither the bricks nor coconut palms would have existed on submerged land, they provide proof that sea level in the area had risen more than a foot in the last century.

"This is physical evidence" of a change in sea level, he said as he toured the site.

Scientists link rising sea levels to climate change — that is, to the steady rise in average temperature known as global warming.

Experts believe rising temperatures largely have been caused by man-made pollution, in particular emissions containing carbon.

Climate change has occurred naturally over thousands of years.

However, once factories began pumping carbon into the atmosphere, temperatures started climbing, said University of Miami geologist Hal Wanless.

Later on, automobiles began emitting carbon too.

Finding the bricks supports the theory that sea levels started rising rapidly in South Florida because of the increased carbon, he said.

While scientists were already convinced Florida sea levels are rising, finding historic evidence of the change is rare.

In the 1800s, frontier Florida was confined to a narrow strip of high ground perched between the Everglades and Biscayne Bay.

The human footprint left behind was small, except at the Miami River.

"The Miami River has always been prime real estate," said Wanless.

Carr, Miami-Dade County's first archaeologist, began examining the site in 2004, two years after plans to build a hotel and entertainment complex were announced.

Carr had discovered the Miami Circle, likely a ceremonial site used by the Tequesta Indians, on the Miami River's south bank in 1998.

So he expected artifacts of the ancient tribe would turn up on the opposite bank, where the hotel and complex are being built.

He eventually found 11 foundation circles, along with human remains and a trove of shells, pottery shards and discarded bones that provides a glimpse into Tequesta daily life.

Carr also expected to find remnants of Flagler's hotel — well-documented in photographs of early well-heeled tourists — as well as the 19th-century army fort.

What was unexpected lay in a slice of excavated bank now well below the water table: a brick pier, possibly part of a building foundation, and an iron plate, along with the coconut palms.

Workers digging in units across the site have gradually excavated soil to reveal a sloping bank.

They have found turtle bones, conch shells fashioned into shovels and shards of a distinctive pottery used by the Tequesta.

Carr also unearthed dozens of conch shells, which scientists will be able to study to determine changes in the environment and "reconstruct early history."

"We're getting pieces of an ancient jigsaw one post at a time," he said.

"It's a huge reservoir of scientific information about the environment and prehistoric Miami."

