Archaeologists digging near the mouth of the Miami River have unearthed more than they bargained for: strong evidence that South Florida's sea level is rising.

The evidence consists of 10 bricks, an iron plate and some coconut palms.

"It's the first line of evidence something had really changed here in terms of sea level," archaeologist Bob Carr said Tuesday.

Carr was speaking at the Met Square construction dig on downtown Miami's Fourth Street.

His team is there to excavate a 2,000-year-old Tequesta Indian village buried on land where a hotel and other buildings are being put up.

The bricks Carr and his team discovered date to the 1860s.

They were dug up about four months ago along a slice of old shoreline long buried a few feet deep under a parking lot.

The find was not unexpected — Carr knew Fort Dallas occupied the site in the 1800s.

What surprised Carr was that he discovered the bricks about a foot below the water table.

Just under the area where soil becomes soaked with water is the water table.

In areas that are on the coast, a rise in sea level creates a rise in the level of the water table.

Neither the bricks nor coconut palms would have existed on submerged land.

Therefore, they provide proof that sea level in the area had risen more than a foot in the last century.

This is proof of a change in sea level, Carr said as he toured the site.

Scientists say that rising sea levels is related to climate change.

They say the steady rise in average temperature known as global warming is caused by pollution.

In particular, emissions containing carbon have been a problem.

A lot of factories were built in the 1800s.

They burned coal, which emits a lot of carbon into the air.

Later on, automobiles also emitted a lot of carbon.

Climate change has occurred naturally over thousands of years.

But once factories began pumping pollution and carbon into the atmosphere, temperatures started rising, said geologist Hal Wanless.

Later on, automobiles began emitting carbon too.

Finding the bricks supports the theory that sea levels started rising quickly in South Florida because of the increase of carbon, he said.

While scientists were already thinking that Florida sea levels were rising, finding historic evidence is rare.

In the 1800s, most people in Florida lived on a thin strip of high ground between the Everglades and Biscayne Bay.

There are not a lot of signs of men living in Florida, except for at the Miami River.

Carr began examining the downtown site in 2004, two years after plans to build the hotel and other buildings were announced.

Carr eventually found 11 ceremonial sites, along with human remains.

He also unearthed a trove of shells, pottery shards and discarded bones that provides a glimpse into the daily life of the Tequesta Indians who used to live there.

Carr also expected to find remnants of the army fort and of a later hotel, built at the end of the 19th century.

They also found some unexpected discoveries in a slice of excavated bank now well below the water table.

They discovered a brick pier that was possibly part of a building foundation, and an iron plate and coconut palms.

Workers digging across the site have little by little removed some soil to reveal a sloping bank.

They have found turtle bones, conch shells fashioned into shovels and shards of a distinctive pottery used by the Tequesta Indians.

Carr and his team have also unearthed tens of conch shells in their natural state.

Scientists will be able to study these to determine changes in the environment and to "reconstruct early history."

"We're getting pieces of an ancient jigsaw one post at a time," he said.

"It's a huge reservoir of scientific information about the environment and prehistoric Miami."

