Snacks, soft drinks, sugary cereals and fast food have been blamed for making many American children overweight, or even obese.

First lady Michelle Obama has a goal to end childhood [obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) is a generation.

She started "Let's Move!"

in February 2010 to promote healthy food and exercise.

Obama told food companies "to step it up" to improve the foods they advertise for children.

She also wants them to limit the amount of ads for less healthy foods in TV commercials.

The government came up with rules for making and selling healthier foods.

Companies could follow them if they wanted to.

They didn't have to since the rules were voluntary.

But food and television companies fought them in 2011.

And some said Obama stayed out of the fight.

Nutrition supporters believe food and drink companies are causing weight gain in kids by advertising their unhealthy products.

The supporters do not agree on what to do about this.

Obama tries to convince companies to agree with her.

She does not think forcing them will work.

Officials say she has succeeded some of the time.

They blame Congress for killing the voluntary rules.

But some people who say they are on Obama's side in the obesity fight do not agree.

They say she kept quiet when they needed her because she wanted to have partnerships with the food companies.

"The White House got cold feet," said Sen. Tom Harkin.

He supported the guidelines.

Food companies did support some rules.

They agreed to put calories on restaurant menus.

And the first lady got support for a 2010 law that expanded [free school lunches](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch).

The law also set nutritional standards for food sold in schools.

But many public health supporters want her to be tougher.

Obama has worked through the Partnership for a Healthier America.

The organization was set up to get promises from food makers to fight obesity in kids.

Companies have agreed to improve children's menus and cut calories.

But it has received only a few pledges to change the way companies advertise food.

This is important to child health supporters.

A report in 2005 said that television advertising led children to seek out unhealthy foods like sugar-coated cereals.

"This is one of the easiest areas where we could take action and have a very powerful effect," said Dale Kunkel.

He studies the effect of advertising on children.

In 2009 Congress set up a group to write voluntary nutrition rules for food advertised to children.

The White House kept track of the group's progress.

So did the food companies.

The head of General Mills argued in 2010 that no proof linked obesity to ads.

He said the government group should "be put on hold."

The food companies would improve their own advertising rules.

General Mills makes Cheerios, Chex and Lucky Charms, among others.

Still, the government group came up with rules in April 2011.

Foods advertised to children should have only small levels of sugar, salt and fat.

They had to have vitamins or other healthy things called nutrients, the rules said.

The rules were a draft.

Without approval, they don't mean anything.

The group said its standards should be used for all ads aimed at children 17 and younger.

Public health supporters agreed with the rules.

But food makers and television companies fought them.

A July 2011 meeting at the White House included top people from food and entertainment companies.

The companies opposed the government group's rules.

Two days later, top food makers rolled out a tougher version of their own rules.

They promised to limit the levels of sugar, salt and fat in products targeted at children.

They said they would do this by the end of the year.

It's a tough fight.

Food and television companies are closely linked.

For example, the Popsicle company pays Nickelodeon to use the SpongeBob SquarePants name and image.

It makes a frozen pop that looks like the cartoon character.

A study from 2011 found that Nickelodeon airs one-quarter of all the ads seen by children.

Four Democratic senators recently asked the network to set stricter nutrition standards for the foods advertised on its channel.

Nickelodeon turned down the request.

