First lady Michelle Obama came to New York on Thursday to attend an event organized by a group called the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

The foundation announced it will donate $500 million to help American children grow up at a healthy weight.

The number of children who are obese has been called high.

Being very overweight can lead to health problems.

As a result, there have been efforts to help children eat healthier and exercise more.

Obama is a well-known supporter of these efforts.

Thursday's announcement took place at Edward A. Reynolds West Side High School.

Obama gave a speech, praising the $500 million contribution and encouraging Americans to get more involved.

Obama said she wanted Americans to "dive in" to the effort to help kids grow up at a healthy weight.

She said that Americans should lead the way in their communities, companies, and families.

The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation named three goals for families.

First, families should make sure that children younger than 5 do not have any sugar-sweetened drinks like soda.

Second, parents should make sure their kids exercise every day instead of just watching television.

Third, parents should make sure their children enter kindergarten at a healthy weight.

Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey is president of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation.

She said American families are up to the challenge.

Changing habits is not easy, but it is not impossible.

Lavizzo-Mourey said Americans have changed their habits before.

For example, smoking used to be more popular than it is today.

Many people stopped smoking after scientists said the habit could cause cancer and heart problems.

Lavizzo-Mourey said ideas about healthy eating and exercise can change, too.

As first lady, Obama has supported healthy living.

Five years ago, she began a project called "Let's Move!"

which encourages kids to exercise more.

In her speech, Obama noted that the rate of children who are very overweight has stopped growing.

She added that in some age groups the rate has dropped.

Supporters have also managed to change the way food is bought and sold.

Some fast-food restaurants have put apples and skim milk in their kids' meals.

Also, the labeling on food has become clearer.

Parents now have more information when they are choosing what to buy at supermarkets.

Also, school lunches across America have gotten healthier.

While progress has been made, more needs to be done.

The nation "can't afford" to slow down its effort t reduce the number of very overweight children, Obama said.

"We've seen the progress we can make when we educate parents," she said.

"We help them make healthier decisions."

