On Wednesday, lawmakers in Washington got a step closer to tightening gun laws.

Meanwhile, first lady Michelle Obama sat down with Chicago students.

Their stories about violence brought her to tears.

Before the meeting began at Harper High School, Obama said she wanted to hear from each of the 22 students.

She told them to take all the time they needed.

She had come home to Chicago, she said, to do a lot of listening.

So for two hours, the first lady sat in the library, away from the news media, as students told story after story about dodging bullets, avoiding gangs and staying alive.

According to the students, the first lady wanted to know how many of them had been affected by the gun violence.

Every one of them told her they had, said 16-year-old Ta'taleisha Jones.

"She said, 'Have you ever experienced a family member hurt or killed?'

I told her, 'Yeah.'

When she was talking about how her life was and how we changed her, she got real emotional.

I was like 'Wow, we see the first lady crying.'

Tears were coming out her eyes," said Ta'taleisha.

Another student confirmed that the first lady cried at the meeting.

Before entering the private meeting, the first lady talked to the students about growing up in a small apartment in Chicago.

She was no different than they, working hard in school, trying not to listen to the haters and taking care of her business, she said.

"One of the reasons why I like to talk to kids, especially from my city, is to make sure all of you know that there isn't much distance between me and you.

There really is not," the first lady said.

But the students noted a difference between then and now, Ta'taleisha said.

"She said (there) wasn't really that much violence back in the day," she said, adding that the students told Obama that life had changed a lot – for the worse.

Obama sent a clear message that she does not plan to sit on the sidelines.

She does not want to watch Chicago's children become victims of street violence.

At a lunch hosted by Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, the first lady gave the gun issue a personal tone.

She recalled attending the funeral of 15-year-old Hadiya Pendleton in February.

Hadiya's parents, seated in the audience, cried as the first lady spoke about their daughter.

Hadiya was shot to death in a park near the Obamas' Chicago house.

Obama said Hadiya's story reminded her of her own.

"As I visited with the Pendleton family at Hadiya's funeral, I couldn't get over how familiar they felt to me.

Because what I realized was Hadiya's family was just like my family.

Hadiya Pendleton was me, and I was her," Obama said.

"But I got to grow up, and go to Princeton and Harvard Law School, and have a career and a family and the most blessed life I could ever imagine," she said.

"... Hadiya's family did everything right, but she still didn't have a chance."

Obama wondered what might have been different for the two young men charged with her murder.

"What if, instead of roaming around with guns, boys like them had access to a computer lab or a community center or some decent basketball courts?

Maybe everything would have turned out differently."

The lunch was set up by the mayor to gather support for a plan called Working Together for Safer Communities, Brighter Futures.

The project, launched in February, calls for business leaders and others to raise $50 million.

The money will create or expand community programs for at-risk youths.

Already, the group has received pledges of $33 million.

The White House noted that 29 current or former Harper High School students had been shot in the last year.

Eight of them died.

Outside Harper, students lingered hoping to see the first lady's limo.

Some were disappointed that she did not speak to the whole student body.

But those who got to meet her said they left with the feeling that someone really cares about them.

"I shared with her that I would stay inside, in 85-degree sunny weather, because I'm scared walking down the street.

I fear for my life.

I feel today could be my last day," said Ronald Ligon, 16.

"She said she would do everything in her power to stop the violence that goes on.

I know that she really do care.

Now I feel this is a new beginning for me."

