U.S. first lady Michelle Obama promised that the United States will help send 200,000 Pakistani girls to school.

Obama made her announcement at the White House on Thursday.

She welcomed her guests by saying the Muslim greeting "asalaam alaikum."

It means "peace be with you" in Arabic.

She said the U.S. will give $70 million for educating girls in Pakistan, a country next to India.

The money will help build more than a dozen schools and repair hundreds more.

It will also give girls job training and money to go to college.

The hope is that someday they will become the next generation of doctors, teachers and businesswomen.

"These girls are all of our girls," Obama said.

She said she feels very strongly about education for girls.

"I cannot look into the eyes of young women and not see myself and not see my own daughters, and not want the best for them."

Kalsoom Nawaz Sharif, the wife of the Pakistani prime minister, was at the announcement.

Her husband leads the government of Pakistan.

Their daughter, Maryam Nawaz Sharif, was there too.

She praised the first lady's effort to educate girls around the world.

Maryam Nawaz Sharif said Obama has inspired millions of girls.

Her daughters, Malia and Sasha, "could not have a better role model," she said.

At one point, Sharif joined hands with Obama.

"We shall not rest until every girl is learning and in school.

We shall not rest until every mother is confident that her daughter will have a better life than what she had," Sharif said.

Pakistan's government has promised to spend twice as much on education.

It will send more girls to school and hire more female teachers.

The first lady is leading a program called Let Girls Learn.

It will help more than 62 million teenage girls worldwide enroll and stay in school.

Obama said other countries have promised more than $800 million for the program.

The promises include $350 million from Japan and $200 million from South Korea.

Another $200 million will come from a partnership with the United Kingdom.

Susan Markham is with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID).

It is a part of the U.S. government that helps poor people around the world.

USAID is in charge of Let Girls Learn.

Markham said girls are less likely to go to elementary school than boys.

They are also more likely to face problems getting and finishing an education.

She said educating girls helps everyone.

Markham said a good education changes their entire future.

It also helps their families, their communities and their country.

President Barack Obama and the first lady began Let Girls Learn this year.

They have asked world leaders to help.

Since March, the first lady has traveled to Japan, Cambodia and the United Kingdom to tell people about the program.

