First lady Michelle Obama came to New York on Thursday to talk about American children who are obese.

Once again, she asked parents to "dive into" the fight to help American children become healthier.

Obama spoke at an event at which the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF) announced it would dedicate $500 million to reduce the number of very overweight children.

The event took place at  Edward A. Reynolds West Side High School in Manhattan.

The foundation named three strategies that individual families can embrace.

First, families can eliminate all sugar-sweetened beverages from the diets of children younger than 5.

Second, parents can engage kids in physical activity every day.

Third, families can ensure that children enter kindergarten at a healthy weight.

Obama praised the announcement by the foundation.

"I want to challenge you and folks across the country to make an RWJF kind of commitment at your own scale," she said.

"I want you to really dive into this issue in your schools, your organizations, community, your company, your family, wherever you are a leader and decision-maker.

Dive in."

She added, "If Robert Wood Johnson can invest half a billion dollars … surely we can push the envelope and aim just a little higher in our own efforts."

While she encouraged all Americans to do more, she also praised the efforts that many are already making.

Obama called parents who make healthier choices at the supermarket "unsung heroes."

Obama noted that the rate of children who are obese has stopped increasing, and that in some age groups the rate has even declined.

She cautioned that the progress is "fragile," though, emphasizing that the nation "can't afford" to slow down the effort to reduce the number of obese children.

Children's health is one of the issues Obama has become known for since she became first lady in 2009.

Five years ago, she began a project called "Let's Move!"

which encourages kids to exercise.

Dr. Risa Lavizzo-Mourey is president and chief executive of RWJF, a national health organization based in New Jersey.

According to Lavizzo-Mourey, Americans can change their habits and embrace a culture of health, just as they have changed their attitudes toward smoking and the importance of using seat belts in cars.

The foundation's new $500 million donation follows up on a $500 million donation made in 2007, bringing the foundation's total contribution to the effort to $1 billion.

The money will be distributed nationwide during the next 10 years to partner groups fighting to reduce the number of very overweight children.

In addition to helping parents do their part, the foundation also aims to make school environments healthier and make healthful foods more available.

It will especially focus efforts on children of color and children living in poverty, Lavizzo-Mourey said.

Obama mentioned a few examples of progress since 2007, when the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation made its first $500 million contribution to help kids grow up at a healthy weight.

Since then, some fast-food restaurants have started including apples and skim milk in their kids' meals.

Also, the labeling on food has become clearer, helping parents choose healthier products in supermarkets, and schools throughout the country have adopted higher health standards for lunches.

"We've seen the progress we can make when we educate parents and we help them make healthier decisions," Obama said.

