Michelle Obama looked like she was ready to fight the food companies three years ago.

The battle was about television advertising to sell sodas, sugary cereals and fast food to children.

Advertising is when a company pays for a message to sell something, like a television commercial.

The first lady was trying to fight childhood [obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity).

That's a disease where kids are so overweight it can really be bad for their health.

Her "Let's Move" promotes healthier food and exercise for children.

She told companies "to step it up."

They needed to improve the foods they advertise for children.

The government came up with rules for making and selling healthier foods.

Companies could follow them if they wanted to.

They didn't have to since the rules were voluntary.

But food and television companies fought them in 2011.

And some said Obama kept quiet during the fight.

The rules got blocked.

Nutrition supporters believe food and beverage companies helped increase obesity in kids by advertising their less healthy products.

The supporters do not agree on what to do about this.

Obama tries to convince companies to agree with her.

She does not think forcing them will work.

Officials say she has succeeded some of the time.

But some people do not agree.

They say they're on Obama's side in the fight against obesity.

But they say she kept quiet when they needed her.

"The White House got cold feet," said Sen. Tom Harkin.

That means the president and first lady were afraid of upsetting the food companies.

Food companies did support some rules.

They agreed to put calories on restaurant menus.

And the first lady got support for a 2010 law that [set health rules for food sold in schools](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch).

But many public health supporters want her to be tougher.

Obama has worked through the Partnership for a Healthier America.

The group was set up to get food companies to promise to fight obesity in kids.

Companies have agreed to make better children's menus.

They promised to cut calories.

But they have not made many promises to change the way they sell their food on TV.

Changing advertising is a good way to reduce obesity in children, said Dale Kunkel.

He studies advertising and children.

Many commercials make kids want to buy sodas, snacks and other foods with a lot of sugar and fat in them.

In 2009 Congress set up a group to write voluntary nutrition rules for food advertised to children.

They were voluntary, meaning the companies did not have to follow them.

The White House kept track of the group's progress.

So did the food companies.

The head of General Mills said the government group should "be put on hold."

The food companies would improve their own advertising rules.

General Mills makes Lucky Charms and Trix, among other cereals like Cheerios.

The government group came up with rules in April 2011.

Foods advertised to children should have only a little sugar, salt and fat.

They had to have healthy things in them.

The rules were only a draft.

They had to be approved to mean anything.

Public health supporters agreed with the rules.

But food makers and television companies fought them.

Food companies came out with a tougher version of their own rules.

They promised to limit sugar, salt and fat in products for children.

But they did not do everything the government group wanted.

It's a tough fight.

Food and television companies are closely linked.

For example, Nickelodeon sold the SpongeBob SquarePants name and image to the Popsicle company.

The frozen pop looks like the cartoon character.

Nickelodeon showed a quarter of the food ads viewed by children ages 2 to 11 in 2011, according to a study.

The network recently turned down a request by four Democratic senators to set stricter nutrition standards for the products advertised on its channel.

