Anand Mariappan works at Microsoft in Seattle, Washington.

He helps develop software and tools for computers.

He spends his day at work building computer programs for customers.

The people who use the software that Mariappan makes usually have fancy computer screens, quick Internet and modern office buildings.

But in January, 31-year-old Mariappan had the chance to serve a new kind of customer.

He spent three weeks in Uganda, a country in Africa, helping new companies get started.

Things are very different in Africa than they are in Seattle.

Mariappan and his team had to make some changes.

In America, he said, there are many resources.

There are trained workers and speedy Internet.

In Africa, things can often be different.

Mariappan went to Africa as part of Microsoft's MySkills4Afrika program.

MySkills4Afrika sends Microsoft employees to the country for two to three weeks at a time.

The employees work on different programs to help African businesses.

So far, Microsoft has sent about 400 people to Africa.

The program has a few different purposes.

It helps to increase Microsoft's business around the world.

Staff who go to Africa also learn leadership skills by working with new customers.

Lastly, the program is a way for Microsoft to give back to the community.

Microsoft's work in Africa started in South Africa.

The country has long had the largest number of successful businesses on the continent.

Microsoft is not the only firm to invest in South Africa.

Many other U.S. companies are currently working there, too.

Fernando de Sousa played a big part in helping the program get started.

He was born in Mozambique, another country in Africa.

Then he joined Microsoft in South Africa in 1992.

Now, he helps lead Microsoft's Middle East and Africa offices.

In 2005, he worked on a project with the United Nations.

The project's goal was to develop ideas on how to help African businesses and trade.

After the United Nations project, the Microsoft partnership was created.

The program has faced some challenges.

Not every project they work on goes well.

In the program's early days, Microsoft pushed African customers to use an inexpensive smartphone that ran on Windows software.

Customers did not run out and buy the phone.

It was not popular.

Google and Apple are make the world's most popular smartphones.

Microsoft could not keep up with the competition.

The smartphone in Africa was not as successful as the company wanted it to be.

Even with the smartphone struggle, Microsoft has done many good things in Africa.

The company has launched training programs for workers, internships for young people and the MySkills4Afrika program.

When Mariappan was in Africa, he helped the people learn new skills and how to use software.

He taught them about Power BI, a Microsoft tool.

Power BI helps business owners use numbers and math to help their customers better.

It can help the businesses make more money.

"My goal was to teach," he said.

"But I learned a lot."

