Thousands of people are pouring into Europe.

They are escaping war and other problems in their home countries.

Many use social media and smartphone apps to guide them.

Social media can be on websites or apps.

Facebook and Twitter are both examples of social media.

People use the sites to write to each other.

Amr Zaidah is from Syria.

He is one of the migrants.

There is a war in Syria.

Many people have been killed.

Zaidah looked up information about his journey for two months.

He used social media to know where to go.

He used it to find out how to get there.

He learned about weather and wind patterns.

He even used it to get the papers he needed.

Migrants need these papers to continue their journey.

Zaidah also used social media for another reason as well.

He learned how not to get cheated.

On one Facebook group, Syrians and others share information.

They post names of people who can lead them to safety.

They warn of possible problems.

They also give other advice.

Zaidah already knows where he will cross borders.

He know the hotels he can stay in.

He also knows the stores where he can get warm clothing.

The migrants are always on their phones.

Many travel by sea from Turkey to Greece.

On the boat, they keep their phones in plastic bags.

This keeps them dry.

The migrants land in Lesbos.

It is an island in Greece.

They say thanks be to God.

The first thing they do is take their phones out.

Second, they hug each other.

Then they take group selfies on the shore and call loved ones.

Along the route, new businesses have started up.

In Turkey, shoe shops sell life jackets.

People sell plastic bags to keep wallets and mobile phones dry.

Even floaties are sold for children.

In Greece, Arabic signs are on storefronts.

Syrians speak Arabic.

The prices for bottled water have gone up.

For a while, some Syrians and Iraqis sold fake papers.

Papers would give the Syrians permission to stay in Greece.

Without them it is against the law to be there.

Greek officials made it easier to get real papers.

The papers are also free.

