More and more young people are fleeing Central America and coming to the United States.

Gangs and the crime they bring has made life unsafe in many countries in Central America.

These children and teenagers are often traveling without parents or other relatives.

In recent years, the number of minors, or young people, arrested by border police has risen sharply.

Between 2004 and 2011, about 6,800 children were arrested each year.

But in 2012, police caught 13,000.

And in 2013, there were 24,000.

Officials estimate that up to 120 young people arrive in the United States each day.

Irene Granados came to the United States to escape gang violence in her home country of El Salvador.

She made the trip two years ago when she was only 15.

Irene's journey began in her hometown of La Union, near the Pacific coast of El Salvador.

"I had a problem," Granados recalled.

"Someone wanted to harm me."

When asked for details, Granados said gang members were threatening to steal her belongings as pressure for her to join.

She said her mother and other relatives told her the best thing to do was to flee to the United States.

They hoped she could reach her aunt in Florida.

"So I began my journey," Granados recalled.

Though Granados traveled without her parents or any other relative, she was not alone.

She was traveling with a paid guide, or "coyote," who was leading her and other migrants to the U.S. border.

Migrants from Central America often pool their money and pay guides to secretly smuggle them across the border.

Granados and her group first traveled by bus from El Salvador to Guatemala.

Then they continued to northern Mexico, traveling more than 2,000 miles in total.

From northern Mexico they walked into the Sonora Desert toward Arizona.

Granados, who was 15 when she started the voyage, turned 16 while walking in the desert.

It was Dec. 23, 2011.

Then immigration police caught the group and held Granados in Arizona.

Eventually, Irene's aunt from Florida tracked her down and convinced the police to let her take her niece home.

Brothers Javier and Denis Giron, 13 and 17, also came to America looking for safety.

The Giron brothers began their journey from their native Honduras on Feb. 7, 2013.

They traveled in a car with a guide and five other teens ages 13 to 16.

It took the group 11 days to travel from Honduras to Guatemala to the U.S. border between Texas and Mexico.

There, the border is marked by the Rio Grande River.

On the Mexican side of the border, the Giron brothers and the other teens boarded an inflatable raft and the guide paddled them across the river toward Texas.

Once on the U.S. side, the guide left the teens by themselves after telling them to keep walking until the Border Patrol showed up.

They walked for seven hours through a field until they saw a Border Patrol vehicle.

The officers arrested the teens and took them to a detention center near the border.

The Giron brothers were held there for two months until an older brother, who lives in South Florida, picked them up.

"We miss our family in Honduras, but we finally feel safe here," said Javier Giron.

But for Granados and the Giron brothers, getting to the U.S. safely was only the first step.

Now they would have to ask the U.S. government for the right to stay permanently.

These young people hoped to receive a "green card," official permission to live in the United States.

To get a green card, they would have to go to court and show that they had been abandoned, abused or neglected.

Lawyers from the DuaneMorris law office in downtown Miami agreed to help these immigrants get a green card.

The lawyers worked pro bono, which means they worked without asking for any payment.

Granados, with the help of her lawyers, told the court that her father had abandoned the family when she was still a child and that her mother left later.

Now Granados is hoping to get a green card and build her life in the United States.

"I want to be a doctor," she said.

