Amr Zaidah, 26, knew exactly what to do and where to go.

With a GPS, he helped steer the boat that brought him and about 30 other migrants near the village of Molivos on Lesbos.

This summer, the Greek island has been the first stop for thousands of migrants on the journey to Western Europe.

From Molivos, Zaidah and his eight friends took a bus to Mytilene, the capital of Lesbos, about 50 kilometers, or 30 miles, to the south.

There, Zaidah also knew, they could seek the official document needed to continue.

"I have researched our journey for more than two months," said Zaidah, a native of the Syrian city of Aleppo.

"I used social media networks to look into where to go, who is the best smuggler to hire and what stuff we needed for the trip," he said.

"I familiarized myself with weather forecasts, wind patterns."

He also used social media to learn how to avoid being cheated.

Others also use social media networks and smartphone apps to guide their journeys from Turkey to Western Europe.

On one Facebook group, for example, Syrians and others who already made the trip share the names and telephone numbers of good smugglers in Turkey.

They also warn of possible dangers and give advice.

The group calls itself al-Mushantateen.

It is a combination of the Arabic words for "suitcase" and "diaspora," a group of people who live outside their home country.

The group includes posts by volunteers who offer services like calling the coast guard if a boat overturns.

Zaidah and his group already know which border points they will cross, hotels they can stay in and stores where they can get cold-weather clothes as they head north.

Zaidah and his friends went straight to Molivos for the free bus rides.

Many others set off on the journey to Mytilene on foot in the summer heat and humidity.

For families with elderly members and children, it can take up to three days to walk to the town.

Halfway through the walk, the migrants look dazed, dragging their feet up and down one hill after another.

They take occasional breaks in the shade on the side of the road.

The social media-savvy among the migrants are constantly on their phones.

They line up outside the offices of cellphone providers at Mytilene.

They buy Greek numbers that allow data and roaming elsewhere in Europe so they can connect to Facebook and the apps they use to communicate with others.

During the sea journey, which can take up to two hours in good weather, they keep their phones in plastic bags to keep them dry.

They land in Lesbos, chanting, "Thanks be to God."

The first thing they do is fish their phones out, joyously hug and take group selfies on the shore.

Then they call loved ones back in Turkey, Syria or Iraq, shouting, "We arrived in Greece!"

But the research done by Zaidah and his friends didn't stop them from facing serious problems in Turkey.

They and nearly 50 others, including 15 children, got lost in the woods looking for the boat that would smuggle them to Greece.

Their Syrian guide couldn't speak Turkish or figure out how to work his GPS.

After nearly 12 hours, they found a departure area — only to discover it was run by a rival smuggler.

The rival smuggler was furious and pointed a gun at one of Zaidah's friends, Mohammed Seraj.

The smuggler said, "I can kill you now and no one will know, or I can call my coast guard friends who will alert the police to your group and come and arrest you."

The group finally connected with their own smuggler.

At dawn, the smuggler made them carry heavy boxes down to the beach, where they had to assemble the boat themselves.

The smuggler then left them to steer the boat.

All along the route, businesses have started up.

In Izmir, Turkey, shoe shops sell life jackets, and people on the street sell plastic bags for wallets and mobile phones, Zaidah and Seraj said.

Even floaties are sold for children.

In Lesbos, Arabic signs have gone up on storefronts.

Prices for basic goods like bottled water have gone up.

For a while, some Syrians and Iraqis sold fake versions of the documents that all the migrants need.

But they were put out of business when Greek authorities sped up the process for giving out the real papers, which are free.

Lesbos residents have found another way to make money.

Some wait on the coast with binoculars, and as soon as a boat lands, they swoop down in a pickup truck and look for things to sell.

