United Nations officials are pushing for a new way to define many of the Central Americans fleeing to the United States.

They want them to be treated as refugees displaced by armed conflict.

It is a designation that they believe would increase pressure on the United States and Mexico to accept tens of thousands of people currently ineligible for asylum, or protection by the U.S. government.

Officials with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees say they hope to see movement toward a regional agreement on that definition this week.

On Thursday, migration and interior department representatives from the United States, Mexico and Central America will meet in Nicaragua.

The group will discuss updating a 30-year-old declaration regarding the obligations that nations have to aid refugees.

Such a resolution would lack any legal weight.

Nonetheless, the agency said it believes "the U.S. and Mexico should recognize that this is a refugee situation, which implies that they shouldn't be automatically sent to their home countries but rather receive international protection."

Most people widely considered to be refugees are fleeing more traditional political or ethnic conflicts like those in Syria or Sudan.

Central Americans would be among the first to be considered refugees because they are fleeing violence at the hands of criminal gangs.

Central America's Northern Triangle of Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras has become one of the most violent regions on Earth in recent years.

Large areas of all three countries are under the control of drug traffickers and street gangs who routinely rob and rape ordinary citizens.

Honduras, a primary transit point for U.S.-bound drugs, has the world's highest murder rate for a nation that is not at war.

In recent months, a wave of attacks against churches, schools and buses has made the situation even worse.

Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez said migrants from his country were "displaced by war."

He called on the United States to acknowledge that.

Violence by criminal organizations spread after members of California street gangs were sent back to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador.

Weak and corrupt police forces in those countries were quickly overwhelmed.

In El Salvador, the end of a truce between street gangs has led to a steep rise in homicides this year.

At least 135,000 people have been forced to leave their homes, the vast majority due to gang violence.

Immigration experts say the flow of migrants from Honduras and El Salvador is likely to rise as the two countries experience more gang-related violence.

"They are leaving for some reason.

Let's not send them back in a mechanical way, but rather" look at "the reasons they left their country," U.N. official Fernando Protti said.

Even though an agreement on Thursday would not have any legal power, advocates say it would encourage countries to help the migrants.

Such help could include emergency aid and social services for internally displaced people inside Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador.

Currently, U.N.-backed refugee camps house tens of thousands of people who have fled conflicts around the world.

However such camps are not a practical solution to the Central American crisis, said refugee expert Dr. David James Cantor.

"Somebody from El Salvador will fit in in Guatemala.

I don't think we want to get on the route of isolating them," he said.

"They're not in the middle of the Syrian desert where there's nobody to receive them."

The United States has seen a dramatic increase in the number of [Central American migrants](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Central+american+emigration) crossing into its territory, particularly children traveling without any adult guardian.

More than 52,000 unaccompanied children have been apprehended since October.

Three-fourths of them are from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador and most say they are fleeing pervasive gang violence and crushing poverty.

Both congressional Republicans and the Obama administration have called for action to reverse the trend.

Among other changes, the administration wants to end a 2008 law allowing child migrants to automatically appear before an immigration judge.

Instead, Border Patrol agents could decide whether to deport them or allow them an additional hearing.

Asked Monday whether the administration viewed the situation at the border as a refugee crisis, White House spokesman Josh Earnest seemed to sidestep the question.

He said it was "a humanitarian situation that requires urgent attention."

The administration, he said, wanted to ensure child migrants were housed in "humane conditions" while authorities worked quickly to determine whether they should be allowed to remain in the United States.

If not, he said, Homeland Security should be able to decide whether to return them to their home country.

Many congressional Republicans blame the increased immigration on bad U.S. government policy.

They point to a failure to secure the border and recent immigration policy changes that led many to believe child migrants would be allowed to stay.

Many of the migrants, in fact, stay for years as their cases wind through overloaded immigration courts.

Those who say they are fleeing criminal violence generally are not eligible for political asylum, which is reserved for groups persecuted for their beliefs or identities.

U.N. officials say there is no way of forcing the United States and Mexico to accept Central Americans as refugees.

However, a broad-based change in terminology could bring pressure on the two countries to do more.

"Unaccompanied children and families who fear for their lives" must not be "forcibly returned" without an asylum hearing, U.N. official Leslie Velez declared.

