Many young people are leaving their homes in Central America and coming to the United States.

Gangs have made life unsafe in many countries in Central America.

These children and teenagers often travel without parents or other relatives.

Police on the U.S.-Mexico border have been finding more and more young people recently.

About 6,800 youths were arrested each year between 2004 and 2011.

In 2012, police caught 13,000.

And in 2013, there were even more — 24,000.

As many as 120 young people come across the border into the United States each day.

Many are trying to escape gang violence back home.

Others were sent by their families.

They all hope to find a better life in the United States.

Irene Granados left El Salvador to come to the United States.

She was only 15.

She had to leave her hometown because a gang was making life difficult for her.

Gang members were threatening to hurt her if she did not join them, she said.

Her mother told her the best thing to do was to leave home and go to the United States.

She hoped to reach her aunt in Florida.

"So I began my journey," Granados remembered.

Granados traveled without her parents or any other relative.

But she was not alone.

She and other travelers paid a guide to help them make the long and difficult journey.

These guides are nicknamed "coyotes."

They help people who want to enter the United States secretly.

Granados and her group traveled by bus from El Salvador to northern Mexico.

Then they walked into the Sonoran Desert toward Arizona.

Granados was 15 when she started the trip.

She turned 16 while walking in the desert.

Then immigration police caught the group.

Granados was held in Arizona.

Eventually, Irene's aunt from Florida found her and brought her home.

Brothers Javier and Denis Giron also came to America looking for safety.

They were 13 and 17 at the time.

The Giron brothers left Honduras in February 2013.

They traveled in a car with a guide and five other teens ages 13 to 16.

It took the group 11 days to travel from Honduras to the United States.

They traveled all the way north through Mexico until they reached the Rio Grande River.

The river divides the United States from Mexico.

At the border, the guide put the Girons and other teens on a small raft.

He paddled them across the river to Texas.

Once they were in the United States, their guide left the teens by themselves.

He told them to keep walking until they were found by police.

They walked for seven hours through a field.

Finally, they saw a Border Patrol vehicle.

The police arrested the teens and held them near the border.

The Giron brothers stayed there for two months.

Eventually, an older brother who lives in Florida picked them up.

"We miss our family in Honduras, but we finally feel safe here," Javier Giron said.

For Granados and the Giron brothers, getting to the United States safely was only the first step.

Now they needed to ask the U.S. government if they could stay here for good.

These young people hoped to get a "green card."

A green card is official permission to live in the United States.

They now had to go to court and show that they had been left by their parents, or very badly treated.

Lawyers in downtown Miami agreed to help these young immigrants get a green card.

The lawyers worked without asking for any payment.

Granados told the court that her father left her family when she was still a child.

She is now hoping to get a green card and build her life in the United States.

"I want to be a doctor," she said.

