Claudia Morales' family is moving 200 miles away.

She must pack everything she owns into three big suitcases.

She throws all her schoolwork into the trash.

She will be starting a new school.

Moving is nothing new for Claudia.

Her family moves twice a year.

Claudia's parents are farmworkers.

They do the difficult work of planting and picking fruits and vegetables.

Farmworkers often move from place to place because different farms need workers at different times.

It is called seasonal work.

Claudia is not the only one making this journey.

This December, thousands of children are moving to new schools in California.

The farmworkers live in camps while working.

The camps give them a cheap place to live.

But when the work is over for the season, the farmworkers must leave.

A California law says they must move at least 50 miles away when the camps close for the winter.

"I like both places," Claudia said.

"But when I grow up I expect to have good work and buy a house where we can stay permanently."

Claudia goes to two different schools each year.

She gets straight A's at one.

Her grades are lower at the other.

Switching between schools makes it more difficult to learn.

It's easy for kids like Claudia to fall behind.

Nine out of every 10 children living in farmworker camps drop out of school, says Human Agenda.

It is a human rights group.

This fall Claudia started eighth grade at Aptos Junior High School.

Juan Alcantar is a guidance counselor there.

Alcantar gives advice to the children of migrants.

Their parents are called migrants because they move from place to place for work.

Alcantar said he knows some students who are failing all their classes.

"They see themselves as visitors," he said.

"They figure, 'I come from a labor camp next to a dump site.

I don't belong, and I'm leaving soon.'"

Amado Padilla is a Stanford University professor who studies immigration.

He said that most people do not know about children like Claudia.

"We all should care a whole lot about this," he said.

Padilla explained that educating children is important.

Kids who do not finish school end up creating problems that affect everyone, he said.

Kids who are educated can help people, he said.

California has 24 seasonal farmworker centers.

Altogether, there are 1,900 apartments in them.

Claudia lives in a labor camp of 50 cheap houses built in the 1960s.

Out of her bedroom window she can see a valley, a jail and a dump.

Rent for the house is about $350 a month.

That's a lot for Claudia's dad, who made $9.50 an hour planting strawberries in November.

In the fields, Claudia's father, Juan Morales, wears a large straw hat and bends over to work.

He joked with other workers as music played over the field.

Morales got serious when asked if Claudia and her siblings, ages 7 and 16, will ever join him.

Under state law, the children can start working in the fields at age 13.

"I want them to get a good education, I don't want them working here," he said.

"They take the pain for us," Claudia said of her parents' work in the fields.

It's Claudia's first day at her new school.

The class is studying chemistry.

At her other school she was studying a different subject.

"Who remembers what a molecule is?"

asks teacher Kevin Meneses.

Hands go up.

Students call out.

Claudia stays still.

"I just listen, I write it down, but I don't raise my hand because I have no idea what they're asking about," she said, shrugging.

"I just sit there."

