Moving around her whole life has made 13-year-old Claudia Morales an expert in packing.

Claudia knows she must start packing early, because like many young people, her room is always a mess.

Her hoodies and clothes go in her suitcase, but all of Claudia's schoolwork goes in the trash.

In just a week she'll have new notebooks, new textbooks, a new school and three large bulging suitcases to begin unpacking 200 miles away.

Claudia does this every year.

Twice a year, in fact.

She's not alone.

This December, thousands of children are making their annual journey to new schools in California.

These are the children of migrant farmworkers.

Claudia's parents work in the fields, planting and picking fruits and vegetables.

Because fruits and vegetables grow only at certain times during the year, migrant workers must move around to where the work is.

It is known as seasonal work.

In California, seasonal farmworkers live in labor camps during growing season.

These camps offer lost-cost housing for farmworkers.

But when the work is over, the farmworkers must leave.

State law mandates that families move at least 50 miles away when the camps close for the winter.

"We have a life we need to live," Claudia said.

"I like both places, but when I grow up I expect to have good work and buy a house where we can stay permanently."

Claudia gets straight A's at one school, somewhat lower grades at her other.

Still, as Claudia gets older and her classes get more complex, she is increasingly at risk of dropping out.

Eventually, about 90 percent of kids living in seasonal workers housing drop out of school, according to Human Agenda, a nonprofit human rights group in San Jose.

At Aptos Junior High School, where Claudia started eighth grade this fall, Juan Alcantar is a guidance counselor for the children of migrant workers.

Alcantar says he has a handful of students who are flunking every class, just waiting for their move, sometimes as far away as Mexico.

"They see themselves as visitors on this campus," he said.

"They figure, 'I come from a labor camp next to a dump site.

I don't belong, and I'm leaving soon.'"

A state lawmaker this year tried to change the 50-mile rule, but the bill died in committee.

For Claudia, the cycle continues.

Her labor camp is less than an hour drive south of Silicon Valley, a region that has transitioned from lush fruit orchards and vegetable fields to a global tech hub hosting companies like Google, Facebook and Apple.

"This is a largely invisible population, but we all should care a whole lot about this," said Stanford University Professor Amado Padilla, who studies immigration.

"Kids who don't finish school end up being a burden on society.

On the flip side, kids who are well-educated end up being the caregivers both personally and economically of the older generation."

California has 24 seasonal farmworker centers —1,900 apartments all together — run by the state's Office of Migrant Housing.

The program dates to the 1930s, when the federal government opened migrant labor camps for Dust Bowl refugees — poor migrants coming to California to escape a drought in the Great Plains.

The idea behind the 50-mile rule was to provide seasonal housing for families who come to an area to work only during picking season.

There are far fewer migrating farmworkers families today than 10 years ago.

Still, state officials say that seasonal housing should not be lived in year-round — that would make it unavailable for the next season's pickers and planters.

"We are not aware of members of families being in jams or having a problem with having to move away," said Guerdon Stuckey, of the California Department of Housing and Community Development.

He said some families move from crop to crop and are not looking for permanent housing.

"We've met several of these farmworkers, and on the contrary, they're not only aware of the many affordable housing options, they enjoy this lifestyle," he said.

The labor camp where Claudia's family lives is 50 flimsy houses built in the late 1960s.

The houses are made of Styrofoam and plywood.

Claudia's bedroom window overlooks a small valley, a county jail and a dump.

The rent for the house is about $350 a month — a lot for Claudia's dad, who made $9.50 an hour planting strawberry root stocks in November.

Morales — wearing a large straw hat — joked with nearby planters, all bent at the waist, as loud music blared over the field.

But he got serious when asked if Claudia, her brother Jose, 7, and sister Maria, 16, will ever join him.

Legally they can start picking at 13.

"I want them to get a good education, I don't want them working here," he said.

"They take the pain for us," Claudia said of her parents' work in the fields.

This fall, Claudia rode a bus with other labor camp kids to Aptos Junior High, a bustling school splashed with murals in a largely wealthy community.

After Thanksgiving, she moved to Palo Verde Union School in Tulare, a newer school in a low-income community.

In the labor camp, Claudia knows just about everybody.

In Tulare, her family shares one room of a mobile home in a dangerous neighborhood.

Claudia does not go out at night, but she still likes it there.

She has her own bed near the television where they watch her favorite telenovelas, Spanish-language soap operas.

In Tulare, the science class was studying chemistry.

At Aptos, she had studied physics.

"Who remembers what a molecule is?"

asked teacher Kevin Meneses on her first day.

"If I have two or more of a different type of atom stuck together, what do I have?"

Hands shot up.

Students called out.

Claudia was still.

"I just listen, I write it down, but I don't raise my hand because I have no idea what they're asking about," she said, shrugging.

"I just sit there."

