Hundreds of migrants protested outside Budapest's main train station Wednesday.

For the second day, Hungarian police had stopped them from traveling to Germany and other wealthy European countries.

"What we want?

Peace!

What we need?

Peace!"

shouted the migrants, who are fleeing war and poverty in the Middle East, Asia and Africa.

They are trying to seek asylum, which is offered to people who would be in danger if they returned to their home countries.

Zoltan Kovacs, a Hungarian government spokesman, said the European Union countries (EU) must have law and order at their borders.

Otherwise, it will be impossible to deal with the flood of migrants spreading through Europe, he said.

The EU is a group of 28 European countries that use the same money and have common rules.

So far, the EU has not been able to agree on how to deal with the migrants to Europe.

More than 332,000 have entered so far this year.

Greece, Italy and Hungary, which are seeing the most migrants, have pleaded for more help.

Meanwhile, Germany has demanded that other nations accept more migrants.

Germany expects to take in 800,000 migrants this year, the most in Europe.

Migrants are so desperate to reach safety in Europe that they have put their lives in danger.

Many have died crossing the sea in poorly made boats and riding on the tops of trains.

Turkish media reported that 11 migrants drowned as they tried to cross the sea to Greece.

Trains between London and Paris were stopped overnight Tuesday.

Officials heard that migrants were running on the tracks and trying to climb onto trains.

Passengers aboard one train said migrants trying to climb onto the train had damaged fire safety equipment.

In tweets, passengers also described seeing migrants running along the roofs of another train.

Two boats carrying migrants from Turkey to a nearby Greek island overturned Wednesday.

On a beach in Turkey, people pulled dead bodies out of the water.

One of them was the body of a little child.

Six other migrants were rescued and five remained missing.

Hungary's police said they will put more officers outside the Keleti station.

About 3,000 migrants already are camped nearby.

Police are also looking for migrants on Hungarian trains.

Kovacs said Hungary would stop migrants from coming into the country against the law.

Hungary is building a 13-foot-high fence on the border with Serbia.

It also plans to pass stricter migration laws.

These would let officials make quicker decisions about who can come into the country and who cannot.

The laws would also stop migrants from cutting through the new fence or crossing the border except in certain places.

Hungary's efforts to stop the migrants had an immediate effect.

German police reported Wednesday that only about 50 migrants arrived on the morning trains to Munich.

On Tuesday, the number was 2,400.

The Greek coast guard, meanwhile, said it had rescued 1,058 migrants over the past 24 hours.

More than 200,000 migrants have reached Greece this year.

They have come mainly from neighboring Turkey.

More than 1 million people live in refugee camps there, fleeing from wars in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan.

Greek police also arrested six suspected people in northern Greece.

They are accused of trying to smuggle 103 migrants, including 19 children, over the border in a truck.

In Iceland, people have used social media to challenge the government's promise to take in just 50 Syrians.

Some people have offered to let a war refugee stay with them.

Others have tried to persuade the government to turn an unused army base into migrant housing.

Boats from several countries were trying to prevent more migrants from drowning.

A Norwegian ship in the Mediterranean carried about 800 migrants who had been rescued.

One migrant spoke wearily about missing his family.

"They call me every day and they say to me that they miss me.

And I say, 'I miss you.'

But there's no way to see them," Afghan migrant Abdullah Bakhshi said, as he walked along a road on the Greek island of Lesbos.

