The United Nations, an international organization that promotes peace and cooperation between countries, is pushing for a new way to define many of the Central Americans, particularly children, who have been coming into the United States.

Currently, those [Central Americans crossing the border](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Central+american+emigration) in large numbers are considered to be economic migrants.

They are thought to have left their homes only to look for work.

If they are caught entering this country illegally, they are sent back without a hearing.

The United Nations is now proposing that many Central Americans no longer be thought of as economic migrants.

Instead, it says, they should be considered refugees.

Refugees are people who have been forced to leave their country because of serious danger.

Unlike economic migrants, refugees are not simply seeking better opportunities.

Typically, they are fleeing wars or persecution.

The real danger they are in is considered to be a strong reason for granting them asylum, or protection by a nation such as the United States.

Starting to think of many Central Americans as refugees wouldn't by itself do anything to change current laws.

The United Nations believes, however, that it would increase pressure on the United States and Mexico.

It would encourage both countries to accept tens of thousands of people who cannot currently be considered for asylum.

Officials with the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees say they hope to see movement toward a new definition this week.

On Thursday, representatives from the United States, Mexico and Central America will meet in Nicaragua.

The group will discuss updating a 30-year-old declaration regarding the obligations that nations have to aid refugees.

Such a resolution would lack any legal weight.

Nonetheless, the United Nations said it believes "the U.S. and Mexico should recognize that this is a refugee situation."

Reclassifying Central Americans as refugees would mean that they "shouldn't be automatically sent to their home countries," but should instead "receive international protection."

Most people considered to be refugees are fleeing wars like the ones in Syria or Sudan.

If Central Americans are reclassified as refugees, it will be for a different and unusual reason: crime.

Many Central Americans countries have been taken over by violent criminal gangs.

Central America's Northern Triangle of Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras has become one of the most violent regions on Earth in recent years.

Large areas of all three countries are under the control of drug traffickers and street gangs.

Violent criminals routinely rob and rape ordinary citizens.

Honduras now has the world's highest murder rate.

In recent months, a wave of attacks against churches, schools and buses has made the situation even worse.

Honduran President Juan Orlando Hernandez said those leaving his country were "displaced by war."

He called on the United States to acknowledge that.

Violence by criminal organizations spread after members of California street gangs were sent back to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador.

Weak police forces in those countries were quickly overwhelmed.

In El Salvador, the end of a truce between street gangs has led to a steep rise in murders this year.

At least 135,000 people have been forced to leave their homes due to gang violence.

The number of people fleeing Honduras and El Salvador is likely to rise as the two countries experience more gang-related violence.

"They are leaving for some reason.

Let's not send them back in a mechanical way, but rather" look at "the reasons they left their country," U.N. official Fernando Protti said.

The United States has seen a dramatic increase in the number of Central Americans crossing into its territory.

In particular, there has been an increase in the number of children traveling without any adults.

More than 52,000 unaccompanied children have been caught since October.

Three-fourths of them are from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador.

Most say they are fleeing the terrible gang violence.

Right now, those who say they are fleeing criminal violence generally cannot be considered for political asylum.

Asylum is reserved for groups persecuted for their beliefs or for who they are: for example, members or religious or ethnic minorities.

U.N. officials say there is no way of forcing the United States and Mexico to accept Central Americans as refugees.

However, a change in how fleeing Central Americans are thought of could bring pressure on the two countries to do more.

U.N. official Leslie Velez declared that "unaccompanied children and families who fear for their lives" should be given special consideration.

They must not be "forcibly returned" without an asylum hearing, she said.

