More and more young people are leaving Central America and coming to the United States.

Gangs in many central American countries are making life unsafe for people.

These children and teenagers are often traveling without parents or other relatives.

Recently, police on the border have been arresting more young people.

About 6,800 youths were arrested each year between 2004 and 2011.

In 2012, police caught 13,000.

And in 2013, there were even more — 24,000.

As many as 120 young people are coming across the border into the United States each day.

Irene Granados left her home country of El Salvador to come to the United States.

She was only 15 when she made the journey two years ago.

She had to leave her hometown because a gang was making life difficult for her.

"I had a problem," Granados recalled.

"Someone wanted to harm me."

She said gang members were threatening to rob her if she didn't join them.

Her mother and other relatives told her the best thing to do was to leave home and go to the United States.

They hoped she could reach her aunt in Florida.

"So I began my journey," Granados remembered.

Granados traveled without her parents or any other relative.

But she was not alone.

She and other migrants paid a guide to help them make the long and difficult journey.

These guides are nicknamed "coyotes."

They help people who want to enter the U.S. secretly.

Granados and her group first traveled by bus from El Salvador to Guatemala.

Then they continued to northern Mexico.

They traveled more than 2,000 miles just to reach the U.S. border.

From northern Mexico they walked into the Sonora Desert toward Arizona.

Granados, who was 15 when she started the voyage, turned 16 while walking in the desert.

It was Dec. 23, 2011.

Then immigration police caught the group and held Granados in Arizona.

Eventually, Irene's aunt from Florida found her and brought her home.

Brothers Javier and Denis Giron, 13 and 17, also came to America looking for safety.

The Giron brothers left their native Honduras on Feb. 7, 2013.

They traveled in a car with a guide and five other teens aged 13 to 16.

It took the group 11 days to travel from Honduras to Guatemala to the U.S. border between Texas and Mexico.

There, the border is marked by the Rio Grande River.

On the Mexican side of the border, the Giron brothers and the other teens boarded an inflatable raft and the guide paddled them across the river toward Texas.

On the U.S. side, their guide left the teens by themselves.

He told them to keep walking until they were found by police.

They walked for seven hours through a field until they saw a Border Patrol vehicle.

The officers arrested the teens and took them to a detention center near the border.

The Giron brothers were held there for two months.

Eventually,  an older brother, who lives in South Florida, picked them up.

"We miss our family in Honduras, but we finally feel safe here," said Javier Giron.

But for Granados and the Giron brothers, getting to the United States safely was only the first step.

Now they needed to ask the U.S. government to stay permanently.

These young people hoped to receive a "green card," official permission to live in the United States.

To get a green card, they would have to go to court and show that they had been left by their parents, or badly treated.

Lawyers from the DuaneMorris law office in downtown Miami agreed to help these young immigrants get a green card.

The lawyers worked pro bono, which means they worked without asking for any payment.

Granados told the court that her father had abandoned the family when she was still a child and that her mother left home later.

Now Granados is hoping to get a green card and build her life in the United States.

"I want to be a doctor," she said.

