Amr Zaidah, a 26-year-old college graduate from Syria, knew exactly what to do and where to go.

Zaidah, with the aid of GPS, helped pilot the inflatable boat that brought him and about 30 more migrants near the village of Molivos on Lesbos.

The Greek island is one of several that have have been the first stop for tens of thousands of migrants this summer on their journey to Western Europe.

Molivos is the village where buses were taking migrants to the capital of Lesbos, Mytilene, some 50 kilometers, or about 30 miles, to the south.

At Mytilene, Zaidah also knew he and his eight friends could seek the official document needed to continue their journey.

"I have researched our journey for more than two months," said Zaidah, a native of the Syrian city of Aleppo who had lived in Turkey for the last two years.

"I used social media networks to look into where to go, who is the best smuggler to hire and what stuff we needed for the trip," he said.

"I familiarized myself with weather forecasts, wind patterns and how to avoid being conned out of our money by smugglers."

Zaidah took advantage of social media networks and smartphone apps to guide his journey across the sea from Turkey and onward to Western Europe.

Thousands of other mostly young Syrians and Iraqis have done likewise.

On one Facebook group, for example, Syrians and others who already made the trip share the names and telephone numbers of good smugglers in Turkey.

They also warn of pitfalls and give other advice.

The groups calls itself al-Mushantateen, a play on the Arabic words for "suitcase" and "diaspora."

It includes posts by volunteers who offer services like calling the coast guard if a passenger on a boat sends a distress call.

The advice covers the journey beyond Greece to Macedonia, Serbia, Hungary and Western Europe.

Zaidah and his group already know which border points they will cross, hotels they can stay in and stores where they can get clothes for the fall weather as they head north.

The advantages of such groups are evident.

Zaidah and his friends headed straight to Molivos for the free bus rides.

Many others set off on the journey to Mytilene on foot under the summer heat and humidity.

For families with elderly relatives and children, it can take up to three days to reach the town, unless along the way they happen upon a kind-hearted Greek or aid worker, who sometimes give families a lift.

Halfway through the walk, the migrants look dazed, dragging their feet up and down one hill after another.

They take occasional breaks in the shade on the side of the road.

Jouan, a 29-year-old English teacher from Syria, arrived in Mytilene after a 16-hour walk, sore and exhausted.

"No one stopped for me, though they did pick up old people or families," he said, speaking on condition that he be identified only by his first name to protect family back in Syria.

The social media-savvy among the migrants are constantly on their phones.

They line up outside the offices of cellphone providers at Mytilene and buy Greek numbers that allow data and roaming elsewhere in Europe so they can connect to Facebook and the apps they use to communicate.

During the sea journey, which can take up to two hours in good weather, they keep their phones in plastic bags to keep them dry.

Landing in Lesbos, chanting, "Thanks be to God," the first thing they do is fish their phones out, joyously hug and take group selfies on the shore.

Then with the Turkish signal still strong here, they call loved ones back in Turkey, Syria or Iraq, shouting, "We arrived in Greece!"

But the exhaustive research done by Zaidah and his friends didn't spare them serious problems during the early stages of their journey in Turkey.

They and nearly 50 others, including 15 children, got lost in the woods looking for the departure point for their boat.

Their Syrian guide couldn't speak Turkish or figure out how to work his GPS.

After nearly 12 hours, they stumbled on a departure area — only to discover it was run by a rival smuggler.

The rival smuggler was furious and pulled a gun on one of Zaidah's friends, Mohammed Seraj.

"He pointed it at my head and said, 'I can kill you now and no one will know, or I can call my coast guard friends who will alert the police to your group and come and arrest you.'"

The group finally connected with their own smuggler.

At dawn, he made them carry heavy boxes down to the beach, where they had to assemble the boat themselves.

The smuggler then left them to pilot the craft.

All along the route, impromptu businesses have started up.

In Izmir, Turkey, shoe shops sell life jackets, and street hawkers sell plastic bags for wallets and mobile phones, Zaidah and Seraj said.

Even floaties are sold for children.

In Lesbos, signs in Arabic have gone up on storefronts.

Prices for basic goods like bottled water have gone up.

For a while, some Syrians and Iraqis sold forged versions of the documents that all the migrants need to get.

But they were put out of business when Greek authorities sped up the process for issuing the real documents, which are free.

Lesbos residents have found another way to profit.

Some wait on the coast with binoculars, and as soon as a boat lands, they swoop down in a pickup truck and look for things for sale.

