Claudia Morales's family is moving, and she is packing up all her things.

She puts all her clothes and hoodies in her suitcase.

She throws all her schoolwork in the trash.

In a week she'll be at a new school with new books and new classes.

She'll be 200 miles away.

For Claudia, this is nothing new.

She does this twice a year.

She is not alone.

This December, thousands of young people are making their yearly journey to new schools in California.

They are the children of farmworkers.

Their parents plant and pick fruits and vegetables.

Farm work is seasonal.

Farmworkers move from farm to farm, going where the work is.

In California, farmworkers live in camps during the growing season.

The camps give the workers a cheap place to live.

But when the work is over for the season, the farmworkers have to leave.

A California law says they must move at least 50 miles away when the camps close for the winter.

"I like both places," Claudia said.

"But when I grow up I expect to have good work and buy a house where we can stay permanently."

Claudia goes to two different schools.

She gets straight A's at one, and lower grades at the other.

As Claudia gets older, and classes get harder, switching between schools will make it tougher to keep good grades.

About 9 out of every 10 children living in seasonal worker housing drop out of school, said Human Agenda, a human rights group.

Juan Alcantar is a guidance counselor at Aptos Junior High School, where Claudia started eighth grade this fall.

Alcantar counsels the children of migrants.

Their parents are called migrants because they move from place to place for work.

Alcantar said he has a handful of students who are failing all their classes.

They are just waiting to move again.

"They see themselves as visitors," he said.

"They figure, 'I come from a labor camp next to a dump site.

I don't belong, and I'm leaving soon.'"

Amado Padilla is a Stanford professor who studies immigration.

He said that children like Claudia are almost invisible to society.

"We all should care a whole lot about this," he said.

Padilla explained that educating children is good for society.

Kids who don't finish school end up creating problems and have to be taken care of by others, he said.

Kids who are well-educated can help and support others, he said.

California has 24 seasonal farmworker centers.

Altogether, there are 1,900 apartments in the state.

According to California's government, the labor camps work fine.

"We are not aware of members of families being in jams or having a problem with having to move away," said Guerdon Stuckey, a state official.

He said some families are not looking for permanent housing, and some even enjoy the lifestyle.

Claudia lives in a labor camp of 50 cheap houses built in the 1960s.

Her bedroom window overlooks a small valley, a jail and a dump.

Rent for the house is about $350 a month.

That's a lot for Claudia's dad, who made $9.50 an hour planting strawberries in November.

In the fields, Claudia's father Juan Morales, wearing a large straw hat, joked with other workers as music played over the field.

Morales got serious when asked if Claudia and her siblings, 7 and 16, will ever join him.

Under state law, the children can start working in the fields at age 13.

"I want them to get a good education, I don't want them working here," he said.

"They take the pain for us," Claudia said of her parents' work in the fields.

It's Claudia's first day at her new school and the class is studying chemistry.

At Aptos, she had studied physics.

"Who remembers what a molecule is?"

asks teacher Kevin Meneses.

Hands go up.

Students call out.

Claudia stays still.

"I just listen, I write it down, but I don't raise my hand because I have no idea what they're asking about," she said, shrugging.

"I just sit there."

