On a soggy field in Granada Hills, eight units stand at attention.

They are ready to salute the American flag as it rises toward the sky.

The bugler lifts the instrument to his mouth and waits.

A short delay gives away the trick before a recording of "Reveille" blasts out from stereo speakers as the flag moves up the pole.

The call finishes, and the 17-year-old lowers his bugle.

"I'm taking lessons," Jesiah Samora says.

"I'll be able to actually play it soon."

Then the bleary-eyed middle and high school classmates march, mostly in step, toward their homerooms.

They are the first students at North Valley Military Institute.

It is a Los Angeles Unified School District charter school, a public school that is operated by a private company.

It was changed this year from a traditional school to one filled with military values and order.

The change happened because the number of students at the school known as North Valley Charter Academy was falling.

Principal Diane French and other administrators sought a way to attract more students.

But the school still had to fulfill its mission — educational excellence and personal growth.

French visited the Oakland Military Institute, a charter started in 2001 by then-Mayor Jerry Brown.

Impressed, she sought to replicate the program, which sends 95 percent of the students who graduate to college.

In its first year, North Valley Military Institute has enrolled 260 students, up from about 190 last year.

Latino students make up about 80 percent of the attendees, and 82 percent of the school's students are low-income.

About 25 percent are special-education students.

The military part of the school is overseen by the California Cadet Corps, the youth program of the California National Guard.

Students enter the school as pledges.

They rise in rank as they master skills and develop leadership skills, said Steve Diab, a California Cadet Corps captain.

Diab is also the school's commandant.

Students are taught military rules.

They use "sir" and "ma'am" when speaking to adults, for instance.

They operate under a rank system and wear uniforms.

Students lead units of their peers, do physical training twice a week and follow a demerit system.

Demerits are bad marks for violations.

L.A. Unified initially had some demands for the program.

Students needed to be able to work off disciplinary demerits.

And the school would have to be open to all students who wanted to go, said Jose Cole-Gutierrez, the head of the charter schools.

North Valley agreed.

Each morning, four students stand watch over the front entrance of the school.

Each represents one company: Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta.

They eye the students.

They are searching for mistakes in uniforms.

Colored nail polish is prohibited, but makeup is allowed in moderation.

Any violation is a demerit.

Each demerit lands a student 15 minutes of detention.

The school calls that a "reboot."

The military influence has confused some people in the surrounding neighborhood.

Some parents believe the school is a boot camp for troubled teens or is run by the military.

But there are no recruiters on the school grounds.

And the aim is college preparation, officials said.

Christian Rubalcava rose to the top student leadership position at the school.

Despite that, he has no plans to join the military.

"I have a lot of respect for the service," he said, adjusting his red beret.

"But I still don't want to join.

I want to go to USC.

That's the whole mission of the school, to get us to go to college."

But North Valley has sparked the interest of some students in the armed forces.

Last year, junior Mireya Orozco said, she would cut class nearly every day to drink and get high.

Her grades were falling and she figured she'd soon drop out, and the change to the military school made her even less interested in school.

"It was so annoying," she said.

"I didn't want to do any of the military stuff."

But slowly, Mireya said, she fell in line.

She now wants to join in the Navy after graduating.

"I like the discipline of it," Mireya said.

"It has taught me self-control."

At the end of each day, the students return to the field to lower the flag.

Jesiah raises his bugle once again as a recording plays.

For most, this marks the end of the school day.

But for some — those who have fallen behind on classwork — the day continues.

They march, mostly in step, to after-school tutoring.

