People in Ferguson, Missouri, have been protesting for more than a week.

The demonstrations started after a police officer shot and killed a black teenager who was not carrying a weapon.

Protesters were met by police officers.

The police wore military style clothing called camouflage.

They stood in armored vehicles and pointed powerful rifles at the protesters.

The police response has raised a question: Are police departments getting too much military-style equipment from the U.S. government?

Ferguson is a small city near St. Louis.

Politicians who are usually on different sides are on the same side of the Ferguson argument.

They say the police appear too much like soldiers.

There was a huge jump in violence in the 1970s and 1980s.

Then the country got tough on crime.

Things have improved over 20 years in most places.

Now, people are asking if military gear is really needed.

The Department of Defense runs the U.S. military.

It is the one giving local police departments extra military equipment.

They get sleeping bags, cameras and office equipment.

But departments also receive less ordinary items.

A spokesman for the Defense Department said it gives out rifles, helicopters and trucks that can drive over explosives.

This year, the government is taking a hard look at continuing the equipment giveaway program.

Normally, it would continue with no problems.

But things are different now.

Carl Levin is the Michigan Democrat who leads the Senate Armed Services Committee.

On Friday, he said the program needed to be checked out.

Congress needs to decide if the equipment the police departments receive is being used the right way, he said.

Local police departments need extra money.

Meanwhile, the world can be violent.

Police chiefs may really want to take free stuff offered from the government, said Jim Bueermann.

He is president of the Police Foundation.

"Just because we can get the equipment, it doesn't mean we should use it," he said.

In some cases, the problems become obvious quickly.

A small police department in California ordered an 18-ton tank last year.

A police sergeant picked up the tank.

He transported it home.

Along the way, a tire blew out.

His vehicle slid across the roadway.

It wrecked a pickup truck and knocked out the windshield of another vehicle.

The accident cost the city $42,000.

City officials and local people were angry.

They demanded to know why police needed a tank.

It also costs a lot to keep the equipment running.

Mark Lomax said a tire on a heavy military vehicle can cost $10,000 to $20,000.

Lomax runs the National Tactical Officers Association.

The group trains special police groups called "SWAT" teams.

SWAT teams were created in the 1960s.

Los Angeles Deputy Chief Mike Downing wrote a report recently on SWAT teams.

He said SWAT teams have become like military units.

Police departments often begin using heavy equipment for simple missions, he said.

Downing called the practice "dangerous and unnecessary."

Departments need to ask, "Do we need the type of weapon they are offering?"

said Chris Nanos.

He is chief deputy of a sheriff's department in Arizona.

"A 14-ton armored vehicle?

I don't know what you would do with that."

Still, other police experts said that military-grade equipment has an important role.

However, it needs to be used properly.

Eugene O'Donnell is a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York.

He said police may need to use force.

This week, people complain that police are doing too much.

Next week, people will complain that police are not doing enough, he said.

