Flo is a highly trained war dog.

She knows how to find bombs buried in the dirt and other kinds of trouble.

Flo spent seven tough months helping fight the war in the Middle East.

She had a partner solider called a handler.

He was a Marine named Cody Crangle.

Whenever Flo found something dangerous, she let Crangle know right away.

Flo and Crangle always walked at the front of their group of Marines.

It was their job to find hidden traps on the path ahead of everyone.

They protected the other soldiers from being killed by explosions.

When Flo and Crangle came back to the United States, Crangle asked the Marines over and over to let him keep Flo.

Finally, he got to adopt her.

One day, Flo hurt her leg while she and Crangle were playing in the park.

Crangle looked at the way Flo was limping.

He thought maybe she had pulled a muscle in one of her back legs.

They went to the veterinarian to see if Flo was OK. Flo's doctor said the problem was serious and she needed to have an operation to fix it.

The operation would cost about $4,000.

Crangle did not have enough money, but he decided to sign Flo up anyway.

He knew he would figure out a way to pay for it.

While Flo was with the Marines, very good doctors took care of her for free.

Now that she lives with Crangle, things are different.

The government usually pays for other retired soldiers to go to the doctor.

It does not take care of war dogs the same way.

Instead, Crangle pays to take Flo to the veterinarian just like a regular dog.

Army dog handler Jerry Witt thinks the government should do more to help military dogs.

"They have served, and served with honor," he said.

"They deserve to be taken care of just like any other veteran."

Witt says the two dogs he worked with in the Vietnam War saved his life.

At that time, war dogs were not thought of as soldiers.

They were treated more like tools.

After the Vietnam War ended, the U.S. government did not bring its war dogs back home.

Half of the dogs were given to the South Vietnamese army.

The others were put to sleep.

Military dog handlers were very upset and challenged Congress to change the rules.

They wanted war dogs to be brought home when their work was finished.

In 1992, President Bill Clinton signed a new law.

It made sure that all war dogs would be treated like true veterans.

Still, the law did not do anything to help with the retired dogs' doctor bills.

When Flo came home to the United States, she went back to the war dog training camp for a checkup.

Crangle called the camp several times.

He wanted to find out whether Flo would be sent back to the war.

Months later, Crangle learned that Flo was being retired.

He adopted Flo and drove to Chicago to pick her up at the airport.

Since then, Crangle has had lots of help with Flo.

She stayed with his parents while he went back to fight with the Marines in 2014.

A volunteer group called War Dogs also helped Crangle.

They paid for Flo's first visits to the veterinarian.

Crangle is no longer in the Marines.

Now he is going to college and works at a bar.

He is not asking for help paying for Flo's operation.

He just wants to teach people more about what happens to war dogs after they finish helping soldiers fight.

