At Irving L. Branch Elementary School, water leaks stain the school's ceiling.

Students have to be careful to avoid cracks in the playground's surface.

Chairs are held together with tape.

"We need new stuff," said sixth-grader Damian Rattler.

Damian's school is one of 10 California schools on military bases that are in terrible condition.

The United States Department of Defense has a list of 160 schools on bases in most need of repair.

The California schools are among the worst.

In recent years, Congress gave $945 million to solve space shortages and fix broken-down schools on military bases.

The government will pay for 80 percent of the costs.

But to use the money, school districts or their states must provide the remaining 20 percent.

California has more schools on the repair list than any other state.

It is the only state that will not provide money for the repairs, Department of Defense spokesman Mark Wright said.

The Department of Defense did not request any money for the schools for 2015.

In December, Congress gave an additional $175 million for the Public Schools on Military Installations Program.

Only two California school districts have said they could put up their share of the repair bills.

Muroc Joint Unified, which includes Branch Elementary, is not one of them.

At Branch, 60 percent of the students' parents are in the military.

"It's just sad to think that somebody is out there protecting our country," principal Dennison Winchell said.

"And at home their kids are going to a school with great teachers, but with awful facilities."

Branch ranks eighth out of 160 schools on the Defense Department's list.

The needed upgrades at Branch will cost $27.8 million.

The district would have to come up with about $5.5 million.

School officials would like to replace the roof, buy new playground equipment and purchase new doors for classrooms and offices.

New lighting and air conditioning is also being considered.

Public school districts are often able to cover major repair and construction costs with money from property taxes.

These are taxes on property, such as houses and land, that owners must pay the government.

Part of property taxes are spent on schools and education.

That does not work for military base schools, because they are on federal land, which is not taxed.

Last year, the California Department of Education asked the state's Department of Finance to provide $61 million in funding.

The money would cover the district's part of the repairs for the 10 California schools on the list.

However, the request was denied, as was a 2013 request.

The California Department of Education is now exploring changing the law, a spokeswoman said.

State Senator Jean Fuller, a Republican from Bakersfield, also proposed a bill.

The proposed legislation would have provided the 20 percent matching money to some of the base schools.

However, the bill did not even make it to a vote.

Without the federal aid, Fuller said, California may have to pay the entire cost of repairs itself.

"We cannot let this stand," she said.

Muroc Joint Unified has tried to raise the money on its own, chief business officer Trevor Walker said.

The district does not have enough money in savings to cover the cost.

Walker said the economy has been bad in California.

So money has not been spent on repairing schools, Walker said.

"We've tried pretty much anything we can think of in hopes we could find that match money.

We've come up short, sadly," he said.

Sierra Sands is located about 70 miles from Edwards.

It has has two schools high on the Defense Department priority list.

Murray Middle School is ranked fourth, and Burroughs High School is ranked 10th.

Murray was built in the 1940s on the Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake.

It is in such bad condition that the district needs to rebuild it.

The district is struggling to find the money, superintendent Ernie Bell said.

"We're seriously having some concerns about whether or not we can afford it," Bell said.

"We're scraping everything we can to make it happen."

Muroc Unified has spent thousands of dollars in district money on the designing of the Branch project.

However, it has no money to begin construction.

Sammy Rattler, whose wife is in the Air Force and has been sent overseas five times, has a child attending Branch.

The school, he said, needs more money.

"When children are left behind here," Rattler said, "parents want the best opportunities possible for them."

Parents also want them to be safe at school.

