For young adults considering military service, it's never too soon to get good advice.

Army Sgt.

1st Class Terrence Hoard must reach them early to set them straight.

They think anybody can join.

Many see the military as a last resort in a tough job market.

Young people always assume it is an option.

The Class of 2014 now leaving high school will have a harder time joining the armed services than ever in the 40-year history of the all-volunteer force.

Hoard tells them long before graduation day: Don't ever get caught with drugs.

Work out, shed weight.

And be extra careful about getting tattooed.

"We're turning down twice as many as before," said Hoard, who supervises the Army recruiting station in Grandview, Mo.

His office used to sign up 16 to 20 soldiers per month to meet recruiting targets.

Now, 10 or 12 will do.

A dozen fresh recruits and wannabe warriors show up for push-ups and jumping jacks.

Among them is Kyle Bayard, of Drexel, Mo.

His dream of serving was held up for a year because he took attention-deficit medicine in high school.

Mauricio Lonza maintained a B average in high school and in college.

However, he failed a written armed services skills test, the ASVAB, three times before he passed.

The ASVAB tests candidates on tools and electrical circuitry as well as on language and math.

Lonza explained that math was never his favorite subject.

Hoard had to turn down four local candidates for having tattoos too low on their arms.

All four were turned down the week after the Army's tattoo rules took effect.

The Department of Defense, the government agency that directs the military, recently said it plans to shrink the Army.

It aims to cut the Army's active-duty troops from 520,000 to 490,000 by autumn 2015.

Under the plan, about four of every five adults who wants to join won't qualify.

Retired Army Lt. Col. Mike Byrd says the military is competing with colleges and jobs.

With the cutbacks, the DOD is looking for the same successful graduates that everyone else is chasing.

Byrd would know: he leads a high school's Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps program in Independence, Mo.

It's expensive to recruit, he added.

"We don't have the flexibility we once had to get it wrong with one kid and hope the next one works out."

Military cuts are part of an effort to reduce government spending.

Congress passed military funding limits last December.

The Army could shrink toward its smallest active-duty force since before World War II.

It could shrink more in the future if Congress can't agree on how much money to spend, military leaders said.

What does this mean for young adults?

It is already hard for them to find jobs and pay for college.

There will be fewer opportunities for them in the military, Byrd said.

Fewer young soldiers means fewer people getting college costs covered by military benefits.

One study estimated that 75 percent of Americans ages 17 to 24 were ineligible to join.

[Weight alone kept out 27 percent of people wishing to join.

](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) Many others were kept out by old crimes, unfinished schooling, or credit card debt, the report said.

Commanders did not have to be as picky when the military was bigger.

They could allow some of those people to join.

Only 86 percent of new soldiers at the height of the war in [Iraq](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iraq) had completed high school.

Many with serious criminal records were allowed in.

Today, 99 percent of new soldiers have graduated from high school.

The military expects higher scores in the ASVAB test.

Even a past minor criminal offense may prevent someone from joining.

Nathan Christensen, a Navy official, said that the quality of military recruits is the highest it's been in 40 years.

Many interested in joining don't know that.

They're out of luck when they show up with drug charges in their background, without a high school diploma, or without being as physically fit as the Army requires.

A pickier military affects the rest of the country.

The military provides young adults with jobs.

Afterward, it also helps them pay for college.

Without those benefits they're likely to earn less money, studies have found.

"They call it 'scarring,'" said economist Sarah Ayres of the Washington, D.C.-based think tank Center for American Progress.

"It's not just a right-now problem.

It's a problem that lingers years down the road."

