The days when "If the Marine Corps wanted you to have a family, they would have given you one" are now over.

The 43,300 military soldiers and their families who live on the Marine's major West Coast base enjoy all the comforts of a lively, midsize town.

Camp Pendleton has nine health clinics, a golf course, multiple swimming pools and dozens of child care facilities.

The Marine base even has its own hospital, a movie theater, four dry cleaners, 20 fast-food restaurants and 13 barber shops.

There is a commissary where groceries are sold for up to 30 percent less than at supermarkets off the base.

Tree-shaded neighborhoods feature beautiful two-story houses surrounded by green lawns.

The Marines live in college-like dorms, not dreary, wooden quarters.

The website for housing on the base emphasizes Camp Pendleton's 17 miles of ocean views.

"We build communities, just like neighborhoods outside the camp," said Robert Marshall, director of family housing.

"Just because the Marines are on duty, doesn't mean their families have to be as well."

That considerate approach reflects a growing trend in the military: provide for the families as well as the warriors.

Yet the question is this: Has the sheltered, government-supported lifestyle on this military base reinforced a separation between the all-volunteer military and the nation it is meant to serve?

Once, when young men were required to serve in the U.S. military through a lottery-type draft system, many more Americans spent time in the armed forces and developed close ties to the military.

The Pentagon, which is the headquarters of the U.S. Department of Defense, closed more than 350 bases in the United States between the end of the Cold War and 2010.

These 350 facilities were condensed into fewer, larger bases to save money and increase efficiency.

The communities that cluster around these larger bases are almost always dominated by people who are directly associated with the military.

Many of these people even come from multi-generational military families.

The Defense Department is the biggest employer in San Diego County, providing more than 133,000 jobs.

An additional 245,000 military veterans live in the county, close to the base.

Last year, the Pentagon pumped more than $25 billion into the local Oceanside economy.

At the same time, some experts worry that the growing efficiency of these mega-bases adds to the sense of a divided society.

Ron Bee, a professor of political science and international relations at San Diego State University, is worried that so few Americans serve in the military or share the sacrifice of those who do.

Bee believes that civilians have placed the burdens of war and peace solely on the military's shoulders.

"At universities and in everyday discussion, we tend to separate" our soldiers from ourselves, he said.

Steve Erie, a political science professor at UC San Diego, believes that Americans truly respect the military, even if they don't join themselves.

"From the civilian standpoint, the all-volunteer force appears to be working fine," he said.

Here at the homes of the 1st Marine Division, many argue that the upgraded living conditions helped the Marines and their families endure the strain of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars: the back-to-back deployments, the political uncertainties, and the potential casualties.

"It's more of a family than living outside the base," said Jessica Konczal, 33, whose husband is Sergeant Matthew Konczal.

"If you've had a hard day, you'll probably meet someone here who understands because they're going through the same thing."

It remains a strong belief among military families that civilians do not understand their lives.

The constant moving, the raising of children with a parent far away, and the fear of losing a loved-one to war all combine together to make it difficult for outsiders to understand them.

"We've lost a few friends to war," said Jolene Bopp, 25, whose husband is Sergeant Justin Bopp.

"But you learn to live with the losses."

Like many wives, Bopp appreciates the shopping options on the base and the sense of safety for the children.

However, she says that there are times when "you just need to get away."

Still, the economic spillover from the base to nearby Oceanside has changed in recent years.

The deployment of Marines to the first Gulf War in 1991 in Iraq and Kuwait from Camp Pendleton caused a sharp downturn in Oceanside's economy, and local businesses suffered.

A decade or so later, when Marines left for Afghanistan in 2001 and Iraq in 2003, the economic impact was barely noticeable.

Their families had already been doing most of their shopping on base.

Officials here argue that life inside the base is not as separate as it appears.

All unmarried Marines under the rank of sergeant live on base, but only one-third of married Marines do.

Moreover, the average Marine returns to civilian life after four years active duty.

Civilians on bicycles are now even allowed to pedal through the base, and thousands of weekend athletes flock to the base for the yearly "mud run."

Others come to play paintball and to bowl at Leatherneck Lanes or to ride horses.

Oceanside media covers the base and the Marines closely, sending reporters overseas long after other news organizations have stopped.

All of these changes are welcome to Chelsey Kurtz, who grew up here in the 1990s when her father was in the Navy and living conditions were far more somber.

Now 30, she lives on base again with her husband, Sergeant Ryan Kurtz, and their two children.

"When my father was here, it was just a workplace," Kurtz said.

"Now it's a family place."

