U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter on Thursday ordered the military to open all combat jobs to women.

He rejected Marine Corps requests to bar women from some fighting roles.

Declaring that "we are a joint force," Carter said that moving women into these jobs will present challenges.

However, the military can no longer afford to shut out half of the population from tough military jobs, he said. Carter believes that any man or woman who meets the standards should be able to serve.

He gave the armed forces 30 days to come up with plans to make the historic change.

Carter's order opens the final 10 percent of military positions to women.

They now can serve in the military's most difficult and dangerous jobs.

Until now, special operations forces, such as the Army Delta units and Navy SEALs, have been closed to them.

These elite units perform special missions, often behind enemy lines.

General Joseph Dunford, the former Marine Corps commandant, is the chairman of The Joint Chiefs of Staff.

He is the highest-ranking military officer in the United States Armed Forces.

Dunford had argued that the Marines should be allowed to keep women out of certain front-line combat jobs.

He said studies show that units with both men and women do not work as well as all-male units.

Carter said he came to a different conclusion.

He added, though, that women will be integrated into the combat jobs thoughtfully and carefully, and in a way that will deal with the Marine Corps concerns.

Dunford did not attend the news conference to announce the change.

When asked why Dunford was missing, Carter said he has discussed his decision several times with Dunford.

In a statement, Dunford said he had provided his best military advice on the matter.

But now, he said, his focus is on fully integrating women in a way that maintains the country's war-fighting ability and ensures the health and welfare of soldiers.

He also said that he will do this in a way that best makes use of everyone — men and women alike.

Carter noted that on average, men and women have different physical abilities.

However, he said men and women must be given tasks and jobs based on ability, rather than on gender.

He said that would likely result in smaller numbers of women in some jobs.

Equal opportunity, he said, will not mean equal participation in some specialty jobs.

But he added that the soldiers' ability to fight is still the main goal.

There will not be a required number of women in any jobs.

The decision comes after several years of study.

It will wipe away generations of limits on how and where women can fight for their country.

Only the Marine Corps did not want to let women to serve in dangerous combat jobs.

The Army, Navy and Air Force have moved steadily toward allowing women to serve in all posts.  A senior defense official said the services will have to begin putting plans in place by April 1.

The official was not permitted to discuss the matter publicly and did not want his name used.

Carter has hinted at this decision for months.

In October, he told U.S. troops in Italy that limiting his search for soldiers to just half the U.S. population would be "crazy."

He had given Dunford until the end of October to recommend which jobs, if any, should remain closed to women.

When Dunford was head of the Marines, he was the only chief to recommend that some front-line combat jobs stay male-only, according to several U.S. officials.

Carter had pledged to look over the recommendations, particularly those of the Marine Corps.

However he said he generally believes that any qualified person should have the chance to compete for military jobs.

The senior defense official said that Carter recognizes there may be difficulties in opening some jobs to women.

However, he has made his decision and all the services will follow it.

Answering a question from a Marine in Italy, Carter said, "You have to recruit from the American population.

Half the American population is female.

So I'd be crazy not to be, so to speak, fishing in that pond for qualified service members."

For that reason, Carter said, the military should recruit women into as many specialties as possible.

