The U.S. military recently decided to let women serve in combat.

Many women hailed the decision.

They said it shows the military supports equality.

But being fair was not the only reason military leaders made the change.

"Our population of military-age young men who qualify for the military is declining," said General Martin Dempsey.

The general made his comments to a reporter from National Public Radio (NPR).

According to the NPR report, too many young men cannot join the military.

They are barred because they have had trouble with the law or lack a high school diploma.

Drug use is another reason many young men fail to qualify.

Recruits must have a clean criminal record.

They also need to pass a drug test and a math and reading exam.

For young American men, these standards are getting harder to meet.

NPR pointed out that in all 50 states, more boys than girls drop out of school.

Young men also account for three-fourths of all arrests in the United States.

The military looked ahead to the year 2020.

It is concerned there might not be enough male recruits to fill the ranks.

So it decided it needs more female recruits.

By opening up combat roles to women, it hopes more women will apply.

The change shows that women can do anything in the military, just like men.

Combat roles can involve operating tanks, using heavy weapons and ground fighting.

They were previously off-limits to female troops.

The jobs are tough and dangerous.

But serving in such units can lead to a leadership role.

Still, allowing women to serve in combat units by itself cannot solve the recruitment problem.

To earn a spot in such units, servicewomen will have to pass an extremely tough training course.

They will need to be as fit as possible.

Poor fitness keeps many men and women from qualifying for military service.

More than a quarter of Americans aged 17 to 24 are too heavy to serve.

U.S. military readiness depends on having enough troops.

Readiness means the military can respond to threats.

It means it can accomplish its missions.

Today only one in four young Americans has what it takes to qualify for the military.

A group of retired military leaders was so concerned about that statistic that it decided to take action.

The leaders formed an organization called Mission: Readiness.

Its goal is to foster better fitness and education for American youth.

According to the group, national security is not just about having enough missiles and fighter jets.

It also means having enough preschools and gym classes.

Retired generals complain that too many high school students are failing the army's entrance exam.

They say that preparing the students for the test cannot start at 17 or 18.

"We must start with high-quality early education such as pre-kindergarten and Head Start," wrote retired Major General John Libby.

Libby pointed out that preschool teaches self-discipline, motivation and the ability to be a team player.

All of these skills are important in Army life, he noted.

The generals also want to get rid of junk food.

Children consume 400 billion calories a year from junk food sold in schools.

That is equal to nearly 2 billion candy bars.

An aircraft carrier weighs less than 2 billion candy bars.

The military leaders also called on lawmakers to require more gym in schools.

Gym class is often one of the first subjects cut when schools lack money.

Just six states -– Massachusetts, Illinois, Hawaii, Mississippi, Vermont and New York -- require gym classes for grades K-12.

Lieutenant General Mark Hertling was responsible for training hundreds of thousands of troops.

In December he gave a speech.

He described how even recruits who make it into the Army often struggled during basic training.

They could not finish the one-mile run or they got injured doing drills.

He blames years of junk food, television and video games and the lack of regular exercise.

"This is not something the Army can fix," he told the audience.

"Be fearless, in terms of writing your schools.

Be fearless in trying to get nutrition back in restaurants.

Be fearless in balancing your lives and getting out to exercise."

