When the U.S. military decided in January to permit women to serve in combat units, it was not just doing it to be fair -- it was doing it to help solve a recruitment problem.

"I think it's fairly common knowledge that our population of military-age young men who qualify for the military is declining," said General Martin Dempsey.

The general made his comments to a reporter from National Public Radio (NPR).

According to the NPR report, too many young men cannot join the military because they have had trouble with the law, lack a high school diploma or have used drugs.

Recruits must have a clean criminal record, pass a drug test and meet academic requirements.

For young American men, these standards are getting harder to meet.

NPR pointed out that in all 50 states, more boys than girls drop out of school.

Young men also account for three-fourths of all arrests in the United States.

Since the majority of people applying to the armed forces are male, this makes the job of military recruiters much tougher.

A recruiter is responsible for bringing new hires into the military and has goals for the number of people to enlist.

The military realized that if more young men become disqualified, by 2020 there would not be enough male recruits to fill the ranks.

So it decided it needed to increase female recruitment.

By opening up ground combat roles to women, it could attract a wider pool of female applicants.

The policy will show that women can have just as successful careers in the military as men.

Combat roles include jobs like operating a tank or firing heavy weapons.

Those roles were previously off-limits to female troops.

The jobs are tough and dangerous, but serving in those units can lead to a leadership role.

Still, allowing women to serve in combat units by itself cannot solve the recruitment problem.

To earn a spot in such units, servicewomen will have to pass an extremely tough training course.

They will need to have superior fitness levels.

Poor fitness is another barrier to military service in general.

According to the Department of Defense, 27 percent of Americans aged 17 to 24 are too heavy to serve in the military.

Add this to the number who are barred for academic and criminal reasons and only one in four young Americans is eligible to join the armed forces.

U.S. military readiness depends on having enough troops.

Readiness is the ability of the armed forces to respond to threats and accomplish their missions.

A group of senior retired military leaders was so concerned about recruitment that it decided to take action.

The leaders formed an organization called Mission: Readiness.

Its goal is to foster better fitness and education for American youth.

According to the group, national security depends not just on having enough missiles and fighter jets, but also enough preschools and gym classes.

Retired Major General John Libby was head of the Maine National Guard.

He wrote in The Kennebec Journal that 19 percent of Maine high school students failed the Army's entrance exam.

Preparing them for the test cannot start at 17 or 18, he wrote.

"We must start with high-quality early education such as pre-kindergarten and Head Start."

Libby pointed out that preschool teaches children self-discipline, motivation and the ability to be a team player.

All of these qualities are required in the military.

Junk food may be just as much a threat to national security as foreign enemies.

In its report "Still Too Fat to Fight," Mission: Readiness pointed out that children consume 400 billion calories a year from junk food sold in schools.

That is equal to nearly 2 billion candy bars, an amount that would weigh more than an aircraft carrier.

Mission: Readiness also called on lawmakers to require more physical education in schools.

Gym class is often one of the first subjects cut when school districts lack funds.

Only 31 percent of American high school students have a daily gym class, according to the Centers for Disease Control.

Just six states -- Massachusetts, Illinois, Hawaii, Mississippi, Vermont and New York -- require PE classes for grades K-12.

In December, Lieutenant General Mark Hertling gave a speech, "Obesity is a National Security Issue."

He described how even recruits who make it into the Army often struggle during basic training.

He blames years of junk food, television and video games and the lack of regular physical activity.

"This is not something the Army can fix," he told the audience.

"Be fearless, in terms of writing your schools.

Be fearless in trying to get nutrition back in restaurants.

Be fearless in balancing your lives and getting out to exercise."

