The image of Ferguson, Missouri, police officers in camouflage pointing heavy-duty rifles from armored vehicles at unarmed protesters has a lot of people talking.

The pictures have brought home a debate over whether the decades-long flow of military-grade equipment to the nation's police departments has gone too far.

On both left and right, political figures as varied as U.S. Attorney General Eric H. Holder and Republican Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky pointed to Ferguson, denouncing what Holder referred to this week as "unnecessarily extreme displays of force" by police.

The debate fits into a larger pattern: A huge upsurge of mayhem in the 1970s and 1980s led to tough-on-crime measures across the country.

Now, after two decades of improvements in most places, policies such as long, automatic prison sentences and expansion of police spying are being questioned.

The use of military-style equipment by even small-town police departments is the latest tactic to come under scrutiny.

Since 1995, the Pentagon has distributed $5.1 billion in surplus military equipment to U.S. police departments.

The supplies include sleeping bags, cameras and office equipment, but also assault rifles, mine-resistant armored vehicles and helicopters, said Pentagon spokesman Mark Wright.

The items are free of charge except for the cost of picking them up.

The Department of Homeland Security gives more than $1 billion a year to state and local police.

Much of the money goes for equipment.

This year, the Pentagon program is being reconsidered.

Normally, there would have been little argument.

The program would have been renewed almost automatically.

Just this summer, an effort in the House of Representatives to repeal the program failed by a lopsided 355-62 vote.

Friday, however, Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin, a Michigan Democrat, said the program needed to be reviewed.

Congress needs "to determine if equipment provided by the Defense Department is being used as intended," he said.

In an age of mass shootings and terrorist threats, with cities and towns on tight budgets, police chiefs face a huge temptation to fill their arsenals with donations from the federal government, said Jim Bueermann.

He is president of the Police Foundation and a former chief in Redlands, California.

"A lot of departments jumped at the opportunity to acquire things they normally could not afford," Bueermann said.

But "just because we can get the equipment, it doesn't mean we should use it."

In some cases, the pitfalls become quickly apparent.

Last year, the small police department of Banning, California, ordered an 18-ton tank complete with gun turret.

A police sergeant was assigned to pick up the tank and transport it home.

Along the way, a tire blew out on Interstate 10 in southern Arizona, and the vehicle slid across the roadway, totaled a pickup truck and knocked out the windshield of another vehicle.

No one was injured, but the accident cost Banning $42,000.

Angry city officials and residents demanded to know why police needed a tank.

In other cases, departments have acquired equipment they could not afford to maintain.

For some armored vehicles, "a tire can cost $10,000 or $12,000" to replace, said Mark Lomax, who runs the National Tactical Officers Association.

The nonprofit group is based in Doylestown, Pennsylvania, and trains SWAT teams.

Los Angeles Deputy Chief Mike Downing oversees counterterrorism and other special operations.

He noted in a recent report that police SWAT teams, created in the 1960s, have morphed into military battalions.

Police departments that seek "to justify their existence and budgets" often begin using heavy equipment for relatively routine missions such as serving warrants, he said.

That has become "a dangerous and unnecessary temptation."

Departments need to ask, "Do we need the type of weapon they are offering?"

said Chris Nanos, chief deputy of the Pima County Sheriff's Department in southern Arizona.

"A 14-ton armored vehicle?

I don't know what you would do with that."

Lack of training and leadership can be as big a problem as excessive equipment, said Ron McCarthy, a former Los Angeles police SWAT team supervisor who now works as a consultant for police departments.

"If you're not going to provide the appropriate training, you shouldn't have the equipment," he said.

Armored vehicles, military uniforms, assault rifles and police dogs escalated tensions in Ferguson, he said.

The equipment should have been on standby, out of view, but ready to respond quickly if needed, he said.

Still, he and other police experts said that military-grade equipment has an important role when used properly.

Eugene O'Donnell, a professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York, said some critics were "in denial" about the need for police to use force.

"This week's story is police overreaction.

Next week's story is going to be police underreaction," O'Donnell said.

The events in Ferguson showed that "there are going to have to be serious strings attached to handing out military weaponry," he said.

"There are 18,000 police departments in the U.S., and some of those police departments are scary places indeed."

But, he said, "the power of looting and rioting to destroy a city is not to be sneezed at.

School shootings and heavily armed people are a fact of life, and, like it or not, terrorism hangs over us."

