Sixth-grader Damian Rattler's chair at Irving L. Branch Elementary School is held together with duct tape.

Water leaks stain the ceiling.

Electrical wires are exposed.

Students are careful to avoid cracks in the playground's asphalt.

"We need new stuff," he said.

Damian's school is one of 10 California schools on military bases that are in terrible condition.

The United States Department of Defense has ranked it as being in the top one-third of those most in need of repair nationwide.

In recent years, Congress has allocated $945 million to address critical repairs and lack of space at public schools on bases.

However, it will only pay 80 percent of the cost of the repairs.

To be able to use the money, school districts or their states must provide the remaining 20 percent.

California has more schools on the repair list than any other state.

It is the only state that has not raised the necessary money to pay its share, Department of Defense spokesman Mark Wright said.

The Department of Defense did not request any money for the schools for 2015.

In December, Congress gave an additional $175 million for the Public Schools on Military Installations Program.

Only two California school districts, Sierra Sands Unified and San Diego Unified, have said they could put up the 20 percent matching funds for repairs.

"We lost millions on this program because of sequestration," Wright said.

Sequestration refers to the federal budget cuts of 2013.

"I think the fear is we'll lose more if we don't take care of this fast."

At Branch Elementary in the Muroc Joint Unified School District, 60 percent of the students' parents are in the military.

"It's just sad to think that somebody is out there protecting our country," principal Dennison Winchell said.

"And at home their kids are going to a school with great teachers, but with awful facilities."

Branch ranks eighth out of 160 schools on the Defense Department's priority list.

The much-needed upgrades at Branch will cost $27.8 million — meaning the district would have to come up with about $5.5 million.

School officials would like to replace the roof, buy new playground equipment and new doors for classrooms and offices, which currently only lock from the outside.

There are also electrical improvements to consider, such as upgrading lighting and installing air conditioning.

Public school districts are often able to cover major maintenance and construction costs with the help of money raised through property taxes.

That does not work for military base schools because they are on federal land, which is not taxed.

Last year, the California Department of Education asked the Department of Finance to provide $61 million in funding, which would cover the 20 percent matching for the 10 California schools on the list.

However, the request was denied, as was a 2013 request.

The California Department of Education is now exploring legislative solutions, a spokeswoman said.

Last year, State Senator Jean Fuller, a Republican from Bakersfield, proposed a bill that would have provided the 20 percent matching to some of the base schools.

But the legislation did not even make it to a vote.

Without the federal aid, Fuller said, California may eventually have to pay the total cost of repairs itself.

"We cannot let this stand," she said.

Muroc Joint Unified has tried to raise the matching funds on its own, chief business officer Trevor Walker said.

But the district has only just begun to build its reserves, or savings, following the economic downturn, he said.

"With how things have been over the last few years with California, facilities have often been neglected in lieu of ensuring that our educational programs stay as robust as possible," Walker said.

"We've tried pretty much anything we can think of in hopes we could find that match money.

We've come up short, sadly."

Sierra Sands, about 70 miles from Edwards, has two schools on the priority list: Murray Middle School, ranked fourth, and Burroughs High School, ranked 10th.

Built in the 1940s on the Naval Air Weapons Station China Lake, the middle school is in such bad condition that the district needs to rebuild it.

Although the district at first said it could provide the matching funds, it is struggling to do so, Ernie Bell, the superintendent, said.

"We're seriously having some concerns about whether or not we can afford it," Bell said.

"We're scraping everything we can to make it happen — and that includes using almost all of our reserves to do so."

Muroc Unified has funneled thousands in district money into designing the project, but does not have the money to begin construction.

Sammy Rattler, whose wife is in the Air Force and has been sent overseas five times, has a child attending Branch.

The school, he said, needs more resources.

"When children are left behind here," Rattler said, "parents want the best opportunities possible for them — and a safe environment at school."

