Eight units stand on a soggy field in California.

It is morning.

They are ready to salute the flag.

The bugler lifts the bugle to his mouth and waits.

Then a recording of "Reveille" blasts out from stereo speakers.

The flag moves up the pole.

The call finishes.

The 17-year-old lowers his bugle.

"I'm taking lessons," Jesiah Samora says.

"I'll be able to actually play it soon."

Then the bleary-eyed middle and high school classmates march, mostly in step, toward their homerooms.

They are the first students at North Valley Military Institute.

It is a Los Angeles Unified School District charter school.

A charter school is a public school that is operated by a private company.

This year, North Valley changed from a traditional school.

Now it has military values and order.

Before, it was called North Valley Charter Academy.

The number of students attending the school was falling.

Principal Diane French and other administrators looked for a way to attract more students.

But it had to still fit with the school's mission of educational excellence and personal growth.

French visited the Oakland Military Institute, a charter school started in 2001 by then-Mayor Jerry Brown.

Impressed, she sought to match the program.

It sends 95 percent of its graduates to college.

In its first year, North Valley Military Institute has 260 students.

The year before it had about 190.

Latino students make up about 80 percent of the attendees.

Eighty-two percent of the school's students are low-income.

About 25 percent are special-education students.

The military part of the school is overseen by the California Cadet Corps.

The Corps is the youth program of the California National Guard.

Students enter the school as pledges.

They rise in rank as they master skills and develop leadership abilities, said Steve Diab, California Cadet Corps captain.

Diab is also the school's commandant.

Students are taught military rules.

They use "sir" and "ma'am" when talking to adults, for instance.

They operate under a rank system and wear uniforms.

Students lead units of their peers, do physical training twice a week and follow a demerit system.

A demerit is a bad mark for doing something wrong.

L.A. Unified initially had some demands for the program.

Students needed to be able to work off disciplinary demerits.

The school also had to be open to all students who wanted to attend.

North Valley agreed.

Each morning, four students stand watch over the front entrance of the school.

A student represents each company: Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and Delta.

They eye the students.

They are searching for mistakes in uniforms.

Any violation is a demerit.

Each demerit lands a student 15 minutes of detention.

The school calls that a "reboot."

The military influence has confused some people in the neighborhood.

Some parents believe the school is a boot camp for troubled teens.

Some think it is run by the military.

But there are no recruiters on the school grounds.

The aim is college preparation, officials said.

Christian Rubalcava rose to the top student leadership position at the school.

Still, he has no plans to join the service.

"I have a lot of respect for the service," he said, adjusting his red beret.

"But I still don't want to join.

I want to go to USC.

That's the whole mission of the school, to get us to go to college."

But North Valley has made some students interested in the armed forces.

Last year, junior Mireya Orozco said, she would skip class nearly every day.

But slowly, Mireya said, she fell in line.

She now wants to join in the Navy after graduating.

"I like the discipline of it," Mireya said.

"It has taught me self-control."

At the end of each day, the students return to the field to lower the flag.

Jesiah raises his bugle once again as a recording plays.

For most, this marks the end of the school day.

But for some — those who have fallen behind on classwork — the day continues.

They march, mostly in step, to after-school tutoring.

