U.S. Defense Secretary Ash Carter on Thursday ordered the military to open all combat jobs to women.

He rejected requests by the Marine Corps to exclude women from certain front-line combat jobs.

Declaring "we are a joint force," Carter said that moving women into these jobs will present challenges.

However, he said, the military can no longer afford to exclude half of the population from grueling military jobs.

He said that any man or woman who meets the standards should be able to serve.

The armed services has 30 days to submit plans to make the historic change.

Carter's order opens the final 10 percent of military positions to women.

They now can serve in the military's most demanding and difficult jobs.

For example, women will now be able to join special operations forces, such as the Army Delta units and Navy SEALs.

The Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman, General Joseph Dunford, is the highest-ranking military officer in the United States Armed Forces.

He was formerly the Marine Corps commandant and had argued that the Marines should be allowed to keep women out of certain front-line combat jobs.

He cited studies suggesting that mixed-gender units aren't as capable as all-male units.

Carter said he came to a different conclusion.

However, he added that the integration of women into the combat jobs will be deliberate and methodical and will address the Marine Corps concerns.

Dunford did not attend the news conference to announce the change.

When asked about Dunford's absence, Carter said he has discussed his decision multiple times with the chairman.

In a statement, Dunford said that he had provided his best military advice on the issue.

But he said that now, his focus is "to lead the full integration of women in a manner that maintains our joint war-fighting capability, ensures the health and welfare of our people, and optimizes how we leverage talent across the joint force."

While noting that, on average, men and women have different physical abilities, Carter said the services must assign tasks and jobs based on ability, rather than on gender.

He said that would likely result in smaller numbers of women in some jobs.

Equal opportunity, he said, will not mean equal participation in some specialty jobs.

But he added that combat effectiveness is still the main goal, and there will be no quotas for women in any posts.

The decision comes after several years of study.

It will wipe away generations of limits on how and where women can fight for their country.

Only the Marine Corps sought any exceptions in removing the long-held ban on allowing women to serve in dangerous combat jobs.

The Army, Navy and Air Force have moved steadily toward allowing women to serve in all posts.

Only the most risky jobs remain closed.

A senior defense official said the services will have to begin putting plans in place by April 1.

The official was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and spoke on condition of anonymity.

Carter has hinted at this decision for months.

In October, he told U.S. troops in Sicily, Italy, that limiting his search for qualified military candidates to just half the population would be "crazy."

He had given Dunford until the end of October to forward his review on which jobs, if any, should remain closed to women.

Dunford had been the only service chief to recommend that some front-line combat jobs stay male-only, according to several U.S. officials.

Carter had pledged to thoroughly review the recommendations, particularly those of the Marine Corps.

However he said he generally believes that any qualified candidate should be allowed to compete for jobs.

The senior defense official said that while Carter recognizes there may be difficulties in opening the jobs to women, he has made his decision and all the services will follow it.

Answering a question from a Marine in Sicily, Carter said, "You have to recruit from the American population.

Half the American population is female.

So I'd be crazy not to be, so to speak, fishing in that pond for qualified service members."

For that reason, the defense secretary said, the military should recruit women into as many specialties as possible.

