At one time, women could not be soldiers or sailors.

People thought that women could not fight in war.

They also worried war was too dangerous for women.

Now, women can work in any job in the military.

Ash Carter is the U.S. defense secretary.

He is in charge of the U.S. Department of Defense.

On Thursday, Carter ordered the military to open all fighting jobs to women.

There are four branches in the military.

They are the Marine Corps, Army, Air Force and Navy.

Women serve in all these branches.

Yet, one out of every 10 jobs were still closed to them.

Carter said the military cannot ignore half the population.

It cannot shut out women.

Everyone should have the chance to serve their country, Carter said.

It does not matter whether they are men or women, he said.

It just matters how good they are.

Carter said the military leaders must come up with plans for the change.

He gave them 30 days.

Now women can do the military's most dangerous jobs.

Some of them are in the special operations forces.

Those soldiers perform special missions.

They often go to other countries.

They go behind enemy lines.

Before now, women were not allowed.

General Joseph Dunford used to be the head of the Marines.

Now, he is in charge of The Joint Chiefs of Staff.

It is made up of military leaders.

He is the highest military officer in the United States.

Dunford wanted to keep women out of some fighting jobs in the Marines.

Studies show that all-male military groups work best, he said.

Groups with both men and women do not do as well, Dunford thinks.

Only the Marines felt this way.

The Army, Navy and Air Force are starting to let women work in any job.

Only the most risky jobs have been closed to women.

Carter said women should be given an equal chance.

If they can do a job, they should have the right to do it.

In October, he spoke to U.S. soldiers in Italy.

A Marine asked Carter a question.

Carter answered by saying that half of Americans are women.

He said he would be crazy to keep women out.

The entire military will follow Carter's orders.

