In the past, the Marine Corps branch of the U.S. military did not encourage its soldiers to have families.

Now that has changed.

More than 43,300 people live at the Marine Corps base called Camp Pendleton.

It is surrounded by 17 miles of beautiful ocean views.

It also has many benefits that make life easier for the military families that live there.

For example, the base's grocery store sells food and other things for a lot less than grocery stores off the base.

Sergeant Robert Marshall is the head of family housing at Camp Pendleton.

He says his goal is to build a strong community for families.

This helpful approach represents a growing change in the military.

It now wants to provide for the families as well as the soldiers.

However, a lot of people are also concerned.

Experts are worried that Americans think of the military as being completely separate from themselves.

It is possible that this is because of how separate military bases are from where most people live.

The government has closed more than 350 military bases in the United States in the last 20 years.

Those 350 bases were combined into fewer, larger bases.

This allowed for the remaining bases to run better than before.

It also helped the government to save money.

The communities that live near these mega-bases are usually made up of people who work with the military.

The government provides more than 133,000 jobs for people in San Diego County.

Another 245,000 ex-Marines and former soldiers live in the nearby Oceanside community.

Last year, the government gave more than $25 billion to the community.

However, some experts worry about how separate the military bases are.

Ron Bee, a professor at San Diego State University, is worried that so few Americans serve in the military.

He believes that non-military people think that the military will deal with problems of war and peace on its own.

He fears that people are completely separating their lives from the military and are not thinking about world events.

Steve Erie, another professor, thinks that Americans respect the military, even if they do not join themselves.

Families that live on the base have opinions as well.

They like the better living conditions and believe those have helped with the troubles of war.

The battles overseas, separations from loved ones, and the fears of losing a family member are eased.

Jessica Konczal, age 33, says the base is its own type of family.

"If you've had a hard day, you'll probably meet someone at the grocery store who understands."

Jolene Bopp, age 25, is also a military wife.

She appreciates the shopping choices on the base and the sense of safety for children.

Yet she says that there are times when "you just need to get away."

The military base is its own community, but can affect nearby businesses.

In 1991, there was a war in the Middle East.

Camp Pendleton sent over soldiers and many businesses near the camp suffered.

Yet 10 years later, when Marines left for Afghanistan, nearby businesses were not hurt.

Families had already been doing most of their shopping on base.

Many people in San Diego feel that life inside the base is not as separate as it appears.

Many Marines with families even choose to live off the base.

Most Marines return to a regular life after four years of military service.

Non-military people are allowed to bicycle through the base.

Many others visit to play outdoor sports.

Chelsey Kurtz welcomes these changes.

She grew up on the base in the 1990s, when her father was in the military.

She lives on the base again with her husband and children.

"When my father was here, it was just a workplace," Kurtz said.

"Now it's a family place."

