There's soy milk, coconut milk, flax milk and all sorts of trendy juices and bottled waters.

But good old milk — the moo cow kind — is fading from the nation's grocery lists.

Fewer and fewer people are drinking milk.

The drop in milk consumption in 2011 and 2012 was the biggest in more than a decade, though interest in milk has been falling for years.

People drank 25 percent less milk from 1975 through 2012, according to numbers from the federal government.

The tall, cool glass of milk with a sandwich at lunch or a burger at dinner is increasingly a thing of the past.

"If I'm with another adult and they have milk during dinner, it seems kind of nostalgic," said Amy Bryant, a St. Paul, Minn., mother of two daughters, ages 8 and 5.

"I was a milk lover and I grew up drinking it.

You just kind of had milk with your dinner."

Although people eat three times the amount of cheese than they did 40 years ago, the dairy industry hasn't been able to get people to keep chugging milk the way they used to.

Recently, it even ended its beloved "Got milk?"

advertising campaign.

The ad campaign, featuring celebrities with milk mustaches, became one of the most well known in advertising history.

New ads will emphasize milk's protein content.

Milk, it seems, has lost its central place at the American table.

"Milk has just been sleepy," said Katie Anderson, of the Minneapolis marketing firm Colle and McVoy.

Alarmingly for the industry, even the most devoted milk drinkers — kids — aren't drinking as much of the white stuff as they once did.

The share of preteens who didn't drink any milk on a given day doubled from 12 percent to 24 percent between 1978 and 2008, according to a 2013 report from the Department of Agriculture (USDA).

During the same time, the percentage of preteens who drank milk three times or more a day dropped from 31 percent to 18 percent.

At Mary Hanson-Busch's house in New Prague, Minn., milk is drunk less often at mealtimes.

"Every night when we sit down for supper, I grab a big squeezy bottle of water," said Hanson-Busch, a married mother of two teenage daughters.

She used to have milk at breakfast, either with cereal, a muffin or toast.

But when she changed her diet last fall, cereal went largely by the wayside — too much sugar.

And Hanson-Busch decided she didn't need as much milk -- too many calories.

One of her daughters decided to stop drinking cow's milk altogether recently, becoming a vegetarian and switching to coconut milk.

"We go through about a gallon of milk a week for the family," Hanson-Busch said.

"We used to go through about two gallons."

To a growing number of consumers, milk isn't seen as the nutritional powerhouse it once was.

"It's really one of our best sources of vitamin D and calcium," said Deb Sheats, a nutrition professor at St. Catherine University in St. Paul.

Vitamin D and calcium are important nutrients that build healthy bones and often get left out of the American diet.

Cheese is also an excellent source of calcium.

But cheese is often more fattening than milk, and doesn't pack the same vitamin D punch.

Enter the "plant" milks — soy, almond and so on.

They're not really milk, but they are sold that way.

Although added in the factory, plant milks have just as much, if not more, calcium and vitamin D as dairy milk, and sometimes fewer calories — though they are more expensive.

"They are riding the coattails of milk's nutritional profile," said Marin Bozic, a professor of dairy marketing economics at the University of Minnesota.

"They try to place themselves as a substitute for dairy milk."

Some consumers have been concerned about growth hormones used in dairy cows, business research company IBISWorld found.

Many farmers give cows artificial hormones to increase their milk production.

Other consumers have questioned the idea of drinking cow's milk altogether, said Antal Neville, an IBISWorld analyst.

The dairy industry is fighting back with a new marketing campaign launched last month.

"Got milk?"

has been mainly replaced by the slogan "Milk life."

New ads play up milk's protein content.

The ads' message is that milk provides the energy to power a person's day, said Anderson of Colle and McVoy.

"It's a much more practical approach than 'Got milk?'"

Bozic said people may be interested in milk that undergoes "filtering" to boost nutrients and lower sugar levels.

Fairlife, a Chicago-based company, is aiming to develop this kind of milk.

The company is the brainchild of a husband-and-wife team who own a dairy farm in northwestern Indiana.

Fairlife makes filtered milk with 50 percent more protein and calcium and half the sugar of regular milk.

Sue McCloskey, one of Fairlife's founders, said her milk's real competition will be other drinks, from juices to plant milks.

Bringing people back to milk won't be easy.

Take the experience of Stacey Sundquist, a lawyer in Virginia, Minn. She and her husband have three kids under age 10 who drink milk regularly at meals.

Until a few years ago, Sundquist herself drank milk three times a day.

Now, she drinks more water and has developed a taste for almond milk, including in her morning oatmeal.

Sundquist made the switch after reading about antibiotics and hormones used in raising cows.

"I started questioning whether I needed cow's milk in my diet," she said.

"I decided I really didn't."

