A team of Wisconsin scientists has stitched together a dramatic 360-degree portrait of the Milky Way that reveals never-before-seen details of our galaxy.

The new galactic portrait is made up of about 2.5 million infrared images collected by NASA's orbiting Spitzer Space Telescope over the last decade.

By looking at the sky in infrared light, astronomers can cut through clouds of interstellar dust that have previously blocked scientists' view.

This view allows them to study much that can't be seen in visible light: previously hidden stellar nurseries and nebulae, proto stars, and interstellar bubbles and jets.

The infrared images that make up the new portrait provide revelations about the Milky Way's content and structure.

They add more than 200 million new stars to the catalog of the Milky Way.

The new Milky Way portrait, known as GLIMPSE360, was unveiled on Thursday.

Scientists can now clearly examine the structure of the Milky Way — how many spiral arms it has, where they are and how far out they extend, said astronomer Edward Churchwell, who was involved in compiling the new picture.

Viewers can even zero in on specific objects with a zoom feature.

The infrared images provide indisputable evidence that a large bar structure consisting of millions of stars runs like a straight line through the center of the Milky Way and extends out to about 12,000 to 13,000 light years from the galaxy's center.

One light year equals around 6 trillion miles.

For the first time, astronomers also can now measure the large-scale structure of the galaxy using stars rather than gas.

"We can see stars being born," Churchwell said.

"And if we can identify stars in the process of forming, we can start to learn about the physics of how stars are formed.

We don't really understand the details of how stars are born."

The distribution of the Milky Way's stellar nurseries also may be better understood, thanks to the telescope and its images.

The nurseries are regions where massive stars and stars in the early stages of being formed, called proto stars, are churned out.

"We can see every star-forming region in the plane of the galaxy," said physicist Robert Benjamin, a member of the GLIMPSE team.

The new portrait gives scientists some idea of the growth rate of the Milky Way, said Barb Whitney, one of the leaders of the GLIMPSE team.

"It tells us how many stars are forming each year."

The general distribution of stars in the galaxy also is now visible.

The 360-degree portrait will help astronomers gain a deeper understanding of the dust that lies between the stars and us, Churchwell said.

But the portrait also uncovers new puzzles to be solved.

The infrared data, for example, revealed that interstellar space is filled with patches of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon gas.

"These are hydrocarbons, very complicated, very heavy molecules with 50 or more carbon atoms," Churchwell said.

"They are brightest around regions of star formation but detectable throughout the disk of the Milky Way.

They're floating out in the middle of interstellar space where they have no business being.

It raises the question of how they were formed.

It also tells us carbon may be more abundant than we thought."

Sent into space in 2003, the Spitzer Space Telescope has far exceeded its planned two-and-a-half-year lifespan.

The telescope remains in orbit, gathering astrophysical data, though once the liquid helium used to cool its cameras runs out it will cease working.

More than 600 research papers already have been published using the data from the infrared galactic survey, Churchwell said.

He figures that the data will keep astronomers busy for many years.

"It's still up there," Churchwell said.

"It's still taking data.

It's done what we wanted it to do, which is to provide a legacy of data for the astronomical community."

