Young people believe the justice system is not fair to people of certain races.

Still, they're not sure the current protest movement can change things.

Those were the results of a survey released Wednesday by Harvard University.

Harvard released its survey of more than 3,000 people who are between the ages of 18 and 29.

People in this age group are known as millennials.

The survey came out amid violence in Baltimore.

Freddie Gray, 25, died after being arrested by police there.

Protests over his death turned violent.

Rioters burned businesses and looted stores, taking things through broken windows.

In response to the riots in Baltimore, Maryland's governor, Larry Hogan, called in the state National Guard soldiers to keep order.

Baltimore's mayor, Stephanie Rawlings-Blake, set a weeklong curfew, making it illegal to be out after dark.

According to this survey, young people want real change in the criminal justice system and the courts, not just talk, said John Della Volpe.

He is director of polling at Harvard's Institute of Politics.

Millennials want a "meaningful conversation" about this issue, Della Volpe said.

Even before the violence in Baltimore, most millennials didn't believe the protest movement could create real change, he said.

The survey asked young people if they were confident that the courts could fairly judge people of all races.

Forty-nine percent of millennials have little or no confidence in the court's fairness.

Another 49 percent have "some" to "a lot" of confidence.

The numbers are higher among black millennials.

Sixty-six percent expressed little or no confidence — compared with about 43 percent of white millennials and 53 percent of Hispanic millennials.

Black millennials also showed much stronger support than their white and Hispanic peers for "Black Lives Matter."

The protest movement was sparked by recent police killings of black men in cities across the country.

Still, American millennials as a group don't believe that the movement will be able to cause meaningful change.

Just 39 percent of those polled believed the efforts would be "somewhat" or "very" effective.

"This is a more cynical generation," Della Volpe said.

"They're willing to volunteer and participate, if they're inspired.

But right now, they feel like no one is really listening to them."

Millennials did see hope in solutions that the protest movement has highlighted.

About 80 percent believe requiring police officers to wear body cameras can be effective, for example.

The poll also asked young people about U.S. foreign policy.

More than half of millennials — about 57 percent — supported sending U.S. ground troops to fight the Islamic State group in the Middle East.

Islamic State is a violent, extremist group fighting in Syria and Iraq.

In the survey, a growing number of young people also supported attacking countries that could become a threat to the U.S. later.

Young adults seem to want a more aggressive foreign policy, Della Volpe said.

