About half of young people believe the U.S. justice system is unfair.

They believe that the courts treat people of certain races differently.

Even with the recent protests, many people do not think that the protests can bring real change.

Those were the findings of a recent survey by Harvard University.

More than 3,000 people from ages 18 to 29 were polled in March.

People in this age group are known as millennials.

In Baltimore, Maryland, Freddie Gray died on April 19, a week after police arrested him.

He had injuries, but the police said they did not hurt him.

Protests over his death became violent.

Some people rioted.

They burned buildings, looted stores, and stole things through broken windows.

Maryland's governor called in National Guard soldiers to keep order.

Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake set a curfew.

With a curfew, it is illegal to be out after dark.

This survey shows that young people want real change in the criminal justice system, said John Della Volpe.

He is director of polling at Harvard's Institute of Politics.

Millennials want a meaningful conversation about this issue, Della Volpe said.

They don't think that protests are enough to create real change, he added.

The survey asked young people if the judicial system and the courts are fair to people of all races.

About half of millennials said the system is not fair.

Black millennials had stronger views.

Two out of 3 said the system was unfair (66 percent).

That number is compared with about 43 percent of whites and 53 percent of Hispanics who took the survey.

Black millennials also strongly supported "Black Lives Matter."

The protest movement started after recent killings of black men by police.

Still, American millennials overall don't think the movement will be able to cause real change.

Just 39 percent believe the protests would be effective.

Millennials are "willing to volunteer and participate," Della Volpe said.

"If they're inspired, feel like it matters and believe it can create change."

He added, "Right now, they feel like no one is really listening to them."

Millennials did see hope in some solutions.

About 80 percent think police officers should wear body cameras.

Body cameras record police officers while they're working.

The poll also asked young people about U.S. foreign policy and relations with other countries.

More than half of the millennials supported sending U.S. soldiers to fight the violent Islamic State group in Iraq and Syria.

Many young people surveyed said the U.S. should attack countries that may become a threat to us later.

Young adults want a stronger foreign policy that will take action, Della Volpe said.

