A new survey finds that African-American millennials are just as likely to get their news online as white millennials.

People 18-34 years old are often called millennials.

The study also finds that people of color are not at risk of being left behind technologically.

At one time, experts worried about whether everyone could get ahold of technology.

In general, 64 percent of millennials say they read and watch news online regularly.

The findings suggest that millennials are clearly getting news from social media, and less from traditional sources like newspapers.

Overall, 57 percent of millennials say they get news and information from Facebook at least once a day.

Eighty-one percent say they get it from Facebook at least once a week.

The survey also found that Hispanics and African-Americans are just as likely as any millennials to have a paid news subscription.

It means they spend money to receive online news.

"People of color are very wired and just as adept in using technology," said Tom Rosenstiel.

He's head of the American Press Institute, which paid for the study.

Rosenstiel said millennials are good at finding topics they're interested in through sharing.

In the 1990s, government officials and other groups were concerned that people of color would be negatively affected by a so-called "digital divide."

Experts feared means that minorities wouldn't be able to take advantage of technology as equally as whites.

Over time, however, minorities became some of the biggest users of certain forms of technology, such as smartphones.

The study found that African-Americans and Hispanics do not lag behind in terms of technology use.

It found that nearly all millennials of all races and ethnic groups use a smartphone.

Half of them use a tablet.

The survey found little difference between races in terms of getting news from Facebook.

There was a big difference in how people use Facebook, though.

About half of African-American millennials said they comment on news stories posted to Facebook.

Only about 3 in 10 whites and Hispanics comment on news stories on Facebook.

African-Americans are also more likely to use Facebook for keeping up with what's "trending" on social media.

Forty-one percent of African-Americans used Facebook for this purpose.

Just 29 percent of whites and 24 percent of Hispanics follow trend stories on Facebook.

Hispanics and African-Americans are more likely than white millennials to get news and information from YouTube and Instagram.

Rosenstiel says YouTube is popular because anyone can post videos to it.

"We see topics that aren't mainstream finding a big audience," Rosenstiel said.

"As something goes mainstream, young people look for new channels to exercise some control."

Streaming music, TV, or movies is the most popular online activity among African-Americans.

For Hispanics, it's keeping up with what their friends are doing.

For white millennials, checking and sending email is most common.

When it comes to using technology, millennials are more alike than people thought, the study found.

Differences according to race and ethnicity were not as great as the things that millennials had in common.

"What we've seen is millennials' similarities are much greater than the differences people thought that there were going to be," Rosenstiel said of the online experience.

"We've created new common ground."

The survey of 1,045 young adults, including 163 African-Americans and 162 Hispanics, was conducted from Jan. 5 through Feb. 2, 2015.

It was conducted by the Media Insight Project, and paid for by the American Press Institute.

The survey was conducted using online interviews in English and Spanish.

Adults age 18-34 were chosen at random.

Anyone could have been chosen.

Participants were screened over the phone before taking part in the survey.

Results from the survey could be off by plus or minus 3.8 percentage points.

Survey scientists call this a margin of error.

If a particular number from the study was 50 percent, for instance, it could be as high as 53.8 percent or as low as 46.2 percent.

