About half of millennials surveyed said the criminal justice system is unfair to certain races.

Few of these millennials believe that the current "Black Lives Matter" protest movement can make a significant difference, according to a survey by Harvard University.

This week in Baltimore, protests over the death of 25-year-old Freddie Gray turned violent.

Rioters looted and burned businesses and fought with police.

The Harvard University survey came before the Baltimore riots.

It polled more than 3,000 18-to-29-year-olds from March 18 to April 1.

In response to the Baltimore riots, Maryland Governor Larry Hogan deployed the National Guard to keep order.

Baltimore Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake set a curfew, making it illegal to be out after dark.

Young people are looking for real change in the criminal justice system, not just talk, said John Della Volpe.

He's director of polling at Harvard's Institute of Politics.

"What I think they're asking us through this data is to have a meaningful, non-ideological conversation about this," he said.

"Even before the violence in Baltimore, you only had a minority of 18-to-29-year-olds believing the protests would create change."

The survey asked young people if they were confident that the judicial system or the courts could fairly judge people without bias for race and ethnicity.

Forty-nine percent of millennials have little or no confidence in the judicial system's fairness.

Another 49 percent have "some" to "a lot" of confidence.

The numbers are higher among black millennials — with 66 percent expressing little or no confidence — compared with about 43 percent of white millennials and 53 percent of Hispanic millennials.

Black millennials also showed much stronger support than their white and Hispanic peers for "Black Lives Matter."

The protest movement was sparked by recent police killings of black men in Ferguson, Missouri; New York City, and other cities.

Still, as a group, American millennials don't believe that the movement will be able to bring meaningful change.

Just 39 percent of those polled believed the efforts would be "somewhat" or "very" effective.

"This is a more cynical generation," Della Volpe said.

"They're willing to volunteer and participate if they're inspired, feel like it matters and believe it can create change.

But right now, they feel like no one is really listening to them."

The millennials surveyed did seem to agree on some solutions that the protest movement has highlighted.

About 80 percent believe requiring police officers to wear body cameras can be effective, for example.

The poll also asked young people about U.S. foreign policy.

A majority of millennials — about 57 percent — supported sending U.S. ground troops to fight the Islamic State group in the Middle East.

Islamic State is an extremist group fighting in Syria and Iraq.

In the survey, a growing number of young people also supported attacking countries that could become a threat to the U.S. later.

The survey shows that young adults have a growing desire for a more aggressive foreign policy, Della Volpe said.

