Not too long ago, many people bought a newspaper every day.

They had to if they wanted to find out what was going on in the world.

These days it is a lot easier to get the news.

All people need to do is click a link on a phone or computer screen.

It does not cost a penny.

Free news sounds like a good thing.

There are some big problems with it, though.

Newspapers are still the best at finding and reporting important stories.

They hire a lot of reporters with a great deal of experience.

It costs money to run a newspaper, however.

If newspapers do not make enough money, they might be forced to do less reporting.

They might even have to go out of business.

Many papers have already shut down.

For that reason, it is important that people do not completely stop paying for the news.

Young people in particular are very used to getting their news for free.

Some are still willing to pay for it, however.

A new study looked at how young people in the United States get their news.

More than 1,000 people between the ages of 18 and 34 were interviewed.

People in that age group are called "millennials."

Around 400 millennials said they do pay for at least some of the news they read.

Some buy newspapers, while others pay to read news online.

Still, that means most of them do not pay for the news they get.

For newspapers, that is not good news.

Newspapers are having a hard time these days.

The number of people willing to pay for a paper has been dropping for years.

In 1984, more than 63 million people bought a newspaper every day.

Today only around 40 million people do.

The drop is even worse than it sounds because there are many more people in the U.S. now.

Many newspapers are now online as well as in print.

Usually their articles can be read for free online.

Some papers do make people pay to read their online articles.

For example, The New York Times and The Washington Post do that.

They only let you read a few stories for free each month.

After that, you have to pay if you want to keep reading.

Still, that way of doing things only works for the most popular newspapers.

Even for them, it is hard to get people to pay.

There is just so much free news.

More and more people do not see why they should ever have to pay for the news.

Young people in particular often feel that way.

The new study certainly found plenty of young people like that.

Molly Vazquez is one of them.

She is 26.

Free news is easy to find, Vasquez said.

"I don't think I should have to pay for it," she said.

Vazquez gets her news by clicking Facebook links or looking at BuzzFeed's free website.

Adam Saltz also does not pay for any of the news he reads.

He is 27.

Saltz clicks on links from Twitter but also reads The New York Times online.

He is able to read the Times for free because one of his parents pays for it.

Saltz did say he would be willing to pay for the Times if he had to.

If he was not already getting it for free, "I would probably be paying," he said.

