When the Chicago Blackhawks take the ice, Michelle Secor is dressed in her team clothing, watching every play, every goal.

"I have to cheer for our home teams," Secor said as she took a break from watching the Stanley Cup finals last week.

"Bulls.

Sox.

Bears.

Hawks.

I was born into this."

Secor, who is of Mexican descent, is one of a small but growing number of minorities who have become hooked on hockey.

She just started watching in recent years, but she is devoted to the sport.

"It makes us all feel good to see a Chicago team out there winning — race doesn't matter," she said.

Hockey for years has been watched and played primarily by whites, experts said.

That is partly because of its Canadian roots.

But the National Hockey League said that is slowly changing.

There have been more minorities on NHL rosters in recent years than in the decades before.

The number peaked at 50 in 2009.

The percentage of fans who are minorities is up, though slightly, too, the league said.

The Blackhawks have three black players, the most of any NHL team.

The NHL counts 58 million U.S. fans.

Of that, 9.4 percent are Latino, while about 8.3 percent of U.S. hockey fans are African-American.

The percentage of black fans has been stable since 2010.

But the number of African-American fans has increased because the total number of overall fans has increased, a league spokeswoman said.

"We are gaining more fans, and we are gaining more fans of different backgrounds," she said.

The NHL doesn't target specific ethnic groups with its programs, said Ken Martin, the Vice President of Community Affairs and Fan Development.

But the league has tried to reach out to youth in urban communities.

The league is getting exposure in new Chicago neighborhoods by other means, too.

"One way is by the Blackhawks winning," Martin said.

"The Blackhawks have been a leader in making our game accessible."

Even as Blackhawks fever sweeps much of Chicago, the sport remains out of reach for many people of color.

There are few opportunities to learn the rules and not a lot of places for minorities to play, said Richard Lapchick of the University of Central Florida.

"The NHL now has programs in cities, but it's a slow building process."

Plus, there have not been a lot of big star players who are minorities, Lapchick said.

According to the NHL, there are 44 minority players on the rosters of the league's 30 teams.

Half of them are black and four are Hispanic.

"Middle-class and upper-class African-Americans have started watching hockey as spectators," Lapchick said.

"Once there are some African-American star players in the game, that will help.

The value of diversity for the NHL is that it would greatly expand their fan base."

The cost of the sport is another hurdle, experts said.

"The problem with hockey is that it's not a sport you can go in your backyard and play," said Jimmy Terracino, director of operations at the Bobby Hull Ice Rink in Cicero.

"You've got to have an ice rink.

You need skates, you need sticks, helmets, gloves, elbow pads, shin guards.

That limits many people from playing or learning it."

Still, there are efforts to develop interest in the sport among minorities.

For example, there are youth hockey leagues based at Johnny's IceHouse in Chicago that reach out to local minority children so they can learn and play.

In Cicero, a Chicago suburb where 78 percent of the town's population is of Mexican descent, there is a $3.5 million ice rink.

The rink has become popular among the town's Latino children, Terracino said.

"With the Blackhawks doing good, it gives the sport wider exposure, and gets even more kids interested in hockey," Terracino said.

Vic Ortiz, who is Mexican-American and lives on the South Side, considers himself a big Chicago sports fan.

But for years, he took little interest in the Blackhawks because the games were too expensive and most of the home games were not televised.

"We couldn't afford to go to the games.

The Hawks games weren't on TV like the Bulls.

How could you learn about them?"

he said.

But now, Ortiz tunes in, even when the Blackhawks aren't in the playoffs, he said.

Gertrude Johnson, who is African-American and lives on the Near North Side, grew up watching the Bears and Bulls, she said.

About five years ago, her mother persuaded her to start watching hockey.

At first, she liked the fights.

Then she learned the rules of the game, admiring the speed of the players and the way they stick up for and protect each other.

"Anybody who is making a name for Chicago, we're riding with them," Johnson said.

