President Barack Obama on Monday launched a new program to help men and boys of color.

He criticized the "sense of unfairness and of powerlessness" that leads to destructive events like the fighting between police and citizens in Baltimore.

He also promised to fight for equal rights throughout his life.

The program is called My Brother's Keeper Alliance.

It's aimed at helping minority students, like Hispanics and African-Americans, do as well as their peers.

The goal is to improve the students' performance in school and help them with their careers.

"We are in this for the long haul," Obama told a crowd in New York.

"Sometimes there won't be a lot of fanfare.

I notice we don't always get a lot of reporting on this issue when there's not a crisis in some neighborhood.

"But we're just going to keep on plugging away," he said.

"This will remain a mission for me and for Michelle, not just for the rest of my presidency, but for the rest of my life."

The new program shows that Obama is using his power to bring leaders together.

He wants them to work on social problems.

Obama has been trying to do this as his presidency winds down.

He hasn't always been successful at starting new government programs or getting money from Congress.

Obama's new program isn't being paid for by the government.

Instead, it will bring together former elected officials, pro athletes, celebrities and business leaders to find solutions.

Monday's pledge came just days after Obama spoke with clear frustration about the conditions that led to the fighting in Baltimore.

He was angry that a young, black man died while being held by police.

He was also angry that so many people are poor and don't have many opportunities to succeed.

They are problems for whole communities to solve, he said.

Obama added that it will take a long time to fix them.

Many of the presidents who served before Obama left the White House wanting to make changes they couldn't accomplish in office.

President Jimmy Carter created Habitat for Humanity, which builds houses that poor people can afford.

President George H.W.

Bush runs the world's largest group for volunteer public service.

President Bill Clinton fights against climate change and works to improve health care around the world.

James A. Thurber is a professor of government at American University.

He says former presidents often want to finish the work they couldn't do in office.

"Rather than just establishing a library that shows what they did, they want to continue the work," Thurber said.

Obama, he said, might be able to achieve more of his goals after he leaves office.

"He can address racism and poverty, two things that are very closely linked, in a very effective way," Thurber said.

"These are big problems in America, and he is in a special position to get people talking about them."

Obama's desire to help men and boys of color became more urgent after the 2012 death of Trayvon Martin.

He's the Florida teenager who was fatally shot by a neighborhood watch volunteer.

Obama has often told his staff that real problems require a serious, lasting effort, said Joshua DuBois, who used to work at the White House.

"He talks about how we tend to ignore these communities unless it's a time of crisis," DuBois said.

"This is the opposite of that.

This is him paying attention to those issues not just in the moment but in a sustained way."

The new program aims to build a national network to help young, minority boys and men.

It plans to do this mostly through programs designed to close what Obama called the "opportunity gap."

Closing that gap means helping minorities stay in school and find jobs just like their peers.

On Monday, Obama said most Americans believe that everyone deserves an equal shot.

"There's a tragic history in this country that has made it tougher for some," he said.

"And folks living in those communities, and especially young people living in those communities, could use some help to change those odds."

