President Barack Obama on Monday announced a new program to help men and boys of color.

These are minorities, like Hispanics or African-Americans.

Obama said these groups often feel that life is unfair or that they have no power.

The president said he wants to help these groups even when he's no longer in the White House.

The new program is called My Brother's Keeper Alliance.

It wants to help minority kids do as well as other kids in school.

It also wants to help minorities find jobs.

"We are in this for the long haul," Obama said.

He added that the problem doesn't get a lot of attention unless something bad happens.

"But we're just going to keep on plugging away," he said.

Obama said it will remain a mission for him and for first lady Michelle Obama.

He said they will work on it "for the rest of my life."

The new program shows that Obama is using his power to bring leaders together.

He wants them to work on solving problems.

Obama has been trying to do this all along.

But he's trying especially hard as his presidency comes to an end.

Obama announced the new program a few days after he spoke about the fighting in Baltimore.

He was angry that a young, black man died while in the care of police.

He was also angry that so many people are poor.

Many don't have much of a chance to succeed.

These are problems for whole groups of people to solve, he said.

He added that it will take a long time to fix them.

Many of the presidents who came before Obama wanted to fix problems, too.

Many of them worked hard after they left the White House.

They started groups to solve problems.

President Jimmy Carter runs a group that builds houses for poor people.

President Bill Clinton fights for the environment.

He also works to improve the health of people around the world.

James A. Thurber is a professor.

He says former presidents often want to finish the work they couldn't do in office.

He thinks Obama might have better luck fixing problems after he leaves office.

Obama is concerned about racism.

It is when people are treated badly just because of their skin color.

He is also concerned about poverty, when people are poor.

These are big problems in America, Thurber said.

He said the president is in a special position to get people talking about them.

The new program is for men and boys all over the country.

It will teach people to be successful.

It will help them stay in school and find jobs.

On Monday, Obama said most Americans believe that everyone deserves an equal shot.

It means they all have the same chance to live better lives.

The history of the United States "has made it tougher for some," he said.

Obama added that "young people living in those communities, could use some help to change those odds."

