Tim Wolfe is the president of the University of Missouri.

On Monday he said he will give up his job.

Students at the school were very angry at Wolfe.

They said he did not do enough after black students were called racist names.

They were called unkind names because they are black.

Many black students at the school no longer felt safe.

Wolfe acted like nothing was wrong, they said.

Many white students agreed with them.

The trouble began in September.

The student government president said that people in a passing truck shouted racist names at him.

The student president is black.

In early October, several other black students said they were called racist names, too.

They said a white student shouted at them.

Also, a swastika was drawn in a school bathroom.

The swastika stands for white power.

It was first used by the Nazi group from Germany.

The Nazis killed millions of people during World War II.

Soon, many students began protesting.

They asked school leaders to do something to make black students feel safer.

On Oct. 10, black protesters blocked Wolfe's car during a parade.

They demanded that he talk to them.

But Wolfe would not speak with them.

Instead, he had police remove the protesters.

The way the protesters were treated made students even angrier.

On Nov. 2, a black student named Jonathan Butler began a hunger strike.

He said he would not eat until Wolfe stepped down.

On Monday, about 30 black football players joined the protests.

They said they would stop playing football until Wolfe was gone.

The school's football team is called the Tigers.

Their next game is Saturday.

If the game is not held the school will have to pay more than a million dollars.

Head football coach Gary Pinkel said he supported his players.

He said all the coaches did.

"We are united.

We are behind our players."

Sunday night, about 150 student protesters gathered on the school's plaza.

Many planned to camp there overnight in cold weather.

Black student Abigail Hollis was at Sunday night's protest.

She said the school is "unhealthy and unsafe for us."

White students at the school are treated much better than black students, Hollis said.

"It's time to stop that.

It's 2015."

Maybe things will change now that Wolfe is gone.

After the school president spoke Monday, Butler said his hunger strike was over.

