Searchers have been looking in the Indian Ocean for an airplane that went missing on its way from Malaysia to China.

So far, they've only found a bunch of sea garbage.

Search and rescue teams are discovering what scientists have warned.

Even the most distant areas of the ocean are full of trash.

For the first time in 10 days, the sky was clear and the ocean was calm.

Ships were at last able to pick up "suspicious items" in the southern Indian Ocean.

The items were first spotted by planes and on satellite pictures.

But none of them turned out to be pieces of the missing plane.

They were just ordinary pieces of garbage swirling around the ocean.

On Sunday, Australia reported that two ships picked up a number of objects.

The ships are working off the west coast of Australia.

The objects were identified as fishing equipment and other sea junk.

The results were disappointing.

But they show how hard it is to discover what happened to the plane.

Malaysian Airlines Flight 370 disappeared March 8.

It was flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

A total of 239 passengers and crew were on board.

An Australian ship will search with a "black box detector."

The detector is supplied by the U.S. Navy.

It should be able to locate the plane's black box in waters up to 20,000 feet deep.

A black box record pilots' conversations.

It also records information about the flight such as how fast it was flying.

The search team is in a race against time.

The black box's battery will last only 30 to 45 days.

After that, the signal will go silent.

The odds of finding it in time are low.

Searchers will need to find pieces of the plane.

Hopefully, that will lead them to the black box.

Based on the plane's flight path, investigators guess it crashed into the Indian Ocean.

The most famous example of a missing plane is Air France Flight 447.

The Air France plane crashed over the Atlantic in 2009.

It took two years to find the main part of the plane and its black box.

Small pieces of the plane were found within five days.

The southern Indian Ocean is one of the most distant places on earth.

It is far from any islands, shipping lanes or flight paths.

But the area gathers a surprisingly large amount of garbage.

The garbage becomes trapped in the ocean currents.

Marc Lallanilla writes for the website livescience.com.

Bad weather and the size of the target area makes the search more difficult.

It's also complicated by "the (huge) amount of garbage already floating in the search area — and in oceans worldwide."

Lallanilla called the search a "needle in a garbage patch."

Not knowing what happened to the plane has been hard on the relatives of missing.

Chinese families especially have no faith in the Malaysian government.

Malaysia says the plane crashed in the ocean.

The families don't believe it.

Chinese relatives held a demonstration at a Kuala Lumpur hotel Sunday.

Their banners read: "We want evidence, truth and dignity."

Malaysia Airlines said it will fly families of passengers to Perth.

The airline will set up a family assistance center.

The center will provide counseling and other support.

But it will do this only when pieces of the missing airplane have been found.

