University of Missouri football player J'Mon Moore decided to visit the protesters who had built a tent city on a campus plaza.

The students were demanding that the university pay attention to their complaints about growing racism at the school.

The issue first arose months earlier, after several black students said racist insults had been yelled at them and a swastika written in feces was found on a dormitory bathroom wall.

Many black students said racial tension was increasing at the school and that they no longer felt safe.

Many students soon grew angry at the school's president, Tim Wolfe, who they said was not doing enough to address the problem.

Their anger boiled over into protest after Wolfe had several black students who were trying to speak with him arrested.

The tent city went up and a black student named Jonathan Butler went on a hunger strike, declaring he would not eat until Wolfe had stepped down.

After talking to the tent city protestors, Moore decided he had to get more involved.

When he got home, he told his roommate and Tigers teammate, Anthony Sherrils, that he wanted to do something to support Butler, the student on a hunger strike.

Moore and Sherrils spoke to teammates Ian Simon and Charles Harris, and the push to support Butler began to spread.

By Saturday night, they were in front of their coach, declaring they wanted to go on strike until the president was gone.

Later that night, the protest was on.

Thirty black members of the football team appeared in a tweeted picture with their arms linked with Butler and a statement that said they would not play or practice until the president was out of office.

On Sunday, coach Gary Pinkel joined them, tweeting another picture of coaches with their arms linked together.

"I'm talking to guys who have tears in their eyes and they're crying," Pinkel said.

"And they asked me if I'd support them, and I said I would.

I didn't look at consequences ... it was about helping my players, and supporting my players when they needed me."

By Monday the president was gone, and the team had earned itself a place in history for accelerating a movement that other students had been working on for months.

The players wanted to use their power as popular athletes in a beloved sport "to make a difference and stand behind Jonathan," Moore said.

By refusing to play, the athletes risked losing their scholarships.

However, stripping them of their scholarships would have been a risky move for the athletic department.

In the short-term, the Tigers lineup would have been gutted with three more games to play this season, and the remaining players would have been subjected to humiliating losses and potential injuries.

In the long-term, outsiders and potential recruits could have seen the school's actions as a betrayal of the players.

Some players would have transferred, and Missouri football would have been set back for years.

The players' strike also put the university at financial risk.

The school would have been forced to pay out more than $1 million if an upcoming game against Brigham Young University had to be called off.

In addition, football is one of the university's main sources of revenue, and many former students donate to the school in large part because of their loyalty to the Tigers.

The players who went on strike are popular and well-known, and their faces and names have been used in many fund-raising campaigns.

"These black football players understood that they have the power," said Professor Shaun Harper of the University of Pennsylvania, who has studied the ways in which race shapes students' educational experience.

"That is so rare — I don't know another class of black people on a university campus that has as much power as these guys.

... Not in our modern history have we seen black students collectively flex their muscle in this way."

Blacks make up 63 percent of Missouri's football and men's basketball players, but less than 3 percent of the total undergraduate population.

Because they are often sheltered and controlled within athletic departments, black student-athletes are not always aware of their power, Harper said.

"Hopefully, this situation raises their consciousness about their authority," he said.

If black student-athletes elsewhere "do what these guys just did, it could be a form of activism" that could greatly help all black students, Harper added.

Following Wolfe's departure, the striking football players issued a statement celebrating the protestors' victory.

As "fellow concerned students," the players wanted to take a position "on an issue that has special meaning as a fellow black man's life was on the line," Simon said.

"We love the game, but at the end of the day, it is just that — a game."

"Let this be a testament to all of the athletes across the country that you do have power," Harris said.

"It started with a few individuals on our team, and look what it's become — look where it's at right now."

There have been previous examples of black athletes taking a stand.

In March, for example, the University of Oklahoma's football team, the Sooners, refused to practice for a week.

Their action came after a group of white students were caught on video singing a shockingly racist song.

The University of Oklahoma incident did not occur during football season, so no games were at risk.

"Thankfully, it never came down to us having to decide whether we were going to play games or not," Sooners team member Ty Darlington said.

"That would have been such a difficult decision — and I can't say for sure what would have happened."

