Search and rescue teams looking for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight have found no signs of the plane.

They've only found a big garbage patch.

The searchers have discovered what oceanographers have been warning.

Even the most remote stretches of the ocean are full of trash.

For the first time since the search focused on the southern Indian Ocean 10 days ago, the sky was clear and the sea was calm.

This allowed the ships working off the west coast of Australia to recover the "suspicious items" spotted by planes and on satellite pictures.

But none of the objects were debris from the missing plane.

They were just the ordinary garbage swirling around the ocean.

"A number of objects were retrieved by HMAS Success and Haixun 01 yesterday," reported the Australian Maritime Safety Authority in a statement Sunday.

The objects were described as fishing equipment and other garbage.

The disappointing results shows the difficulty in trying to find out what happened to the Boeing 777 aircraft.

Malaysian Airlines Flight 370 disappeared March 8 during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

A total of 239 passengers and crew were aboard the flight.

Australian authorities said Sunday that a naval support ship will leave on Monday with a "black box detector" supplied by the U.S. Navy.

The detector is called a Towed Pinger Locator 25.

It should be able to detect the black boxes of the plane in waters as deep as 20,000 feet.

The boxes record pilots' conversations and information from the aircraft such as its speed and direction.

The search team is in a race against time.

A black box's battery lasts only 30 to 45 days.

The odds are stacked against finding it in time without a trail of trash to guide them.

Based on the plane's flight path, investigators guess it crashed into the Indian Ocean.

The most famous example of a missing plane is Air France Flight 447.

The Air France plane crashed over the Atlantic on a flight from Rio de Janeiro in Brazil to Paris in 2009.

It took two years to find the body of the aircraft and the flight recorder.

Pieces of the aircraft, however, were found within five days.

The southern Indian Ocean is one of the most remote places on the planet.

It is far from any islands, shipping lanes or flight paths.

But the area gathers a surprisingly large amount of garbage, trapped in the slowly rotating currents.

Marc Lallanilla is a science writer for the website livescience.com.

He wrote that the search for the missing plane has been made difficult by bad weather, mistakes by Malaysia and the vastness of the search area.

It also has been complicated "by one other factor: the incredible amount of garbage already floating in the search area — and in oceans worldwide."

Lallanilla called the search for Flight 370 a "needle in a garbage patch."

The lack of  wreckage has prevented families from achieving closure over the deaths of their relatives.

Chinese families, in particular, have rejected the statement of the Malaysian government that the plane crashed with no survivors.

"We want evidence, truth and dignity," read banners that Chinese relatives held at a Kuala Lumpur hotel on Sunday.

Malaysia Airlines said Sunday that it will fly families of passengers to Perth.

It will also set up a family assistance center to provide counseling and other support.

But the airline said it will do so only when confirmed wreckage from the missing flight has been found.

