Searchers have found no signs of the missing Malaysian Airlines plane.

They've only found a floating garbage pile.

The teams have discovered what scientists have been warning.

Even the most hard-to-reach stretches of ocean are full of trash.

For the first time since the search focused on the southern Indian Ocean, the weather was good.

The clear skies and the calm sea allowed ships to pick up "suspicious items" spotted by planes and on satellite pictures.

But none of the objects off the west coast of Australia turned out to be pieces of the missing plane.

They were just ordinary garbage swirling around the ocean.

The Australian Maritime Safety Authority reported that a number of objects were picked up by two of its ships Sunday.

The objects were identified as fishing equipment and other garbage.

The results were disappointing.

But they show how hard it is to discover what happened to the airplane.

Malaysian Airlines Flight 370 disappeared March 8 during a flight from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

A total of 239 passengers and crew were on board the plane.

Australian officials said that a naval support ship will leave with a "black box detector."

The detector is supplied by the U.S. Navy.

It should be able to locate the plane's black boxes in waters as deep as 20,000 feet.

A black box records the pilots' conversation in the cockpit.

It also records information from the flight such as the speed and direction of the plane.

The search team is in a race against time.

A black box's battery will last only 30 to 45 days.

After that, the signal will go silent.

The odds of ever finding it are low unless searchers find pieces of the plane.

Based on the plane's flight path, investigators guess it crashed into the Indian Ocean.

The most famous example of a missing plane is Air France Flight 447.

The Air France plane crashed over the Atlantic in 2009.

It took two years to find the main part of the plane and its black box.

Smaller pieces of the plane, though, were found within five days.

The southern Indian Ocean is one of the most remote places on the planet.

It is far from any islands, shipping lanes or flight paths.

But the area gathers a surprisingly large amount of garbage.

The trash becomes trapped in the ocean currents.

Marc Lallanilla is a science writer for the website livescience.com.

He wrote that the search for the missing plane has been difficult for several reasons.

They include bad weather, mistakes by Malaysia and the huge size of the search area.

The search also has been complicated by "the (huge) amount of garbage already floating in the search area — and in oceans worldwide."

Lallanilla called the search for Flight 370 a "needle in a garbage patch."

Not having information about the crash has caused pain for the families of the passengers.

It makes it harder to accept their relatives have died.

Chinese families, in particular, have no faith in the Malaysian government.

Malaysia says the plane crashed with no survivors.

The relatives do not want to believe that.

Chinese relatives held a demonstration at a Kuala Lumpur hotel Sunday.

Their banners read: "We want evidence, truth and dignity."

Malaysia Airlines said it will fly families of passengers to Perth, Australia.

The airline will set up a family assistance center to provide counseling and other support.

But it said it will do all this only when pieces of the missing airplane have been found.

