Alex Rodriguez used to be one of baseball's best.

On Aug. 5 he was named one of its worst.

Major League Baseball punished him for using chemicals to help him perform better.

He won't play for 211 games.

The suspension period runs through the rest of this season and all of 2014.

Rodriguez was once expected to become baseball's all-time home run king.

Now he will be remembered as the central figure in one of the game's worst chapters.

Twelve other players were given 50-game punishments.

They all had a link to Biogenesis.

The Miami-area business provided players with banned substances from 2009 until last year.

The League says the New York Yankees slugger was one of them.

Rodriguez, 38, was named the most valuable player in the American League three times.

He is fifth on the all-time home-run list.

He can still play while he fights the punishment.

The announcement came as Rodriguez returned to the big leagues.

He had spent months trying to come back from a serious hip injury.

"The past seven months have been a nightmare.

Probably the worst time of my life,'' the Miami native told reporters in Chicago.

The announcement by the League on Monday ended a long look into Biogenesis.

MLB offered to pay witnesses to help it gather evidence.

The League finally convinced the man who started Biogenesis, Anthony Bosch, to cooperate.

He gave the League material that showed ballplayers were using the substances.

Most of the evidence has not been made public.

The case also caught All-Stars Nelson Cruz, Jhonny Peralta and Everth Cabrera.

"We pursued this matter because it was not only the right thing to do," Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said.

It was also "the only thing to do."

Rodriguez had vowed from the beginning to fight.

"I'm in the toughest fight of my life and it's not going to get easier,'' he said Monday.

"I'm fighting for my life.''

He did not answer questions about his use of drugs.

In the past, he has said he had not used them since his days as a Texas Ranger.

The League says he kept using testosterone and human growth hormone.

Athletes take both to try to build muscle.

Both can have dangerous side affects, according to the Mayo Clinic.

Rodriguez was also punished with the long suspension because he tried to lie and stop baseball from looking into Biogenesis.

The suspension could end his career.

Government lawyers in Miami said last week that they were looking into Biogenesis.

They want to know if the company was selling drugs illegally.

The government will investigate whether Biogenesis sold drugs to high school athletes.

Rodriguez has a $275 million contract.

He is the highest-paid player in baseball.

He previously admitted taking performance-enhancing drugs when he played for the Rangers in 2001-03, but has never been disciplined.

His high school coach said it was a sad day.

"Each one of us, depending on where we are in our lives, have decisions to make," said Rich Hofmann.

"And we have to live with them.

Unfortunately, he has to live with his" and this is how he will be remembered.

Rodriguez had been healing until Monday's call-up to the majors.

He said MLB and the Yankees were trying to end his career.

If he stops playing, the Yankees won't have to pay him the rest of the money they owe him, about $60 million.

The players union has helped the League in its effort to clean up the sport.

But union head Michael Weiner said the union would defend Rodriguez.

Weiner said Selig did not "act appropriately."

He didn't say anything further.

