Alex Rodriguez was once considered one of baseball's best players.

On Aug. 5 he became one of its biggest bad guys.

Major League Baseball suspended him for using banned substances to help improve his performance.

The punishment runs for 211 games.

That is the length of the rest of this season and all of the 2014 season.

Rodriguez was once expected to become baseball's all-time home run king.

Now he will forever be remembered as the central figure in one of the game's worst scandals.

Twelve other players were given 50-game suspensions.

They all had a link to Biogenesis.

The Miami-area business provided players with banned substances from 2009 until last year.

The League says the New York Yankees slugger was one of them.

Rodriguez, 38, is a three-time most valuable player (MVP) and fifth on the all-time home-run list.

He can still play while he fights the punishment.

The announcement came as Rodriguez returned to the Yankees lineup after working for months to recover from a serious hip injury.

"The past seven months have been a nightmare — probably the worst time of my life,'' the Miami native said.

His voice cracked as he spoke with reporters about returning to the game.

The announcement by the League on Monday ended a long and hard-hitting look into the matter.

MLB offered to pay witnesses to help them gather evidence against players suspected of cheating.

Ultimately, Major League Baseball persuaded Biogenesis's owner, Anthony Bosch, to cooperate.

He turned over material that showed ballplayers were taking drugs they were not allowed to take.

Most of the evidence has not been made public.

The case also caught All-Stars Nelson Cruz, Jhonny Peralta and Everth Cabrera.

Some say the punishments are as tough as those from the 1919 Black Sox incident when players schemed to help gamblers by cheating in the World Series.

"We pursued this matter because it was not only the right thing to do, but the only thing to do," Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig said.

Most of the players negotiated the terms of their suspensions over the past month.

They chose to admit responsibility, sit out immediately, and return as quickly as possible to the diamond.

Rodriguez had vowed from the beginning to fight.

"I'm in the toughest fight of my life and it's not going to get easier,'' he said Monday.

"I'm fighting for my life.''

He did not answer questions about his use of banned substances.

They are called performance enhancing drugs.

In the past, he has said he had not used them since his days as a Texas Ranger.

MLB says he kept using testosterone and human growth hormone, however.

Athletes take both to try to build muscle, but both have potentially dangerous side affects, according to the Mayo Clinic.

His punishment was worse than the other 12 because he tried to lie and stop baseball's investigation, the League says.

The suspension could end his baseball career.

Government lawyers in Miami last week said they were investigating Biogenesis.

They are looking at whether the business sold and gave out drugs illegally, including to high school athletes.

Rodriguez has a $275 million contract.

He is the highest-paid player in baseball.

He previously admitted taking performance-enhancing drugs when he played for the Rangers in 2001-03, but has never been disciplined.

His high school coach at Westminster Christian in Miami said it was a sad day.

"Each one of us, depending on where we are in our lives, have decisions to make," said Rich Hofmann.

"And we have to live with them.

Unfortunately, he has to live with his" and this is how he will be remembered.

Rodriguez says MLB and the Yankees are trying to end his career.

If he stops playing, the Yankees won't have to pay him the rest of the money they owe him.

That is about $60 million.

The players union has helped the League in its effort to clean up the sport.

But Executive Director Michael Weiner said the union would defend Rodriguez.

Weiner said Selig did not "act appropriately'' in his case.

He didn't say anything further.

Several other players received 50-game suspensions.

They included Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Antonio Bastardo and New York Yankees catcher Francisco Cervelli.

The latest suspensions follow the July 22 punishment of Ryan Braun of the Milwaukee Brewers.

Braun was suspended for the rest of this season.

