Up to now, Harper Lee has only published one book.

"To Kill a Mockingbird," which came out in 1960, won Lee the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and became a classic.

Now, the characters from that classic will return to the page.

"Go Set a Watchman," a novel that Lee completed in the 1950s but set aside, will be released July 14, publisher HarperCollins announced Tuesday.

This novel is essentially a sequel to "To Kill a Mockingbird," although it was finished earlier.

The publisher is planning a first printing of 2 million copies.

The 304-page book will be Lee's second, coming more than 50 years after her first.

"In the mid-1950s, I completed a novel called 'Go Set a Watchman,'" Lee, 88, said in a statement released by publisher HarperCollins.

"It features the character known as Scout as an adult woman, and I thought it a pretty decent effort.

"My editor, who was taken by the flashbacks to Scout's childhood, persuaded me to write a novel (what became 'To Kill a Mockingbird') from the point of view of the young Scout.

"I was a first-time writer, so I did as I was told.

I hadn't realized it (the original book) had survived, so was surprised and delighted when my dear friend and lawyer Tonja Carter discovered it.

After much thought and hesitation, I shared it with a handful of people I trust and was pleased to hear that they considered it worthy of publication.

I am humbled and amazed that this will now be published after all these years."

Financial details of the book deal were not disclosed.

The deal was negotiated between Carter and Michael Morrison, head of HarperCollins Publishers.

Lee's lawyer, Carter, came across the manuscript of the lost novel at a "secure location where it had been affixed to an original typescript of 'To Kill a Mockingbird,'" publisher Harper said.

The new book is set in Maycomb, Alabama, the fictional town introduced in "Mockingbird."

While "To Kill a Mockingbird" is set in the 1930s, "Watchman" is set in the mid-1950s, roughly the same time as when Lee was writing the story.

At the time she was writing "Watchman," the civil rights movement was beginning to take hold.

The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 1953 that segregated schools — schools separated by race — were unconstitutional.

The arrest of Rosa Parks in 1955 led to the yearlong Montgomery bus boycott.

"To Kill a Mockingbird," follows 6-year-old Scout Finch, her brother Jem, and their father Atticus Finch, a local lawyer who defends a black man falsely accused of a serious crime.

The new book revisits the same characters about 20 years later.

"Scout (Jean Louise Finch) has returned to Maycomb from New York to visit her father, Atticus," the publisher's announcement reads.

"She is forced to grapple with issues both personal and political as she tries to understand her father's attitude toward society, and her own feelings about the place where she was born and spent her childhood."

Harper Lee herself is from Monroeville, Alabama, but lived in New York in the 1950s.

She now lives in her hometown.

According to the publisher, the book will be released as she first wrote it, with no revisions.

"To Kill a Mockingbird" is among the most beloved novels in history.

It has sold more than 40 million copies worldwide.

It was released on July 11, 1960, won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and was adapted into a 1962 movie of the same name, starring Gregory Peck in an Oscar-winning performance as the courageous attorney Atticus Finch.

The book has been occasionally banned over the years because of its language and racial themes.

Still, it has been become standard reading in middle schools and high schools and is common in book clubs.

The fact that "To Kill a Mockingbird" was Harper Lee's only book only seemed to enhance its appeal.

Lee is unlikely to do any publicity for the book, her publisher said.

She has rarely spoken to the media since the 1960s.

At the time, she told one reporter she wanted "to leave some record of small-town, middle-class Southern life."

Until now, "To Kill a Mockingbird" was the only record she had left.

"This is a remarkable literary event," Harper publisher Jonathan Burnham said in a statement.

"The existence of 'Go Set a Watchman' was unknown until recently, and its discovery is an extraordinary gift to the many readers and fans of 'To Kill a Mockingbird.'

Reading in many ways like a sequel to Harper Lee's classic novel, it is a compelling and ultimately moving narrative about a father and a daughter's relationship, and the life of a small Alabama town living through the racial tensions of the 1950s."

The new book also will be available as an electronic edition.

Lee has openly expressed her preference for paper, but surprised fans last year by agreeing to allow "Mockingbird" to be released as an e-book.

