"To Kill a Mockingbird" is a classic American novel by Harper Lee.

It has been read by students and book clubs around the world for decades.

Since 1960, it has been Harper Lee's only published book.

After more than 50 years, she is publishing her second book.

It has the same characters as "To Kill a Mockingbird."

The new book is called "Go Set a Watchman."

Like "Mockingbird," it takes place in Maycomb, Alabama, and follows Atticus Finch, and his daughter Scout.

The publisher is planning to print 2 million copies to start.

"Go Set a Watchman" will be 304 pages.

Harper Lee explained how "Watchman" and "Mockingbird" came to be in a statement released by her publisher.

"In the mid-1950s, I completed a novel called 'Go Set a Watchman,'" said Lee, who is 88.

"It features the character known as Scout as an adult woman, and I thought it a pretty decent effort."

That book featured flashbacks to Scout's childhood, and Lee's editor liked those parts.

The editor convinced Lee to write a new novel from the point of view of a young Scout.

"I was a first-time writer," Lee said, "so I did as I was told."

Harper Lee said she did not know her first novel, "Go Set a Watchman," had survived all these years.

She said she was "surprised and delighted when my dear friend and lawyer Tonja Carter discovered it."

After debating it for a long time, Lee eventually shared the novel with a few trusted friends, she said, and was happy to hear that they thought it should be published.

"I am humbled and amazed that this will now be published after all these years," she said.

While "To Kill a Mockingbird" is set in the Great Depression of the 1930s, "Go Set a Watchman" takes place in the mid-1950s.

That is about the same time Lee was writing the story.

The civil rights movement — the push for more rights for African-Americans — was also getting started then.

In 1953, the Supreme Court ruled that schools could not separate black students and white students.

Rosa Parks was arrested in 1955 for refusing to give up her bus seat to a white passenger.

That led to the Montgomery bus boycott during which people avoided riding the bus in protest.

"To Kill a Mockingbird" follows 6-year-old Scout Finch, her brother Jem, and their father Atticus Finch, a local lawyer who defends a black man falsely accused of serious crimes.

The new book revisits some of the same characters about 20 years later.

The publisher, Harper, gave a summary of the new novel: Scout has returned to Maycomb from New York to visit her father.

She must deal with personal and political issues as she reunites with him and the place where she grew up.

The story mirrors Harper Lee's own life.

Lee is from Monroeville, Alabama.

She lived in New York in the 1950s.

She now lives back in her hometown.

The publisher said the book will be released as she first wrote it, with no changes.

"To Kill a Mockingbird" is one of the most popular and beloved novels in history.

More than 40 million copies have been sold worldwide.

It was released on July 11, 1960.

It won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction writing in 1961.

It was made into a movie in 1962 starring Gregory Peck as the courageous Atticus Finch.

Peck won an Oscar award for his performance.

Over the years, the book has sometimes been banned for its language and racial themes.

Still, it is a classic that is required reading in many schools.

The fact that it was Harper Lee's only novel seemed to make it even more special.

Lee has rarely spoken to the media since the 1960s.

At the time, she told one reporter she wanted "to leave some record of small-town, middle-class Southern life."

Her publisher said she probably will not return to the public eye to promote this book.

The new novel also will be available as an e-book.

Lee has said that she prefers paper books.

Still, she surprised fans by allowing "To Kill a Mockingbird" to be released as an e-book.

