Altai Davaa and her brother, Tsagaana, live a simple life.

They are far away from any cities or towns.

The nearest road is about 10 miles away.

Their home is a traditional tent known as a yurt.

They cook on a wood stove.

They do not have an indoor bathroom.

They are not cut off from the outside world.

They do have a television.

It uses a satellite dish.

There is a lot to watch, too.

They get more than 60 stations.

They even get TV shows from America.

"But mostly, I like Mongolian programs," Tsagaana says.

"They're easier to understand."

Mongolia is a country near China.

There are only about 3 million people in Mongolia.

Yet there are 138 television stations.

Most were started in just the last 10 years.

They show everything from wrestling matches to talk shows on Mongolian TV.

There is even a Miss World Mongolia beauty contest.

Mongolia once had leaders who decided what people were allowed to watch.

The government ran the only TV station in the country.

In 1990, Mongolians chose new leaders.

The country is now much more free.

Many new TV stations have sprung up.

News reporters are more free than they used to be.

They can report what they want.

Yet things are not as good as they seem.

There are serious problems.

The biggest problem is that a lot of television stations are owned by rich people.

Many of them are politicians.

They want to become leaders of Mongolia.

Some are trying to get people to vote for them.

Some have already been elected.

These politicians use their TV stations to push for what they want.

They also use them to say bad things about other politicians.

Another problem is that many stations do not pay for the programs they run.

Often they steal copies of the hottest movies and TV shows.

Many of those shows and movies come from the United States.

They are quickly translated into Mongolian and put on TV.

Oyundari Tsagaan runs a TV station.

She ordered her station to stop stealing movies and TV programs.

Oyundari has also ordered an end to bribery at her station.

Sometimes people take bribes to do something that is wrong.

Reporters might take money to report something that is not true.

They might be paid to not report a story that would make someone look bad.

Ending bribery is hard.

People are used to bribery, Oyundari says.

She cannot stop everyone.

