Altai Davaa and her brother, Tsagaana, live a simple life far from the big city.

The two sleep in a traditional Mongolian tent known as a yurt and cook over a wood-fire stove.

The nearest paved road is about 10 miles away.

When the sun begins to set, they connect with the outside world.

Tsagaana plugs in his solar-powered satellite dish and television, and starts flipping through the channels.

He gets more than 60 stations, offering everything from "Breaking Bad" to hit Hollywood movies.

"But mostly, I like Mongolian programs," he says.

"They're easier to understand."

Tsagaana certainly has plenty of choices when searching for something to watch.

Even though it has a population of just 3 million, Mongolia has 138 homegrown television stations.

Most were started in just the last 10 years.

They air everything from wrestling matches to home-shopping programs to talk shows and news.

There is the Miss World Mongolia beauty contest and even a Mongolian Academy Awards program.

"It's just crazy," says Mongolian journalist Bayarmagnai Puntsag.

Mongolia was once run by a government that controlled what people could read and watch.

In 1990, Mongolians chose a different form of government that gave them more freedom.

Since then the number of TV stations has grown enormously.

The country now also has 111 newspapers, 90 magazines and 72 radio stations.

Things are very different than they used to be.

Just 25 years ago, viewers had only only one TV station run by the Mongolian government and a Russian station.

Now there are many, many more choices and reporters have much more freedom to report what they want.

Yet things are not as good as they seem.

There are serious problems, particularly in television.

The biggest problem is that many television stations are owned by rich people who are either already in government or are hoping to get elected.

These politicians use their stations to push for what they want.

They use them to get themselves elected and to attack their opponents.

Another problem is that many stations are not paying for the programs they run.

Many stations simply steal copies of the hottest movies and TV shows from the United States and elsewhere.

They are quickly translated into the Mongolian language and put on the air.

Journalists are not usually paid very much.

As a result, bribery is common.

Many journalists and TV stations take money to air stories, or to not run stories that might make someone look bad.

Bayarmagnai says it is only natural that so many TV stations and newspapers sprang up after 1990.

Before then, the government was very different.

People were not allowed to say what they wanted.

"Suddenly, we had freedom of speech," he said.

"That's very appealing to Mongolians.

We like to express our thoughts and opinions."

However, politicians quickly became involved in the press.

Mongolia's current president, Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj, started a newspaper and a TV station.

Prime Minister Chimed Saikhanbileg used to have his own television show.

Journalist Oyundari Tsagaan heads the Mongolian National Public Radio and TV, also known as the MNB.

She says politicians who own stations like being able to reach voters directly.

They like having TV stations even when they do not really know how to run them.

Some people just own them to get ahead.

Oyundari said she has ordered the MNB to stop airing stolen movies and TV programs.

She has also tried to get journalists to stop taking bribes, which is money to do something wrong.

Sometimes reporters take money for running a story that is not true.

Other times they might take a bribe to promise not run a story that would embarrass someone.

Ending bribery is hard, she said.

Bribery is "a habit for some people," Oyundari says.

"We can't really control everybody."

