Altai Davaa and her brother, Tsagaana, live deep in a remote and rocky canyon.

They are about 10 miles from the nearest paved road and even farther from any power lines.

The two sleep in a traditional Mongolian tent known as a yurt, cook over a wood-fire stove, and use an outhouse.

When the sun begins to set, however, Tsagaana plugs in his solar-powered satellite dish and television, and starts channel surfing.

He gets more than 60 stations, offering everything from "Breaking Bad" to big Hollywood movies.

"But mostly, I like Mongolian programs," he says.

"They're easier to understand."

Tsagaana certainly has plenty of choices in deciding what to watch.

Despite having just 3 million inhabitants, Mongolia has 138 homegrown television stations.

Eighty percent of them were founded in just the last 10 years.

They air everything from wrestling tournaments to home-shopping programs to news and political talk shows.

There is a Miss World Mongolia pageant and even a Mongolian Academy Awards on TV.

"It's just crazy," says Mongolian journalist Bayarmagnai Puntsag.

Mongolia was once a communist country with tight government controls over its media and freedom of speech, but in 1990 it became a democracy.

Stations can now be owned by private individuals, not just the government.

Since 1990, the number of TV stations has exploded.

The country also has 111 newspapers, 90 magazines and 72 radio stations.

Mongolia's range of choices is stunningly different from what used to be available.

Just 25 years ago, viewers could only see a TV station run by the Mongolian government and one Russian station.

Still, things are not as good as they seem, despite all the new freedoms and the broad range of choices.

There are serious problems, particularly in television.

The biggest problem is that many TV stations are owned by wealthy people who are either already in government or are hoping to get elected.

These politicians use the stations to advance their political careers, to push for positions they support and to attack their rivals.

In most countries privately run stations raise the money they need to operate by airing paid advertisements, or commercials.

In Mongolia, the large number of channels and the small population means there is hardly enough money from advertising to go around.

There are simply not enough large businesses to pay for the number of ads that would be needed to fund all those stations.

As a result, stations end up relying on wealthy and powerful people to keep going.

Stations also look for ways to avoid paying for things, even when they should be doing so.

For years many stations have used pirated copies of TV shows and movies from Hollywood and elsewhere, without paying the studios that produced them.

The hottest films and TV shows are quickly translated into Mongolian and broadcast in prime time.

Because money is tight at many stations, journalists are not usually paid very much.

As a result, bribery is widespread.

Many journalists and stations accept payments to broadcast stories, or take money to keep critical reports off-air.

"If you look at our laws, and our number of outlets, you'd think, oh, we have great media freedom," says journalist Naranjargal Khaskhuu.

"But if you look into it, we have lots of problems hiding."

After years of strict controls, the urge to begin publishing and broadcasting was only natural, Bayarmagnai, the journalist, says.

"Suddenly, we had freedom of speech.

That's very appealing to Mongolians — we like to express our thoughts and opinions."

However, politicians quickly became involved in the press, and the press quickly became directly involved in politics.

Mongolia's current president, Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj, was the founder and editor-in-chief of the country's first independent newspaper, Democracy.

He also was involved in establishing Eagle TV, the country's first private TV station.

Prime Minister Chimed Saikhanbileg is a former television host, whose catchphrase, "Don't change the channel!"

is still vividly remembered by many Mongolians.

Journalist Oyundari Tsagaan is general director of the government-run Mongolian National Public Radio and TV, also known as the MNB.

She says politicians who own stations like being able to reach the masses directly.

They are reluctant to give their stations up even when they do not really know how to run them properly.

"I know one of my political friends who owns a TV station … he said, 'I don't know how many people watch my TV — I have no idea.'"

Still, the man felt he had to own the station for the good of his political career.

Since becoming director of the MNB, Oyundari has forbidden the airing of pirated programs, and has tried to get journalists to stop accepting payoffs.

Change is hard, however.

Bribery is "a habit for some people," Oyundari says.

"We can't really control everybody."

Bribery and piracy are likely to remain problems for some time, experts say.

The situation probably will not change until the number of stations shrinks.

TV station founder Ben Moyle believes the government likes the fact that there are so many stations.

"Politicians are the winners when journalism is poor."

