Just over two years ago, Mohammed Morsi was the president of Egypt.

On Saturday, a Cairo court decided he would be put to death.

The court accused Morsi of breaking out of prison and of plotting to overthrow the Egyptian government.

Morsi became president after a revolt for democracy in 2011.

At the time, thousands of Egyptians rose up against the government of President Hosni Mubarak.

Many thought that Mubarak's government was cruel and corrupt.

Protesters were also tired of being controlled by the military.

Many of those who protested Mubarak were religious Muslims.

They wanted to see Islam play a bigger part in Egyptian life and in the country's government.

Morsi himself is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, a political and religious group.

During the revolt, Morsi was arrested.

Days later, he was able to escape from prison.

Egypt finally got its first free and fair elections in 2012.

Morsi was elected president then.

The Muslim Brotherhood did very well in Egypt's 2012 elections.

When Morsi became president it seemed that the military's longtime control of the government had finally ended.

However, Morsi turned out to be not very good at running the country.

Some branches of the government would not follow his orders.

In June 2013, huge crowds took to the streets to demand that Morsi step down.

Government military leader Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi then ordered Morsi's arrest.

El-Sissi quickly became the country's president.

Since then, he has cracked down hard on the Muslim Brotherhood and others who disagree with him.

On Saturday, more than 100 people were also sentenced to death in Egypt along with Morsi.

All were accused of having plotted to take control of the Egyptian government.

In a separate case, 16 others were sentenced to death as well.

They were accused of giving state secrets to Iran while Morsi was in power.

Morsi will face those same charges next month.

"Today will be remembered as one of the darkest days" in Egypt's history, said Brotherhood member Amr Darrag.

During Morsi's presidency, Darrag served in the government.

He left Egypt after Morsi was removed and is now living in Turkey.

Saturday's judgment was based on "lies," Darrag said.

Egyptian courts have sentenced hundreds of people to death over the last several months.

Many experts say their court trials have not been fair at all.

In addition, tens of thousands of people have been put in prison.

Last month, another Egyptian court sentenced Morsi to 20 years in prison.

It charged him with encouraging attacks on those who protested against his government in 2012.

Saturday's ruling claimed that Morsi had plotted together with various foreign groups.

He was accused of working with Iranian agents and fighters from other Middle Eastern countries.

The court said the goal was to take over the government and put the Muslim Brotherhood in power.

Thousands of prisoners around the country escaped during the uprising four years ago.

Egyptian police and other armed forces had withdrawn from the streets after the popular revolt.

No newspaper or television reporters were allowed in court on Saturday.

For that reason, it is not known what proof the courts used to sentence Morsi.

Morsi arrived at court smiling and wearing a blue prison uniform.

As the sentence was read, Morsi and the other prisoners chanted against the military.

