On Saturday a Cairo court sentenced the former president of Egypt, Mohammed Morsi, to death.

Morsi was accused of plotting with foreign fighters to break out of prison and overthrow the Egyptian government.

The sentence was a huge blow to supporters of Egypt's 2011 pro-democracy revolt.

At the time, thousands of Egyptians rose up against a brutal, unfair government.

Back then, Egypt was run by President Hosni Mubarak.

He was a brutal leader and many religious Muslims opposed him.

Morsi himself is a member of the Muslim Brotherhood, which is both a religious and a political group.

Police arrested Morsi during an 18-day rebellion in 2011, but he escaped from prison several days later.

Following his escape, Morsi was elected president in the country's first free and fair democratic elections in 2012.

A year later, Egypt's military turned against Morsi and forced him out of the presidency.

The 2011 uprising against Mubarak was hailed at the time as a triumph for democracy.

Ordering that Morsi be put to death now makes the uprising a criminal act.

The Egyptian court said Morsi and fellow Islamists worked with foreign fighter groups to escape from prison, and accused them of planning and carrying out a violent revolt against the state.

More than 100 other people, most of whom are not in Egyptian prisons, were also sentenced to death on the same charges.

In a separate case, 16 others were sentenced to death as well.

They were accused of giving state secrets to Iran while Morsi was in power.

Morsi will have to go back to court to face those charges next month.

"Today will be remembered as one of the darkest days" in Egypt's history, said Amr Darrag, another member of the Muslim Brotherhood and a former member of Morsi's cabinet.

Darrag had to flee to Turkey to avoid prison.

Saturday's judgment was based on "lies, hearsay and paranoid conspiracy theories," Darrag said.

It is "another deeply disturbing attempt to permanently erase democracy" in Egypt.

In recent months, Egyptian courts have given the death sentence to hundreds of people in large court hearings.

Human rights groups have said that the hearings are against international rules for fair trials.

In addition, tens of thousands of people have been imprisoned.

Morsi's death sentence marks a huge turnaround for the Muslim Brotherhood group.

The group actually had the support of Egypt's parliament in 2012.

Morsi's presidency had offered hope the country could break the military's decades-long control of the government.

However, Morsi was not a very effective leader.

During his presidency he failed to bring state groups under his control.

When massive crowds took to the streets to demand Morsi's resignation in June 2013, Egypt's defense minister, Abdel-Fattah el-Sissi, ordered his arrest.

El-Sissi is now the country's president.

El-Sissi has been in charge of a widespread crackdown on the Muslim Brotherhood and others who are against him.

Last month, another Egyptian court sentenced Morsi to 20 years in prison.

The court said he encouraged violence against protesters of his government in 2012.

On Saturday, the court found Morsi guilty of a supposed secret plot involving various foreign groups.

Morsi was accused of working with agents from Iran and fighters from other Middle Eastern countries who wanted to take down Egypt's government.

The goal, the court said, was to give the Muslim Brotherhood more power.

The court claimed that people from the Muslim Brotherhood were trained by fighters and the Iranian government in Gaza, a strip of land between Egypt and Israel.

The court said the Muslim Brotherhood members later used their training to break out of prison north of Cairo.

Thousands of prisoners around the country escaped during the uprising four years ago.

By then, Egyptian police and other armed forces had left the streets because of the growing revolt.

The court did not allow newspaper or television reporters to watch what happened, so it is not sure what proof they had to claim Morsi was guilty.

Morsi arrived in court smiling and wearing a blue prison uniform.

As the court announced he would be put to death, Morsi and the other prisoners chanted against the military.

