The remote-controlled plane known as a drone has been used to fight terrorists and criminals.

Now, it is about to take on a new enemy: the black salt marsh mosquito.

In the Florida Keys on Sept. 2, testing started on a next-generation drone.

Officials hope it will provide high-tech help in the daily battle against mosquitoes.

The new [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) is about half the size of a typical Florida sea hawk.

It won't spray or blast bugs.

Instead, it will carry a special camera that picks up differences in temperature.

The goal is to survey the area's hard-to-get-to mangrove swamps.

These are the breeding grounds for the marsh mosquito, the biggest biter in the island chain.

Mosquitoes thrive in shallow pools of water.

In just days, they grow from tiny larval worms to buzzing blood-suckers.

The hope is that the bird-size drone will be able to spot mosquito-infested pools by picking up small differences in temperature.

This could save mosquito-fighters time, effort and money.

"Our people on the ground have to walk an hour to a marsh and find out what's there,'' said district leader Michael Doyle.

"It's hard to cover all those places at once.

If something like this could allow them to map where the water is, we could move a lot more quickly.''

The new drone may or may not prove to be a good mosquito hunter.

But even if it doesn't, the test shows how unmanned planes are quickly changing.

Drones have revolutionized warfare and have been adopted by law enforcement.

But they also are being used by scientists and businesses in more and more ways.

They've helped spot outlawed hunting in Africa.

They've been used to track wildfires in California.

They've recorded gases spewing from a volcano in Costa Rica.

And researchers at the University of Florida hope to use drones in many other new ways.

Drones no bigger than paper airplanes may soon gather information from dangerous hurricanes or ice shelves.

The new anti-mosquito drone was developed by Prioria Robotics, a small Gainesville company founded by University of Florida students.

It has been named the Maveric.

"I would have laughed two years ago if you told me this could help with mosquito control," said company salesman Derek Lyons.

"You put it in people's hands and it becomes like the iPhone.

You have no idea what the applications are going to be.''

If it works in the Keys, it will be helping Florida's largest and most challenging mosquito-control operation.

Marsh mosquitoes aren't dangerous like Aedes aegypti, which spreads dengue fever.

But they are the most common kind.

Huge numbers are born after every rainstorm and whenever flooding occurs.

The key to controlling them, Doyle said, is using helicopters to hit breeding areas with small doses of of bacteria.

This kills developing insects before they hatch and fly away.

Doyle said the method gets rid of about 80 percent of marsh mosquitoes.

Those that escape can be controlled by spraying.

However, spraying is now forbidden in more and more places.

This is because spraying also kills certain rare tropical butterflies.

It's getting harder and harder to spray for adults, Doyle said.

Therefore the aim now is to get better at finding pools of water full of unhatched mosquitos.

The battery-powered drone weighs 2.6 pounds and has a wing span of just over 2½ feet.

It can easily be launched by hand like a paper airplane.

Or, thanks to bendable wings, it can be shot from a six-inch-diameter carrying tube.

The drone can fly for up to 70 minutes at about 30 mph.

As it flies, its rotating camera sends live video to a laptop computer.

The drone costs $65,000.

Doyle isn't sure yet if buying a drone is a good idea.

Will it really be possible to spot pools that are only a few inches deep?

Or will they simply blend in with the soggy soil?

Fred Culbertson admitted that it may take time to figure out the best way to go mosquito hunting.

He's piloting the test flights.

"Once we get down and work with them for a couple of days, we can probably tweak things to make it work."

