Mother Teresa, the tiny, stooped nun who cared for the poorest of the poor, will be declared a saint next year.

The Vatican, headquarters of the Catholic Church, set no date for the canonization, the ceremony in which a person is declared a saint.

But it is widely believed that it will take place in the first week of September to coincide with the 19th anniversary of Mother Teresa's death and during Francis' Holy Year of Mercy.

For Catholics and some other Christian groups, a saint is a holy figure, someone who lived a good life that can be an example to others.

"With her work, she was always the symbol of mercy, not just with words but with her actions," said the Reverend Sebastian Vazhakala.

He is the superior general of Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity, The Vatican, which is the headquarters of the Catholic Church, said Francis approved a decree attributing a miracle to Mother Teresa's intercession.

He did this during an audience with the head of the Vatican's saint-making office on Thursday, his 79th birthday.

The miracle in question concerned the unexplained cure of a Brazilian man suffering from a viral brain infection.

By Dec. 9, 2008, he was in a coma and dying, suffering from fluid around the brain.

The Reverend Brian Kolodiejchuk, who spearheaded Mother Teresa's canonization case, said in a statement Friday that 30 minutes after the man was due to undergo surgery, he sat up, awake and without pain.

The surgery did not take place, and a day later the man was declared to be symptom-free.

At the time of his scheduled surgery, the man's wife was at her parish church praying alongside her pastor.

The Vatican later said the man was cured because of the woman's prayers that Mother Teresa would intercede.

"This is fantastic news.

We are very happy," said Sunita Kumar, a spokeswoman for the Missionaries of Charity in the eastern city of Kolkata, which was earlier called Calcutta and where Mother Teresa lived and worked.

Born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu on Aug. 26, 1910, in Skopje, Macedonia, Mother Teresa joined the Loreto order of nuns in 1928.

In 1946, while traveling by train from Calcutta to Darjeeling, she was inspired to found the Missionaries of Charity order.

The order was established four years later.

It has since opened more than 130 houses worldwide to provide comfort and care for the needy, sick and "poorest of the poor."

Mother Teresa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her work with Calcutta's destitute and ill. She continued this work even after she herself became sick.

"The poor give us much more than we give them," Mother Teresa said in 1977.

"They're such strong people, living day to day with no food.

And they never curse, never complain."

She died on Sept. 5, 1997, at age 87.

At the time, her Missionaries of Charity order had nearly 4,000 nuns.

It ran roughly 600 orphanages, soup kitchens, homeless shelters and clinics around the world.

While Mother Teresa is known and admired by many around the world, she was not beloved by all.

She was criticized for the quality of care in her clinics and for taking donations from Haitian dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier and disgraced American banker Charles Keating, who spent time in jail for financial crimes.

Critics also opposed her position against the use of birth control in Calcutta's slums.

It was nevertheless in keeping with church teaching, which opposes artificial birth control.

Francis, whose papacy has been dedicated to ministering to the poor just as Mother Teresa did, was an admirer.

During his September 2014 visit to Albania, Francis confided to his interpreter that he was not only impressed by her fortitude, but in some ways he feared it.

Francis, who used to be called Archbishop Jorge Mario Bergoglio, recounted that he had met Mother Teresa in 1994 at the Vatican.

The Reverand Federico Lombardi, the Vatican spokesman, later said that the pope was impressed at how Mother Theresa spoke up during a meeting of bishops.

He felt  "great esteem for her, as a strong woman, a woman able to give courageous testimony."

But Bergoglio, who has long shown admiration for the women who raised him and taught him, added, "I would have been afraid to have had her as my superior, since she was so tough."

As if to underscore his connection to Mother Teresa, Francis on Friday celebrated Mass at a Caritas charity soup kitchen at Rome's main train station.

There, he told a few dozen homeless people and volunteers that theirs is the path to heaven, not that of the wealthy or powerful.

Pope John Paul II, one of Mother Teresa's greatest champions, waived the normal five-year waiting period for her beatification process to begin, one of the steps on the way to sainthood.

He launched it a year after she died, convinced of her saintliness.

During his quarter-century papacy, John Paul declared more saints — 482 — than all other popes combined.

Francis, however, overtook John Paul's record within two months as pope.

Archbishop of Kolkata Thomas D'Souza said the news of the Vatican's decision on Mother Teresa was "the best Christmas gift one can get."

"We are grateful to God and we are extremely happy," he said.

