During her lifetime, Mother Teresa cared for the poorest of the poor.  She will be made a saint next year.

A saint is someone who lived a good life that can be an example to others.

The Catholic Church on Friday did not say when she will be canonized.

It is the ceremony that makes someone a saint.

People think the ceremony will take place in the first week of September.

The week marks the 19th anniversary of Mother Teresa's death.

It is also during what Pope Francis is calling his Holy Year of Mercy.

The pope is the head of the Catholic Church.

"With her work, she was always the symbol of mercy, not just with words but with her actions," said the Reverend Sebastian Vazhakala.

He is the head of Mother Teresa's Missionaries of Charity group.

The Church said Francis approved a decree saying Mother Teresa did a miracle.

He did this on Thursday, his 79th birthday.

In the Catholic Church, becoming a saint takes many steps.

All saints must have performed a miracle.

Mother Teresa's miracle was to cure a Brazilian man.

He had a brain infection, and by Dec. 9, 2008, he was dying.

The Reverend Brian Kolodiejchuk led the effort to make Mother Teresa a saint.

He said the man's wife was at her church praying to Mother Teresa to save him.

The man was in the hospital.

He sat up, awake and without pain.The Catholic Church said the man was cured because Mother Teresa performed a miracle.

"This is fantastic news.

We are very happy," said Sunita Kumar, with the Missionaries of Charity.

Mother Teresa started the group.

It is in the Indian city of Kolkata, which was earlier called Calcutta.

It was where Mother Teresa lived and worked.

Mother Teresa was born Agnes Gonxha Bojaxhiu on Aug. 26, 1910, in Macedonia.

In 1928, she became a nun, which is a Catholic religious woman.

Mother Teresa's group has opened more than 130 houses worldwide.

They provided comfort and care for the needy, sick and "poorest of the poor."

Mother Teresa won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1979 for her work with Calcutta's poor and sick.

It is one of the world's highest honors.

She continued this work even after she herself became sick.

"The poor give us much more than we give them," Mother Teresa said in 1977.

"They're such strong people, living day to day with no food.

And they never curse, never complain."

She died on Sept. 5, 1997, when she was 87.

At the time, her Missionaries of Charity group had nearly 4,000 nuns.

It ran about 600 orphanages, soup kitchens, homeless shelters and medical clinics around the world.

Mother Teresa is known and admired by many around the world.

Not everyone loved her though.

Sometimes the care in her clinics was not good.

She was also blamed for taking money from people who did bad things.

She used the money for her charity.

Pope Francis admired her.

He has cared for the poor just as Mother Teresa did.

In 2014, Francis said that he was not only impressed by her courage and toughness, but in some ways he feared it.

On Friday, Francis performed Mass, a Catholic religious ceremony, at a soup kitchen in Rome.

There, he told homeless people and volunteers that they were on the path to heaven.

The wealthy and powerful were on the wrong path.

Thomas D'Souza is the Archbishop of Kolkata and the city's Catholic leader.

He said the news about Mother Teresa was "the best Christmas gift one can get."

"We are grateful to God and we are extremely happy," he said.

