Today's young adults have been called the "Peter Pan" generation, because many of them live at home with their parents after college and don't seem to want to grow up.

But, they are hardly the spoiled brats people talk about, says Jeffrey Jensen Arnett, executive director of the Society for the Study of Emerging Adulthood.

All signs point to a generation doing it their own way, and it may be the right way.

They are called millennials, generally those born from 1982 to 2004.

A Pew Research Center report last year that found that 36 percent of adults ages 18 to 31 live in their parents' homes — the highest percentage in at least four decades.

Higher even than the 34 percent who lived at home in 2009, when the economic downturn officially ended.

Higher than the 32 percent who lived at home in 1968, the earliest year when data was available.

But a closer look at the 2012 Census Bureau data analyzed by Pew indicates the trend actually may be cause for celebration.

It is a cautious, financially responsible celebration, but a celebration nonetheless.

"There are a lot of social scientists who see this whole thing in a positive light," says science writer Robin Marantz Henig, co-author of "Twentysomething: Why Do Young Adults Seem Stuck?"

"They see it as evidence that this generation is making wiser, more careful choices," she said.

First, a look at the numbers.

Of the 21.6 million members of the millennial generation living with their parents in 2012, the vast majority were younger than 25.

Only 16 percent of 25- to 31-year-olds lived at home, compared with 56 percent of 18- to 24-year-olds.

Furthermore, rising college enrollment is one of the leading causes behind those figures.

The Census counts college students, even in their 20s, as living with their parents.

These are hardly the directionless layabouts we keep hearing about, says Arnett.

The idea that these kids are moving home to live off their parents "doesn't hold up," says Arnett.

From Arnett's book: "In 1960 only 33 percent of young people attended college, and most of them were men.

Today, 70 percent of high school graduates enter college the next year.

All over the world, more young people are obtaining more education than ever before."

What they're not necessarily obtaining, however, is employment.

The Pew report found that 63 percent of 18- to 31-year-olds had jobs in 2012, compared with 70 percent in 2007.

Forty-five percent of the millennials living at home were unemployed.

This is partly because of a slow economy and partly because millennials are hoping for fulfilling work, experts say.

Careers with purpose, meaning and self-growth are important to them, says Varda Konstam, a professor of counseling and school psychology at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and author of "Parenting Your Emerging Adult: Launching Kids From 18 to 29."

Arnett says young Americans change jobs an average of seven times from ages 20 to 29.

This is significantly different than earlier generations, who settled into stable careers shortly after graduating from high school or college.

Millennials, often pegged as commitment-phobic, are also wary of entering into unfulfilling marriages.

Indeed, fewer young adults are marrying — just 25 percent of 18- to 31-year-olds were married in 2012, compared with 30 percent in 2007.

And those who do marry are putting it off — the median age for marriage today is 27 for women and 29 for men, according to the Pew Research Center.

In 1960, it was 20 for women and 22 for men.

"People used to marry young just to get out of the house," says Henig.

"In a way, this generation is going back to the pattern of living at home until they're married.

So this (increase) is hardly a sign of being lazy and aimless.

It's just part of being in your 20s."

"The refuge of home can be a lifeline, sometimes meaning the difference between barely getting by and falling over the edge into poverty," she writes in "Twentysomething."

"In 2009 the U.S. Census Bureau calculated that if 20- and 30-somethings had not been living with their parents, the poverty rate in this age range would have been 42.8 percent, instead of 8.5 percent.

Also, most young adults move out within six months to a year.

"They almost all move home for economic reasons, and they almost always move out as soon as possible," says Arnett.

"Emerging adults and their parents tend to have a very similar worldview," Konstam says.

"What their parents want for them is very frequently the same thing the kids want.

They do want to be successful at work.

They do want to commit to another person.

They do want to own a house.

But they tend to do it in their own way."

And a brief stay at home is more likely to help, rather than hinder, those goals, she says.

"I would argue that having the option of moving back to your parents' home serves as protection against impulsive decisions," Konstam says.

Living at home helps emerging adults figure out their options as they figure out where they are and where they want to be in their careers and relationships.

"It's remarkably harmonious when emerging adults move home," says Arnett.

In 2013, a Clark University poll surveyed 1,006 parents of 18- to 29-year-olds.

Parents whose grown kids were at home were asked how it was going, Arnett says.

"Sixty-one percent said it was mostly positive, 6 percent said mostly negative, and the rest were mixed."

