English scientists have found a medical cure in an ancient book.

Recently, they discovered an ancient recipe that fights a deadly bacteria that makes people sick.

The recipe comes from a thousand-year-old book called "Bald's Leechbook."

The book was found in the library of the University of Nottingham's Institute for Medieval Research.

The medieval period is also called the Middle Ages.

It lasted from the year 500 to about 1500.

The medieval cure works against a type of deadly bacteria.

There are good bacteria and bad bacteria.

MRSA (pronounced mersa) is one kind that causes infections.

It is very difficult to treat.

Most medicines do not work against MRSA, which makes it very dangerous.

One thousand years ago, there was a medicine for eye infections.

An herbalist, or healer, would make the medicine.

An herbalist helped people who were sick by using herbs.

To make up the recipe, the herbalist would take a brass pot.

He or she would mix fluids from a cow's stomach and a special type of garlic in the pot.

Christina Lee teaches at the university in Nottingham.

She found the old medicine recipe from "Bald's Leechbook."

She wanted to see if the recipe worked.

Lee translated the recipe from the Old English language.

She asked scientists to make the recipe and test it on MRSA bacteria.

Nottingham scientist Freya Harrison took the challenge.

Scientists in Harrison's lab followed the recipe.

In her lab, the thousand-year-old recipe was a powerful killer.

Only about 1 in 1,000 MRSA bacteria cells survived the ancient drug.

Later, the researchers tested the drug on mice.

It killed 9 out of 10 MRSA bacteria.

Harrison says she was "absolutely blown away" with the results.

She had expected it might work a little bit, but not this much.

Scientists know that some of the ingredients from the recipe fight bacteria.

All of these mixed together are powerful, Harrison said.

Kendra Rumbaugh is a scientist at Texas Tech University's School of Medicine.

She  tested Bald's cure on mice with MRSA.

She said that MRSA is really difficult to treat in people.

No drug will stop MRSA all the time.

Yet, the ancient cure worked as well as, if not better than, modern drugs.

The University of Nottingham has a new program called AncientBiotics.

It combines old English remedies and modern science.

Scientists will study these treatments that combine the old and new ways of treating illnesses.

