Erin Argyilan is trying to solve the mystery of the holes that appear and vanish in the sands of Mount Baldy in Indiana.

She is one many scientists looking for clues on where these potentially dangerous holes come from.

She has studied soil and wind patterns, and mapped terrain.

The holes are about a foot in diameter, and they exist for less than a day before filling in naturally with sand.

Investigators have used radar and specialized GPS devices to look underground.

But no one knows why the holes form along the surface of this park.

The National Park Service said this week that Mount Baldy will stay closed because two new holes have been spotted.

The rest of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore park will be open.

Thousands of people visit the park each year.

Argyilan, the scientist, does not just want to solve the mystery because it's her job.

She has a personal reason, too.

She had been doing research at the base of Mount Baldy in mid-July when she heard parents screaming.

They were pointing at the ground that swallowed their 6-year-old son.

At first, Argilyan thought they were mistaken.

There should be no holes in a dune.

A dune is made up of grains of sand with no room for air.

Then rescue crews saved Nathan Woessner of Sterling, Ill.

He had been buried for three hours under 11 feet of sand and gravel.

That shattered the scientist's understanding of the terrain.

It also upset her.

"I cried for three days," said Argyilan.

She was seven months' pregnant at the time and couldn't stop replaying in her mind the horror of the day.

"I couldn't help in the moment.

So now I have to do what I can to learn why this is happening."

In August, a second hole was spotted nearby, this one about 10 inches wide and at least 5 feet deep.

That prompted further study.

One theory is decaying trees beneath the sand might cause the holes to form.

Human activity on the dunes and along the shore has led to the erosion of Mount Baldy.

The 126-foot dune has been shifting away from the lake shore at an alarming rate, covering the old area in sand, experts have said.

They think sand is drifting south and burying trees.

Those trees could be rotting and creating the holes beneath the surface.

Argilyan believes that holes are unlikely to start appearing at other sand dunes that have been kept in a more natural state.

"This particular dune has a complicated history," she said.

She said historical mining of the sand to make glass jars could have all contributed to the erosion problem.

So could the piers on the harbor.

She said she's looked at pictures of the area from 1938, and the changes are huge.

Most sand dunes are covered in vegetation.

But not Mount Baldy.

There the trees and grass — and even an old staircase that once led to a viewing spot — are now buried, Argyilan said.

During the closure, the National Park Service will be planting new grass where the old grass once grew.

The hope is that vegetation will hold the sand in place and perhaps prevent new holes from forming.

Argyilan added that the holes in Mount Baldy are different from the "sinkholes" that swallow cars and homes.

These are usually from rock surfaces that dissolve over time due to water damage.

National Park Service officials say they're going to examine the dune more carefully this summer.

"We don't know exactly what's going on out there; we can't let folks out onto the area until we know it's safe," said Ken Mehne, who works as a law enforcement expert for the park.

He said rangers will be enforcing the closure, which will likely last through the summer and possibly into the fall.

The rest of the national lakeshore will remain open, though officials request visitors stay on marked trails to prevent erosion and damage.

"There are 14.5 miles of other beach areas in the park," Mehne said.

"There are plenty of other places open if folks want to come out to the park."

