On Saturday, houses and cars were buried in 40 feet of mud in Washington state.

At least 24 people who lived on the hill were killed.

When Lynne Rodgers Miller saw the news of the mudslide, she knew exactly what happened.

Her husband, Daniel Miller, knew, too.

In 1999, the Millers wrote a report filed with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

The Corps is a government agency that tries to prevent disasters.

It warned back then that someday there might be a large mudslide on the hill.

"We've known it would happen at some point," he said.

Daniel Miller studies how land and hills, and lakes and rivers come about and change.

"We just didn't know when."

Daniel Miller knows the hill's history.

He has collected reports going back to the 1950s.

He has folders stuffed with maps, slides and drawings.

They all tell the story of a hillside that has collapsed several times.

Daniel Miller says officials should have known the danger.

"We've known that it's been failing," he said of the hill.

John Pennington, head of Snohomish County's Department of Emergency Management, disagrees.

"It was considered very safe," Pennington said.

"This came out of nowhere."

Two Snohomish County officials said they were not aware of the 1999 report.

A mudslide this large is very difficult to predict, said Snohomish official Steve Thomsen.

He said no one had any idea Saturday's slide would happen.

A mudslide took place in 2006.

Even after this, at least five homes were built that year in the slide zone on Steelhead Drive.

Another home was built in the area in 2009.

"Frankly, I was shocked that the county permitted any building," Daniel Miller said.

"They didn't even stop pounding nails," Tracy Drury said.

Drury is an engineer who studied the area with Miller after the 2006 slide.

"We were surprised."

Irwin and Judith Wood owned the last home allowed in the slide zone.

The Woods were not there on Saturday when the mudslide wiped out their home.

Wood said none of the homeowners were warned that a huge mudslide was possible.

But he said the government could not prevent it.

"If the hillsides were going to (slide) away, they were going to (slide) away," Wood said.

"That's kind of what happens around here."

There have been at least five mudslides on the site.

A 1949 report looked at the reasons mudslides happen in this area.

It found that a main cause of the slides is the river slowly washing away a piece of an older slide, called a "toe."

The "toe" holds up millions of tons of dirt behind it.

It is like someone with their back against a bulging door.

The "toe" hangs down close to the river.

Eventually, the "toe" fails from water eating away at it.

Then gravity pulls the hillside down.

Nearly 600 feet of hillside broke away in Saturday's slide.

Over the years, county officials talked about whether to buy the homes to keep people from living there.

But nothing came of the idea.

No one really wanted to sell their homes and move, Drury said.

County officials did not talk much about the risk of a mudslide.

They were more concerned about floods, said Pat Stevenson, who is in charge of environmental issues for the Stillaguamish Tribe.

Ron and Gail Thompson moved into a cabin on Steelhead Drive in 2003.

The Army Corps of Engineers showed their daughter, Jennifer Johnson, a map.

They promised "mom and dad's house would be safe," she said Monday.

"When we moved them in there, I never in a million years, never in a billion years, thought about (a mudslide)," Johnson said.

Her father said they would be fine, "and I just believed him," she said.

Johnson's parents and 85-year-old grandmother left their house eight minutes before the slide hit for a shopping trip, Johnson said.

They lost everything.

"They are in mourning.

They're in shock," she said.

"They're heartbroken for their neighbors."

