John Muir is the godfather of environmentalism, the movement to protect nature.

He's a larger-than-life figure who helped establish the national park system through his writings of solo hikes in California's wilderness.

As the first president of the Sierra Club, Muir shaped ideas about how wilderness should be thought of, protected and managed.

But now some critics argue that he's wrong.

They claim that the world has changed so much in the 100 years since he died that Muir is no longer important.

Christensen is a historian with UCLA's Institute of Environment and Sustainability.

He said Muir's ideas are "just not useful anymore."

Christensen and others see Muir's beliefs as outdated.

The 21st century has new environmental challenges they say.

Muir could not have imagined population growth, city sprawl, or climate change.

The debate boils down to Muir's primary idea: That wilderness should be left undisturbed, so people can occasionally experience pure nature.

That idea helped shape a century of conservation.

It made sure that there would be unspoiled wilderness for new generations.

"He had a huge passion for nature, such as we should all cherish in our hearts," said Mary Ellen Hannibal.

She is an author and Muir fan.

"He holds up an ideal of experiencing nature firsthand."

"Environmentalism, in some ways, has moved beyond John Muir," said Noah Greenwald, of the Center for Biological Diversity.

But Greenwald said Muir was at the forefront of the notion of setting aside portions of nature.

To Christensen and others, however, Muir's notions give the wrong idea.

Sending people to wilderness sites, such as Yosemite, sends the message that only awe-inspiring parks are worth saving and neglects smaller city spaces.

Critics also say Muir's vision of wilderness is rooted in luxury.

It assumes that everyone will have the free time of the rich upper class to visit the wilderness.

Critics argue against his idea of backpacking, skiing or rock climbing through the Sierra Mountains.

Instead, they say, Californians would benefit more from more city parks, and additional roads and trails in wild lands.

Nature exists in many forms, they say.

Untouched wilderness is only one.

Some people blame Muir for starting a certain type of environmentalism that seemed to be for rich, white people.

The Sierra Club, which Muir helped found, is struggling to connect with California's non-white population, particularly Latinos.

That's the case even though surveys show Latinos as among the most devoted environmentalists in the state.

Latinos are expected to become a majority in California by 2050.

A strong and multiracial Sierra Club membership in California is important to the group.

It can influence political decisions in California about conservation, and raise money to support environmental education.

Yet Christensen says the conservation movement reflects the ideas of John Muir, and its "influence on a certain demographic — older and white — and that's a problem."

D.J.

Waldie, an author and expert on Southern California culture, agrees with him.

"We have to reimagine our relationships with nature to accommodate modern, increasingly diverse communities," Waldie said.

They "see the world differently than white Anglo-Saxon Protestants like Muir did in the late 19th century."

"For many communities of color, nature of great significance isn't out there in distant charismatic Sierra peaks.

It's in urban parks, in local mountains and along local rivers — and under their fingertips in the stuff they grow in their own backyards," he said.

One stain on Muir's past is hard to get past: His dislike for California's Native Americans, a group he claimed had no place in the Sierra wilderness.

Laura Pulido, a professor in USC's Department of American Studies and Ethnicity, said Muir's prejudice should be understood as being part of his time.

"It is essential that we try to understand John Muir in all his complexity," Pulido said.

"He was a man of his times, who actively worked to disgrace California Indians by taking their lands."

She added, "But he also launched the environmental movement, which is no small thing."

In Hannibal's view, "What counts is the number of acres protected."

