John Muir was an important environmentalist.

As an environmentalist, he worked to protect nature.

He helped start the national park system.

He was also the first president of the Sierra Club.

Being president of the famous environmental group gave him power.

Muir shaped people's ideas and affected how they think about the wilderness.

His writings led to protecting and saving the wilderness.

But now some people say that his ideas are wrong.

They say that the world has changed a lot in the 100 years since he died.

Some say it has changed so much that Muir is no longer important.

Jon Christensen is a historian at UCLA.

He said Muir's ideas are "just not useful anymore."

Christensen and others say Muir's thoughts are old.

They say the world faces new environmental problems.

The number of people on the planet is growing fast and humans are changing the environment.

Some people have a problem with Muir's biggest idea.

He thought nature should be left wild.

He wanted people to visit nature while it was still pure.

That idea helped shape how natural lands were saved for a hundred years.

It made sure that there would be wilderness for new generations.

Muir believed in "experiencing nature firsthand," said Mary Ellen Hannibal.

She is an author and a Muir fan.

Christensen disagrees.

He says Muir's writings gave people the wrong idea.

Sending people only to parks like Yosemite gives the wrong message.

It tells people that only awesome parks are worth saving and to ignore smaller city spaces.

Some say Muir's vision of wilderness is that of a rich person.

For it to work, people need to be rich also.

Rich people have the free time and money to visit the wilderness.

Muir wanted Californians to appreciate their mountains.

He thought they would backpack, ski or rock climb through the Sierra Mountains.

He hoped Californians would see how important they were to save.

Some people say Californians really need more city parks.

And they need more roads and trails in wild lands.

Nature exists in many forms, they say.

Untouched wilderness is only one.

Some people blame Muir for starting a certain type of environmentalism.

Muir's type seemed to be for rich, white people.

The Sierra Club today has a hard time connecting with nonwhite Californians.

It has few Latino members.

But surveys show Latinos are some of the best environmentalists in the state.

Environmentalists still follow Muir's lead, Christensen said.

Most are "older and white — and that's a problem."

One part of Muir's past is hard to take.

He wrote some harsh things about California's Native Americans.

He said they had no place in the Sierra wilderness.

Laura Pulido is a professor at USC.

"He was a man of his times," she said.

Many people in his time had prejudices.

They had strong feelings against people of a certain group.

Muir worked to disgrace "California Indians by taking their lands."

"But he also launched the environmental movement," she said.

In Hannibal's view, "what counts is the number of acres protected."

