John Muir is a larger-than-life figure.

He's the godfather of environmentalism, whose writings of spiritual enlightenment reached during solo treks in California's wilderness saved Yosemite and helped establish the national park system.

As the first president of the Sierra Club, Muir shaped ideas about how the wild world should be protected and managed.

But now some critics are arguing that the world has changed so much in the century since his death that Muir is no longer meaningful.

"Muir's legacy has to go," said Jon Christensen, a historian with UCLA's Institute of Environment and Sustainability.

"It's just not useful anymore."

Christensen and others see Muir's beliefs as outdated in the face of 21st-century environmental challenges.

The bushy-bearded Scot could not have imagined population growth, city sprawl and climate change.

The debate boils down to Muir's primary ethic: The wilderness is a temple to be left undisturbed, so people occasionally can experience nature in its purity.

That idea helped shape a century of conservation.

It ensured that there would be unspoiled wilderness for succeeding generations.

"He had a huge passion for nature, such as we should all cherish in our hearts," said Mary Ellen Hannibal, an author and Muir devotee.

"He holds up an ideal of experiencing nature firsthand in a spiritual, transcendent way."

"Environmentalism, in some ways, has moved beyond John Muir," said Noah Greenwald, the endangered species director at the Center for Biological Diversity.

"But he was a good guy.

He was at the forefront of the notion of setting aside portions of pristine nature and letting natural forces in them move forward unimpeded."

To Christensen and others, however, Muir's notions give the wrong idea.

Immersing people in "universities of the wilderness" — such as Yosemite — sends the message that only awe-inspiring parks are worth saving, at the expense of smaller city spaces.

Critics also say Muir's vision of wilderness is rooted in luxury and assumes that everyone will have the abundant leisure time of the upper class to go visit nature up close.

Rather than seeing Muir's beloved Sierra Mountains as backpackers, skiers or rock climbers, critics argue, Californians would benefit more from the creation of city parks and additional roads and trails in wild lands.

Nature exists in many forms, they say.

Untouched wilderness is only one.

Critics see a connection between the emotional, biblical language of Muir's writings and who makes up both national park visitors and the ranks of the largest environmental organizations — mainly aging, white Americans.

The Sierra Club, which Muir founded, is struggling to connect with California's diverse population, particularly Latinos, despite polls showing Latinos as among the most devoted environmentalists in the state.

A strong and diverse Sierra Club membership in California, where Latinos are expected to become a majority by 2050, is important to influencing political decisions and raising funds to support conservation and environmental education.

Yet "the conservation movement reflects the legacy of John Muir, and its influence on a certain demographic — older and white — and that's a problem," Christensen said.

He is joined in that view by D.J.

Waldie, an author and expert on Southern California culture.

"We have to reimagine our relationships with nature to accommodate modern, increasingly diverse communities that see the world differently than white Anglo-Saxon Protestants like Muir did in the late 19th century," Waldie said.

"For many communities of color, nature of great significance isn't out there in distant charismatic Sierra peaks; it's in urban parks, in local mountains and along local rivers — and under their fingertips in the stuff they grow in their own backyards," he said.

One blemish on Muir's past is indisputable: His disdain for California's Native Americans, a group he claimed had no place in the Sierra landscape.

Laura Pulido, a professor in USC's Department of American Studies and Ethnicity, said Muir's prejudice should be understood as part of his time.

"It is essential that we try to understand John Muir in all his complexity," Pulido said.

"He was a man of his times, who actively worked to disgrace California Indians by taking their lands."

She added, "But he also launched the environmental movement, which is no small thing."

In Hannibal's view, "What counts is the number of acres protected."

