A mummy went to the hospital Sunday.

His name was Amen-Nestawy-Nakht.

He was a priest in Egypt 3,000 years ago.

He was at the hospital to get an X-ray.

It was a 3-D X-ray called a CAT scan.

He had one many years ago.

But the technology was not so good back then.

Scientists hoped this X-ray would show new things.

They wanted to know how he died.

They also wanted to learn more about his health when he was alive.

The scientists also hoped a few things were left inside the mummy's wrapping.

Robbers broke into the tomb, probably thousands of years ago.

Many important things were lost.

Special movers went to the St. Louis Art Museum Sunday.

They picked up Amen-Nestawy and two other mummies.

The movers brought them to the hospital in special cases to protect them.

A team of professors and doctors were at the hospital.

They were waiting to study the mummies.

X-rays let them study the mummies without unwrapping them.

The team did not want to damage them.

The scans could help the team understand about ancient Egyptians' health.

For example, some mummies still have arteries.

An artery is a tube that moves blood through the body.

The artery could show if the person had been healthy or not.

The X-rays will also help us imagine what those people were like, said Lisa Cakmak.

She helps run the museum.

Two mummies got an X-ray.

One was a priest.

The other was a rich woman.

Then the team brought Amen-Nestawy into the scanner.

They noticed he was tall.

"This is going to be interesting," said a member of the team.

But the mummy fit just fine into the machine.

The doctors crowded around a computer.

And then the mummy's insides came up on the screen.

Doctors will study the X-rays for months.

But they saw some things right away.

His back was badly broken.

The doctors said it may have been broken by robbers stealing things from the mummy in its tomb.

The giant machine scanned the mummy, and the computer showed shapes in black-and-white.

It picked up a round shape in the middle of his chest.

It looked like a piece of jewelry called an amulet.

In ancient Egypt, amulets were buried with mummies.

They were meant to keep the person safe and healthy in the afterlife.

The X-ray will copy the shape of that amulet.

The doctors will take the picture to a 3-D printer and make a plastic copy.

Soon, someone could hold a copy of that 3,000-year-old Egyptian amulet.

