A mummy rolled down hospital hallways here on Sunday.

A 3,000-year-old Egyptian priest named Amen-Nestawy-Nakht was at Barnes-Jewish Hospital.

He was there to get a kind of 3-D X-ray scan, called a CAT scan.

He'd had one before, a couple of decades ago, when technology was not as good as it is now.

A team of art museum officials and university doctors hoped this scan would show his cause of death and give new information about his health.

They also hoped that maybe a few objects would be left inside the colorfully painted hard case that protects his body.

Grave robbers already made off with most of his valuables, probably thousands of years ago.

The St. Louis Art Museum hired movers to pick up Amen-Nestawy and two other mummies on Sunday.

The movers loaded them into special foam cases.

Then they took them to the hospital, and put them onto gurneys.

A team of Washington University professors and doctors did the tests for free.

The hospital donated its space and the scanners.

CAT scans are the best way to look at the mummies, said Michelle Miller-Thomas, a doctor.

It's the only way to look inside their bodies without unwrapping and maybe damaging them, she said.

The results could help the team understand ancient Egyptian health and perhaps something about modern-day health.

For example, some mummies still have arteries, blood vessels that move blood away from the heart.

Scientists can sometimes see if they had hardened during their lifetime, a sign of bad health.

The museum will use the video and images, said Lisa Cakmak of the St. Louis Art Museum.

They will help scientists imagine what the mummies were like as people.

Amen-Nestawy probably lived in the ninth or 10th century B.C.

The other two mummies were on loan from Washington University.

One was a priest from the third or fourth century B.C.

The other was an upper-class woman from the 13th century B.C.

By Sunday afternoon, the team had scanned the first two mummies.

Then the technicians wheeled Amen-Nestawy into the scanner.

One technician noticed that he was tall.

"And the feet are really tall," said another technician.

"This is going to be interesting."

But the mummy fit just fine into the round scanner opening.

The doctors crowded into the control room and stared at the computer.

And then the mummy's insides came up on the screen.

Doctors will be studying the results for a few months.

But they've already notice some fascinating details: The body was shorter than his wrappings.

His head had slipped down and his spine was broken so badly it could not have happened before he died.

The doctors said it may have been broken by grave robbers.

As the giant machine scanned the mummy, the computer displayed shapes in black-and-white.

It picked up a round object, in the middle of his chest, that robbers didn't get.

Doctors said it looked like an amulet.

In ancient Egypt, amulets were buried with mummies to keep them safe and healthy in the afterlife.

The scan will trace the size and shape of that object.

Doctors will take it to Washington University's 3-D printer.

The printer will make a model of the object.

Miller-Thomas said that means that soon someone will hold a plastic copy of that ancient Egyptian amulet for the first time in 3,000 years.

