A mummy rolled down hospital hallways here on Sunday.

A 3,000-year-old Egyptian priest named Amen-Nestawy-Nakht was at Barnes-Jewish Hospital.

He was there for an X-ray.

It was a 3-D X-ray, called a CAT scan.

He'd had one many years ago, when technology was not as good as it is today.

A team of museum officials and doctors hoped this scan would show new information.

They wanted to know how he died and what his health had been like.

They also hoped a few objects were left inside his colorful protective case.

Grave robbers already made off with most of the valuables, probably thousands of years ago.

The St. Louis Art Museum hired special movers.

They moved Amen-Nestawy and two other mummies.

The movers loaded them into foam cases and took them to Barnes.

CAT scans are the best way to look at the mummies, said Michelle Miller-Thomas.

She is a doctor who specializes in X-rays.

She said scans are the only way to look at mummies without unwrapping them and maybe damaging them.

The tests could help the team understand the health of ancient Egyptians.

They might also learn something about our health today.

For example, some mummies still have arteries.

An artery is a tube that moves blood through the body.

Scientists can see if the mummies' arteries had hardened during their lives.

It is a sign of bad health.

The museum will use the video and images, said Lisa Cakmak of the St. Louis Art Museum.

They can help us imagine what the mummies were like as people, she said.

Amen-Nestawy probably lived in the ninth or 10th century B.C.

Another mummy was a priest from the third or fourth century B.C.

The last was a rich woman from the 13th century B.C.

By Sunday afternoon, the team had scanned two mummies.

Then they brought Amen-Nestawy into the scanner and noticed he was tall.

"This is going to be interesting," said one team member.

But the mummy fit just fine into the machine.

The doctors crowded into the control room and stared at the computer.

And then his insides came up on the screen.

Doctors will study the results for a few months.

But they learned some interesting details right away about Amen-Nestawy.

His spine was broken so badly it could not have happened before he died.

The doctors said it may have been broken by grave robbers as they looked for treasure.

As the giant machine scanned the mummy, the computer showed shapes in black-and-white.

It picked up a round object in the middle of his chest.

Doctors said it looked like an amulet that the robbers didn't get.

In ancient Egypt, amulets were pieces of jewelry buried with mummies.

They were meant to keep the person safe and healthy in the afterlife.

The X-ray will trace the size and shape of that object.

Doctors will take it to Washington University's 3-D printer.

The printer will make a plastic model.

Miller-Thomas said that means that soon someone will hold a copy of that Egyptian amulet, for the first time in 3,000 years.

