The Los Angeles City Council lifted a decade-long ban.

From now on, public murals — that is, large paintings on outdoor walls — will be permitted.

The change marked a major victory for city artists.

They had long argued that the law made no sense in a city with such a rich tradition of street art.

The decision comes after years of debate over how Los Angeles should regulate murals.

Their defenders point out that murals have chronicled generations of city history.

They have recorded everything from the mid-20th century struggles of Latinos to the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics.

The 13-2 vote that took place on Aug. 28, is expected to free a new generation of muralists.

The city will now be able to be the "mural capital of the world" once again, said Isabel Rojas-Williams, director of the Mural Conservancy of Los Angeles.

New rules will seek a balance between clashing interests: reviving the city's muralist tradition; protecting neighborhoods from unwanted intrusions of large, sometimes controversial artworks; and controlling the spread of advertising disguised as art.

It was that last concern which led to the ban a decade ago.

The city first banned only murals that advertised stores and products, but then advertisers then sued the city.

They argued that it wasn't fair that artists could create big, eye-catching displays when businesses couldn't, so officials decided to ban all new murals.

"It's been a long 10 years," said Nyla Arslanian, president of the Hollywood Arts Council.

"We have in Hollywood some of the most beloved and internationally known murals.

And it's about time that we have more."

Not all murals were treated equally in what artists call the "dark ages" of the ban.

Some were permitted by the city.

Car wash owner Ben Forat encountered no problems when he put up a 75-foot-long painting on his business.

The same was true for downtown artist Robert Vargas, who painted a stylized portrait of a mariachi band in Boyle Heights.

And for young Pacoima muralist Levi Ponce, who filled his community's walls with colorful works.

But when pop star Chris Brown put up murals of 8-foot-high fanged creatures outside his Hollywood Hills home, neighbors complained strongly.

The singer was cited and within weeks the cartoonish scene was removed.

The new rules will be put up for final approval this week.

If they do pass, new murals will be permitted in business and industrial zones.

Artists will have to register their project with the city and pay a $60 application fee.

Commercial messages are prohibited and works must remain for at least two years — part of the city's effort to control advertising.

Residential areas will be also be allowed to have murals if they get permission from the city.

Such neighborhoods could see artworks on walls and homes.

Councilman Jose Huizar, who sponsored the new regulations, originally hoped to see murals permitted in all areas of the city.

Residential neighborhoods that didn't want murals would have been able to ask the city for permission to ban them.

But that approach failed to win support from representatives of suburban communities.

"It's difficult to strike a balance," said Councilman Mike Bonin, who represents Venice, Westchester and Pacific Palisades.

"We're a city of murals, but we're first and foremost a city of neighborhoods."

Huizar and Bonin supported the final compromise.

Councilmen Paul Koretz and Bob Blumenfield voted against the measure.

Both said neighborhoods that don't want murals would not have enough say in where they go.

Koretz represents parts of the Westside and parts of the San Fernando Valley.

He said residents of those areas have told him they don't support the new rules.

In addition to concerns about the murals' appearance, residents worry that they will attract graffiti and become "God-awful eyesores."

Blumenfield said he supports murals, but worries that the new rules won't give residents enough say in the kinds of images that will be allowed.

He said some residents fear that "a giant, very inappropriate picture" could go up that will scare their children.

That last comment drew boos from supporters of ending the mural ban.

"I'm not saying it's a rational fear," Blumenfield responded.

"But you can't dismiss them as not important because people have these fears."

Several artists argued there should be complete freedom to paint in residential areas.

Muralist Kent Twitchell, famous for his mural of actor Steve McQueen painted on a two-story house, said he was disappointed that murals wouldn't be allowed on single-family homes.

"They lifted the moratorium, which is a good thing," he said after the vote.

"But they've made it illegal for people to decorate their homes as they have for decades."

He said there were no mural regulations when he painted the McQueen piece.

"We were a free country then."

Murals exploded in Los Angeles in the 1970s as artists took to walls to express concerns about political and social issues.

Topics included nuclear energy, student uprisings, political unrest in Mexico and Chile and the civil rights struggle at home.

It was a culture that just suddenly sprang up in Los Angeles, Rojas-Williams said.

"And it all happened at the same time without the artists knowing each other until later on."

According to Councilman Gil Cedillo, who represents mural-rich areas of the Eastside, murals are part of the "social and cultural and historic fabric of the city.

We should recognize that."

