The Los Angeles City Council lifted a decade-long ban on murals.

From now on, large public paintings on outdoor walls will be permitted.

The change marked a major victory for city artists.

Artists had long argued that the law made no sense in a city with such a rich tradition of street art.

Murals have recorded generations of city history.

Everything from the mid-20th century struggles of Latinos to images of the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics showed up in the colorful pictures.

The decision comes after years of debate.

Now, said mural-supporter Isabel Rojas-Williams, the city can once again become the "mural capital of the world."

New rules will seek to work out a compromise between different goals.

The city's tradition of murals will be revived.

But neighborhoods that don't want the large artworks will be able to ask the city for a local ban.

And there are regulations designed to stop the spread of advertising disguised as art.

It was that last concern which led to the ban 10 years ago.

The city first banned only murals that advertised stores and products.

Advertisers then sued the city.

They argued that it wasn't fair that artists could create murals when businesses couldn't.

So officials decided to ban all new murals.

"It's been a long 10 years," said Nyla Arslanian, president of the Hollywood Arts Council.

"We have in Hollywood some of the most beloved and internationally known murals.

And it's about time that we have more."

Not all murals were treated equally in what artists call the "dark ages" of the ban.

Some were permitted by the city.

Car wash owner Ben Forat encountered no problems when he put up a 75-foot-long painting.

The same was true for downtown artist Robert Vargas, who painted a picture of a mariachi band.

And for young muralist Levi Ponce.

But when pop star Chris Brown put up murals of 8-foot-high fanged creatures outside his home things were different.

Neighbors complained strongly.

Within weeks the city had forced the singer to remove the cartoonish scene.

Under the new rules murals will be permitted in business and industrial zones.

But in residential zones -- that is, areas mostly full of private homes -- murals won't be allowed without permission from the city.

Artists will have to register their project with the city and pay $60.

Commercial messages are prohibited and works must remain for at least two years.

These last two rules are part of the city's effort to control advertising.

Councilmen Paul Koretz and Bob Blumenfield voted against the new measure.

Both are afraid that neighborhoods where many people don't want murals may still end up getting them.

Koretz represents parts of the Westside and parts of the San Fernando Valley.

He said people in those areas have told him they don't support the new rules.

They worry about the murals' appearance.

And they also worry that murals will attract graffiti and become "God-awful eyesores."

Blumenfield said some people are concerned about what kinds of images might be allowed.

They are afraid a giant picture might scare their children.

He wasn't saying such fears made sense, he explained, but some people were worried about it.

Several artists argued that the new rules still don't give them enough freedom.

Muralist Kent Twitchell said he was disappointed that murals wouldn't be allowed on single-family homes.

Twitchell is world-famous for his mural of actor Steve McQueen, which he painted on the side of a two-story home.

Lifting the ban was good, he said after the vote on Aug. 28.

"But they've made it illegal for people to decorate their homes as they have for decades."

He said there were no mural regulations when he painted the McQueen piece.

"We were a free country then."

Murals became very popular in Los Angeles during the 1970s.

Artists took to walls to express their thoughts about political and social issues.

It was a culture that just suddenly sprang up, Rojas-Williams said.

"And it all happened at the same time without the artists knowing each other."

According to Councilman Gil Cedillo, who represents mural-rich areas of the Eastside, murals are part of the "social and cultural and historic fabric of the city.

We should recognize that."

