S ANGELES, Calif. - In one photo, a tourist in a baseball cap stands heroically.

He raises a 340-ton boulder above his head.

In another, a thin woman, flat on her back with legs in the air, balances the rock on her feet.

But are they really?

"The Boulder Holder" is a picture that museum visitors have taken of themselves with a giant rock.

That giant rock is also a piece of art.

The rock is called "Levitated Mass."

It is a sculpture at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art in California, or LACMA.

In one week, more than 175,000 people took a photo with the rock.

More people than ever are taking selfies at museums.

And museums around the world are making it easier for people to take these pictures of themselves with art.

They are using it as a way to attract more visitors, especially young people.

Chad Coerver works at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

He thinks it is smart for museums to give people good places to take selfies.

The pictures will make other people want to visit.

With so much to look at, art museums are natural places for selfies.

The Philadelphia Museum of Art has two big selfie spots.

One is at the statue of Rocky, which looks just like the boxer from the movie "Rocky."

The other is to copy the run up the museum steps that Rocky did in the film with fists raised high.

The National Gallery in Oslo, Norway, has a painting called "The Scream."

The Internet is full of people looking scared just like the person in the painting.

There is even a new art museum in the Philippines called Art in Island.

It is dedicated to taking selfies with artworks.

Ann Philbin is in charge of the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles.

She said the good thing about selfies is that people can share their experiences.

When people see the photos, more people come to the museum.

Selfies also help young people to connect.

The downside is that people do not have deep experiences with the art.

The selfie is about expressing yourself.

Now that so much of life happens online, it is a way of saying: "I was actually here!"

Kate Flint is an art history professor at the University of Southern California.

She said that Facebook and Instagram make it important to share experiences instantly.

We do this with many people online at the same time.

Back in 2008, LACMA was one of the first big museums where people took selfies.

Right outside the museum is the artwork "Urban Light."

The way it is set up, looks like a forest of lampposts.

It went up before Instagram even existed.

Almost immediately people started coming to take pictures of themselves in the forest with their cellphones.

"Urban Light" is now the favorite spot at the museum for selfies.

Like many museums, the Hammer museum did not used to allow people to take photos inside.

Last year it reversed the rule.

Now it allows flash-free photography.

The Hammer has chairs in its main courtyard that spin.

These chairs are the most popular place to take selfies.

They were set up in February.

Since then, hundreds of visitors a week have played on them.

They spin on the chairs and take pictures to remember their visit.

Once the people in charge of the museum saw what was happening, they created a hashtag called "spunday."

Now every Sunday they post their favorite pictures of visitors in the chairs.

Not everyone thinks museum selfies are good.

"Museums don't need to be Disneyland," said Michael Duncan, who writes about art.

"They need to be places where you experience art, and selfies get in the way."

