Milly Wu marched through the J. Paul Getty Museum's galleries.

She stopped to take pictures of Monets, Manets and, of course, Vincent Van Gogh's "Irises."

The photos she took of the works of art will become souvenirs to share with her friends back home in China.

But when she got to a gallery filled with French furniture from the 1600s, the 11-year-old just looked around.

"Wah," she gasped — Chinese for "wow."

"It's very beautiful," said her dad, Will Wu, who speaks some English.

"Mr. Getty had a great eye for this type of item."

The Getty and other Los Angeles museums have their eyes on people like the Wus.

They show the increase in tourism from mainland China, as the country becomes richer.

The Getty is trying to attract Chinese tourists with things like free admission, a beautiful garden, and a tram ride to the hilltop the museum sits on with its beautiful views of Los Angeles.

Experts from China are working with the Getty.

They are helping it become known on the most popular social media sites in China.

The museum is promoting itself as a destination for visitors interested in art and culture.

The Getty has taken advantage of a program called "China Ready."

The Los Angeles tourism board came out with this program last year to help businesses become magnets for Chinese vacationers.

Those that complete the program are labeled "China Ready."

This is a seal of approval that they can use in to promote themselves in China.

Unfortunately, the Getty probably won't be a top destination for group tours.

These tours send travelers on tour buses through Southern California.

Theme parks, Hollywood, trips to Vegas and Yosemite, and shopping trips are more popular.

"The Getty is impressive, it's beautiful," said Harry Chen, owner of Joy Holiday, a San Francisco company that regularly runs tours of Los Angeles.

He thinks it's a shame that the Getty is not featured in the tours right now.

But he says not many people are going to be interested in a museum.

Most people "love to be at the most popular places, taking pictures."

Daniel Shen, president of Lion Tours in Los Angeles, said it's different for student groups that mainly come in the summer.

"Every one of them that I handle from Asia requests the Getty Museum," he said.

Students typically come for longer stays and have time to explore LA.

This makes a museum visit a natural choice, he said.

A new agreement with China may result in more return trips.

Travel visas for Chinese tourists coming to the United States used to have to be renewed every year.

Now, they are good for 10 years.

Visitors "will have time on their hands to discover places that fit whatever their interests are," said Chen, the tour company owner.

The longer visas will be good for places like the Getty Museum, he said.

Visits from China to Los Angeles rose 20 percent in 2014.

The numbers are expected to continue growing by at least 10 percent annually.

To become "China Ready" museums must do many things to attract Chinese visitors.

They must make a website and museum maps and guides in Chinese.

They also must accept the preferred Chinese credit card, China UnionPay.

It helps to have staffers who speak Chinese, but it's not required.

Providing museum audio tours in Chinese and adding Chinese dishes to menus at cafes are also helpful.

At the Getty's cafeteria, visitors can get a menu in Chinese, and it usually will include a Chinese dish.

Will Wu asked a Chinese friend who lives in Los Angeles to recommend an art museum.

Milly, the 11-year-old who took photos of the paintings, takes painting classes back home.

This was a chance to inspire her interest in art.

She likes to see famous paintings, Wu said.

Which did Milly like best?

Her face, which had been intense while she moved through the galleries, rounded into a big smile as she answered in Chinese.

"She says she likes the irises," her father said.

