No one likes every kind of music, of course.

But are there people out there who just don't get much out of _any_ music?

In other words, are there people who simply aren't moved by music that hits others in the heart?

A new study published on Thursday says the answer is yes.

The finding was made by a team of scientists from Spain and Canada.

They had been working on measuring how much pleasure people get from listening to music.

One result surprised them: one out of every 20 people they studied said they get no pleasure at all from music.

So the scientists tested 30 more people.

Those who said they took the least pleasure in music also showed the least emotion, or feelings, when listening.

These people showed little emotion even when they listened to pieces they had chosen themselves.

Emotion was measured by looking at changes in heart rate.

The scientists also watched their skin for signs of sweat.

"They were not just saying so," said the study's leader, Josep Marco Pallares.

The way their bodies reacted matched what they were saying.

In fact, their bodies didn't react to the music.

It was already known that there are people who can't understand music well.

About one out of every 25 people has what is called amusia: Music just doesn't make much sense to them.

They are unable to recognize melodies to famous songs, for example.

Some others suffer from what is called general anhedonia.

These people have difficulty experiencing pleasure at all.

This can be caused by certain brain diseases.

Strong feelings of sadness can also bring on anhedonia.

But is there a type of anhedonia just for music?

The study suggests there may be.

None of those studied showed signs of general anhedonia.

They reported no differences in their levels of pleasure when it came to things other than music.

And all could easily tell if songs were happy, sad, scary or peaceful.

We tend to believe that everyone likes some kind of music.

The study suggests that might not be true.

It seems some people just don't get that much pleasure out of listening to anything.

In the study, 13 pieces were used.

These were selected after asking 200 people to list their favorite pieces of music.

The set list was heavy on well-known classical pieces.

Among these were "Spring," from Vivaldi's "Four Seasons."

Another choice was Puccini's "Nessun Dorma," an aria.

"Most of them are very well known classical pieces," Marco said.

"The list was not as original as we expected.

We expected more pop music."

Those studied were also asked to bring in several pieces of their own choice.

Those who particularly loved music brought in a very varied mix.

It included rock from Pink Floyd, Deep Purple and Genesis.

Newer music from Beirut and Rihanna was also in the mix.

Artists with more than one song included Carlos Santana, Paco de Lucia and Beethoven.

"I would say it was less typical," Marco said of the music brought by the music lovers.

Those who felt less when listening to music had a hard time picking songs to bring in.

"They were really having trouble," Marco said.

"Some of them asked family and friends to give them music."

The tracks they selected included pieces by Beethoven as well.

Also chosen were the themes to "Pirates of the Caribbean" and "Superman."

Other picks included songs by the Verve, Franz Ferdinand and Moby.

