Communication on the Internet is incredibly fast.

It's so fast that someone in the San Francisco Bay Area can connect with someone in New York City quicker than you can finish this sentence.

That's a blistering speed — but not quite fast enough for some musicians.

They dream of a day when notes will be able to travel from computer to computer at the speed of light.

If that were possible, then the entire globe could play together in a single orchestra, via the Internet.

Right now, musicians in distant locations face problems if they attempt to perform together.

"The delays are devastating," said sound engineer Elizabeth Cohen.

"Thirty milliseconds?

That's an echo — an eternity."

Music is "shared communication" — and it depends on immediate feedback, said Cohen.

So hopes are pinned on an attempt to make computers so much faster that they approach light speed.

Light travels at about 186,000 miles per second, the fastest anything in the universe can go.

The new effort was launched in October by a team led by computer research scientist Brighten Godfrey.

Their mission has been named "Networking at the Speed of Light."

It challenges scientists to create an Internet with speeds as fast as physically possible.

The goal is a smoother, faster Internet.

The team imagines instant-messaging chats that don't oddly slow down, and videos that don't stop, start, lag, then freeze.

It also imagine musicians in Hawaii and Antarctica being able to perform a seamless Beethoven quartet together.

The problem right now is the time delay that occurs when a signal travels across a computer network.

A computer network is simply a set of computers that are linked together.

A computer signal contains coded information that is seen or heard on the other end as text, image or sound.

Signals travel the Internet about 10 times slower than the speed of light — often 100 times slower.

On a typical computer network, a San Francisco–New York connection takes about one second, even longer.

If traveling at the speed of light, it would take just 27 milliseconds — a millisecond being one-thousandth of a second.

The relatively slow speeds they now experience make things difficult for musicians.

Right now, musicians in the same town can jam together online, but it's far tougher if great distances separate them.

Technology is already changing the way music is made.

For example, music lessons are now being held via YouTube.

Composer Eric Whitacre mixed 2,052 voices from around the world onto one track for his piece "Virtual Choir."

However, real-time musical collaboration via the Internet is a dream that has yet to truly come true.

A recent performance at Stanford showed where we might be heading.

It demonstrated how greater Internet speed can be used to build cultural bridges through music.

The concert featured 13 musicians in different locations.

All were linked together by Stanford scientist-musician Chris Chafe and the university's high-speed Internet connection.

The various players were at Stanford, UC Santa Barbara, Virginia Tech and Mexico's University of Guanajuato.

Hearing each other as if playing in the same concert hall, they wove together a textured tapestry of music.

The performance, called "Imagining the Universe," blended classical, folk and electronic music.

Microphones sent music through a computer, which put the audio onto the network.

The sounds zipped through the network to distant computers and then into loudspeakers.

It took 46 milliseconds for Virginia Tech's bass and piano notes to land at Stanford, and another 46 milliseconds for Chafe's cello to be heard in Virginia.

Speeds were similar for Mexico's flute notes.

Santa Barbara, closer, was only 7 milliseconds away.

The high-tech event had its glitches.

Explosive sounds occasionally interrupted the performance, startling the audience and causing a musician to leap from his seat to crank down the volume.

Still, the show seemed miraculous, and the crowd applauded appreciatively.

The performance was possible only because Stanford's Internet connection is fast enough — and the music slow enough, said Chafe.

"If we were to play a locked rhythm together, we would not have as easy a time."

The first mission for Godfrey and his team is to find what causes online delays.

Everything that happens when a computer signal travels across a network will be closely examined and measured.

"We couldn't have dreamed, 30 years ago, that we'd be where we are," said Godfrey.

"Now we are trying go beyond where we are, to truly bring the whole world together."

