Everyone dislikes some kind of music, of course.

But are there people out there who just don't get much out of _any_ music?

In other words, are there people who simply aren't moved by music that hits others in the heart?

A new study published on Thursday says the answer is yes.

This finding was made by a team of scientists from Spain and Canada.

They had been working on measuring how much pleasure people get from listening to music.

To their surprise, they found that one out of every 20 people they studied claim to get no pleasure at all from music.

So they followed up by testing 30 more people.

Those who said they took the least pleasure in music also showed the least emotion, or feelings, when listening.

These people showed little emotion even when listening to pieces they had chosen themselves.

Emotion was measured by monitoring changes in heart rate and sweat on subjects' skin.

"They were not just saying so," said the study's co-author, psychologist Josep Marco Pallares.

He's a scientist who studies the brain and human behavior.

Their physical responses matched "with what they were saying."

It was already known that there are people who can't understand music well.

About one in every 25 people has what is called amusia — music just doesn't make much sense to them.

For example, they are often unable to recognize the melodies to famous songs.

They may also not be able to tell if a musical note is out of tune, or play an instrument.

Others suffer from general anhedonia: That is, they have difficulty experiencing pleasure at all.

This is particularly common among those who struggle with sadness or have certain brain diseases, like Alzheimer's.

But is there a separate musical anhedonia?

The study suggests there may be.

None of those studied showed signs of general anhedonia.

They reported no differences in their levels of pleasure when it came to things other than music.

And all could easily tell if musical passages were happy, sad, scary or peaceful.

We tend to believe that everyone likes some kind of music.

The study suggests that might not be true.

It seems some people just don't get that much pleasure out of music.

In the study, 13 pieces were used.

These were selected after asking 200 people to list their favorite pieces of music.

The set list was heavy on well-known classical pieces.

Among these were "Spring," from Vivaldi's "Four Seasons," and the Puccini aria "Nessun Dorma."

"Most of them are very well known classical pieces," Marco said.

"The list was not as original as we expected.

We expected more pop music."

Also making the list was the musical theme to the 1992 Summer Olympic Games, "Barcelona."

Subjects were also asked to bring in several songs of their own choice, Marco said.

Those who particularly loved music brought in a very varied mix.

This ranged from Pink Floyd, Deep Purple and Genesis to Beirut and Rihanna.

Artists with more than one song included Carlos Santana, Paco de Lucia and Beethoven.

"I would say it was less typical," Marco said of the mix of tracks the music-lovers brought in.

Those who felt less when listening to music had a hard time picking tracks to bring in.

"They were really having trouble," Marco said.

"Some of them asked family and friends to give them music."

Among the tracks they selected were pieces by Beethoven and the themes to "Pirates of the Caribbean" and "Superman."

They also chose songs by the Verve, Franz Ferdinand and Moby.

