When you email someone, your message has to travel from your computer to theirs.

It does so very, very quickly.

Suppose you were in San Francisco.

Suppose the other person was in New York City.

Your message would take only around a second to travel across the country.

However, that isn't fast enough for some musicians.

They dream of a day when notes will travel across the Internet at super-fast speeds.

People all over the world would then be able to perform music together online.

They would be able to play with each other as if they were in the same room.

Their computers would link them.

Right now, that's not really possible.

There are big problems when musicians in far-apart places try to perform together online.

Musicians in one place have to wait to hear the notes musicians in another place have played.

Playing together is very difficult.

So musicians are excited by a new effort to make sending music notes much faster.

The plan is to make them so fast that they approach light speed.

Light travels at about 186,000 miles a second.

Nothing in the universe can go faster than that.

Scientist Brighten Godfrey is leading the new plan.

The goal is a smoother, faster Internet.

Godfrey's team imagines instant-messaging chats that don't slow down.

They also imagine videos that don't freeze.

Musicians could do much with faster speeds.

Players in Hawaii and Antarctica could perform together perfectly.

A group of computers linked is called a network.

Messages that pass between the computers are signals.

They can be words, pictures or sounds.

Signals travel the Internet about 10 times slower than the speed of light.

Often, they are 100 times slower.

Godfrey hopes to figure out just what is slowing them down.

Right now, a signal takes a second to travel from San Francisco to New York.

If it were traveling at the speed of light, it would take just 27 milliseconds.

A millisecond is one-thousandth of a second.

Now, musicians in the same town can jam together online.

However, it's far tougher if they are further apart.

A concert last month at Stanford University showed what might be possible.

It made use of the university's fast Internet connection.

Musicians in different places were able to play together.

Thirteen musicians took part.

They were at Stanford, and in Santa Barbara, California; Virginia and Mexico.

All were linked together by Chris Chafe.

He is a scientist and a musician.

Musicians in one place listened to the sounds from far away.

Then they answered with their own sounds.

They didn't have to wait very long.

The sounds from Virginia reached Stanford in just 46 milliseconds.

The sounds from Mexico took the same amount of time.

Santa Barbara is close to Stanford.

Sounds from there took only 7 milliseconds to reach Stanford.

The show seemed like a miracle.

It was almost as if everyone was in the same room.

Chafe said the concert was possible for two reasons.

First, Stanford's Internet connection is very fast.

Second, the music was slow.

Other kinds of music would be more difficult to play.

Still, the concert showed what the future might bring.

Thirty years ago, no one dreamed "we'd be where we are," said Godfrey.

"Now we are trying go beyond where we are," he said.

Godfrey's team hopes "to truly bring the whole world together."

