Every summer for the last five years, Greg Hurley has gone to formerly war-torn areas.

His trips aren't exactly vacations.

The viola and violin teacher goes overseas to teach music.

This summer he is leaving his Greenville, North Carolina, home and going to Beirut, Lebanon, for two weeks.

He'll be teaching at a kind of summer camp for students there.

The students, who already have some musical training, rehearse and form an orchestra for a concert at the end of the visit.

Every year, the State Department and nonprofit groups help send musicians, dancers and teachers abroad.

The aim is to promote American culture and generate goodwill.

Sending artists abroad got its start with the "jazz ambassadors."

It was in the 1950s and 1960s, at the height of the Cold War.

At the time, the United States and the Soviet Union — a group of eastern European and Asian countries controlled by Russia — were enemies.

The United States wanted to boost its image abroad.

It sent jazz greats Dizzy Gillespie, Louis Armstrong and others overseas to showcase the unique American art form.

The programs and cultural exchanges have exploded since then.

The latest rage is hip-hop, an in-demand art form.

Hurley, a professor of music at East Carolina University, says the experiences he's had in Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Thailand have been life-changing for him.

He thinks the experiences have changed the lives of his students, too.

"It's opened my eyes to other places," he said.

While the teaching is slower because of the language barrier — done through hand gestures and the international language of music — it all comes together for the big final concert.

"It's always great," Hurley said.

"You've worked so hard to pull it off in two weeks' time.

The parents are proud.

The kids are proud."

The Beirut program has 100 students, including several from Syria and Iraq.

"I think it brings goodwill toward us, and goodwill happens person by person," Hurley said.

The State Department pays for these kinds of programs and exchanges and is very clear about their mission.

"The primary goal of all our cultural exchanges is to build cross-cultural understanding," said Susan Pittman, a State Department spokeswoman.

"With more than half of the world's population under age 30, it's especially important for us to provide avenues for connecting with youth."

The idea is to use the arts as an instrument of foreign policy, a different approach to the more traditional instruments of the military and economics.

Performers and teachers have been eager to sign on to the programs.

Oklahoma City musician Kyle Dillingham plays a mean fiddle.

With his band, Horseshoe Road, he likes introducing foreign audiences to Western swing, folk music, bluegrass and jazz.

His band recently completed a 16-day tour in Liberia, in West Africa.

It performed for the country's president, as well as to a rural audience where there was no electricity.

"At the heart of what we do is sharing our music with these people and giving these people a taste of American culture," said Dillingham, who also holds student workshops.

Hip-hop artists are the most requested groups by foreign nations.

Rodney Hill and a troupe of dancers were in Central Asia earlier this year and performed in Egypt, Israel and Palestinian territories in 2012.

Hill, who manages Philadelphia's hip-hop dance group Rennie Harris Puremovement, also held master classes and gave lectures.

The surprise may be that hip-hop is now so well-known because of social media.

The students were even able to notice differences in the genre, such as West Coast style, which has a more laid-back feel and harmony, Hill said.

"We did what we did; tell hip-hop through a story, and people gravitated to us," Hill said in an interview.

"They knew it on YouTube and multimedia."

Mark Katz, a music professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is leading a new two-year program for the government that's all about hip-hop.

"We see hip-hop as a global culture," said Katz, who's written a book, "Groove Music: The Art and Culture of the Hip-Hop DJ."

"You go anywhere in the world" and people have their own styles of hip-hop, he said.

The State Department awarded the school a $1 million grant last year.

Katz has taken hip-hop teams — disc jockeys, rappers, beat makers and dancers — to India and Serbia.

In September, he will go to Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to Montenegro.

In India, Katz said, the students embraced everything about the experience.

In one exercise they used hip-hop to tape public service announcements for local media on such topics as the environment and violence against women.

"They meet Americans," he said.

"The idea is they will think positively of the U.S." He believes it gives people overseas different views of Americans, so they won't see all Americans as the same.

"It will be harder for these students to stereotype Americans."

