Seven-year-old Tremell Caldwell tapped his feet on the floor.

He made funny faces and wiggled the cello between his knees.

But when his teacher said "Bows ready!"

he stopped fooling around.

"This is my precious instrument," Tremell said.

"I like it because it's big and has the longest strings."

Caldwell is one of 18 first- and second-graders enrolled in El Sistema Minnesota.

It's an after-school music program that just finished its second year at a Minneapolis school.

The program teaches children in poor neighborhoods how to play the violin and cello.

But it not only teaches music.

It teaches them cooperation and study skills.

The kids learn other things, as well.

After just one year, students were kinder and creative.

They were faster readers, too.

El Sistema began nearly 40 years ago in Venezuela.

The purpose of the program was to teach music.

But it also set out to change the lives of some of Venezuela's poorest children.

"Poverty is not necessarily the lack of bread or roof," said Jose Antonio Abreu.

Abreu, a musician, started the program.

It's "the feeling of being nobody."

Today El Sistema teaches more than 300,000 students a year.

Some students have gone on to professional music careers.

One of its most famous graduates is Gustavo Dudamel.

He is the rock-star music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic.

The idea has spread around the world.

In the United States, more than 50 programs modeled on El Sistema have started in the past several years.

"Adagio means what?"

asked music teacher Patricia Morgan-Brist.

She was speaking about how fast to play the music.

"Slow motion!"

the students replied all together.

Then they moved on to andante — "Walking speed!"

— and allegro, which means quickly in Italian.

"We never allegro in the hallways, right?"

said Morgan-Brist.

She started the music program with her good friend, violin teacher Kelly Carter.

They called it ACME.

That stands for Advocates for Community through Musical Excellence.

Morgan-Brist said that public schools in parts of Minneapolis don't offer much music education.

For a lot of families, private music lessons are too expensive.

Students begin the music program in first grade.

They attend 2 1/2-hour sessions four days a week.

Each one is lent an instrument.

They receive private lessons from instructors and musicians from the Minnesota Orchestra.

They also get free transportation and help with homework.

To raise money, a pianist gave a concert with members of the Minnesota Youth Symphony.

The concert opened with a brief performance by the El Sistema kids.

The kids played the few notes they learned so far with great enthusiasm.

Then they watched the rest of the show from front-row seats.

Violin student Jalia Hall's parents were in the audience.

They cheered their daughter on.

"I was surprised she wanted to play the violin," said Jalia's mom.

"But I'm supportive because it really enriches her learning at school.

Any kind of music does.

But I want her to know that music means more than rap or hip-hop."

Manny Laureano plays the trumpet with the Minnesota Orchestra.

He is also the co-director of the Youth Symphony.

He said the El Sistema students reminded him of himself when he was growing up.

"I didn't start playing the trumpet till I was 12," he said.

"It gave me a voice at a time when I really needed one and allowed me to feel like I was doing something (important).

Music helps you stand out for all the right reasons."

Back in the school music room, Tremell Caldwell stood under a large poster of jazz great John Coltrane.

Tremell asked, "Can I go outside now?"

Morgan-Brist said yes.

But she first asked him to read aloud from a handwritten note by one of the program's supporters.

"I am proud of you," he read slowly.

"Your talent amazes me."

He broke into a broad grin, then ran for the door.

