Star pianist Jan Lisiecki is about to leave his teen years behind.

The Polish-Canadian classical musician might not know what he'll be getting for his birthday, but at least he knows it will be an exciting one.

Lisiecki will turn 20 on his way to perform for the first time in Abu Dhabi, the capital of the United Arab Emirates.

"We're going to get some warm weather, which is always nice when you live in Canada," Lisiecki said.

He lives in Calgary with his parents, who will be traveling with him to Abu Dhabi.

Lisiecki will also be going to Spain.

He will wrap up his travels with a March 28 concert at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C.

The Kennedy Center's website shows the March 28 recital is sold out.

Of course, Lisiecki won't sit still for long after that.

He will return to the Kennedy Center on April 7 to appear as a soloist with the Philadelphia Orchestra.

Lisiecki's birthday tour only adds to the accomplishments that he has racked up in the past five years or so.

When he was 15, Lisiecki signed a contract to make albums for Deutsche Grammophon, a classical music record company.

He started making appearances at famous concert halls all over the world.

He played with the New York Philharmonic and played in London.

He even starred in a season-opening concert for the Orchestre de Paris in France.

Lisiecki juggles an intense schedule of concerts and recordings.

When he played with the Philadelphia Orchestra in 2014, he performed three times in one week.

Part of Lisiecki's success has to do with the fact that he simply enjoys being at the piano.

He describes it as a different world altogether — a colorful world where anything can happen.

"I think that also communicates to the audience," Lisiecki says.

Lisiecki's March 28 performance will include pieces from Bach and Mendelssohn.

Lisiecki, who has roots in Poland, will also play pieces by Polish composer Ignacy Jan Paderewski.

Besides being a composer, Paderewski was also the first prime minister of Poland after World War I.

The program will also include all 12 of the etudes in Chopin's "Opus 10."

The etudes aren't often played together.

Lisiecki wants to give his audience the rare opportunity to hear the pieces in order.

He says it will help them get the "big idea" that links the etudes together.

"That gives the audience a different feeling — a special feeling - and really also demonstrates Chopin's genius."

