Music professor Greg Hurley is going abroad for a two-week trip this month, but he's not going on vacation.

Hurley is going to Beirut, Lebanon, to teach music.

The viola and violin teacher has left Greenville, North Carolina, every summer for the last five years and gone to places "emerging from conflict" as part of a program for students in formerly war-torn areas.

The program is a kind of summer camp that teaches students who already have some musical training.

The students rehearse and form an orchestra for a concert at the end of the visit.

Every year, the State Department and nonprofit groups help send musical troupes, dance groups and teachers abroad to promote American culture and generate goodwill.

It's all part of cultural diplomacy, an idea that got its start with the "jazz ambassadors" at the height of the Cold War in the 1950s and 1960s.

At the time, the United States and the Soviet Union — a group of eastern European and Asian countries controlled by Russia — were enemies.

To boost its image, the United States sent jazz greats Dizzy Gillespie, Louis Armstrong and others overseas to showcase the unique American art form.

The programs and cultural exchanges have exploded since then.

The latest rage is hip-hop, an in-demand art form but one that has also drawn criticism of "hip-hop diplomacy."

Hurley, a professor of music at East Carolina University, says the experiences he's had in Iraq, Syria, Jordan and Thailand have been life-altering for him and, he believes, for his students.

"It's opened my eyes to other places," he said in an interview.

The teaching is slower because of the language barrier — it is done through hand gestures and the international language of music — but it all comes together for the big final concert.

"It's always great," Hurley said.

"You've worked so hard to pull it off in two weeks' time.

The parents are proud.

The kids are proud."

The Beirut program has 100 students, including several from Syria and Iraq.

"I think it brings goodwill toward us, and goodwill happens person by person," Hurley said.

The State Department pays for these kinds of programs and exchanges out of its budget, which is $568 million this year.

It's very clear about the mission.

"The primary goal of all our cultural exchanges is to build cross-cultural understanding," said Susan Pittman, a State Department spokeswoman.

"With more than half of the world's population under age 30, it's especially important for us to provide avenues for connecting with youth."

The approach is part of what's known as "soft diplomacy," the use of the arts and other forms of social interaction as an instrument of foreign policy.

It contrasts with the "hard diplomacy" of the military and the economy, and has largely been an easy sell to performers and teachers.

Oklahoma City musician Kyle Dillingham plays a mean fiddle and with his band, Horseshoe Road, has always liked introducing foreign audiences to Western swing, folk music, bluegrass and jazz.

His band recently completed a 16-day tour in Liberia, in West Africa.

It performed for the country's president, as well as to a rural audience where there was no electricity.

"At the heart of what we do is sharing our music with these people and giving these people a taste of American culture through our performances," said Dillingham, who also holds student workshops.

Hip-hop artists are the most requested groups by foreign nations and U.S. embassies.

From Philadelphia's Rennie Harris Puremovement, company manager Rodney Hill and a troupe of dancers were in Central Asia earlier this year and performed in Egypt, Israel and Palestinian territories in 2012.

They also held master classes and gave lectures.

The surprise may be that hip-hop is now so entrenched due to social media that Hill found the students in the know.

They were even able to distinguish differences in the genre, such as West Coast style, which has a more laid-back feel and harmony.

"We did what we did; tell hip-hop through a story, and people gravitated to us," Hill said in an interview.

"They knew it on YouTube and multimedia."

Mark Katz, a music professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, is leading a new two-year program for the government that's all about hip-hop.

"We see hip-hop as a global culture," said Katz, who's written a book, "Groove Music: The Art and Culture of the Hip-Hop DJ."

"At this point you go anywhere in the world and they have their own dialects of hip-hop," he said.

The State Department awarded the school a $1 million grant from its Next Level program last year.

Katz has taken hip-hop teams — disc jockeys, rappers, beat makers and dancers — to India and Serbia, and in September will go to Bosnia and Herzegovina and to Montenegro.

In India, Katz said, the students embraced everything about the experience.

In one exercise they used hip-hop to tape public service announcements for local media on such topics as the environment and violence against women.

"They meet Americans," he said.

"They get a more nuanced view of what Americans are like.

The idea is they will think positively of the U.S.

It will be harder for these students to stereotype Americans."

