An officer checks the beach in Corolla, North Carolina.

He is making sure no one bothers the wild horses that live there.

These wild horses are called mustangs.

Nobody owns them or rides them.

Nobody knows exactly how they first arrived at Corolla, which is on an island.

Researchers think the horses once belonged to Spanish explorers.

The Spanish ships probably got stuck when they got close to North America.

They believe the horses on the ships swam to shore.

Corolla gets lots of big storms, including hurricanes.

The wild horses there do not have barns to protect them from bad weather.

They have lived this way for hundreds of years.

Horses live together in groups called herds.

The Corolla herd is having a very hard time right now.

The hurricanes in North Carolina are no longer their biggest problem.

Many people visit Corolla because they want to see the famous wild mustangs.

Some people try to play with them or even hurt them.

Some leave their trash where the horses live.

Other people want to be close to the mustangs all the time.

They build vacation homes near the beach so they can watch them.

Their big houses take up too much of the horses' space.

The mustangs have nowhere else to go.

They cannot leave the island to find a safer, more peaceful place to live.

They can't leave to be with other horses, either.

This makes it hard for the Corolla herd to grow.

The mustangs in Corolla cannot find horses to mate with that are not related to them.

When horses from the same families mate, it causes serious problems for their foals.

Foals are baby horses.

Last year, a foal in Corolla was born with lots of broken places in its legs.

The veterinarians there could not save it.

Another foal could only walk on the very tips of his hooves.

This time, veterinarians were able to help.

There are very few wild horses left along the East Coast.

Volunteers have joined together to help save the Corolla herd.

This group wants to give the mustangs room to run.

They want them to have strong, healthy foals.

They have even set a goal of helping the herd increase from 101 to 130 horses.

These horse lovers asked government leaders for more support.

The volunteers want to bring several wild horses from another island off North Carolina.

These new horses will help Corolla's mustangs have healthier babies.

The volunteers say this is a step in the right direction.

There is still another problem.

Some horses cross into the island's wildlife refuge.

There are flocks of endangered birds that migrate to the refuge.

Nesting sea turtles also live there.

The government says the horses could hurt the other animals.

A refuge manager, David Viker, said they were working with a scientist who studies horses.

He is trying to find a way for the horses to have fewer disabilities.

Viker also wants to find out how many horses could live in the refuge.

The Corolla herd is "such an important icon in that part of the world," Viker said.

