Retired police officer E.T.

Smith patrols the beach in Corolla, North Carolina, where wild horses known as mustangs have made their home.

Smith is keeping an eye out for any people on the beach who might be bothering the herd.

The mustangs on this coastal island are related to Spanish horses.

Experts believe that those horses swam to shore about 500 years ago when their ships got stuck in shallow waters near North Carolina.

The herd survived centuries of hurricanes and storms on the coastal island, but now face new problems.

Some of these new issues involve sharing the beach with humans.

People often try to play with the horses or even hurt them.

Tourists who love the island sometimes build huge vacation homes along the beach, crowding the area where the horses live.

Other problems have to do with living on an island.

Since they are surrounded by water, the mustangs don't get to mix with horses in other areas.

This means they can only mate with horses from their own herd, which creates serious health risks for their offspring.

Mating of closely related creatures is known as inbreeding and often causes genetic abnormalities.

Birth defects like these affected two of the eight foals born in the Corolla herd last year.

One of them had such severe fractures throughout its legs that it had to be euthanized.

This year, a foal was born with tightly contracted tendons that forced him to walk on the tips of his hooves, but medical treatment saved him.

The herd managers named him Vivo, which means "alive" in Spanish.

Vivo, however, can no longer live free.

When veterinarians treat mustangs, the wild horses usually come into contact with domestic horses and their diseases.

This means Vivo could bring those diseases back to his old herd if he ever returned to the island.

Now he and his mother will have to stay on the mainland instead.

The Corolla mustangs are some of the only wild horses left in the Eastern United States.

A group called the Corolla Wild Horse Fund is trying to help the mustangs, but they need the government's support.

The government calls the horses pests because they live in the same area as birds protected by law.

Wild horses have created similar debates in other parts of the country.

In the West, cattle ranchers complain that wild horses graze on their land.

The government is rounding up these horses to keep them from running free, but this has made horse supporters across the nation very frustrated.

Some lawmakers acknowledge these concerns and are trying to change how wild horses are treated.

The U.S. House of Representatives recently passed a bill proposed by Congressman Walter Jones of North Carolina.

The bill will help the Corolla Wild Horse Fund introduce a few horses from the Shackleford Banks area, which is located on another island to the south of Corolla.

The wild horses from Shackleford Banks will bring new genes to Corolla.

The Corolla Wild Horse Fund believes this will be a safe way to increase the herd to 130 mustangs.

But the bill has been opposed by the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service, and it has gone nowhere in the Senate.

The sticking point is that at least some horses cross into the island's Currituck National Wildlife Refuge, although the most sensitive parts are fenced off.

Flocks of endangered migratory waterfowl and nesting sea turtles use the refuge, and the government calls the horses a "nuisance."

Pressure is growing for a solution.

The Southeast regional refuge manager for the Fish and Wildlife Service, David Viker, tried to calm people down in a recent interview.

Viker said the agency was going to work with a scientist who studies horse genetics on a new study to look at the potential for bringing fresh genes into the Corolla herd.

The agency was also going to examine how many horses the habitat could support.

He said the Fish and Wildlife Service hadn't wanted to make horses a focus of the refuge if it meant it could hurt other animals.

The agency will look for answers because the Corolla herd is "such an important icon in that part of the world," he said.

