Thousands of people in Southeast Asia are now stranded at sea.

They are stuck on crowded, wooden boats with nowhere to go.

The people are migrants.

They left their country behind and are trying to find a new home for themselves.

The smugglers who brought them from their country have abandoned them.

The migrants' food and water is running low.

Some people could be in real danger.

One boat reached Indonesian waters early Monday.

It was stopped by the Indonesian navy.

The people on board were given food, water and directions to Malaysia.

The navy said the migrants seemed to be all right so far.

However, the boat was very crowded.

Many are afraid that some people on the boats will die.

The U.S. government and the governments of several other countries have held meetings to discuss the problem.

They met with the United Nations, a group that several countries belong to.

However, there are still no rescue plans.

Another problem is what will happen to these migrants after they are rescued.

The migrants are Bangladeshis and Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar.

About 1.3 million Rohingya live in Myanmar.

They are Muslims in a country that is mostly Buddhist.

Their ancestors originally came from Bangladesh.

The Rohingya are treated very badly in Myanmar.

In the last three years, 280 Rohingya have been killed.

Another 140,000 have been forced from their homes.

Many now live in crowded camps.

Jobs are very hard to find for all Rohingya in Myanmar.

Things are so bad that many Rohingya decide to leave Myanmar by boat.

They set off in search of a better life.

Other countries do not want them, though.

The countries worry what will happen if they take a few migrants.

The countries think other migrants will want to come.

The migrants now stranded at sea are in terrible trouble, said Phil Robertson of Human Rights Watch.

Robertson said governments should come together to help them.

Some have been at sea for two months or longer.

Time is running out for them, Robertson said.

Chris Lewa has been keeping track of Rohingya migrants for more than 10 years.

More than 100,000 have boarded ships in the last three years, she said.

Many are women or children.

Most are trying to reach Malaysia.

Police in Southeast Asia have been cracking down on migrant smugglers.

As a result, many smugglers have gone into hiding.

They have simply abandoned the migrants who were already at sea.

The migrants have been unable to land without the help of smugglers.

As many as 7,000 migrants are still stranded at sea, Lewa said.

