Things are changing fast in Myanmar.

Buildings are going up in the big cities.

New white taxis run around the slow old buses in Yangon, the biggest city.

But old bicycles are sometimes still the best way to get around.

Linn Naing rides off every day on his black bike.

It has a sidecar for passengers.

People pay him money to take them places.

He rides past old buildings and shiny new apartment towers.

They are signs of the changes in Yangon.

Myanmar, which used to be called Burma, was a colony controlled by Britain until 1948.

The military ran the government until 2011.

Today, it is becoming a democracy.

People now have more say in how the country is run.

Many countries and businesses avoided Myanmar when the military ran the government.

It didn't treat the people well.

Today, other countries are doing business there again and Myanmar is becoming modern.

But there is still room on the road for the bicycle sidecars.

Buses are cheap, but they are hot, said Linn Naing.

And the new taxis are cool, but they are pricy, he said.

Bicycle trips can cost from 20 cents to 50 cents.

This makes them cheaper than taxis.

Linn Naing takes women home from the market and children to school.

He also takes tourists to see temples.

He has been riding his bike for eight years, and business is still good.

With all the traffic jams today, it is often faster to take a sidecar.

Many people like them better, he said.

Linn Naing makes about $10 a day.

That is a good money in Myanmar where most people make only about $1,000 a year.

Still, getting into the business is not cheap.

A bicycle and sidecar can cost about $200, and a license costs $300.

Linn Naing owns his sidecar.

Most drivers have to pay $2 to $3 a day to rent one.

Motorcycles and scooters have replaced bicycles on many Asian cities.

But motorbikes are not allowed in Yangon.

The military banned motorbikes more than 10 years ago.

The story says a motorcycle gang called the Scorpions cut in front of a general's car.

The design of the sidecars is about 85 years old.

Back then, a mechanic wanted to make a cheaper way to get around than by train.

The sidecars are made by hand out of wood.

They have two seats, one facing forward and one facing the rear.

Passengers sit back to back beside the driver.

The sidecar hooks to the bicycle frame.

A bell and a light sit on the handlebars and a metal license plate hangs off the front.

Zaw Zaw Co is an artist.

He puts the bicycles in his paintings.

He said he wanted to paint something that showed regular working people.

Many drivers choose the work because they do not have much education, he said.

Zaw Zaw Co likes sidecars because they are practical.

They get you home from the store and can go where buses do not go, he said.

The sidecars are here to stay, he said.

There will always be people who need them.

