Hundreds of migrants abandoned at sea by smugglers in Southeast Asia have reached land and relative safety in the past two days.

But an estimated 6,000 Bangladeshis and Rohingya Muslims from Myanmar remain trapped at sea in crowded, wooden boats, migrant officials and activists said.

With food and clean water running low, some could be in real danger.

One vessel that reached Indonesian waters early Monday was stopped by the navy and given food, water and directions to Malaysia.

Navy spokesman First Adm. Manahan Simorangkir said the fishing vessel was in good condition and the people on board looked fine, but cramped.

Worried that boats will start washing ashore with dead bodies, the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, the United States and several other foreign governments and international organizations have held emergency meetings, but participants say there are no immediate plans to search for vessels in the busy Malacca Strait.

One of the concerns is what to do with the Rohingya if a rescue is launched.

The minority group is denied citizenship in Myanmar, and other countries have long worried that opening their doors to a few would result in an unstemmable flow of poor, uneducated migrants.

"These are people in desperate straits," said Phil Robertson of Human Rights Watch, calling on governments to band together to help those still stranded at sea, some for two months or longer.

"Time is not on their side."

The Rohingya, who are Muslim, have for decades suffered from state-sanctioned discrimination in Buddhist-majority Myanmar, which considers them illegal settlers from Bangladesh even though their families have lived there for generations.

Attacks on members of the religious minority, which numbers around 1.3 million, have in the last three years left up to 280 people dead and forced 140,000 others from their homes.

They now live under apartheid-like conditions in crowded camps just outside the Rakhine state capital, Sittwe, where they have little access to school or adequate health care.

The conditions at home — and lack of job opportunities — have sparked one of the biggest exoduses of boat people since the Vietnam War.

Chris Lewa, director of the nonprofit Arakan Project, which has been monitoring boat departures and arrivals for more than a decade, estimates more than 100,000 men, women and children have boarded ships since mid-2012.

Most are trying to reach Malaysia, but recent regional crackdowns on human trafficking networks have sent brokers and agents into hiding, making it impossible for migrants to disembark — in some cases even after family members have paid $2,000 or more for their release, she said.

Lewa believes up to 7,000 Rohingya and Bangladeshis are still on small and large boats in the Malacca Strait and nearby international waters.

