About 77 years ago, American aviator Amelia Earhart's plane disappeared somewhere in the Pacific Ocean.

Now another plane is missing, and people say it must be somewhere.

But then again, the same thing was said about Earhart's.

More than 10 days after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared with 239 people aboard, a thorough international search has produced no sign of the plane.

This raises a difficult question: What if the airplane is never found?

Although considered unlikely, that conclusion would certainly torment the families of those missing.

It would also cause some head-scratching in the airline industry, which will struggle to learn from the incident if it doesn't know what exactly happened.

While rare nowadays, history is not short of such mysteries.

The most famous mystery of all is the disappearance of American pilot Earhart.

"When something like this happens that (stuns) us, we're offended by it, and we're scared by it," said Ric Gillespie.

He is a former U.S. aviation accident investigator who began The International Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery, TIGHAR for short.

Gillespie has led expeditions to an island in the Pacific Ocean, where Earhart may have crash landed in 1937, and has written a book about her disappearance.

We think we have control over our lives, Gillespie said, "and it's just been shown to us that oh, folks, you know what?

A really big airliner can just vanish.

And nobody wants to hear that."

Earhart, the first female pilot to cross the Atlantic Ocean, vanished over the Pacific with her navigator, Fred Noonan, while attempting to fly around the globe.

Seventy years later, people are still fascinated by their disappearance.

There have been many theories about what happened.

They range from her simply running out of fuel and crashing, to staging her own disappearance.

According to the "staging her own disappearance" theory, she secretly returned to the U.S. to live under a different name.

One of the best guesses has her crash-landing on a reef near Gardner Island, now called Nikumaroro, in the Pacific Ocean.

Expeditions to the island have found artifacts possibly from her plane.

They include tools and a skeleton of what was possibly a tall white woman of European ancestry.

The skeleton, however, has since been lost.

People are also obsessed with the Bermuda Triangle, located in the Atlantic Ocean.

Several ships and planes disappeared there, including five torpedo bomber planes in 1945.

Studies show the Bermuda Triangle is no more dangerous than any other part of the ocean.

Andrew Thomas is the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Transportation Security.

Part of the problem is that airline systems are not as advanced as many people might think.

For instance, he said, airports and airplanes around the world use old radar technology, instead of modern GPS satellite navigation systems.

The radar systems, which are still in use, were first developed in the 1950s.

A GPS system might not have solved the mystery of Flight 370, which disappeared March 8 while flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to China's capital Beijing.

But it would probably have given searchers a better idea of the plane's last known location, Thomas said.

"There are lots of reasons why they haven't changed, but the major one is cost," Thomas said.

"The next-generation technology would cost $70 to $80 billion in the U.S." Experts say the plane's disappearance will likely pressure airlines and governments to improve how they track the location of planes.

Flight 370 vanished after it signed off with Malaysian air-traffic controllers.

It never made contact with Vietnam's air-traffic controllers as it should have.

A failed search would be the most painful, of course, for the families of the missing.

"In any kind of death, the most important matter for relatives and loved ones is knowing" what happened and how it happened, said Kevin Tso.

He is the chief executive of New Zealand agency Victim Support.

The agency has been counseling the friends and family of two New Zealand passengers.

"When there's very little information, it's very difficult."

Tso said the huge amount of speculation about the plane's fate is not helpful to the families.

They may be getting false hope that their loved ones are still alive.

Over the last 10 days, more than 24 countries have been involved in the effort to find Malaysian Flight 370 and end the uncertainty.

Dozens of aircraft and boats are searching along a vast area where investigators believe the plane ended up.

They are basing the search area on signals received by a satellite.

Gillespie and other experts said they expect the plane will eventually be found.

Investigators, though, may have to wait until some wreckage washes ashore.

"We all expect we're going to find this plane and the chances are probably pretty good that we'll find something.

But you know, I think everyone thought that about Amelia Earhart as well," said Phaedra Hise, a pilot and author of "Pilot Error: The Anatomy of a Plane Crash."

She added, ''We know there's a chance that we may never find out what happened.

Which is a little scary, isn't it?"

