In 1937, American pilot Amelia Earhart's plane disappeared.

Now another plane is missing.

People say it must be somewhere.

But then again, the same thing was said about Earhart's aircraft.

More than 10 days after Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 disappeared, a search has found no sign of the plane.

This raises a difficult question: What if the airplane is never found?

Although unlikely, that would certainly be horrible for the families of those on the plane.

It would also be a problem for the airlines.

How can they fix the problem, if they don't know what exactly happened?

History is not short of such mysteries.

The most famous mystery of all is what happened to Amelia Earhart.

"When something like this happens, that (shocks) us.

We're offended by it, and we're scared by it," said Ric Gillespie.

He used to investigate airplane accidents.

In 1985, he began The International Group for Historic Aircraft Recovery.

Gillespie has led searches to an island in the Pacific Ocean, where Earhart may have crash landed in 1937.

He wrote a book about her disappearance.

We think we have control over our lives, Gillespie said.

"And it's just been shown to us that oh, folks, you know what?

A really big airliner can just vanish.

And nobody wants to hear that."

Earhart, the first female pilot to cross the Atlantic Ocean, vanished over the Pacific.

She was trying to fly around the globe.

Nearly 80 years later, people still want to know what happened.

There have been many theories.

Some people think Earhart simply ran out of fuel and crashed.

Others believe she just pretended to disappear.

According to that theory, she secretly returned to the U.S. to live under a different name.

One of the best guesses has her crash-landing near an island.

Expeditions to the island have found tools and possibly pieces of her plane.

Andrew Thomas is the editor-in-chief of an airplane safety magazine.

Planes are not as advanced as many people might think, he said.

Airports and airplanes use old radar technology, instead of modern GPS systems.

Radar was first developed more than 60 years ago.

Many people have GPS systems in their cars to help them find their way, but planes still use the older technology.

A GPS system might not have solved the mystery.

The plane disappeared March 8 while flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to Beijing, China.

But a GPS system would give searchers a better idea of where to look, Thomas said.

The missing plane will likely force airlines and governments to keep better track of aircraft.

The Malaysian plane vanished after it signed off with Malaysian air-traffic controllers.

It never made contact with Vietnam's air-traffic controllers.

A failed search would be the worst, of course, for the families of the missing.

"In any kind of death, the most important matter for relatives and loved ones is knowing" what happened, said Kevin Tso.

He is in charge of a New Zealand support group.

The group has helped the families of two passengers who were aboard the Malaysian airliner.

"When there's very little information, it's very difficult."

More than 24 countries are looking for the missing plane.

Airplanes and boats are searching a vast area near Malaysia.

Gillespie expects the plane will eventually be found.

"We all expect we're going to find this plane and the chances are probably pretty good that we'll find something.

But you know, I think everyone thought that about Amelia Earhart as well," said Phaedra Hise.

She is a pilot and author of "Pilot Error: The Anatomy of a Plane Crash."

She added, ''We know there's a chance that we may never find out what happened.

Which is a little scary, isn't it?"

