In myth and legend, nymphs are nature spirits.

They take the form of beautiful maidens.

Nymphs live in water, or in woods.

So when divers discovered the bones of a teenage girl underwater, they knew what to name her: Naia, for "water nymph."

Naia's skeleton was hidden in a dark, underwater cave in Mexico.

This wasn't a case for the police, though.

She'd been there for more than 12,000 years.

Divers first spotted her skull.

It was "laying upside-down," recalled diver Alberto Nava.

The skull had "a perfect set of teeth."

It was almost as if it was "looking back at us," he said.

Scientists have been studying Naia's bones.

They say they are the oldest human bones ever discovered in the Americas.

Scientists say the teenager did not look like today's [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american): Her cheeks were narrow and her forehead was very high.

However, her DNA reveals something startling: She is related to around 1 in 10 living American Indians.

That finding helps prove something else: Native Americans all come from one population of early humans.

Many thousands of years ago, those ancestors inhabited a land that no longer exists.

Scientists say Naia was around 15 or 16 and had buck teeth.

She was probably very skinny and stood just 4 feet, 10 inches tall.

Her eyes were wide-set and low, and her nose was broad.

Scientists think they know how the girl met her death.

They believe she entered a dark, underground cave in search of water.

Once in the cave, she suddenly fell into a deep underground chamber.

Naia's hip bone was shattered from the fall.

Unable to escape, she died in the hole.

Many, many years later, the ice age came to an end.

Glaciers began to melt, which caused sea levels to rise.

Slowly, the chamber filled with water, until it was completely submerged.

Naia lay undiscovered until divers arrived in 2007.

Naia's discovery may help settle a disagreement.

Most scientists believe that the first people to arrive in the Americas came from Asia.

Some, however, have argued that they also came from Europe.

There's a simple reason for the uncertainty: Some early humans that have been found in the Americas don't look like present-day Native Americans.

That difference gave some scientists an idea: Perhaps early Americans had roots in Europe as well as Asia.

Now it seems that probably isn't true after all.

Naia is one of those early humans who look different from modern Native Americans.

Yet, it turns out she is related to them anyhow.

That discovery helps support one idea of how the Americas were settled.

That idea goes something like this: The first people to arrive in the Americas were descended from Asians.

However, they didn't come directly from Asia.

For thousands of years, their ancestors had lived in a land between Siberia and Alaska.

Known as Beringia, this land was surrounded by vast sheets of ice.

That kept those who lived there cut off from other peoples.

Thus they developed on their own.

They even started to look different from other Asians.

When the ice age ended, the ice sheets began to melt.

Sea levels rose and Beringia began to disappear.

Today it is completely covered over by the Bering Sea.

The people of Beringia left their home and spread swiftly through North and South America.

Over many, many generations, they began to change in appearance.

Gradually, they began to look like modern Native Americans.

All Native Americans have the same roots, study leader James Chatters said.

They are all "descended from the same homeland."

