In myth and legend, nymphs are nature spirits who take the form of beautiful maidens.

They live hidden in water or woods.

So when divers discovered the remains of a teenage girl in a dark, underwater cave, they named her Naia, for "water nymph."

She had been hidden there, in Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, for more than 12,000 years.

Divers quickly spotted her skull as they swept the chamber with flashlights.

"It was a small cranium laying upside-down," recalled diver Alberto Nava.

The skull had "a perfect set of teeth and dark eye sockets looking back at us."

On Thursday, researchers published the results of their study of Naia's skeleton.

They called it the oldest and most complete specimen ever discovered in the Americas.

The study authors say that the buck-toothed 15- or 16-year-old girl did not resemble today's [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american): Her cheeks were narrow and her forehead very high.

However, her mitochondrial DNA reveals she is related to 11 percent of living American Indians.

That connection in turn helps prove something else: that Native Americans are linked genetically to a population of early humans who inhabited a land now submerged beneath the Bering Sea.

The researchers say the girl was probably very slight and stood just 4 feet, 10 inches tall.

Her eyes were wide-set and low, and her nose was broad.

An examination of the girl's teeth and bones revealed that she lived 12,000 to 13,000 years ago.

Researchers believe she was searching for water when she entered a dark, underground cave.

She then plummeted 100 feet into the massive chamber now called Hoyo Negro, or black hole.

Unable to escape — her hip bone shattered from the fall — she died in the hole.

Trapped with her was a group of similarly doomed ice age animals.

They included saber-toothed cats, elephant-like gomphotheres and giant sloths.

As the ice age ended and glaciers melted, sea levels rose and slowly filled the chamber with water, sealing it off from humanity.

Naia's remains lay undetected until 2007, when scuba divers first entered the underwater tomb.

In it, they discovered a time capsule of Central American life at the end of the ice age.

Naia's discovery may help end debate over how humans came to inhabit the New World.

That longstanding debate is rooted in an archaeological puzzle: major differences of appearance between present-day Native Americans and some ancient human remains.

Those differences convinced some archaeologists that ancient Americans came from Europe as well as Asia.

Recent DNA research, however, suggests that all of America's earliest dwellers had ancient roots in Asia.

The very first people to arrive in the Americas most likely did not come directly from Asia, however.

For thousands of years, their ancestors had lived in a land between Siberia and Alaska known as Beringia.

There they were penned in by vast ice sheets and developed in isolation, both culturally and physically.

When the ice age ended, Beringia began to disappear as sea levels rose.

The inhabitants left and spread swiftly through North and South America, scientists say.

Once situated in their new world, these founders — so-called Paleoamericans — began to change in appearance.

Over time, they gradually developed the features seen in modern Native Americans, the study's authors say.

The physical differences that have puzzled researchers for so many years are not the result of separate origins, they argue.

Naia's genetic connection to some modern-day Native Americans helps prove that common ancestry.

"Paleoamericans and Native Americans descended from the same homeland," study leader James Chatters said.

Paleoarchaeologist John Hoffecker said the paper would help reshape debate on the origins of the first Americans.

"For years archaeologists have been debating this transatlantic thing, and really it's been an enormous distraction," said Hoffecker.

"This helps us focus on Beringia, which is what we should have been doing all along."

Archaeologist Michael Waters said he was excited to see what further study of the girl's skull would reveal.

Researchers will be attempting to reconstruct her face, to show what she looked like when alive.

"That will be pretty interesting," Waters said.

"These early skeletons are so rare we have to really get as much information as we can from them."

Researchers are attempting further DNA research on the girl's skeleton.

The girl's remains are being stored in a laboratory in Mexico City's National Institute of Anthropology and History.

Initially, researchers hoped to leave the bones where the girl died, as would normally be done in such cases.

However, researchers discovered that unauthorized divers were entering the chamber and were damaging the girl's bones, study coauthor Pilar Luna Erreguerena said.

In March, her skull, jawbone and other bones were removed.

"We were forced to recover five pieces of Naia so far," she said.

