Hundreds of thousands of people work in nail salons every day in the United States.

Some of the things they use on nails are bad for a person's health.

They would be healthier if nail salons were more careful.

The workers use chemicals every day in small spaces.

The chemicals are dangerous and can make people sick.

There are a lot of problems in salons.

Dust from nails can get on skin and make it itchy.

The dust can also be breathed in.

Even if it is just a little bit of dust, it can harm the workers.

The dust has nasty chemicals in it.

Workers can breathe in harmful air from the salon.

The dust can get into eyes.

It can also be swallowed while eating or drinking.

Safety experts have made a list of all the bad things that nail salon workers use every day.

For most customers, these things are not dangerous.

But if the workers are too close to the chemicals, they can get sick.

Nail salons can help workers by having them wear safety clothes.

They can wear gloves and a mask on their faces.

Having lots of good air at work is also important.

This is found in oil, like we use in our cars.

It is also common in nail polish.

Breathing in large amounts of this can make someone sick.

Toluene hurts people's eyes, muscles and bones.

Formaldehyde can be found in nail polish.

It can also be added to a polish that helps nails become harder.

It can hurt the workers' eyes, skin and mouth.

If workers wear something on their faces they will be OK.

This chemical is often in plastic.

It can make plastic and nails softer and can make them easier to bend.

We still do not know exactly how it harms humans.

But we know it makes some animals very sick.

If it hurts animals, it might hurt humans as well.

Ethyl methacrylate (EMA) is a chemical in fake nails.

It is bad for both nail salon workers and their customers if they breathe it in.

To keep nail salon workers safe, they should be in a place with lots of fresh air.

Workers need to wear glasses and gloves to protect eyes and hands.

Although chemicals are dangerous, nail salon workers can have other problems.

They can get pains from bending over.

They can also get illnesses like colds from customers.

