City officials in Napa had long worried that the grand, historic Alexandria Square building could be devastated by a major earthquake.

So city officials required brick buildings such as the Alexandria, with its giant red-tiled cupolas, to be retrofitted.

Retrofitting buildings to make them stronger involves bolting brick walls to ceilings and floors.

The work on the 104-year-old Alexandria was completed years ago.

But when a magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck early Sunday morning, the walls on its top floors crumbled.

Bricks, and the mortar used to hold the bricks together, rained down onto the sidewalk and outdoor cafe.

The destruction highlights one of the greatest fears of engineers who deal in seismic activity caused by earthquakes.

Many have worried that retrofitting older buildings isn't enough.

It still leaves weak joints between bricks.

Whole chunks can fall, sending bricks crashing down.

"We can't keep every single brick in place in many of these older buildings without extraordinarily costly retrofits," said Fred Turner, an engineer with the California Seismic Safety Commission.

Turner says retrofits can only reduce the damage.

Many cities have laws requiring building owners to seismically retrofit them.

The work has prevented countless deaths by keeping these buildings from crashing to the ground.

Turner said the destruction in Napa would have been much worse without retrofitting.

Yet, portions of brick walls can still tumble.

The mortar holding the bricks together can give way during the shaking, Turner said.

Over time, mortar can break down and grow so weak that the bricks can begin to slide.

Turner said testing the mortar should at least be part of retrofitting brick buildings.

Building owners may need to replace and restore mortar.

Los Angeles passed a law in the early 1980s requiring brick buildings to be retrofitted.

When the 1994 Northridge quake hit, most had been strengthened.

Yet, even some retrofitted buildings were severely damaged.

Luckily, no one died inside them.

There are more costly ways to add stronger support to brick buildings.

Concrete or glue-like polymers can be added to the brick walls and braces can be installed.

But most cities require less-costly methods.

When the quake struck at 3:20 a.m., part of the Alexandria's third-story cupola collapsed onto the sidewalk below.

A restaurant beneath it has outdoor seating.

If the earthquake had struck when it was open, Mike DeSimoni Jr., the son of the property owner, said "we could have lost lots of people."

David Cocke, president of Structural Focus, an earthquake retrofit company, examined photos of the building.

Based on them, he said it appeared the mortar between the bricks had been in poor condition.

"There's a limit" to simple retrofits, said Cocke.

"No owner is going to spend the money to come in and make that particular building as strong as a hospital."

It's just too expensive, he said.

Napa has pushed to get its historic brick buildings retrofitted.

Out of 18 historic buildings, 12 have been strengthened, said Rick Tooker, a city official.

The retrofit deadline was in 2009, but three buildings are still not retrofitted.

The owner of those three buildings, Brian Silver, said he could not afford the $500,000 cost of retrofitting.

The buildings survived the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and the magnitude-5.2 Napa earthquake in 2000 with only minor damage, he said.

The earthquake Sunday tore a hole in the wall of one Silver's buildings.

Falling bricks from the building crushed a parked car.

Silver said he now has enough money to strengthen his buildings.

"I'm going to do it as quickly as I can."

Vintner's Collective, a wine bar in Napa, was still standing after the earthquake.

But part of the building's sandstone facade had crashed to the sidewalk in a pile of rubble.

Owner Kim Erasmy said the building was retrofitted before she bought it in 2002.

It may not have helped enough.

Now, city officials told her the building may be too unstable for her to go in.

"Everything that was original has crumbled," Erasmy said.

"Everything that makes it a historic building is gone."

