City officials in Napa had long worried that the grand building on the corner of Second and Brown streets could be devastated by a major earthquake.

So city officials required brick structures such as the historic Alexandria Square building, with giant red-tiled cupolas, to be retrofitted.

Retrofitting buildings makes them better able to withstand the seismic activity caused by earthquakes.

The retrofitting involves bolting brick walls to ceilings and floors.

The work was completed years ago on the 104-year-old Alexandria.

But when a magnitude 6.0 earthquake struck early Sunday morning, the walls on its top floors crumbled.

Bricks, and the mortar used to hold the bricks together, rained down onto the sidewalk and outdoor cafe.

The destruction highlights one of the greatest fears of seismic engineers — that the retrofitting isn't enough.

It still leaves weak joints between bricks.

Whole chunks can fall, sending bricks crashing down.

"We can't keep every single brick in place in many of these older buildings without extraordinarily costly retrofits," said Fred Turner, structural engineer with the California Seismic Safety Commission.

Turner says the damage can only be reduced.

Many cities have laws requiring owners to retrofit their brick buildings.

The work has prevented countless deaths by keeping these buildings from pancaking to the ground.

Turner said the destruction in Napa would have been much worse without retrofitting.

But portions of brick walls can still tumble if the mortar holding the bricks together gives way during the shaking, Turner said.

Mortar can break down over time and grow so weak that the bricks can begin to slide.

Los Angeles passed a law in the early 1980s requiring brick buildings to be retrofitted.

When the 1994 Northridge quake hit, most had been strengthened.

But even some retrofitted buildings were severely damaged, though no one died inside them.

There are more costly ways to better retrofit brick buildings, such as adding concrete or glue-like polymers to the brick walls or installing diagonal braces.

But most cities require less-strict, less-costly rules.

The Alexandria Square building had been retrofitted more than 10 years ago, said Mike DeSimoni Jr., the son of the property owner.

The three-story building houses a wine bar, a bar and grill, and offices.

When the quake struck at 3:20 a.m., part of the third-story cupola collapsed onto the sidewalk below.

A restaurant beneath it has outdoor seating during the summer months.

If the earthquake had struck at any other time, DeSimoni said, "we could have lost lots of people."

Based on photos of the building, David Cocke, president of Structural Focus, an earthquake retrofit company, said it appeared the mortar between the bricks had been in poor condition.

"There's a limit to that level of retrofit," said Cocke.

"If the shaking is strong enough, it could still result in a dangerous situation.

And no owner is going to spend the money to come in and make that particular building as strong as a hospital."

It's just too expensive, he said.

Officials said a standard part of retrofitting brick buildings should be to test the mortar.

"Owners need to be prepared to replace and restore that mortar to a safe condition.

That's a very expensive undertaking," Turner said.

Napa officials have pushed to get its historic brick buildings retrofitted; out of 18 historic buildings, 12 have been strengthened, said Rick Tooker, the city's director of community development.

The retrofit deadline was in 2009.

But three buildings were still in the process of retrofit planning.

The owner of those three buildings, Brian Silver, said he had not been able to afford the $500,000 cost of retrofitting.

He added that the design of the buildings, from the early 1900s, comes close to Napa's current seismic code, including steel-reinforced beams and plates connecting the walls to the floor.

The buildings survived the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and the magnitude-5.2 Napa earthquake in 2000 with only minor damage, he said.

The earthquake Sunday tore a hole in the wall of one his buildings.

Falling bricks from the building crushed a parked car.

Silver said he now has enough money to pay for strengthening his buildings.

"I'm going to do it as quickly as I can.

I was planning on remodeling my house," he said with a laugh, "but I think that will have to wait."

Vintner's Collective, a wine tasting room in downtown Napa, was still standing after the earthquake.

But the upper-right of the building's handsome sandstone facade had crashed to the sidewalk in a pile of rubble.

Owner Kim Erasmy said the building was retrofitted before she bought it in 2002, but now city officials told her the building may be too unstable for her to go in.

"Everything that was original has crumbled," Erasmy said.

"Everything that makes it a historic building is gone."

