It was just another average Friday morning in Chelyabinsk, Russia, when suddenly a fireball brighter than the sun streaked across the sky.

Residents were still confused by the giant firework they had just witnessed when minutes later there was a huge explosion in the air.

The force of this sonic boom smashed windows and blew the doors off buildings.

The blinding light and deafening noise were caused by an asteroid moving at a rate of 40,000 miles per hour as it entered Earth's atmosphere.

This 50-foot wide rock burned up in a flash before exploding 14 miles above Chelyabinsk in Russia's Ural Mountains.

Small fragments from the asteroid have been found on the ground all around the region.

About 1,500 people were injured by the explosion above their heads.

Most of the wounded were hurt by falling or broken glass, as about 7,200 buildings were damaged by the air blast.

Scientists had not detected this asteroid before it entered the planet's atmosphere, so nothing could be done to protect people from this unwanted visitor.

While the incident in Chelyabinsk sounds frightening enough, the consequences could have been much worse if the rock had broken up closer to Earth or crashed into the ground.

Dramatic videos of the meteor, recorded from schools, cars and offices, have caught the attention of people all around the world.

Since then, politicians and scientists have convened to talk about how to deal with this threat from space.

Last week, a U.S. House of Representatives Science Committee hearing was held in response to the Russian asteroid.

But the news from the meeting was not very reassuring.

Charles Bolden, the chief of NASA, said that our planet is defenseless against an undetected meteor.

Bolden was asked what he could do if there was an unexpected asteroid on a collision course with Earth.

"If it's coming in three weeks, pray," he replied.

NASA has discovered and is monitoring 95 percent of the biggest objects near Earth.

Yet the biggest danger from space is the rocks that scientists do not yet know about.

Asteroids that are a kilometer or larger in diameter are very closely tracked.

It is vital that they are kept under careful watch because if an asteroid that size hits Earth, it could wipe out the human species.

White House science adviser John Holdren explained: "An asteroid of that size, or bigger, could plausibly end civilization."

Indeed, many scientists believe that a huge meteorite crashed into what is now known as Mexico 66 million years ago.

This created a massive impact that changed Earth's climate so significantly that nearly all animal and plant life on the planet was obliterated.

This triggered the extinction of the dinosaurs.

Scientists are keeping tabs on the big asteroids that could destroy humankind.

But smaller space rocks, with a diameter of about 165 feet, could still cause huge damage to one city or region.

These asteroids are nicknamed "city killers."

It is estimated that they will only hit Earth once every 1,000 years.

Yet at last week's hearing, Holdren said that scientists only know of about 10 percent of an estimated 10,000 of these asteroids.

So that leaves 9,000 dangerous rocks that we cannot track.

NASA chief Bolden said that one of the reasons that the planet is unprepared to face asteroids is that his space agency has not been granted enough government money.

"The reason I can't do anything in the next three weeks is because for decades we have put it off," Bolden told the politicians.

Space exploration is very expensive and in recent years government money has been in very short supply.

Congress has cut back on how much funding it has granted NASA.

But following the concern caused by the unexpected Russian meteor, NASA is now putting more emphasis on asteroid impact avoidance, or how to stop rocks from space from crashing into Earth.

Experts have researched many ways of diverting a meteor from dangerous path, such as blowing up the rock with nuclear weapons.

Other possible methods include smashing into it with another heavy object, firing lasers at it, disintegrating it with solar power, or even attaching huge weights to the rock to change its direction.

Stopping asteroids from hitting earth is now possible, but only if we have plenty of warning.

To that end, groups of scientists are working on better telescopes and monitoring methods to identify and track potentially dangerous rocks.

While NASA says Earth may be currently defenseless against undetected meteors, a lot of people are working very hard to change this, and not just in the United States.

Russia announced earlier in March that it is developing a new program to defend against space threats.

It is expected to be launched in 2018.

Further international anti-asteroid cooperation is also planned.

