It was just a regular Friday morning in Chelyabinsk, Russia.

Suddenly, a fireball brighter than the sun raced across the sky.

Minutes later there was a huge explosion in the air.

The force of the boom smashed windows and blew the doors off buildings.

The blinding light and loud boom were caused by an asteroid.

The 50-foot-wide rock was moving at 40,000 miles per hour as it entered the Earth's atmosphere.

It burned up in a flash before exploding 14 miles up in the air.

Small parts of the asteroid have been found on the ground all around the region.

About 1,500 people were injured by the explosion.

Most of the wounded were hurt by broken glass.

About 7,200 buildings were damaged.

Scientists are worried that they did not know this asteroid was coming.

There was no way to warn people about the bright light or the big explosion.

The incident was frightening.

Yet if the rock had crashed into the Earth many more residents would have been hurt.

Many people recorded videos of the meteor from their cars, schools and offices.

These dramatic videos have now been watched all around the world on the Internet.

Last week, politicians and scientists met to talk about dangerous asteroids.

But the news from the meeting was not very hopeful.

Charles Bolden is the chief of NASA.

He said that no one could do very much about an asteroid that we do not know is coming.

Bolden was asked what he could do to protect our planet from an undetected asteroid that was heading toward us.

He replied: "If it's coming in three weeks, pray."

NASA has found and is watching 95 percent of the biggest asteroids near Earth.

These huge rocks measure at least one kilometer through the middle.

It is very important that these big asteroids are watched closely.

If an asteroid that big hit the Earth, it could wipe out every animal and every human being.

Scientist John Holdren said, "An asteroid of that size, or bigger, could end civilization."

Many experts believe that such a rock crashed into Earth 66 million years ago.

This caused a huge impact that possibly led to the extinction of the dinosaurs.

Still, Earth residents mostly can rest easy.

Scientists are closely watching the big space rocks that could make humans extinct.

But smaller asteroids could still cause huge damage if they crashed into our planet.

These rocks have a diameter of about 165 feet.

They are nicknamed "city killers."

One scientist said last week that we know of about 10 percent of these asteroids.

There are 10,000 of these rocks near Earth in space.

So that leaves 9,000 dangerous asteroids that we do not even know about.

Bolden, the NASA boss, said that his agency has not had enough money from the government.

He said that NASA needed more money to find the asteroids.

"The reason I can't do anything in the next three weeks is because for decades we have put it off," Bolden said.

Space exploration is expensive.

In recent years money has been in very short supply.

The U.S. government has cut back funding for NASA.

The scary asteroid in Russia gave NASA the chance to show why its research is important.

Experts have looked into many ways of making sure an asteroid does not hit our planet.

They could blow up the rock with nuclear weapons or smash it with a heavy object.

They could fire lasers at the rock or use the power of the sun to break it up.

Some scientists have even suggested attaching huge weights to the asteroid to change its direction.

Using any of those methods requires lots of advance warning.

Scientists need to know when an asteroid is heading toward us.

For this reason, many groups of scientists are also working on better telescopes and ways to track potentially dangerous rocks.

NASA may not be getting all the money it needs for research.

But there is still a lot of brainpower working very hard on protecting Earth from asteroids,  and it is not just in the United States.

Experts in Russia are researching a new program to defend against space threats.

It is expected to start by 2018.

When it comes to research, worldwide cooperation is needed.

Asteroids do not care which country they strike.

The planet is all in it together.

