For hundreds of years, human beings have speculated about whether there may be other forms of life somewhere out in the universe.

But so far, we only know of one planet, Earth, and just one star, our sun, which have the necessary conditions to sustain animals or plants.

So in 2009 NASA launched the Kepler mission, a space observatory that continuously monitors more than 150,000 stars, specifically searching for planets like Earth that could host life.

On April 18, NASA announced that it had made some important progress.

No, the space agency did not discover any little green men or other alien life forms.

But the astronomers did reveal that they have found three planets, bigger than Earth, that exist in a "habitable zone."

A habitable zone is defined as the area near a star where temperatures and conditions are suitable for a planet to hold liquid water, which is very important for sustaining life.

The Kepler telescope spotted three such planets, known as Kepler-62e, 62f and 69c.

These new discoveries exist in two different planetary systems: the Kepler-62 system, which has five planets, and the Kepler-69 system with two planets.

"All these planets that we're finding are quite different than planets in our own solar system," William Borucki, principal investigator at NASA's Ames Research Center in Moffett Field, California, told CNN.

But of the three new worlds, experts believe that Kepler-62f is the most similar to Earth and it is calculated to be only about 40 percent bigger than our planet.

Borucki added that 62f might be rocky, with polar regions, land mass and seas.

That sounds very familiar, doesn't it?

Borucki told the press conference that if you were standing on the surface of 62f the star it orbits would appear larger in the sky than the sun does from Earth, but that "the illumination level would be like walking around on Earth on a cloudy day."

The second planet, Kepler-62e, is thought to be 60 percent bigger than Earth.

This one, like the third discovery, Kepler-69c, is possibly a "water world."

Both planets could have oceans that are thousands of miles deep.

No one can be sure what sort of creatures may inhabit these huge seas.

Scientists are excited by Kepler-69c, as it seems to orbit a star that is similar to our sun.

But atmospheric conditions on 69c are thought to be much warmer than on Earth.

This planet is estimated to be 70 percent bigger than our own.

"The Kepler spacecraft has certainly turned out to be a rock star of science," said John Grunsfeld, an astronomer at NASA headquarters in Washington.

"The discovery of these rocky planets in the habitable zone brings us a bit closer to finding a place like home.

It is only a matter of time before we know if the galaxy is home to a multitude of planets like Earth, or if we are a rarity."

The telescope on the Kepler mission finds new planets by watching thousands of stars simultaneously.

The brightness of a star changes in intensity when an object, such as a planet, passes in front of it.

By using sophisticated methods of analysis and calculation, astronomers can work out the size and position of the passing planet.

So far, the Kepler craft has identified 122 confirmed new planets.

"The detection and confirmation of planets is an enormously collaborative effort of talent and resources, and requires expertise from across the scientific community to produce these tremendous results," said Borucki.

"Kepler has brought a resurgence of astronomical discoveries and we are making excellent progress toward determining if planets like ours are the exception or the rule," he added.

While these planets are important discoveries, they are also a very long way from home.

The star that Kepler-62e and 62f orbit is 1,200 light-years away.

The second planetary system, which contains Kepler-69c, is 2,700 light-years from Earth.

A light-year is a measure of distance, rather than time, and is calculated as the distance that a ray of light can travel in a vacuum in one year.

One light-year is nearly 6 trillion miles.

If you were wondering, it is true that these exciting new planets do not have very exciting names.

Recent astronomical finds are usually numbered first, then given more interesting titles later.

The person who first discovered the planet, asteroid or other object is usually allowed to choose its new name.

They often decide to christen the discovery after themselves, friends or family.

That is some inspiration for looking into space: imagine having an asteroid named after you forever.

For now, Kepler-62e, 62f and 69c are known as numbers rather than names.

But they may turn out to be hugely important in the future.

In fact, they might even be the homes of our nearest living neighbors.

