In the next 20 years, astronauts may travel to Mars or to an asteroid.

But they face many dangers to their health by taking such long space journeys.

Space radiation can make them sick.

Long periods in zero gravity can cause bone loss.

Their vision can become blurred.

To make decisions about the risks, NASA asked a group of doctors to develop guidelines.

The results were released Wednesday in a report.

Long spaceflights will likely put crews in some danger, the report said.

Missions may include long stays on the International Space Station, journeys to an asteroid or even to Mars.

Some of the dangers are known.

Other dangers cannot even be imagined.

Radiation in deep space is one of the biggest problems preventing deep space travel.

Radiation comes from the energy in space.

It can cause many health problems, including cancer.

On Earth, there are limits about how much radiation a person can get.

But that's just a short list of the health dangers.

What happens to a person's mind when cooped up for a long time on board a spacecraft?

The report suggests the space agency should put astronauts in as little danger as possible.

Also, the risks must be worth it.

More good than harm should come from the missions.

NASA must also be open about what's going on.

It should tell astronauts about the possible dangers.

Act responsibly, the experts told NASA.

And don't try to hide anything.

With long space trips, astronauts may spend more time in space than is safe.

And this creates a problem for NASA.

In 2011, NASA sent a rover to Mars.

The car-sized rover, called Curiosity, is sending back information about Mars to Earth.

A study tracked the Curiosity rover's radiation levels on its way to Mars.

It found that astronauts may be exposed to more radiation on a round-trip journey to Mars than is safe.

This means scientists may have to figure out how to shorten the trip to Mars or better protect astronauts from radiation.

NASA could also increase the amount radiation that is considered safe.

So what does NASA do?

Lower the current limits?

Change the radiation limits for long-distance space travel?

No go, the report said.

Relaxing the safety rules would not be good.

NASA might allow special cases, the committee said.

But there should be very few special cases.

They should also follow the guidelines.

The agency should offer lifetime health care for its astronauts.

Also, different astronauts may have different levels of risk.

NASA should constantly check the astronauts.

NASA should also collect health information about them.

In spaceflight, there always has been great risk, the authors pointed out.

And there will continue to be great risk.

Spaceflight has always pushed the bounds of health and safety.

