It might not sound interesting to bring groceries to astronauts.

It is certainly not as exciting as carrying the astronauts into space.

Still, some companies want the job.

NASA is the U.S. space agency.

It is having a competition for companies.

Winning companies will get to fly food and supplies to the International Space Station in rocket ships.

The companies will have to show NASA their plans.

They have to build rocket ships that can travel to space without a pilot.

If NASA likes their plans, the company will be hired.

NASA will pay them a lot of money for the work.

Experts say the competition among the companies is a good sign.

They think that in the future, businesses will provide space travel.

In the past, the government sent astronauts into space through NASA.

But NASA is not getting enough money from the government these days to do all of the projects it wants to do.

Instead, it is using other companies to help.

Even giant companies want the job.

Boeing and Lockheed Martin are large businesses.

They often make planes and weapons for the U.S. military.

NASA has asked for help from other companies in the past.

But Boeing and Lockheed have not tried to work with NASA until now.

Military companies like Lockheed Martin and Boeing want to go to space.

New space startup companies want the work, too.

It seems that a race to get to space has begun.

Years ago, NASA created a plan.

It wanted to give people from companies the job of taking supplies to the space station.

NASA said it did not have enough money to deliver supplies.

Some lawmakers disagreed with NASA.

They argued that businesses could not be trusted with such important work.

They said spaceflight should be left to NASA.

Since then, NASA has worked with outside companies.

Their work has helped to start many new space businesses.

For the past few years, two companies have been sending supplies to the space station.

One of them is SpaceX.

The company is run by a billionaire named Elon Musk.

So far, SpaceX has made five trips to the space station and the company is set for a sixth trip in April.

Orbital ATK is the other company that got the job delivering supplies.

Last year, its rocket exploded just after takeoff.

There was no one on board.

Still, the explosion made people doubt NASA.

They wondered whether NASA should be using so many companies for space work.

One reason it uses other companies is that people at NASA are excited by SpaceX's success.

Another reason is that the work is also needed.

The government has given NASA less money to spend.

NASA has to hire businesses to do the work, experts say.

The space startup companies are able to get money from other companies or banks.

A few years ago, people were not as interested.

People did not think a company could make money building rocket ships.

SpaceX changed that.

The company's successful rocket launches made it famous.

It also showed that people can make money with space.

Last year, NASA gave contracts to SpaceX and Boeing to take astronauts to the space station.

Now, it is looking for another company to work with for transporting supplies.

Boeing believes it has a good shot.

The company recently took astronauts to the space station.

Its CST-100 rocket was originally made for astronauts.

It could easily be rebuilt to handle supplies, said John Mulholland.

He helps lead Boeing's space programs.

Orbital ATK said it has a good shot, too.

"We've proven the system works and works extremely well," spokesman Barron Beneskin said.

"NASA knew we were a partner they could rely on."

A spokesman for SpaceX would not say whether it will apply for the contract.

Many experts think it definitely will.

Lockheed Martin, the huge military company, is interested as well.

The company is promising to show a small group of people its rocket idea this week.

