It was just another average Friday morning in Chelyabinsk, Russia.

Suddenly, a fireball brighter than the sun streaked across the sky.

Residents were still confused by the giant firework they had just seen when minutes later there was a huge explosion in the air.

The force of this deafening sonic boom smashed windows and blew the doors off buildings.

The blinding light and loud boom were caused by an asteroid moving at 40,000 miles per hour as it entered Earth's atmosphere.

This 50-foot wide rock burned up in a flash before exploding 14 miles above Russia's Ural Mountains.

Small parts of the asteroid have been found on the ground all around the region.

Around 1,500 people were injured by the explosion.

Most of the wounded were hurt by broken glass.

About 7,200 buildings were damaged by the blast.

Scientists are worried that they had not detected this asteroid before it arrived.

So nothing could be done to protect people from this unwanted visitor.

For the people in Chelyabinsk, it was frightening enough.

However, if the rock had exploded closer to the ground or crashed to Earth, many more residents would have been hurt.

Many people recorded videos of the meteor from their schools, cars and offices.

These dramatic scenes have now been watched on the Internet all around the world.

Last week, politicians and scientists met to talk about dangers of asteroids at a government hearing.

But the news from the meeting was not very reassuring.

Charles Bolden, the chief of NASA, said that Earth is defenseless against an asteroid that we do not know is coming.

Bolden was asked what he could do if there was an unexpected asteroid on a collision course with Earth.

"If it's coming in three weeks, pray," he replied.

NASA has found and is watching 95 percent of the biggest asteroids near Earth.

These huge rocks are a kilometer or larger in diameter and are under careful observation.

Keeping a close eye on these asteroids is essential.

If a meteor that big hit Earth it could wipe out the human species.

Scientist John Holdren explained: "An asteroid of that size, or bigger, could end civilization."

Many experts believe that such a rock crashed into Earth 66 million years ago.

The impact likely triggered the extinction of the dinosaurs.

Authorities are closely watching the biggest space rocks that could lead to human extinction.

Yet smaller asteroids could still cause huge damage to an entire city or region.

These rocks have a diameter of about 165 feet.

They are nicknamed "city killers."

Holdren said last week that scientists are aware of about 10 percent of these asteroids.

There are an estimated 10,000 of these rocks near Earth in space.

So that makes 9,000 asteroids near our planet that we do not even know about.

Bolden, the NASA chief, said that prayer is the best he can offer because his space agency does not have enough funding.

NASA needs more money to find the asteroids.

"The reason I can't do anything in the next three weeks is because for decades we have put it off," Bolden told the meeting last week.

Space exploration is very expensive and in recent years money has been in very short supply.

The U.S. government has cut back on how much financial support it has given NASA.

The Russian asteroid incident gave NASA a chance to show why its research is necessary.

Many experts have looked into many ways of making sure an asteroid does not hit our planet.

They could blow up the meteor with nuclear weapons, smash it with a heavy object, fire lasers at it or use solar power to break it up.

Some scientists have even suggested attaching huge weights to the asteroid to change its direction away from Earth.

Still, using any of these methods requires lots of advance warning.

For this reason many groups of scientists are also working on better telescopes and ways to track potentially dangerous rocks.

Groups of dedicated scientists are working hard on protecting Earth from asteroids, and not just in the United States.

Experts in Russia are also researching a new program to defend against threats from space.

It is expected to be in operation by 2018.

Asteroids could be damaging to the whole planet.

Worldwide cooperation will go a long way in reducing the threat.

