NASA's newest robotic explorer rocketed into space late Friday from Virginia, dazzling sky watchers along the East Coast.

But the LADEE spacecraft quickly ran into equipment trouble.

NASA assured everyone early Saturday that the spacecraft was safe and on a perfect track for the moon.

But officials acknowledged the problem needs to be resolved in the next two to three weeks.

S. Peter Worden, director of NASA's Ames Research Center in California, told reporters he's confident everything will be working properly in the next few days.

The spacecraft was developed at Ames.

LADEE's reaction wheels were turned on to stabilize the spacecraft.

LADEE had been spinning too fast after it separated from the final rocket stage, Worden said.

But the computer automatically shut the wheels down, apparently because of excess current.

He speculated the wheels may have been running a little fast.

Worden stressed there is no rush to "get these bugs ironed out."

The LADEE spacecraft is charged with studying the moon's atmosphere and dust.

It soared aboard an unmanned Minotaur rocket a little before midnight from Virginia's Eastern Shore.

"Godspeed on your journey to the moon, LADEE," Launch Control said.

Flight controllers applauded and exchanged high-fives following the successful launch.

"We are headed to the moon!"

NASA said in a tweet.

NASA normally launches moon missions from Cape Canaveral, Fla.

So the launch provided a rare light show in parts of the East Coast with clear skies.

NASA urged sky watchers to share their launch pictures through the website Flickr.

Photos and sighting reports quickly poured in.

The Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer or LADEE, pronounced "LA'-dee," is taking the long way to the moon.

It will make three huge laps around Earth before getting close enough to pop into the moon's orbit.

The Apollo flights to the moon took three days.

LADEE will need a full month to reach Earth's closest neighbor.

An Air Force Minotaur V rocket provided the ride from NASA's Wallops Flight Facility.

LADEE, which is the size of a small car, is expected to reach the moon on Oct. 6.

Scientists want to learn the composition of the moon's ever-so-delicate atmosphere and how it might change over time.

Another puzzle dates back decades.

Scientists want to find out whether dust actually rises from the moon's surface.

The $280 million moon-orbiting mission will last six months and then LADEE will take a suicide plunge into the moon.

The 844-pound spacecraft has three science instruments.

It also has laser communication test equipment that could revolutionize how information is sent from space.

NASA hopes to eventually replace its traditional radio systems with laser communications, which would be faster and use significantly less power and smaller devices.

"There's no question that as we send humans farther out into the solar system, certainly to Mars," that laser communications will be needed to send high-definition and 3-D video, said NASA's science mission chief, John Grunsfeld.

It was an important night for Wallops, which was making its first deep-space liftoff.

All of its previous launches were confined to Earth orbit.

"It was just a beautiful evening," said Grunsfeld,  who is a former astronaut who worked on the Hubble Space Telescope.

NASA chose Wallops for LADEE because of the Minotaur V rocket.

The rocket is made up of converted intercontinental ballistic missile motors belonging to the Air Force.

A U.S.-Russian treaty limits the number of launch sites for rockets with such missile parts.

All but one of NASA's previous moon missions since 1959, including the manned Apollo flights of the late 1960s and early 1970s, originated from Cape Canaveral.

The most recent were the twin Grail spacecraft launched almost exactly two years ago.

The military-NASA Clementine rocketed away from Southern California in 1994.

Wallops will be back in the spotlight in less than two weeks.

The Virginia-based Orbital Sciences will make its first delivery to the International Space Station, using its own Antares rocket and Cygnus capsule.

That commercial launch is scheduled for Sept. 17.

