The International Space Station might just get four more years in orbit.

NASA plans to announce this week that the White House wants to extend the station by four years.

That will extend its work to 2024.

NASA considers the station necessary to explore space in the future.

But extending it by four years likely would cost NASA about $3 billion a year from 2021 to 2024.

That's a big chunk of money.

Right now, NASA spends about $17 billion a year.

The government's approval, however, doesn't mean that the station will last past its current end date of 2020.

At some point, Congress must decide how much NASA spends.

And that could affect whether the station's life gets extended.

The space station has been occupied nonstop since 2000.

It orbits about 220 miles above Earth.

The plan also must get the support of whoever wins the White House in 2016.

However, it may be hard for the next president to go back on the decision, now that it has President Barack Obama's support.

Other countries use the space station.

Some have wondered how long the U.S. plans to keep the station going.

This decision may help them decide on funding for their space programs, said NASA chief Charlie Bolden.

The announcement also could send a signal to China.

It's NASA's latest rival in space.

In 2003, China became just the third country to launch an astronaut into space.

And China reportedly is making plans to build its own space station in several years.

By keeping the space station going, NASA can compete with China.

It might make it harder for the Chinese to get other countries to be partners in its own space station.

Extending the station will also give a boost to NASA.

The agency has struggled in the past few years.

NASA stopped flying the space shuttle in 2011.

With that, the U.S. lost the ability to send its own astronauts to the station.

NASA is paying Russia about $1.7 billion through 2017 to transport them.

In a few years, NASA hopes to hire private "space taxis" to do that job.

Instead of paying Russia, it will use U.S. companies.

SpaceX from California is one of them.

But it's unlikely those spacecraft will be ready before 2017.

Keeping the station going until 2024 gives these U.S. companies a chance to fly the NASA missions for several years.

NASA officials said they were confident they could keep the station in space for years.

It has had troubles from time to time though.

For instance, last month a problem had to be repaired by spacewalking astronauts.

But, a report in December found that the station could be kept going through at least 2028.

Adding four years to the station also would help NASA get back money it spent on the station.

In its early years, little science was done aboard the station.

In 2008, the crew averaged only three hours of science work a week.

Now the six-member team is doing at least 50 hours weekly.

The science work includes observing Earth.

And the team studies cosmic rays, which are high energy particles that travel through space.

They can also study the effect of spaceflight on astronauts' health.

Figuring out how space affects humans will be especially important if NASA ever plans an expedition to Mars.

A round trip to that planet would likely take years.

And it could be dangerous to space explorers in several ways.

One of those ways could be radiation.

Astronauts have been doing shifts on board the station for more than 10 years.

They often last six months at a time.

Over that time, the station has recorded the health history of space travelers.

Leroy Chiao was once a NASA astronaut.

He was commander of the space station in 2004 and 2005.

He said the station is priceless.

It can help NASA find ways to fight bone loss and muscle mass loss It may help solve other physical problems caused by spaceflight.

For instance, some astronauts develop vision problems after being in orbit for awhile.

Chiao said that four extra years could help solve that problem.

He called the decision "a big important step."

