NASA's newest unmanned explorer rocketed into space late Friday from Virginia.

It dazzled sky watchers along the East Coast.

But the LADEE spacecraft quickly had equipment trouble.

NASA assured everyone early Saturday that the spacecraft was safe and on a perfect track for the moon.

But the problems need to  be fixed in the next two to three weeks, officials said.

S. Peter Worden runs NASA's Ames Research Center in California.

LADEE was developed there.

Worder told reporters he's confident everything will be working properly in the next few days.

LADEE had been spinning too fast when it separated from the rocket that carried it from Earth, Worden said.

Special wheels were turned on to fix this.

They are called "reaction wheels."

But then the computer automatically shut the wheels down.

Apparently, there was too much electricity.

Worden said the wheels may have been running a little fast.

Worden said there is no rush to "get these bugs ironed out."

LADEE's mission is to study the moon's atmosphere and dust.

Flight controllers applauded and exchanged high-fives following the successful launch.

"We are headed to the moon!"

NASA said in a tweet.

NASA normally launches moon missions from Florida.

So the launch provided a rare light show in parts of the East Coast with clear skies.

NASA urged sky watchers to share their launch pictures on the Internet.

Photos and sighting reports quickly poured in.

LADEE stands for "Lunar Atmosphere and Dust Environment Explorer."

It is pronounced "LA'-dee."

The spacecraft is taking the long way to the moon.

It will make three huge laps around Earth before getting close enough to pop into the moon's orbit.

The Apollo flights to the moon took three days.

LADEE will need a full month to reach Earth's closest neighbor.

LADEE was launched on an Air Force Minotaur V rocket.

It took off from from NASA's Wallops Flight Facility.

LADEE, which is the size of a small car, is expected to reach the moon on Oct. 6.

Scientists want to learn the composition of the moon's delicate atmosphere and how it might change over time.

Another puzzle dates back many years.

Scientists want to find out whether dust actually rises from the moon's surface.

The $280 million moon-orbiting mission will last six months.

Then LADEE will plunge into the moon.

The 844-pound spacecraft has three science instruments.

It also has laser communication test equipment that could revolutionize how information is sent from space.

NASA hopes to eventually replace its traditional radio systems with laser communications, which would be faster and use significantly less power and smaller devices.

Laser communications will be needed to send high-definition and 3-D video as humans head further into the universe, especially to Mars, said NASA's science mission chief, John Grunsfeld.

He is a former astronaut who worked on the Hubble Space Telescope.

It was the first deep-space liftoff at Wallops.

All of its previous launches were confined to Earth orbit.

"It was just a beautiful evening," Grunsfeld said.

NASA chose Wallops for LADEE because of the Minotaur V rocket.

It is made up of converted missile motors belonging to the Air Force.

A U.S.-Russian treaty limits the number of launch sites for rockets with such missile parts.

All but one of NASA's previous moon missions since 1959 originated from Cape Canaveral.

Those include the famous manned Apollo flights of the late 1960s and early 1970s.

The most recent were the twin Grail spacecraft launched almost exactly two years ago.

The military-NASA Clementine rocketed away from Southern California in 1994.

Wallops will be back in the spotlight in less than two weeks.

Virginia-based Orbital Sciences will make its first delivery to the International Space Station, using its own Antares rocket and Cygnus capsule.

That commercial launch is scheduled for Sept. 17.

