It takes a lot of math and physics to get a race car to finish 200 laps at speeds that can top 200 miles per hour.

To teach the often overlooked science behind races like this past Sunday's Daytona 500, NASCAR announced that it will promote STEM inside classrooms and out.

STEM is short for science, technology, engineering and math.

The NASCAR Acceleration Nation initiative focuses on the three D's of speed — downforce, drafting and drag.

Downforce is the downward thrust created by a car.

Drafting is the principle that two or more cars move faster when they are lined up.

Drag is the force of resistance.

Race cars have to push through a lot of air, which slows them down.

The effort is a way for NASCAR to show the fun side of engineering and math, said Brent Dewar, NASCAR's chief operating officer.

He said the racing organization wants to encourage fans to view NASCAR in a new way.

"A lot of people see cars racing and they love the sport for the sporting element of cars winning, and racing and passing," Dewar said.

"Behind all of that is pure science.

It's the horsepower, and it's drag and it's aerodynamics."

Driver Carl Edwards was a substitute teacher in Columbia, Missouri, long before he became known for his back-flip off cars after winning races.

For him, one of the biggest teaching challenges was keeping students' attention.

He hopes that bringing race cars into science discussions will spark interest.

Edwards said that with every lap around the race track, science is involved.

Race car drivers must track the probability of crashing at different parts of the race, as well as the amount of fuel used by the engine at different speeds.

Although he said he still uses the science and math he learned in school, Edwards wishes he had learned even more.

"You can take any part of the car and talk about how it was engineered and why it's designed the way it is to interact with the rest of the race car," he said.

"And there's a physics or a math or a science lesson in any of that."

As part of the initiative, NASCAR partnered with educational publisher Scholastic Corporation to develop fact sheets and quizzes primarily for middle school teachers.

The lessons will be focused on aerodynamics, the science of how air affects a moving object.

One example asks why can race cars in a drafting formation lined up behind each other go faster than cars moving solo?

The answer is that the air acts like a vacuum and sucks trailing cars forward.

Leading cars also get a boost because the trailing cars push high-pressure air over the leading cars' spoilers.

Those are the wings at the back of a car that prevents it from flying into the air.

Initially, about 7,400 kits will be mailed to teachers.

They can also go online to download the material and view demonstrations.

The effort includes a website for fans with math and other games, and an interactive play area that children and teens can visit on race days.

NASCAR's program is part of a larger push in both the private and public sectors to promote STEM education.

There is concern that the United States is falling behind in these areas.

Many jobs are expected to be created in those fields and people must be educated to fill them.

Michael Lynch, a NASCAR executive involved with the effort, said NASCAR is tracking how students do on a quiz before and after using the material.

It wants to see what works and what needs to be changed.

NASCAR would not say how much it is spending on the STEM-related activities.

