The Urban Inter-Tribal Center of Texas is a health care clinic, but it looks more like a shoe store.

There are orange boxes fulls of Nike sneakers along the wall.

The Nikes aren't normal shoes.

They are specially designed for the patients of this health clinic in Dallas.

The shoes are made out of beige fabric that resembles buckskin leather.

There is a pattern on the toe that looks like the North Star.

The clinic is changing the way it provides care to meet the needs of its patients.

The sneakers are one way the center is encouraging people to stay healthy.

The shoes are designed to prevent foot amputations.

Amputations are a common issue for people with diabetes, so the clinic gives the shoes out to people who suffer from diabetes to reduce the number of foot surgeries.

The sneakers are "an awesome deal," says Don Shelton, 73, of Fort Worth, Texas.

Shelton is member of a local American Indian tribe and attends nutrition classes at the clinic.

The center offers different types of programs to meet the unique needs of American Indian patients.

It provides basic medical, dental and pharmacy services to members of local Indian tribes.

Without the clinic, these patients would have to travel hours to receive free health care from other facilities.

The clinic also celebrates tribal culture and American Indian heritage.

Tribal artwork hangs on the walls and traditional crops grow in the new community garden.

American Indians face different health challenges compared to Americans.

That is one of the reasons the Urban Inter-Tribal Center is important.

Dr. Rodney Stapp, the center's CEO, says that history may be to blame for some of the health issues that the clinic's patients now face.

According to Stapp, the federal government is partly at fault.

The government used to push American Indians to live together on special areas of land, called reservations.

People had to move away from their homes and start over on the reservations.

Their lifestyles changed in drastic ways.

Before they moved, many American Indians were hunter-gathers.

On the reservations, they were forced to become farmers who were less physically active.

This changed how the people got their food, what they ate and their physical lifestyle.

The government also introduced flour as a cooking ingredient to the tribes and distributed low-quality food to those on the reservations.

Many American Indians felt trapped by the federal government.

Mental health problems, alcoholism, and smoking and tobacco use become frequent problems on the reservations.

Stapp decided to become a doctor to address these problems.

He also worked with Nike to develop these special shoes for diabetic patients.

He says the shoes, which also help prevent foot ulcers, are designed for American Indian feet.

According to Stapp, American Indian feet are wider at the heel.

He says the shoes have reduced the number of foot amputations at the clinic.

One of the clinic's patients is Patsy Smith, 62, of the Oak Cliff neighborhood in Dallas.

Smith has been getting treated at the center for 45 years.

Going to the clinic, she said, feels like "going back home."

Another patient, Norma Ortiz, 73 and a member of the Choctaw tribe, has also used the center's services for years.

"A lot of the elders feel better getting their care there.

I always feel good going there myself.

You feel better being among Indians," she said.

Today, the clinic offers more than health services.

In addition to medical support, it hosts job-training workshops and serves as a place to meet some of the other 30,000 American Indians who live in Dallas County.

While the clinic is able to offer a number of important services, it does have limited resources.

In fact, one patient described having to wait months to get a tooth removed.

But Stapp said that the center does everything it can so that American Indian culture can survive and the people can thrive.

"We just want people to have the opportunity to do something with their lives," Stapp says.

"You've got to have education to do that, got to have good health to see it through."

