The small farm near Lino Lakes, Minn., looks a lot like many other farms.

But there isn't another one like it in Minnesota.

Maybe not even in the whole country for now.

The patch of corn near the driveway is a special white corn handed down by generations of Oneida Indians.

The black beans were grown for centuries by the Hopi.

There's squash from the Lakota tribe, corn from the Dakotas.

And then there's the group of city teenagers.

They are there to learn to harvest, cook and sell the plants that fed their ancestors.

The farm is run by Dream of Wild Health.

Based in St. Paul, Minn., the group collects seeds from plants that were once grown by Indians.

The seeds are part of a plan to make Indians healthier.

"There is history in those plants," said the group's leader, Diane Wilson.

The youth are helping to keep that history alive.

That way, it can be passed down to future generations.

Dream of Wild Health was started in 2000.

Soon after, an old woman named Cora Baker who was a "Keeper of the Seeds" sent a package of rare seeds.

"I had prayed and prayed that someone would take up gardening again," Baker wrote.

"I am very pleased to learn about your project."

In 2003 Dream of Wild Health bought a 10-acre farm in Washington County.

There, it started to grow plants from the seeds it had collected.

Baker died, but the seeds kept coming.

One elderly woman had saved seeds in a sock in her drawer for many years.

The Lac Courtes Oreilles band in Wisconsin shared some of its oldest seeds.

Word spread.

"People at the powwow talk," said Auger.

"They'd been holding the seeds so long.

They wanted them alive again."

Dream of Wild Health had a big job to do.

It's well-known that Indians were the first to grow pumpkins, beans, corn and squash.

But it's more than that: They used about 1,900 kinds of plants for food and 2,900 for medicines.

Today, the farm is full of crops that Minnesota Indians used to grow.

That includes a kind of tobacco that has been around for 600 years.

The farm also grows organic vegetables.

Last week, teenage Garden Warriors were harvesting those.

Jalen Morrison is 16 and lives in St. Paul.

He has worked at the farm for four years.

Morrison started in a one-week program called Cora's Kids.

Now, he's a Garden Warrior.

He's taking a cooking class in the farm kitchen.

He sometimes works at the farm's vegetable stand at a farmers market in Minneapolis.

"Before I came here, I didn't know anything about making a garden," Morrison said.

He didn't know about the "different types of seeds, different plants to eat."

Now he does.

Breanna Greene and Gene Parker stood nearby.

Both are 14-year-olds from St. Paul.

They said they like getting out of the city.

They enjoy working the fields, and "being able to be outside and be safe."

Greene says she has made salads at home with her family.

Parker had just cooked wild rice for the first time.

The teens get paid for their summer work.

Some return after the summer, to work full-time.

Dream of Wild Health, said Wilson, is planting seeds both in the ground and in the lives of Indian youth.

"We're hoping that these kids will remember" what they did here, she said.

And if they do, perhaps that will help them to become healthy adults.

And then, to raise healthy families.

