Bit by bit, the farm at Little Earth is growing.

Something else is growing, too: a new approach to food that is spreading among Native Americans across the nation.

The idea is to improve the health of Indians through rediscovering the foods their ancestors ate.

Little Earth is a housing area located in a poor part of Minneapolis.

The Indians there live in the big city, far from any large patches of farmland.

Yet, they are finding ways to grow traditional Native American crops.

Many of those crops existed long before European settlers arrived.

Some even have a name for the new idea: the decolonized diet.

It's a style of eating that breaks free of foods brought by European settlers, or colonialists.

It returns Indians to the traditional foods that grew naturally on the North American continent.

Susen Fagrelius is in charge of Little Earth's community health projects.

The return to traditional Native American food ways has been "growing in the last 10 years," she said.

More people are realizing they can grow a lot even on a small piece of land.

Lakota sage appears where once ordinary grass grew.

Rows of Oneida cornstalks tower 6 feet in the air.

Raspberries — the kind that once blanketed North American forests — cover a small patch of the farm.

Across the country, projects like the Little Earth Urban Farm are springing up.

They are taking aim at the serious health problems found in American Indian communities.

Native Americans are much more likely than non-Indians to suffer from the disease diabetes.

Many are seriously overweight.

Both problems are often connected to what people eat.

Devon Abbott Mihesuah in as expert on Native American health and diet.

Health problems among native people have become very widespread and serious, she said.

"It has to be addressed," she said.

When Indians were forced onto reservations, Mihesuah said, their diets changed.

Government-supplied goods replaced the healthy, natural foods Indians were used to eating.

Diabetes "didn't start showing up until after the Civil War," she said.

"Up until that time there weren't any pictures of (Indian) people being fat."

Fry bread is a flavorful, deep-fried dough.

It's served at many Indian gatherings, but it is not a native food, Mihesuah argues.

She has a bumper sticker on her car with a red line crossing out the words "fry bread."

The statement has gotten her in trouble with some.

A few have called her "anti-Indian," she said.

Still, the decolonized diet is spreading nationwide.

In New Mexico, seeds from hundreds of years ago are being planted.

Such seeds are known as heritage seeds.

Often, they are the last link to traditional plants that have almost died out.

In North Carolina, tribes are restoring native fruits and vegetables.

They are planting them in newly created gardens.

The Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community helping to lead such efforts.

Their large garden is located in Prior Lake, Minnesota.

A number of plants in their garden come from seeds that are heritage, or nearly identical to how they were years ago.

Once harvested, the fruits and vegetables are passed among Shakopee tribe members.

Seeds are also given to other Indian communities.

Lori Watso, a nurse, came up with the idea for the Shakopee garden.

She thinks these heritage crops are the foods Native Americans are meant to eat.

Such foods kept Native Americans strong and healthy, she said.

"I believe our bodies recognize those things."

In Minneapolis, the city farmers at Little Earth are far from the wide open spaces of Shakopee.

The strip of land where they work is tiny.

Fagrelius hopes the small city farm will continue to grow.

Plans are underway to add a greenhouse.

Having that would allow them to plant more heritage fruits and vegetables.

If these goals are going to be achieved, Little Earth will need the help of people like George Lussier.

The 68-year-old tends the farm's corn.

Lussier is member of the Red Lake nation.

He grew up watching his grandmother and mother tend gardens full of vegetables.

He said he now tries to live by the words that his grandmother, who lived into her 80s, would often say: "Remember the things that you were taught when you were young."

