Officials in Washington, D.C., have rarely paid much attention to the Bureau of Indian Education, a dysfunctional government agency that is responsible for overseeing nearly 200 schools serving approximately 50,000 Native American children in 23 states.

But now that might be changing.

President Barack Obama wants to boost funding for Indian education by $150 million.

That includes nearly $60 million to begin fixing dozens of tribal, or Native American, school facilities that have been deteriorating for decades.

The request for more money is part of a greater effort by the administration to improve the lives of Native American youth.

The push comes as Representative John Kline, a powerful Republican lawmaker from Minnesota, has sought to highlight the Bureau of Indian Education's management troubles.

In the past few weeks, he has held two hearings on Capitol Hill in Washington.

Kline, who recently visited a crumbling tribal school in his home state, is urging his fellow Republicans to support the president's funding plan.

He says the money is critical for making sure Native American students can go to school in safe buildings.

"You've got collapsing roofs, leaking roofs, buckling floors, exposed wires, popping circuit breakers, gas leaks.

That's totally unacceptable," Kline said.

"You can't be well-educated in my opinion when you're attending school wearing your coat, wearing your mittens and hoping that the blanket keeps out the 30-degree-below-zero air."

Washington became interested in the Bureau of Indian Education after a series of newspaper stories reported on the deplorable condition of tribal school buildings.

The stories were published in the Minneapolis Star Tribune in late 2014.

They urged the Obama administration and Congress to do something about the problem.

"Kids shivering in thin-walled classrooms or studying under leaky roofs year after year aren't getting the education they need or deserve," the newspaper reported.

"With the larger community's visible neglect all around them, they receive the wrong message about the value of education."

Last year, the federal government said about one-third of tribal schools were in poor condition.

It also said about $1.3 billion would be needed to fix them and another $1 billion would be needed to deal with older maintenance and repair issues.

The Bureau of Indian Education has undergone several reorganizations in recent years.

Director Monty Roessel — the agency's 33rd director in 36 years — is trying again to make things better.

Roessel recently told lawmakers he believes his effort will succeed where others have failed because he is focused on two key goals: improving school buildings and improving instruction.

Roessel said that if Congress approves Obama's budget request next year, the Bureau will be able to finally fix the neediest schools.

He said his agency is now putting together another list of schools, and hopes to release a plan for fixing them sometime this summer.

Fifty-eight buildings are currently listed in poor condition, which means it is more cost-effective to replace them than it would be to rebuild them.

"I agree it's one of the biggest frustrations that we have," he said.

The Department of Defense also has many schools in need of repair.

But it has received a lot more money to fix them.

In 2010, the department began a $5 billion effort to fix or rebuild 47 of its 181 schools by 2021, according to the Star Tribune.

But the Bureau of Indian Education has gotten just $39 million during the past four years —less than the cost of one of the Defense Department's elementary schools, the Star Tribune reported.

In the 19th century, the federal government signed treaties with Native Americans promising that their children would have access to education.

But the Bureau of Indian Education, part of the Interior Department, has often faltered.

Part of the problem is that there aren't enough staff workers, according to a government report.

The Bureau's leaders come and go at a rapid rate, which makes it difficult to accomplish much.

There is poor communication within the office and not enough supervision.

Complicating things are the poverty and remoteness of many tribal schools.

Today, just about 8 percent of all Native American children attend tribal schools.

However, the children that do go to tribal schools trail the performance of Native Americans who attend public schools — as well as the national average — by almost every academic measure.

