The back room of the Urban Inter-Tribal Center of Texas looks more like a shoe store than a health care clinic.

Orange boxes full of Nike sneakers line the wall.

But these Nikes aren't sold in stores.

They are specially designed for the clients of this health center in Dallas.

The shoes are made of beige buckskinlike fabric and at the toe, three small triangles join to form a triangle, symbolizing the North Star.

While the sneakers can cost up to $100, the clinic gives them away to patients with diabetes for free.

The shoes are an incentive to come to get treated and are designed to prevent foot amputations due to diabetes, a common ailment among American Indians.

The free shoes are one example of how the clinic is changing the way it provides medicine to meet the needs of its patients.

The sneakers are an "awesome deal," says Don Shelton, 73, of Fort Worth, Texas.

Shelton is a member of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation tribe and attends nutrition classes at the clinic.

He is an avid walker and has worn out 30 pairs of the shoes since beginning treatment at the center in 2000.

The center has modern facilities, from gleaming white counters and reclining examining chairs to medical equipment everywhere.

The clinic offers health programs specifically to meet the unique needs of American Indians.

The center provides basic medical, dental and pharmacy services to members of the 566 federally recognized tribes who live in Dallas.

If the center didn't exist, these tribes would have to travel hours to receive free health care at tribal facilities.

The clinic also celebrates tribal culture.

American Indian heritage is honored in the details of the building.

Tribal artwork hangs on the walls and traditional crops — corn, beans and squash — grow in the new community garden.

"What we do offer that you won't find in any other community health center is cultural sensitivity for American Indians," says Angela Young, the administrative director of the center and a member of the Choctaw tribe.

There are different ways this sensitivity comes through during interactions with patients.

The staff at the clinic knows, for example, to ask patients if they have been using traditional healing.

Traditional healing is a common practice with different tribes.

Tribal members may consume roots or herbs or take part in a ritual that involves fasting, prayer and a heated lodge at home before they come to the clinic.

It is important for doctors to understand what their patients do at home since these practices could interfere with medications that the clinic prescribes.

Dr. Rodney Stapp, the center's CEO, says that history may be to blame for some of the health issues that the clinic's patients now face.

One factor, he says, may be the fact that the federal government pushed many Native Americans to live on reservations, uprooting and displacing tribes.

This turned hunter-gatherers into communities of sedentary farmers who weren't as physically active.

The government also introduced flour as a cooking ingredient to the tribes and distributed low-quality food to those on the reservations.

Many American Indians felt trapped by the federal government.

Mental health problems, alcoholism, smoking and tobacco use become frequent problems on the reservations.

Stapp became a doctor to address such problems.

He started at the center as a volunteer doctor.

He is now a podiatrist, a medical foot expert, and he worked with Nike to develop these shoes.

He says the shoes, which help prevent foot ulcers, are designed for American Indian feet, which Stapp says are wider at the heel.

He says the shoes have reduced the number of foot amputations that the clinic does: down from five to seven a year to just zero or one a year.

The center has about 4,000 active patients, Stapp says.

One of those patients is Patsy Smith, 62, of the Oak Cliff neighborhood in Dallas.

Smith has been getting treated at the center for 45 years and says she's "had everything done there that can possibly be done there."

Going there feels like "going back home," Smith says.

Another patient, Norma Ortiz, 73, and a member of the Choctaw tribe, has used the center's services for years.

"A lot of the elders feel better getting their care there.

I always feel good going there myself.

You feel better being among Indians," she said.

Today, in addition to health services, the clinic offers job-training workshops and a place to meet some of the other 30,000 American Indians that live in Dallas County.

The resources at the clinic are not unlimited.

In fact, one patient described a months-long wait for a tooth extraction.

But Stapp acknowledges that the center does everything it can so that American Indian culture can survive and the people can thrive.

"We just want people to have the opportunity to do something with their lives," Stapp says.

"You've got to have education to do that, got to have good health to see it through."

