Leaders in Washington, D.C., have not paid much attention to the Bureau of Indian Education.

It is part of the U.S. government that is responsible for about 200 schools where thousands of Native American children go.

The department has not always done a very good job.

But that might be changing.

President Barack Obama wants to give more money to the department.

The money would help to fix dozens of schools that are falling apart.

The president also wants to help young Native Americans have better lives.

John Kline is a powerful lawmaker from Minnesota.

He is also a Republican, who often does not agree with President Obama.

But the two men agree on this.

Kline is trying to make things better at the Bureau of Indian Education.

In the last few weeks, he has held meetings in Washington to talk about the problem.

Kline recently visited a Native American school building in Minnesota.

The school was falling apart.

He told his Republican lawmaker friends he wants them to support Obama's plan for the schools.

He said the money is important for making sure Native American students can go to school in safe buildings.

"You've got collapsing roofs, leaking roofs, buckling floors, exposed wires, popping circuit breakers, gas leaks.

That's totally unacceptable," Kline said.

"You can't be well-educated in my opinion when you're attending school wearing your coat, wearing your mittens and hoping that the blanket keeps out the 30-degree-below-zero air."

Washington leaders started paying attention to the problem after they read some newspaper articles last year.

The stories were published in a Minnesota newspaper.

They talked about the crumbling school buildings.

The newspaper urged President Obama and lawmakers to do something about the problem.

The newspaper said children are not getting the education they need or deserve.

It said the kids are shivering in classrooms with thin walls.

Some are studying under leaky roofs.

Last year, the government said about 1 in 3 Native American schools were in poor condition.

It also said more than $1 billion would be needed to fix them.

Another $1 billion would be needed to deal with older problems.

The Bureau of Indian Education has gone through many changes.

It changes leaders almost every year.

The person in charge now, Monty Roessel, is trying to make things better.

Roessel told lawmakers he thinks he will be successful.

He has two key goals: improving school buildings and improving teaching.

Roessel said if he gets enough money next year, his group will finally be able to fix the schools that need it most.

After that, he hopes to repair even more schools.

Fifty-eight buildings are currently listed in poor condition.

Experts say it makes more sense to tear down and build new buildings rather than try to fix the old ones.

The Department of Defense is the government office that runs the military.

It also has many schools in need of repair.

The schools mostly teach the children of members of the military.

The Department of Defense has received a lot more money to fix its schools.

In 2010, it received about $5 billion to fix its schools over 10 years.

The Bureau of Indian Education received just $39 million in the past four years.

In the 1800s, the government promised Native Americans that their children would be able to get an education.

However, the Bureau of Indian Education has not always kept this promise.

Part of the problem is that there are not enough workers to do all of the work.

Also, its leaders come and go often, which makes it hard to get anything done.

Many Native Americans are poor and their schools are far from big cities.

This makes the problem even more complicated.

