At first glance, the small farm near Lino Lakes, Minn., looks much like other farms in the area.

But it is one-of-a-kind in Minnesota and maybe even the nation for now.

The patch of corn near the driveway is a special white variety handed down by generations of Oneida Indians.

The black beans sprouting on nearby vines were grown for centuries by the Hopi.

There's squash from the Lakota tribe, corn from the Dakotas.

And then there's the group of city teenagers.

They are there to learn to harvest, cook and sell the plants that fed their ancestors.

The farm is the heart of something called Dream of Wild Health.

This St. Paul, Minn., group is part of a small but growing national movement.

Their aim is to collect and save seeds once cultivated by Indian communities.

The seeds are a direct link to Minnesota's earliest agriculture.

And they're at the core of the group's mission to improve Indians' health and well-being.

One way they hope to do this is by creating a new generation of health-conscious leaders.

"There is history in those plants," said executive director Diane Wilson, as she watched the teens pulling up vegetables.

The youth, she said, are helping to keep that genetic history alive.

That way, it can be passed down to future generations.

Dream of Wild Health was founded in 2000 by Sally Auger.

The project took off when a package of seeds arrived from an elderly Potawatomi woman named Cora Baker.

She had become an unofficial "Keeper of the Seeds."

Rare seeds from plants that had almost disappeared had been given to her by Indians from across the region.

"I had prayed and prayed that someone would take up gardening again," she wrote.

"I am very pleased to learn about your project."

In 2003, Dream of Wild Health purchased a 10-acre farm outside the city of Hugo in Washington County.

There it began its agricultural and health care experiment.

Baker died, but the seeds kept coming.

One elderly woman had saved seeds in a sock in her drawer for decades, said Auger.

The Lac Courtes Oreilles band in Wisconsin shared some of its oldest seeds.

Word spread.

"People at the powwow talk," said Auger.

"They'd been holding the seeds so long.

They wanted them alive again."

The group had a big task before it.

It's well-known that Indians were the first to grow pumpkins, beans, corn and squash.

But it's more than that: They actually used about 1,900 types of plants for foods and 2,900 for medicines.

Fast-forward 10 years.

Today the farm is planted with vegetables, tobacco and medicinal plants that were a part of life for native Minnesotans.

That includes a type of tobacco that has been around for 600 years.

The farm also grows organic vegetables, which its teenage Garden Warriors were harvesting last week.

Jalen Morrison, 16, of St. Paul, has worked at the farm for four years.

His experience shows how Dream of Wild Health is preparing youth to be future health promoters.

Morrison started in a program called Cora's Kids, a one-week farm experience project.

Now a Garden Warrior, he's participating in a cooking class in the farm kitchen.

He sometimes works at the farm's vegetable booth at the Midtown Farmers Market in Minneapolis.

"Before I came here, I didn't know anything about making a garden," Morrison said during a lunch break under a big shade tree.

He knew nothing back then about the "different types of seeds, different plants to eat."

Now he does.

Breanna Greene and Gene Parker stood nearby.

Both 14-year-olds from St. Paul said they like getting out of the city.

They enjoy working the fields, and "being able to be outside and be safe."

Greene says she has experimented with making salads at home with her family.

Parker proudly announced, "A couple of days ago I cooked my first wild rice."

The teens get paid for their summer work.

Some eventually return after the summer, to work full-time.

Dream of Wild Health, said Wilson, is planting seeds both in the ground and in the lives of Indian youth.

"We're hoping that these kids will remember these experiences."

And if they do, perhaps those memories will help them to "be healthy adults and raise healthy families."

