The Bureau of Indian Education is part of the U.S. government.

It helps Native Americans.

But sometimes it does not do a very good job.

President Barack Obama wants to give the office more money.

He wants it to do better.

He wants young Native Americans to have better lives.

The office runs about 200 Native American schools.

The money would help fix schools that are falling apart.

Some of the schools are crumbling.

Other schools have leaky roofs.

John Kline is a lawmaker from Minnesota.

He is trying to make things better at the Bureau of Indian Education.

He has held meetings to talk about the problems.

Kline visited a Native American school building in Minnesota.

The school was falling apart.

He spoke to other lawmakers about what he saw.

He wants them to help President Obama with his plan.

He said the money is important for making sure Native American students can go to school in safe buildings.

Washington leaders started caring about the problems after they read some newspaper stories.

The stories talked about the crumbling school buildings.

They asked President Obama and lawmakers to do something about the problems.

The newspaper said children are not getting a good education.

It said some children are shivering in cold classrooms with thin walls.

The Bureau of Indian Education has gone through many changes.

It changes leaders almost every year.

The person in charge now is Monty Roessel.

He is trying to make things better.

Roessel told lawmakers he thinks he will do a good job even though other people have failed.

Roessel said he hopes to get more money next year.

He said that if he does, they will fix the schools that need it most.

After that, he hopes to fix even more schools.

Right now, 58 buildings need to be repaired.

Some of them need to be rebuilt.

In the 1800s, the U.S. government promised Native Americans that their children would be able to go to school.

But the Bureau of Indian Education has not always kept that promise.

