California's Yosemite National Park is an American landmark, famous for its steep granite cliffs, waterfalls, and biodiversity of plants and animals — including black bears, coyotes and mountain lions.

According to National Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis, it needs a lot of fixing up.

Jarvis warned lawmakers on Tuesday that maintenance work needs to be done at Yosemite and other parks throughout the country.

What's needed is not glamorous, but it is expensive.

Overdue work would cost an estimated $11.5 billion.

Jarvis argued that the money for these projects has to come from the government.

"No one is going to give money to fix the wastewater plant at Yosemite," Jarvis told a House of Representatives subcommittee.

"That's a federal responsibility."

President Barack Obama's 2016 budget proposal includes $3 billion for the park service.

The money includes hundreds of millions of dollars for overdue maintenance projects.

The list of projects for Yosemite alone is long.

It is spelled out in park service documents.

It includes upgrading the El Portal sewer lines, replacing the Crane Flat Campground's drain field for its septic waste system, to rehabilitating the famed Mariposa Grove of Giant Sequoia trees.

Work needs to be done at Sequoia National Park, as well.

Sequoia National Park is to the south of Yosemite, and is home to some of the tallest trees on Earth.

The park needs to replace a water treatment facility at one of its campgrounds.

Meanwhile, Lassen Volcanic National Park, to the north of Yosemite, could use a new headquarters utility system to control its electricity, water, wastewater, gas and telecommunications.

Jarvis acknowledged that the price is high, but necessary.

"The maintenance backlogs are overwhelming," he observed.

The Obama administration's budget also requested money for acquiring additional land for parks.

Because money is limited, however, the government may have to make difficult choices.

Jarvis told lawmakers that funding the overdue maintenance projects would take priority over the administration's request to buy more park land.

The Republican-controlled Congress seems likely to rewrite the administration's budget proposal.

Republican members of Congress — who typically do not favor increased government spending — appear to be more willing to fund overdue maintenance projects than to spend money on new parks.

"Shouldn't we be taking care of the property we already have instead of acquiring additional property?"

asked Tom McClintock, a Republican congressman from California.

He is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Federal Lands, and Yosemite is part of the district he represents.

Congressman Doug LaMalfa, another California Republican, voiced his own "grave concerns" about the park service's request for funds to buy more land.

He represents the sprawling Sacramento Valley district that includes the 106,372-acre Lassen park.

The park service has proposed buying land for parks in Colorado and Hawaii, among other states.

The Republicans in Congress are hesitant to have the government spend too much, though.

McClintock and his fellow Republicans used the National Park Service budget hearing Tuesday as an opportunity to put their own priorities on the table.

Rather than buy land to create more parks, McClintock indicated that he was interested in further developing parks that already exist.

He pushed for increased public access and recreational use, citing bicycling, horseback riding and ice skating as examples.

"At Yosemite, there is a continuing effort to try to reduce or remove those activities," McClintock said, adding that this would "send a wrong message to the public."

