From her bedroom window Cynthia Dixon can see the cloud of soot rise from the coal mine.

Down the road, a giant coal-fired electrical plant spews a yellow plume of smoke into the sky.

Many days, she finds a layer of black dust coating the inside of her trailer home.

Farmers say bad air from the mine and nearby Four Corners power plant has shriveled fruits and vegetables in the field.

Eagles and jack rabbits, which once thrived on the Navajo Reservation, have moved away, farmers add.

In the last two years, Dixon suspects the air has killed 38 of her 56 sheep.

But it's not just her animals who are suffering.

The Navajo elder says she often gasps for breath from the soot.

Four Corners is one of the oldest coal-burning power plants in the United States.

It is owned by Arizona Public Service, the state's biggest electric company, and operated on land rented from the Navajo people.

Four Corners sits near the San Juan Generating Station, another coal-fired plant just off the reservation.

Together, Four Corners and San Juan are the country's two largest power plant emitters of a gas called nitrogen oxide.

A large amount of nitrogen oxide can affect breathing, according to a government study.

Scientists found the plants are at the limit of the standards for clean air set by the Environmental Protection Agency, the government agency in charge of keeping the environment clean.

Possible changes to the standards could soon put the power plants over the legal limit.

The power plants rumble around the clock to light homes in faraway Phoenix and elsewhere.

Meanwhile, tens of thousands of Navajo — as well as the residents of nearby communities — live in a place environmentalists call the energy garbage dump of the American West.

Nobody knows whether the power plants are making people sick, but their presence continues to divide tribal members.

Some residents blame Four Corners for high rates of asthma and bronchitis.

They criticize the hundreds of their fellow Navajo who work at the plant.

Tribal activists want the Navajo leadership to move beyond coal and spend money on cleaner technologies such as solar and wind power.

But officials insist the tribe needs Four Corners.

The plant brings in $40 million a year for the tribe.

That's a big portion of what the tribe spends each year.

In recent years, Four Corners has improved its air quality.

In 2010, the EPA ordered a cleanup; this year, Arizona Public Service closed three of the plant's five smokestacks.

It is updating the remaining two to cut emissions of nitrogen oxide by one-third, plant officials say.

Tribal leaders regularly monitor smoke particles from the plants and ask residents to call tribal offices with complaints.

Windy days are the worst.

Dixon, 59, wants to leave.

"But where can I go?"

she asks.

Tribal activist Sarah White is 65 years old and has asthma.

She is convinced that pollution from the plant is ruining her health: "I can just imagine what I'm breathing in."

Her suspicions led her to speak out.

She said the reservation was once known not for air pollution but for its star-filled night skies.

White joined a small Navajo group called Dine Citizens Against Ruining our Environment (CARE).

Members have asked the tribal government to end its dependence on coal.

The group also goes door to door, gathering signatures to draw attention to high tribal sickness rates.

This year, the government released a report saying improvements were being made at Four Corners.

The report estimated the chance of getting cancer near the plant as one in a million.

But activists want more done.

They say there has never been a study that directly examines the health effects of the gas Four Corners emits.

Navajo leaders insist the plant and coal mine are important because they provide 800 jobs in an area where often only half the people can find work.

They recently decided to allow Four Corners to rent the land until 2041.

The tribe also purchased the mine near Dixon's ranch that supplies coal to Four Corners.

They say these moves will help guarantee the tribe's future.

Stephen Etsitty, director of the tribe's Environmental Protection Agency, feels for residents.

"I tell people their issues are real," he said.

"Four Corners plays a role in the community's health, but there are other factors too."

Such as plant salaries exceeding $55,000 a year, a large amount of money on the reservation.

"That's tough to give up," Etsitty says.

