During World War II, Tom Jones Jr. served as one of the legendary Navajo code talkers.

These [Native American](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) Marines used their mother tongue to send secret messages the enemy was never able to figure out.

Years later, to express its appreciation, the Navajo Nation built Jones a house.

These days that house is in bad shape.

The 89-year-old Jones struggles to keep warm during winter, as the only source of heat is the antique wood stove in the living room.

What's more, the electricity doesn't work in his bathroom and the floor has worn away, exposing plywood beneath his feet.

Jones is one of many Navajo veterans, code talkers as well as those who served more recently in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) or [Iraq](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iraq), who live in homes that are often as ruined as those they saw in battle.

Some have no electricity or running water.

The hallway in Jones' small home is too narrow for his wheelchair.

"My desire is a house where I can be able to get around, to have a heating system so I can sleep well and enjoy life," Jones said in the Native language of Dine, which he spoke for the Allies through the war.

"This is how I would want it."

The living conditions of Navajo veterans highlight the never-ending battle against poverty on the 27,000-square-mile reservation.

But it also highlights the failings of a tribal effort to provide housing for those who served in the military.

Nearly 9,000 military veterans live on the reservation that straddles the New Mexico-Arizona border, more than half of them in substandard housing.

For years, few funds were set aside for reservation housing for veterans.

And much of what was set aside did not reach its intended targets because of poor management.

"There is a huge crisis taking place in our nation," said Rick Abasta, spokesman for Navajo Nation President Ben Shelly.

"If you travel through the reservation, you'll even see some families living in storage sheds due to the housing situation."

The tribe began constructing homes for veterans during the 1980s.

And a $6-million trust fund for Navajo veterans created by the tribe allowed the launch of a home-building program in 1998.

The aim was to provide houses — free of charge — to veterans in need or help them pay for home repairs.

"These veterans, they deserve housing — decent and sanitary housing — for the services that they provided this country.

And that would probably go even more so with our Navajo code talkers," Abasta said.

It's unclear how many homes the Navajo Department of Veterans Affairs has built for veterans, in part because of record-keeping problems.

David Nez, who heads the agency, says he believed it was in the hundreds, but in recent years the effort has been troubled with inefficiencies and money problems.

The result has been few new homes and unfinished repairs on existing houses such as Jones'.

Not one home was built last year.

In February, however, Navajo leaders signed a contract with Home Depot to purchase building materials for veterans' housing.

It's part of a $1.9-million project, paid for by the Veterans Trust Fund.

But that's just enough for 75 homes.

There is a long list — in the hundreds — of veterans who are waiting for housing.

There is only so much the tribe can do, Abasta said, because of limited funding.

"We meet with congressmen about these issues, but most often it falls on deaf ears," he said.

Navajo veterans and their supporters say the program is run poorly.

Etta Arviso, who is lobbying to obtain better housing for several code talkers, said veterans tell her they face too much red tape, such as paperwork and regulation.

Others are discouraged by the wait.

"Now you can see how our Navajo code talkers are treated," Arviso said.

At Jones' house she has erected a sign out front: "Navajo Code Talker Needs a New Home."

Above the door are black marks left by a lightning strike two years ago.

Navajo tradition holds that one should not live in a dwelling where lightning has struck.

It could lead to bad luck, sickness or worse.

Jones' wife, Alice Mae, died about a year after the lightning hit.

But Jones couldn't move.

He couldn't afford it — and he still can't.

Jones is forced to spend most of his time in the living room, since he can't get his wheelchair through the narrow hallway leading to his bedroom or bathroom.

His caretaker or a family member has to carry him into other parts of the home.

When he was recruited into the military 73 years ago, Jones said, he was told that he would have whatever he needed after the war.

He served as a corporal in the 3rd Marine Division from 1943 to 1945.

A good portion of that time was spent on the front lines, including at Iwo Jima.

When he returned home, he said, he was able to provide for himself, at one point working in the uranium mines.

When he was younger he never asked for handouts, he said proudly.

"I was strong," he said.

"I would haul wood.

I didn't have problems money-wise."

But when his health took a downturn in 2007, he could no longer provide for himself.

Jones has end-stage kidney disease and undergoes treatment twice a week.

He has a hard time hearing and can barely talk.

Jarvis Jones, 37, who followed his grandfather into the Marines, said he was disappointed and disgusted with how his grandfather and other code talkers live.

"It's a lot of runaround," the younger Jones said.

"The story on the reservation is 'We have no funds.'"

