Cynthia Dixon lives on the Navajo Reservation in New Mexico.

From her bedroom window, she can see black smoke from a coal mine.

Down the road, there is a giant power plant.

It spews yellow smoke into the sky.

Many days, she finds black dust coating the inside of her trailer home.

Farmers say fruit and vegetables have shrunk because of the bad air.

Eagles and jack rabbits have moved away.

In the last two years, Dixon thinks the air has killed 38 of her 56 sheep.

It's not just her animals who are suffering.

Old people often find it hard to breathe, she says.

Four Corners is the coal-fired power plant on the reservation.

It is owned by Arizona Public Service, the state's biggest electric company.

Four Corners sits on land rented from the Navajo.

Near Four Corners is another coal plant called San Juan Generating Station.

Four Corners and San Juan spew out gas called nitrogen oxide.

Together, they spew out more than any other power plants in the country.

When there is a lot of this gas in the air people can find it hard to breathe, scientists say.

The power plants run around the clock.

They provide light to homes in cities far away.

Nobody knows if they are making people sick.

But many people here suffer from asthma and other illnesses.

Some Navajos blame Four Corners.

Some Navajo members want to stop coal mining on their land.

They want power from wind and the sun instead.

But tribal leaders say they need Four Corners.

Money from the plant helps the tribe pay its bills.

In the last few years, Four Corners has improved its air quality.

But some people want more changes.

They say there has never been a study that examines the health effects of Four Corners.

Dixon, age 59, wants to leave.

"But where can I go?"

she asks.

Tribal member Sarah White is 65 years old and has asthma.

She is sure that pollution from the plant is ruining her health: "I can just imagine what I'm breathing in."

White said the reservation was once known for its star-filled night skies.

Now, she says, it is known for air pollution.

Navajo leaders say the plant and coal mine are important.

Eight hundred Navajos work at them.

It's a lot of jobs for the reservation.

Only half the people there have jobs.

Stephen Etsitty is a Navajo leader.

He said he understands people's concerns.

Four Corners has an effect on health in the community, he said.

But there are other things to think about, too.

For example, people who work at the power plant are paid more than $55,000 a year.

On the reservation that is a good salary.

"That's tough to give up," he said.

