Ann Neagle was shopping at the grocery store.

It is the only place she can find groceries within 30 miles of her home.

She paused before a bag of Red Delicious apples, which cost $7 per dozen.

The apples were normally more expensive.

The Navajo Nation, which governs the Navajo Indian tribe, had lifted a tax on fresh fruits and vegetables.

The tribe also plans to add a small tax on junk food.

Leaders hope these steps will encourage healthier eating.

They plan to use money raised by the tax to help pay for things like vegetable gardens and exercise equipment.

Many Navajos are overweight.

Diabetes and heart disease are growing problems.

The junk food tax will be the first of its kind in the country.

It will also hit one of the poorest areas of the country.

In the area where the Navajo live, more than 40 percent of people do not have jobs.

Neagle is worried.

"Less money for fruits is nice, but it doesn't even out," she said.

People can't afford more expensive food, she said.

Neagle is not alone.

About 4 in 10 members of the Navajo Nation live in poverty.

The U.S. government has declared parts of the huge reservation a "food desert."

That means there are no nearby grocery stores selling affordable fresh food.

Many people in the tribe buy their food at gas stations and convenience stores.

For the $7 she could spend on a dozen apples, Neagle knows could stretch her money further.

She could buy prepared and processed foods.

Seven dollars would buy more than 30 boxes of ramen noodles.

It could buy seven frozen dinners.

The problem is that those meals wouldn't be very healthy.

Many people across the country face similar problems.

But a health crisis in the Navajo Nation caused lawmakers to try the junk food tax.

The tribe has not set a date for the tax to go into effect.

Tribal leaders still have to give their final approval, but no one expects that to be a problem.

It has been hard for tribal leaders to decide what should be taxed as junk food.

They said the soft drink industry urged them to keep soda and sports drinks out of the legislation.

They resisted, and now those drinks are known as "minimal-to-no nutritional value food."

Other items on the list include frozen desserts, fried food, potato chips and candy.

"It's not going to do anything except make it more expensive," said Preston Yazzie, age 20.

"I'll still buy chips or whatever.

But maybe it'll help some people."

One mile from where Navajo government leaders work, Bashas' Grocery sits on tribal land.

Many of the store's goods would be taxed under the new law.

In the store there are racks of processed meat.

Behind them was a huge selection of sodas.

The rest of the store was similar to a typical grocery layout, though processed items such as chicken nuggets appeared in the meat aisle.

Shoppers "go crazy for those hot Cheetos," a grocery clerk said.

Yet many people who live in the area do understand the problem.

A Navajo Nation survey found nearly 3 out of 4 people on the reservation think health problems are caused by the lack of healthy food.

Lawmaker Jonathan Nez knows firsthand about the power of healthy eating.

Four years ago, he weighed 300 pounds and ate a junk-filled diet.

He started eating healthy and lost weight.

He also rides his bike and runs, two activities that would have seemed impossible to him in 2010.

"If they started taxing that food in 2010, I would have been against it, Nez said.

"I know I would have."

Supporters of the junk food tax hope it will bring positive change to the country's largest tribe.

Money from the tax will help pay for improvements on the reservation and educational programs.

The money might also be spent on farmers markets and vegetable gardens.

Or it could be used to buy exercise equipment, community food stores and health clubs for kids.

"It's a long haul," Nez said.

"But we'll get there."

