Tom Jones Jr. is a veteran.

He served his country during World War II.

But he was no ordinary soldier.

He was one of the Navajo code talkers.

These [Native American](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) Marines sent secret messages for the U.S. and other countries fighting for the same side.

Their messages were in their own tribal language.

The enemy couldn't understand a thing.

Years later, the Navajo Nation decided to say thanks: It built Jones a house.

It sits on the grounds of the Navajo reservation.

These days that house is in bad shape.

The 89-year-old Jones can barely keep warm during winter.

His only heat comes from an old wood stove in the living room.

The electricity doesn't work in his bathroom.

And the floor has worn away.

Jones is one of many Navajo veterans.

Many of them live in homes that are in very bad shape.

Some have no electricity or running water.

The hallway in Jones' small home is too narrow for his wheelchair.

"My desire is a house where I can be able to get around," Jones said.

And, he said, he'd like "to have a heating system so I can sleep well."

Jones was speaking in Dine.

This was the language he used to send messages during the war.

Nearly 9,000 military veterans live on the reservation.

More than half live in homes that are in bad shape.

The tribe began building homes for veterans during the 1980s.

And in 1998 it launched a new home-building program.

The goal was to provide free houses to veterans in need.

Or to help them pay for home repairs.

Rick Abasta works for the Navajo Nation government.

He said housing is a problem that needs to be fixed right away.

"You'll even see some families living in storage sheds."

He said, "These veterans, they deserve housing, for the services that they provided this country.

And that would probably go even more so with our Navajo code talkers."

But there is only so much the tribe can do, Abasta said.

Right now, there are plans to build 75 new homes.

There just isn't enough money to do more.

Hundreds of veterans are still waiting for housing.

Navajo veterans and their supporters see things differently.

They say the program is run poorly.

Etta Arviso is trying push for better housing for several code talkers.

She said veterans tell her they face too much paperwork and too many rules.

Others give up because the wait is so long.

"Now you can see how our Navajo code talkers are treated," Arviso said.

At Jones' house she has put up a sign out front: "Navajo Code Talker Needs a New Home."

Jones would like to move, but he can't afford to.

Right now, he is forced to spend most of his time in the living room.

Jones is unable get his wheelchair through the hallways.

If he needs to get to the bathroom or bedroom, someone has to carry him.

Things weren't always that way.

Jones served as a corporal in the 3rd Marine Division from 1943 to 1945.

Much of that time he spent on the front lines.

When he returned home, he said, he was able to support himself.

At one point he worked in the mines.

When he was younger he never asked for handouts, he said proudly.

"I was strong," he said.

"I would haul wood.

I didn't have problems money-wise."

But in 2007 he got ill.

He could no longer take care of himself.

He has a hard time hearing and talking.

Jones has a grandson who followed him into the Marines.

That grandson, Jarvis, said he feels disappointed and disgusted.

He can't believe how his grandfather and other code talkers live.

"It's a lot of runaround," the younger Jones said.

"The story on the reservation is 'We have no funds.'"

