An airplane landed on a U.S. Navy aircraft carrier near Virginia on Wednesday.

There was no pilot.

It was the first time that an unmanned plane landed on an aircraft carrier at sea.

A plane with nobody on it is called a [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

The test flight of the drone called X-47B "Salty Dog 502" could change how people fly combat missions over the sea.

Landing on an aircraft carrier as it is tossed by the ocean waves is very hard to do.

Even the most experienced pilots find it difficult.

The X-47B was controlled almost entirely by computer.

Aircraft carriers must last the Navy for 50 years.

They need to work with new aircraft like the X-47B in order to stay useful, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus said.

A company called Northrop Grumman built the X47-B.

It was launched Wednesday morning.

The drone safely flew above the Atlantic Ocean and landed on an aircraft carrier called the _George H.W.

Bush_.

The drone used an advanced computer system.

It was given special directions from satellites above the earth.

It talked with the carrier's computers to find out what speed to use.

The computers told the plane how the wind was blowing and everything else it needed to know.

It was able to get this information from miles away.

The drone got to the deck of the carrier shortly before 1:45 p.m. A hook on the plane grabbed a wire on the deck.

The plane landed safely.

The test flight was an important event for the people who are making unmanned planes.

They have been working on the new drone for eight years.

Drones are able to fly farther and stay in the air longer than regular aircraft.

This is because they do not depend on a human pilot who may need a break.

Navy fighter pilots fly missions that last as long as 10 hours.

Current drones can fly for three times that long.

Right now, a human pilot controls drones in combat.

The pilot uses a remote control from the ground.

But the X-47B is made to fly combat missions with only a computer running things.

A human pilot still would decide where a drone should fly.

This is called its flight path.

The human would send the drone on its way.

But a computer program would guide it from a ship to the target and back.

The new drone is powered by a jet.

It is also very hard for the enemy to find.

This makes it different from drones used right now in combat.

The X-47B has a 62-foot wingspan.

It can fly higher than 40,000 feet.

That's taller than 27 Empire State Buildings.

It can travel more than 2,400 miles and can reach very high speeds.

The X-47B is an experimental jet.

That's what the 'X' stands for.

The drone is designed to show off new technology.

It can take off and land automatically.

The drone also can carry 4,500 pounds of weapons.

The Navy, however, said it has no plans to add weapons to the aircraft.

The original X-47B had its first flight from Edwards Air Force Base in 2011.

Tests continued there until last year.

Then it was taken by truck from the Mojave Desert to a naval air base in Maryland.

The X-47B's design is very modern and unusual.

Drivers passing it on the highway thought it was an alien spaceship.

In May the drone had its first flight from the deck of a carrier.

Two X-47Bs were built for $1.4 billion.

