The U.S. Navy made history Wednesday when an experimental airplane landed off the coast of Virginia.

It was the first time that a [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), or a plane with no pilot, landed on an aircraft carrier at sea.

The test flight of the drone called X-47B "Salty Dog 502" could dramatically change naval flying.

Landing on an aircraft carrier as it is tossed by the ocean waves is seen as a very difficult task.

It is challenging even for the most experienced pilot.

The X-47B was controlled almost entirely by computer.

Aircraft carriers are expected to keep working for 50 years.

Carriers need to work with new types of aircraft like the X-47B and other drones to stay useful during that time, Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus said.

The X-47B was built by Northrop Grumman Corp. On Wednesday morning it was launched from the deck of the aircraft carrier _George H.W.

Bush._ The drone safely flew above the Atlantic Ocean, then returned for a landing on the carrier.

The drone relied on advanced computer systems.

It was given special directions from satellites above the earth.

It talked with the carrier's computers to find out speed, wind direction and everything else it needed to know.

It was able to get this information from miles away.

Shortly before 1:45 p.m. it hit the flight deck.

It hooked the wire on the deck used to stop aircraft and landed safely.

The test flight was seen as an important event in drone development.

The military has been working on the drone program for eight years.

Drones in general are able to fly farther and stay in the air longer than manned aircraft.

This is because they do not depend on a human pilot's endurance.

Navy fighter pilots may fly missions that last as long as 10 hours.

Current drones can fly for three times that long.

Currently, human pilots control combat drones from command centers far away.

But the X-47B is designed to fly a combat mission controlled almost entirely by a computer.

A human pilot would design its flight path and then send it on its way.

The computer program would guide it from a ship to the target and back.

What makes this drone different from others is that it is jet-powered.

It is also very difficult for the enemy to notice.

The X-47B has a 62-foot wingspan and can fly higher than 40,000 feet.

It can travel more than 2,400 miles and can reach very high speeds.

The "X" in X-47B stands for "experimental."

The drone is designed to show off new technology.

It can take off and land automatically.

The drone also can carry 4,500 pounds of weapons.

The Navy, however, said it has no plans to arm the aircraft.

The original X-47B had its first flight from Edwards Air Force Base in 2011.

Tests continued there until last year.

Then it was taken by truck from the Mojave Desert to a naval air base in Maryland.

The design of the X-47B looks very futuristic.

Drivers passing it on the highway thought it was an alien spaceship.

Over the last year, the Navy conducted tests from the shore at the air base.

It also conducted other tests to show that the X-47B could be used safely on an aircraft carrier flight deck.

In May the drone had its first carrier-catapulted flight.

Catapults help an aircraft reach enough speed to take off.

Two X-47Bs were built for $1.4 billion.

Both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at Northrop's plant in Palmdale, Calif. Much of the design work was done at the company's offices in two other parts of California.

