A former Navy man launched an attack Monday morning inside a building at the Washington Navy Yard.

He shot office workers in the cafeteria and in a hallway of the tightly guarded military property, authorities said.

Thirteen people were killed, including the gunman.

Investigators said they did not know why the shooting happened.

The attack took place in the heart of the nation's capital.

The Navy Yard is less than four miles from the White House.

Mayor Vincent Gray was asked if it was a terrorist attack.

"We don't have any reason to think that at this stage," he said.

But he said it had not been ruled out.

President Barack Obama expressed sorrow for yet another shooting rampage in the United States.

The victims were American patriots, he said.

He promised to make sure "whoever carried out this cowardly act is held responsible."

It was the deadliest shooting on military property in the United States since 2009.

The FBI will run the investigation at the Navy Yard.

It said the gunman killed in the attack was Aaron Alexis of Texas.

The 34-year-old died after a running gunbattle with police, investigators said.

Police think Alexis got into the Navy Yard by using someone else's ID card, a law enforcement official said.

It was not clear if the person whose ID Alexis used helped him, authorities said.

The ID could have been stolen.

The Navy said Alexis served in the Navy from 2007 to early 2011.

It was not immediately clear why he left.

He had worked for a unit in Texas.

The unit's job was providing supplies to the fleet.

In addition to those killed, at least three people were wounded.

They were a police officer and two female citizens who were not in the Navy.

They were expected to live.

The rampage took place at Building 197.

About 3,000 people work there.

Many of them are citizens and not in the Navy.

They are called civilians.

The Washington Navy Yard is a big maze of buildings and streets.

It is protected by armed guards and metal detectors.

Employees have to show their IDs at doors and gates to come and go.

Witnesses said a gunman opened fire from a fourth-floor overlook.

He aimed down on people in the cafeteria on the main floor.

Others said a gunman fired at them in a third-floor hallway.

It was not clear whether the witnesses on different floors were describing the same gunman.

Patricia Ward said she was in the cafeteria getting breakfast.

"It was three gunshots straight in a row — pop, pop, pop.

Three seconds later, it was pop, pop, pop, pop, pop, so it was like about a total of seven gunshots, and we just started running," Ward said.

Todd Brundidge said he and other co-workers came across a gunman wearing all blue in a long hallway on the third floor.

"He just turned and started firing," Brundidge said.

Terrie Durham is an executive assistant with the same agency.

She said she also saw the gunman firing toward her and Brundidge.

"He aimed high and missed," she said.

"He said nothing.

As soon as I realized he was shooting, we just said, 'Get out of the building.'"

Emergency vehicles and law enforcement officers flooded streets around the property.

A helicopter flew overhead and nearby schools were locked down.

Airplanes at Reagan National Airport were grounded so they would not interfere with law-enforcement choppers.

A short distance away, security was beefed up at the Capitol and other federal buildings, but officials said there was no known threat.

Senate officials shut down their side of the U.S. Capitol while authorities searched for a possible second suspect.

The House remained open.

Anxious relatives and friends of those who work at the Navy Yard waited to hear from loved ones.

According to public records, Alexis' neighbor called Fort Worth, Texas, police in September 2010 after she was nearly struck by a bullet that came from his downstairs apartment.

When police confronted Alexis, he said he was cleaning his gun when it accidentally discharged.

Alexis was arrested on suspicion of discharging a firearm within city limits but was not charged with a crime.

