The U.S. Navy conducted a historic test flight Wednesday when an experimental bat-winged drone landed aboard an aircraft carrier at sea for the first time.

The flight of the unmanned plane, called X-47B "Salty Dog 502," could redefine aviation for the Navy.

Landing on an aircraft carrier on the ocean as it rides the waves is considered an extremely difficult feat for experienced pilots.

The X-47B was controlled almost entirely by computer for the flight.

Adjusting to new technologies will let carriers "remain relevant throughout their 50-year lifespan," Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus said.

The X-47B was built by Northrop Grumman Corp. On Wednesday morning it was launched from the deck of the aircraft carrier _George H.W.

Bush_.

The aircraft safely flew above the Atlantic Ocean, then came in for a return landing on the carrier off the coast of Virginia.

The sleek [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) relies on pinpoint GPS coordinates and advanced computer systems to fly.

The aircraft digitally communicated with the carrier's computers to determine speed, crosswinds and other information as it approached from miles away.

Then, shortly before 1:45 p.m., it hit the flight deck.

A hook on the drone grabbed the arresting wire on the deck of the carrier, making for a safe landing.

The plane came to a complete stop in less than 350 feet, the Navy said.

This test flight was seen as an important event in drone technology and the program.

It has taken eight years to reach this point.

Drones in general are able to fly farther and stay in the air longer than manned aircraft because they do not depend on a human pilot's endurance.

Navy fighter pilots may fly missions that last as long as 10 hours.

Current drones can fly for three times that long.

Currently, combat drones are controlled remotely by a human pilot.

But the X-47B is designed to carry out a combat mission controlled almost entirely by a computer.

A human pilot would design its flight path and send it on its way; a computer program then would guide it from a ship to the target and back.

What also sets this drone apart from most of today's combat drones is that it is hard to detect.

It is also jet-powered.

The X-47B, which resembles a miniature B-2 stealth bomber, has a 62-foot wingspan and can fly higher than 40,000 feet.

It has a range of more than 2,400 miles and can reach very high speeds.

The 'X' in the X-47B stands for experimental.

The plane is designed to demonstrate new technology, such as automated takeoffs, landings and refueling.

The drone also has a weapons bay with a capacity of 4,500 pounds, though the Navy said it has no plans to arm the aircraft.

The first X-47B had its initial flight from Edwards Air Force Base in 2011, where it continued testing until last year when it was trucked from the Mojave Desert to a Naval Air Station in Maryland.

The drone's design was so startling that motorists passing it by on the highway thought it was a UFO.

Over the last year, the Navy conducted tests using shore-based catapults at the Maryland base.

Catapults help get a plane flying from the deck of a carrier.

The Navy also conducted other tests to demonstrate the capability to safely operate the X-47B on an aircraft carrier flight deck.

In May the drone had its first carrier-catapulted flight.

There were two X-47Bs developed and built under a contract that has climbed to $1.4 billion.

Both were constructed behind barbed-wire fences and double security doors at Northrop's large facility in Palmdale, Calif. Much of the drone's design work was completed at the company's branches in El Segundo, Calif., and Rancho Bernardo, Calif.

