A former Navy man attacked the Washington Navy Yard Monday morning.

He shot office workers in the cafeteria and a hallway, police said.

Thirteen people were killed.

The gunman was one of them.

Police said they did not know why the shooting happened.

The attack took place in the heart of the nation's capital.

The Navy Yard is a tightly guarded military property.

It is less than four miles from the White House.

Mayor Vincent Gray was asked if it was a terrorist attack.

"We don't have any reason to think that at this stage," he said.

But he added it had not been ruled out.

President Barack Obama expressed his sorrow about the shooting.

The victims were American patriots, he said.

He promised to make sure "whoever carried out this cowardly act is held responsible."

It was the deadliest shooting on military property in the United States since 2009.

The FBI will try to find out what happened at the Navy Yard.

It will run the investigation.

It said the gunman killed in the attack was Aaron Alexis of Texas.

The 34-year-old died after a running gunbattle with police, investigators said.

Police think Alexis used somebody else's ID to get into the Navy Yard.

It was not clear if the person whose ID Alexis used helped him, authorities said.

The ID could have been stolen.

The Navy said Alexis was a part of the service from 2007 to early 2011.

It was not immediately clear why he left.

He had worked for a unit in Texas.

The unit's job was providing supplies to the fleet.

At least three other people were wounded in the attack.

They were a police officer and two female citizens who were not in the Navy.

They were expected to live.

The rampage took place at Building 197.

About 3,000 people work there.

Many of them are regular citizens and not members of the navy.

They are called civilians.

The Washington Navy Yard is like a big maze.

It is full of buildings and streets.

It is protected by armed guards and metal detectors.

Employees have to show their IDs at doors and gates to come and go.

Witnesses said a gunman opened fire from a fourth-floor balcony.

He aimed down on people in the cafeteria on the main floor.

Others said a gunman fired at them in a third-floor hallway.

It was not clear if they were talking about the same gunman.

Patricia Ward said she was in the cafeteria getting breakfast.

"It was three gunshots straight in a row — pop, pop, pop.

Three seconds later, it was pop, pop, pop, pop, pop," she said.

"We just started running" Todd Brundidge said he and other co-workers came across a gunman on the third floor.

The gunman was wearing all blue clothes.

"He just turned and started firing," Brundidge said.

Terrie Durham said she also saw the gunman firing toward her and Brundidge.

"He aimed high and missed," she said.

"He said nothing.

As soon as I realized he was shooting, we just said, 'Get out of the building.'"

Emergency vehicles and police flooded streets around the property.

A helicopter flew overhead.

Nearby schools were locked down.

A short distance away, security was beefed up at the Capitol and other federal buildings.

Officials said there was no known threat, though.

Anxious relatives and friends of people who work at the Navy Yard waited to hear from loved ones.

