NBA teams have a new tool to help them get better.

No, it's not a new workout or sneaker.

For the first time, cameras that track movement will be put in every basketball arena.

The cameras will give information and numbers on how players perform.

It may even change how the game is played.

Rajiv Maheswaran and Yu-Han Chang are computer scientists.

They can see the Staples Center from their office.

It's where both the Los Angeles Lakers and Clippers basketball teams play.

But the future of the NBA may be in their office.

The walls of their office are covered in numbers and code.

It might not make sense to most people.

But these numbers could help NBA teams improve how they play.

It's thanks to the software system developed by Maheswaran and Chang, and their company, Second Spectrum.

Their software can sort through all the numbers.

"It's 1,000 times more information than anyone had before," said Maheswaran.

On his laptop, Maheswaran showed tools that come from the numbers.

Teams could use the tools to choose where to put players.

One showed a basketball court covered with green squares.

The darkest squares show the most likely spots where a ball would fall depending on the shot taken.

Some say the new system should be only one part of a how a team makes decisions.

Traditionally, teams looked at video of games and simple evaluations of players.

But the system is already in use.

The Golden State Warriors used something like it last season.

Kirk Lacob works for the Warriors.

He said the team checked its defense, which players were on the court at different times, and how tired players were.

Then they made changes.

It worked: teams didn't get through the Warriors' defense as easily.

Lacob said he doesn't know how much the information helped.

But, he said it helped them find a problem and fix it.

Six NBA teams used the cameras, starting with the 2010-11 season.

Last season, 15 teams used them.

The NBA recently decided to pay for every team to have the system.

That would let the whole league have the information.

It will start with six cameras placed in each NBA arena.

They will record the movement of every player.

The ball can be recorded 25 times a second.

The info is electronically sent to a company.

It's then put into groups such as dribbles, passes and shots.

Teams can get information such as the number of passes while games are in progress.

Teams can get more complicated information after the game.

More numbers are crunched by then.

Several teams have also hired people to go through all that information.

But, only some numbers may be given to players.

"You can't give players a boatload of information," Los Angeles Lakers assistant Kurt Rambis said.

He said they can't immediately put it to use when they play.

Players aren't sure about the new system.

One part of it gives info on which players shoot after just two dribbles.

Chris Paul of the Clippers has doubts.

"If I just guard him and after two dribbles I stop, and he takes a third and I say, 'Hey, man, you're only supposed to take two dribbles,' then what?"

Paul said.

And all the numbers can be a bit much.

Lakers player Chris Kaman said he was often overloaded with numbers last year.

"It got a little bit annoying," he said.

"Points per possession, per second half, per first quarter …" The system can also track injuries.

The Lakers will be able to see how Kobe Bryant's recovers from a leg injury.

That could help the team's trainers make plans that keep him healthy for the season.

Maheswaran, 39, and Chang, 35, hope teams leave the numbers to them.

The two have worked together since 2005.

They have worked on projects for the military.

Chang says that it's great that they can go from "detecting enemy targets and tracking them to tracking our favorite players on the court."

