The Los Angeles Clippers put four ping-pong balls up where everyone can see them.

Black numbers on the balls say 5-3-6-10.

Those balls are very special to the Clippers.

They helped them win the 2009 NBA draft contest.

Every year, new basketball players leave college and move on to play in the NBA.

Every team gets to pick new players to join them.

They all want the best players, but they have to take turns.

Since the Clippers won the contest, they got to pick first.

The Clippers picked Blake Griffin before anybody else could take him.

Griffin was a star player.

He helped the Clippers win a lot of games.

Now it is almost summer.

Lots of basketball players are finishing college.

It is time for this year's draft.

Soon, the NBA's 14 teams will find out how they will line up to pick new players.

Back in the 1960s, teams that lost the most games got to pick their new players first.

There was just one twist.

The two worst teams had a coin toss.

The winner got the very first pick.

Then in 1984, Houston started losing games on purpose.

They wanted to finish last.

That way, they would get to go first and choose the best new player.

The NBA had to make sure that never happened again.

In 1985, they tried something new.

NBA officials put the names of all the teams in a container.

Then they pulled the names out one at a time.

NBA teams had to pick their new players in that order.

Since then, the drawing has changed a lot.

Now the NBA uses ping-pong balls.

They say it is the best way to keep things fair.

Before the drawing begins, each team gets a list of numbers.

The lists are sort of like bingo cards.

To make things fair, the worst teams get extra chances to win.

That gives them better chances of winning the first pick.

Ping-pong balls go into a machine.

They have numbers on them.

The balls spin around for 20 seconds.

Then four balls are taken out one at a time.

NBA officials read the numbers to the crowd in a special room.

The team with the matching numbers wins.

That team will get to pick the new player they want most.

The ping-pong ball drawing has to be a secret.

The NBA holds the drawing in a special room.

Only some people are allowed to be there.

Nobody can leave the ping-pong ball room during the drawing.

Everyone has to turn in their cellphones and computers before they go into the room.

The NBA has to make sure the results stay secret.

Once the winners are told on TV, then everyone can talk about who won.

