group says the number of black and Hispanic coaches is going down.

College sports teams do not hire enough of them.

The group has an idea to change this.

It wants the NCAA to make a new rule.

Colleges would have to talk to blacks and Hispanics about these jobs.

The NCAA stands for the National Collegiate Athletic Association.

It is in charge of college sports. NAFCED is fighting to change the way college coaches are hired.

The letters stand for the National Association for Coaching Equity and Development.  Many black and Hispanic coaches belong to it.

NAFCED calls it the "Eddie Robinson Rule."

Robinson was a much-loved coach at Grambling State University in Louisiana.

He died in 2007.

NAFCED was started last year.

Merritt Norvell is the head of NAFCED.

He said that there are plenty of black and Hispanic coaches out there.

They would do a great job as head coach.

There is a problem, though.

Sometimes colleges are looking for a new coach.

They often do not talk to black and Hispanic people about the job.

A Robinson rule would be similar to a rule in professional football.

The National Football League (NFL) requires that blacks and Hispanics are told about a new coaching job.

The NFL does not want only white people to apply for the job.

Richard Lapchick works for fairness in sports.

He runs the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport.

It is at the University of Central Florida.

Last year, his group did a study.

It found that 112 of the 128 head football coaches in an NCAA sports group were white.

His group also looked at college presidents and heads of sports programs.

It found they were also mostly white.

Norries Wilson is a coach at Rutgers University in New Jersey.

He was the first black head football coach at Columbia University.

He said a Robinson rule could make a big difference.

He said no one should get a job just because he is black.

The best person should get the job.

Yet, black and Hispanic people should get a chance.

They should be able to say why they are the best person for the job.  Paul Hewitt is black.

He used to be coach at the university called Georgia Tech.

He said a Robinson rule is important.

Colleges should hire more black and Hispanic coaches.  The sport needs many different ideas and thoughts.

It is best for the game and the kids who play it.

Now more than ever, this is important, he said.

