group says there are not enough black and Hispanic coaches on college sports teams.

It has called on the National Collegiate Athletic Association to make a new rule.

The NCAA manages college sports and under the new rule, colleges would have to interview black and Hispanic people for top jobs.

The group asking for the change is the National Association for Coaching Equity and Development (NAFCED).

Many black and Hispanic coaches belong to it.

The group is calling the rule the "Eddie Robinson Rule."

Robinson was the beloved coach at Grambling State University in Louisiana who died in 2007\.

He was the NCAA Division 1 coach who won the most games ever.

A Robinson rule would be similar to a rule in the National Football League.

The NFL says that football teams must interview minority candidates for coach and other top positions.

Merritt Norvell is the leader of the NAFCED.

He said Friday that there are plenty of minority coaches who would do a great job.

He said the problem is the hiring process.

It does not do a good job of telling minority coaches about the new jobs.

NAFCED was started last year.

The purpose of the group is to fight the shrinking number of minority coaches in college sports.

Well-known members of the group include Texas Tech University basketball coach Tubby Smith and Georgetown University basketball coach John Thompson III.

University of Texas coach Shaka Smart also is a member.

Richard Lapchick runs the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport at the University of Central Florida.

He is an activist for equality in sports.

Before the college football season began, his group released a study.

It reported that 112 of the 128 head football coaches in the NCAA's Division 1 Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) were white.

This includes all four teams that made it to the playoffs.

Most of the FBS college presidents and athletic directors were also white males.

Paul Hewitt, who is black, is a former coach at Georgia Tech.

He said that a Robinson rule would be extremely important.

Colleges must hire more black and Hispanic coaches, he said.

"We're going through a very critical stage here," he said.

College football needs many different ideas and thoughts "so we can arrive at the best place for the game and the kids who play the game."

The question will be whether the NCAA could make so many public and private colleges follow the rule.

Norvell said the public pressure would make sure that colleges interview minorities.

Lapchick said a NCAA rule would not be good enough.

Instead, he wants Congress to make it a law.

Norries Wilson is an assistant coach at Rutgers University in New Jersey.

He was the first black head football coach at Columbia University in New York and worked there from 2006 to 2011\.

He said a Robinson rule could make a big difference in college football.

"I don't want anyone to get a job because he's a minority," Wilson said.

"I want the most qualified person to get the job.

But I think it's important for minorities to get an opportunity to sit down with athletic directors and the (school) president."

Then they can get the chance to say why they are the right people to run a football program.

NAFCED held its first meeting in Atlanta, Georgia last summer.

At the time, Hewitt did not want to push for the rule.

He was worried people might think he was supporting it only because he was looking for a new job himself.

As time went on, he said his viewpoint changed.

He said that football lacks the different ideas that people of different backgrounds can bring.

Black and Hispanic people may have new ideas about rules and regulations and how to get people to watch football games, he said.

"Now more than ever, there is a need for it."

