On Tuesday, the government opened a closely watched hearing.

The subject at hand was a plan for college athletes to form their own powerful group.

If the idea is approved, it will be the first of its kind in U.S. history.

The group would be a union.

Workers who do the same kind of job organize unions so they can bargain together as a large group.

The idea is that they would have more power to demand better pay and working conditions.

Northwestern University quarterback Kain Colter spoke for the pro-union side was.

He received scholarship money to attend Northwestern.

He said that his scholarship was basically his pay.

Colter described playing college football as a job.

He said schools make it clear to players that athletics are more important than classwork.

Colter is a co-founder of the newly formed College Athletes Players Association.

He said players have extremely tough schedules.

During and before the football season, they spend 40 to 50 hours a week on the game.

And during August training, he said, players often start practice at 8 a.m. and finish at 10 p.m. "It's a job, there is no way around it — it's a job," said Colter, a 21-year-old senior.

Colter's own college football days are now over.

Asked why Northwestern gave him a scholarship of $75,000 a year, he responded that it was in order for him "to play football.

To perform an athletic service."

Later, he said players earn the money, in part, "by sacrificing our bodies."

Whether the players can be considered employees is the key question for the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).

The NLRB is the government agency that protects workers rights to join together.

If NLRB says the athletes are employees, they would have the right to form the union.

The union bid could completely change college athletics.

The NCAA and Big Ten Conference, which includes Northwestern, are opposed to the union idea.

Both claim that student athletes are not employees.

A lawyer representing the university, Alex Barbour, insisted classwork is at the center of a football player's college experience.

"Northwestern is not a football factory," he said.

But Colter said he been forced to abandon his hopes of entering a pre-med program.

Pre-med helps students prepare for medical school to one day become doctors.

Colter said Northwestern's demands on football players are just too great.

Plus, he said, chemistry was always offered at times that conflicted with football practice.

"You fulfill the football requirement and, if you can, you fit in academics," he said.

"You have to sacrifice one.

But we can't sacrifice football.

... We are brought to the university to play football."

Spending more time on classwork and less on football, he added, could be dangerous: It could result in the loss of a scholarship.

Asked if coaches ever told players to leave practice and go study, Colter said no.

The university for its part has repeatedly pointed out one fact: Northwestern has one of the highest graduation rates for football teams in the country.

Around 97 percent of players receive degrees.

This, they say, proves Northwestern puts classes first.

Colter said most of the team's 85 scholarship players support forming a union.

Still, he has been the only one to step forward publicly.

He did so with the support of the United Steelworkers union, the players association and its leader, former UCLA linebacker Ramogi Huma.

Huma was also expected to testify, possibly on Wednesday.

Supporters say a union would help athletes get money to support themselves.

It could also improve their safety, they say.

They note that players are left out of the billions generated through college athletics.

Their scholarships sometimes don't even cover livings expenses for a full year, they claim.

A decision by the NLRB could come soon after the hearing ends.

For now, the push is to let athletes form unions is happening at private schools, like Northwestern.

State universities follow different rules.

