On Tuesday, a federal agency opened a hearing to decide whether college athletes should be allowed to form a union.

Northwestern University quarterback Kain Colter testified at the hearing for the pro-union side, saying that he was essentially paid to play football through his scholarship money.

If approved, it would be the first union for college athletes in U.S. history.

Workers organize unions so they can bargain together as a large group.

The idea is that they would have more power to demand better pay and working conditions.

Colter characterized playing college football as a job.

He said schools make it clear to incoming players that athletics are more important than academics — that is, classwork.

Colter, a co-founder of the newly formed College Athletes Players Association, said players have exhausting schedules.

During and before the football season, he said, they devote 40 to 50 hours a week to the game.

And during August training, players often start practice at 8 a.m. and finish at 10 p.m. "It's a job, there is no way around it — it's a job," said Colter, a 21-year-old senior.

Colter's own college football career is now over.

Asked why Northwestern gave him a scholarship of $75,000 a year, he responded that it was in order for him "to play football.

To perform an athletic service."

Later, he said players earn the money, in part, "by sacrificing our bodies."

Whether the players qualify under federal law as employees is the core question for the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).

The NLRB is the federal agency that protects the rights of workers to join together.

If the college athletes are deemed employees, they would have rights to unionize.

Whatever ruling the panel makes can be appealed.

The bid to form a union is seen as a test case that could completely change how college athletics operates.

The NCAA and Big Ten Conference, which includes Northwestern, both argue that student athletes are not employees.

During his opening statement, a lawyer representing the university, Alex Barbour, insisted classwork is at the center of a football player's college experience.

"Northwestern is not a football factory," he said.

But during his testimony, Colter said he abandoned his hopes of entering a pre-med program, which would have prepared him for medical school.

He blamed Northwestern for demanding so much time from its football players.

He said chemistry was always offered at times that conflicted with football practice.

"You fulfill the football requirement and, if you can, you fit in academics," he said.

"You have to sacrifice one.

But we can't sacrifice football.

... We are brought to the university to play football."

Devoting more time to classwork at the expense of his football, he added, could result in the loss of a scholarship.

Asked if coaches ever told players to leave practice and go study, Colter said no.

Northwestern spokesman Bob Rowley declined to comment on Colter's suggestion that the school treated football as more important than classwork.

He said the university's own witnesses later this week could address that and other questions.

The university has repeatedly pointed out that Northwestern has one of the highest graduation rates for football teams in the country — around 97 percent of players receive degrees.

Colter said most of the team's 85 scholarship players support forming a union, though he has been the only one to step forward publicly.

He did so with the support of the United Steelworkers union, the players association and its leader, former UCLA linebacker Ramogi Huma.

Huma was also expected to testify, possibly on Wednesday.

Supporters say a union would provide athletes means to push for laws to ensure their safety and ability to provide for themselves.

They noted that players are left out of the billions of dollars that college athletics draws in.

They claim their scholarships sometimes don't even cover livings expenses for a full year.

A decision by the NLRB could come soon after the testimony concludes.

For now, the push to form unions for athletes is just at private schools, like Northwestern.

Public universities, which follow different regulations, could follow later.

