All North Charleston patrol officers will begin wearing body cameras, the town's mayor announced.

The decision came in response to a video that showed a white police officer shooting an unarmed black man.

North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey called the shooting "a horrible tragedy."

"There have been two families that have been harmed greatly by what occurred — both the victim's and the officer's family," Summey said during a news conference Wednesday.

"Our hearts go out to both of them."

North Charleston police officer Michael Thomas Slager was arrested and charged with murder Tuesday.

He is accused of killing 50-year-old Walter Scott during what began as a traffic stop Saturday morning.

Slager has also been fired from the police force.

A person standing nearby recorded the incident on his cellphone.

That man gave the video to Walter Scott's family.

At first, Slager said that Scott grabbed his Taser weapon and fled.

But the video showed that Scott seemed to be unarmed.

In it, Slager, 33, is seen firing repeatedly as Scott ran from him.

According to the criminal charges, Slager struck Scott multiple times in the back.

North Charleston Police Chief Eddie Driggers said he was "sickened" by the video.

During Wednesday's news conference, protesters interrupted with chants of "No justice!

No peace!"

They demanded that Driggers answer questions about the investigation, which is being handled by a state investigation department.

The FBI has also said it is investigating.

The mayor and the chief said they visited with Scott's family Wednesday morning.

They are "a wonderful group of people, and we let them know how we felt about their loss and how bad it was," the police chief said.

Driggers and Summey said they told Scott's family that they would not ignore wrongdoing, no matter who is responsible.

The police department has ordered body cameras.

Officers will wear the small video cameras, which will record their actions.

However, Summey cautioned that it could take some time before officers would be patrolling with them.

First, the officers need to learn how to use them.

Scott's family praised the officer's arrest.

A lawyer said the family felt relieved that  murder charges were filed against Slager.

"All we wanted was the truth, and through the process we've received the truth," said Anthony Scott, Walter Scott's brother.

"I don't think that all police officers are bad cops, but there are some bad ones out there."

This was the 11th time an officer has shot someone in South Carolina this year, said Thom Berry.

He is the spokesman for the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division, which is investigating the shooting.

On Wednesday, a few dozen protesters showed up outside the North Charleston city building.

"We're out here for justice, we're out here because black lives matter," said Jeremy Johnson, age 21.

Johnson said he was upset, but not surprised, by the video showing Scott's killing.

"This is not just about justice for Charleston.

It's about justice for Mike Brown, it's about justice for Eric Garner," Johnson said.

"It's about justice everyone."

Michael Brown was an unarmed black teen who was killed by a white police officer in Ferguson, Missouri.

Eric Garner, another unarmed black man, died in New York City after being put in a chokehold by a white police officer.

Both deaths set off protests nationwide and began a discussion over how white police officers treat black people.

In North Charleston, the protesters insisted that Scott's shooting showed the larger problems in how police treat black people.

However, they said that protests must remain peaceful.

"The system is our enemy — not these individual officers," Pastor Thomas Ravenell said.

"We cannot change the law by breaking the law."

Former South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford, now a United States congressman, stopped by the protest.

Sanford said it was too soon to discuss major changes in policing across South Carolina and use of body cameras statewide.

But he praised local officials for swiftly charging the officer.

"As the mayor said, right is right and wrong is wrong," said Sanford.

"We all live with the decisions that we make, and so will this officer."

