Last weekend, a white police officer shot a black man in the back.

The man died.

A person standing nearby recorded the shooting on his cellphone.

The video was later given to police.

On Wednesday, the mayor of North Charleston, South Carolina, said that all officers on patrol will now wear body cameras.

The small video cameras will be worn by the officers on the street.

The cameras will record all their actions.

North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey said that what happened was terrible.

The victim's family and the officer's family were both harmed by what happened, Summey said.

"Our hearts go out to both of them."

On Tuesday, police officer Michael Thomas Slager was arrested and charged with killing Walter Scott.

Slager was also fired from the police force.

At first, Slager said he shot Scott after the man had taken his Taser gun.

The video showed that Scott seemed to be unarmed.

In the video, Slager is also seen firing his gun as Scott ran away from him.

On Wednesday, protesters chanted "No justice!

No peace!"

They demanded that the town's Police Chief Eddie Driggers answer questions about Scott's death.

A South Carolina state department is in charge of the investigation.

The FBI has said it is also looking into the shooting.

The mayor and the chief said they have visited Scott's family.

Summey said they told Scott's family how they badly they felt about his death.

They also promised the family that wrongdoing would not be ignored.

"I have been praying for peace for the family and peace for the community," Driggers said.

The police department has ordered the body cameras.

Summey said it could be a while before officers start using them.

They will need to be trained first.

A lawyer said that Scott's family felt relieved that Slager was arrested.

"All we wanted was the truth," said Anthony Scott.

He is the brother of Walter Scott.

"I don't think that all police officers are bad cops," he said.

"But there are some bad ones out there."

This was the 11th time an officer has shot someone in South Carolina this year.

A few dozen people protested Wednesday at the North Charleston city building.

"We're out here for justice.

We're out here because black lives matter," said Jeremy Johnson, age 21.

Johnson said he was upset, but not surprised, by the video.

The protesters insisted that Scott's death was a part of a larger problem with police.

Recently, white police officers have been involved in the deaths of several unarmed black people.

Their deaths set off protests across the country.

Officials began looking into whether blacks are treated fairly by white officers.

In North Charleston, protesters said they would remain peaceful.

"We cannot change the law by breaking the law," said Pastor Thomas Ravenell.

Former South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford stopped by the protest.

He is now a United States lawmaker.

Sanford praised the North Charleston officials.

He said they did the right thing by quickly charging the former police officer with murder.

"As the mayor said, right is right and wrong is wrong," said Sanford.

"We all live with the decisions that we make, and so will this officer."

