A South Carolina mayor announced that all patrol officers will wear body cameras after a local police officer was filmed shooting an unarmed man.

North Charleston Mayor Keith Summey called the shooting death "a horrible tragedy."

"There have been two families that have been harmed greatly by what occurred — both the victim's and the officer's family," Summey said during a news conference Wednesday.

"Our hearts go out to both of them."

The former North Charleston officer, Michael Thomas Slager, was arrested and charged with murder Tuesday.

The white officer allegedly shot and killed Walter Scott, who was black, during what began as a traffic stop three days earlier.

At first, Slager, 33, said that during the confrontation Saturday morning, Scott had taken his Taser, a weapon that delivers an electrical shock, and ran with it.

Cellphone video taken by a bystander, however, showed that Scott, 50, appeared to be unarmed when he ran away.

In the footage, Slager is seen firing numerous shots at Scott's back and criminal charges says that he struck the man "multiple" times.

Police Chief Eddie Driggers said Wednesday that he was "sickened" by the video.

Wednesday's news conference turned chaotic at times, as protesters interrupted officials with chants of "No justice!

No peace!"

They demanded that Driggers answer questions about the investigation, which is being handled by the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED).

The FBI has also said it is investigating.

Summey and Driggers declined to answer specific questions regarding the incident, noting that SLED, and not the city, is leading the investigation.

But Summey said that he has not "seen all of the video," which had been turned over to Walter Scott's family and then to police.

The mayor and the chief said they visited with Scott's family Wednesday morning and pledged a police escort for his funeral.

Summey said they are "a wonderful, down-to-earth family, a wonderful group of people, and we let them know how we felt about their loss."

Driggers added, "I have been praying for peace for the family and peace for the community."

State police officers arrested Slager on Tuesday and took him to the Charleston County jail, where he is being held.

Slager has been fired from the police force, but Summey said that Slager's wife, who is eight months' pregnant, will remain on the city's health insurance plan until after she delivers her baby.

"We think that's the humane thing for us to do," he said.

The North Charleston department ordered additional body cameras Wednesday morning, which would add to the 115 cameras the department already owns.

Officers will wear the small cameras, which will record all their actions.

However, Summey cautioned that it could take some time before officers would be patrolling with them, because they need to be trained, and the department needs to finish writing procedures for their use.

Scott's family praised the arrest Tuesday evening, and an attorney said the family was "relieved" that charges were filed against Slager.

"All we wanted was the truth, and through the process we've received the truth," said Anthony Scott, Walter Scott's brother.

"I don't think that all police officers are bad cops, but there are some bad ones out there."

This was the 11th time an officer has shot someone in South Carolina so far this year, according to Thom Berry, a spokesman for SLED, the state agency in charge of the investigation.

On Wednesday, a few dozen protesters showed up outside the North Charleston city building carrying signs and shouting protest chants.

"We're out here for justice, we're out here because black lives matter," 21-year-old Jeremy Johnson said.

Johnson said he was upset, but not surprised, by the video showing Scott's killing.

"This is not just about justice for Charleston.

It's about justice for Mike Brown, it's about justice for Eric Garner," Johnson said.

"It's about justice everyone."

Michael Brown was an unarmed black teen in Ferguson, Missouri, who was shot and killed by a white police officer over the summer.

Eric Garner was an unarmed black man who died in New York City after a white police officer put him in a chokehold.

Both deaths set off protests coast to coast and a national soul-searching over how white police officers treat black people.

In North Charleston, the protesters — vocal but relatively small in number — insisted that Scott's shooting was a symptom of bigger and deeper problems in local policing.

However, they stressed that demonstrations must remain peaceful.

"The system is our enemy — not these individual officers," Pastor Thomas Ravenell said.

"We cannot change the law by breaking the law."

Former South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford, now a United States congressman whose district includes parts of North Charleston, stopped by the demonstration.

He spoke with local ministers about the shooting, which he called "unfathomable."

Sanford said it was too soon to discuss passing new state laws regarding body cameras and policing reform, but he praised local officials for swiftly charging the officer.

"As the mayor said, right is right and wrong is wrong," Sanford said.

"We all live with the decisions that we make, and so will this officer."

