Scientists in Europe say they unearthed strong evidence that Neanderthals carved their own specialized bone tools.

The find adds to the evidence that Neanderthals were more advanced than previously thought, contrary to their brutish, club lugging ape-men image.

Archaeologists said they discovered four fragments of bone tools known as lissoirs at two Neanderthal sites in southwestern France.

They described the findings in a study in a science magazine.

The implements are the oldest specialized bone tools found in Europe, said archaeologist Marie Soressi of The Netherlands.

Before this, tools unearthed at Neanderthal sites were almost exclusively made of stone.

Bone tools were more common at early modern-human sites.

So many scholars believe that Neanderthals adopted the technology from their more advanced relatives.

But the recently unearthed lissoirs are about 41,000 to 51,000 years old.

They could have been in Europe before modern humans got there.

If so, Neanderthals might have figured out how to make the tools themselves, Soressi and her team wrote.

"I don't think that the image of the brutish or stupid Neanderthal is true anymore," said Paola Villa of the  University of Colorado Museum of Natural History.

Ancient lissoirs were made from animal ribs.

Leather workers probably scraped the tools against hides to create shinier, waterproof leather.

Craftspeople still use lissoirs today.

Soressi's group unearthed the first lissoir fragment from an excavation site in southwestern France in 2005.

Team member and archaeologist William Rendu noticed the unusual looking fragment of deer rib.

He saw that its shape and markings weren't anatomical.

They did not come from ground particles wearing away at the bone, either, he said.

Further examination under a microscope revealed that the piece, less than a centimeter long, had a worn edge and a polished surface.

Those characteristics suggested that it had come from a tool.

"It was obvious it was a lissoir," Soressi said, adding that lissoirs in use today share a similar design.

The ancient fragment was probably a tip that had broken off, she said.

To confirm that the tip came from a lissoir, the researchers made their own lissoirs and scraped them against animal hides.

When they compared their tools to the piece they had found, using a microscope, the tools shared the same signs of wear: cracks radiating from the tip.

Soressi shared her findings with Shannon McPherron.

He is an archaeologist in Germany who was researching Neanderthal behavior at a nearby site.

McPherron and his coworkers began searching his site for lissoir fragments too.

The group found three over the next seven years, and confirmed they too were from leather-working tools.

"We didn't expect to find these bones," said McPherron.

"We were thrilled."

Although archaeologists had discovered bone tools at Neanderthal sites before, these were the first that weren't just copies of existing stone tools, McPherron said.

They exploited bone's unique properties.

"Ribs have a certain flexibility" that stone lacks, he said.

"When you're working hide, you want the bone to give a little bit."

Tests dated one of the lissoirs to 51,000 years ago — thousands of years before modern humans arrived in Europe.

This suggests that our ancestors may have adopted the practice of making bone tools from the continent's earlier Neanderthal inhabitants.

But it's just as likely that modern humans arrived earlier than previously thought, and influenced the Neanderthals, Soressi said.

"It's a hard call," said Donald Henry, an archaeologist from the University of Tulsa in Oklahoma.

Henry said most of the evidence suggested that Neanderthals adopted the technology from modern humans.

But even if Neanderthals did adopt elements of modern human culture, "that doesn't mean they're inferior," Henry said.

"There are many examples of human societies adopting technologies from other societies," he said.

That doesn't mean "that the ones who adopted it were stupid."

The findings add to earlier evidence of advanced behavior in Neanderthals.

They used tree resin as glue and made pitch to waterproof their boats, Villa said.

"Maybe they didn't have opera, but they weren't dumb," Henry added.

"They survived hundreds of thousands of years.

We haven't done that yet."

