Peering far deeper than ever before into humanity's murky genetic past, scientists sequenced the DNA of an ancient European relative.

And they found a puzzling connection to Asia.

The genetic sample came from a 400,000-year-old thigh bone.

It was pulled from the cold, damp depths of a Spanish cave called Sima de los Huesos, or "Pit of Bones."

Scientists thought at first that it belonged to a species that is an ancestor of Neanderthals.

They expected it to resemble DNA extracted from a handful of Neanderthal bones found in Spain, Croatia and other sites in Europe.

They were wrong.

"This really raises more questions than it answers really," said German biologist Svante Paabo, a pioneer in the quest to decode ancient DNA.

"It's a big surprise."

Paabo and his partners published a report on their findings this past week in the magazine Nature.

The DNA is the oldest known genetic material ever recovered from an early human.

It beats the previous record by roughly 300,000 years.

It was taken from cell mitochondria, tiny structures that produce energy for the cell.

It contains far less information than DNA from a cell nucleus, which is the control center of the cell.

But, mitochondria decays very slowly, so it is easier to study in ancient specimens.

When the scientists looked at the mitochondria DNA it seemed to be a match with the Denisovans.

They're a little-known group of Neanderthal relatives that lived thousands of miles away in Siberia.

The scientists can't explain the link between an early European and another population in Asia.

It's possible that the bone belonged to a member of a group that was related to both Neanderthals and Denisovans.

Neanderthals might have acquired different mitochondrial DNA after the two groups split off from each other.

Or maybe the group "actually interbred with something much older, something like Homo erectus, and obtained its mitochondrial DNA from them," Paabo said.

Humans, Neanderthals and Denisovans all came from Homo erectus originally.

Modern humans, or Homo sapiens, are not descendants of Neanderthals,  according to scientists.

But, they did live at the same time and interbred.

At some point about 30,000 years ago, all other species of the Homo genus were wiped out.

That left only us.

Answers to this mystery may emerge if the team is able to recover nuclear DNA from cells in the bone.

Paabo said scientists are already working on it.

They hope to have some results in roughly a year.

But success isn't something that scientists can take for granted.

Ancient DNA information has been extremely difficult to figure out.

There are at least two reasons why.

First, DNA strands break down into smaller and smaller pieces over time, making it tricky to determine their original order.

The second is one of contamination.

DNA from archaeologists, who dig up bones, and lab workers can get mixed up with the sample, confusing things.

Older DNA samples have been obtained for other animals.

Scientists recently figured out the DNA of a 700,000-year-old horse.

But it was found in freezing conditions, which helped preserve the bones.

Early human remains haven't been found in those same areas.

In the case of the Spanish bone, some things helped Paabo's team understand much of the mitochondria DNA.

Cool, moist conditions within the cave, as well as rapid advancements in DNA technology, made it easier.

Alongside the bone were the remains of 28 other individuals.

Bone remains of European Neanderthals have allowed scientists to describe their appearance in detail.

This is not the case with Denisovans, however.

Evidence of their existence is based only on a fragment of bone from a child's finger and two teeth that were discovered in 2010 in the mountains of Siberia.

We know quite well what Neanderthals look like.

They were bigger than modern humans.

They had more muscles and probably were used to living in a rough and cold climate, Paabo said.

What's fascinating about the Denisovans is we know next to nothing about how they looked, he said.

We have their DNA, and "we have two teeth, and those teeth are huge.

The only thing we can say is they must have been very big, or at least had big mouths."

Besides all the unanswered questions, scientists say the discovery is an incredible leap forward.

"This is positively exciting," said Andrea Manica, a scientist at the University of Cambridge in England.

It means that much older remains can be explored through DNA.

