Neanderthals are our closest human relatives.

The last Neanderthals died off thousands of years ago.

Now they are extinct just like dinosaurs.

People believed Neanderthals were slobs.

They thought that they lived in messy caves and threw their stuff everywhere.

But some experts who study them are starting to think that might not be true.

That's because archaeologists dug up new information about the Neanderthals.

They found items like bones and shells.

Those items are making the experts think that Neanderthals led an organized home life.

The dig took place in Italy at a collapsed rock shelter.

The site used to be home to both Neanderthals and humans.

Researchers there focused on three levels of a cave.

Neanderthals used to live there roughly 45,000 years ago.

The items the archaeologists found make them think that Neanderthals used different areas in their home for different reasons.

Just like humans.

For instance, we sleep in bedrooms, eat in dining rooms and cook in kitchens.

Julien Riel-Salvatore works at a university in Colorado.

He was one of the experts who worked at the dig in Italy.

He said putting and keeping things in order has always been something experts believed only humans could do.

But after working in Italy he thinks differently.

Now he believes Neanderthals also might have had different areas to do different tasks.

One area was for butchering animals.

Another spot was for sharpening tools.

Building fires took place in another spot.

Researchers found evidence of fire building, or hearths, toward the rear wall of the cave.

Stone tools and chips were found outside the cave.

Animal materials were also found outside the cave.

This may mean that Neanderthals wanted to keep certain activities separate from others.

Smelly tasks that involved animals seemed to have happened outside the cave.

Researchers warned people that their findings were made on a very small part of the dig site.

They added that more work had to be done to prove their findings true.

Scientists also found shellfish remains at the cave in Italy.

Shellfish include crabs, shrimp and clams.

They also found lots of ochre in the cave.

Ochre is a clay-like material found in the earth.

Scientists are not sure what the ochre was used for.

But they think that it may have been used during animal butchering.

Riel-Salvatore thinks the ochre could have been used in many different ways.

He thinks Neanderthals could have used it to make leather.

He thinks it also could have been used as glue, cleaning material or even for symbolic purposes.

"We really can't tell at this point," Riel-Salvatore said.

