Neanderthal DNA could be the reason that allergens such as pollen and pet fur make some people sneeze.

Studies show that tens of thousands of years ago, ancient humans and Neanderthals coupled.

Neanderthals were a type of early Stone Age, primitive man found across what is now Europe and Asia. Today, about 2 percent of the DNA in most people can be traced to the mating of Neanderthals and early humans.

DNA controls how every part of the human body develops and functions, and scientists are trying to determine what affect Neanderthal DNA has on people today.

Scientists believe that 50,000 years ago, early humans who left Africa encountered Neanderthals during their travels, somewhere in the Middle East. Sometimes these meetings led to interbreeding, and evidence of this is apparent in the genomes, or inheritable traits, of people with ancestors from Europe and Asia.

Two different groups of scientists published work about this topic recently in the scientific magazine American Journal of Human Genetics.

They both say that in many people, genes that protect against pathogens were probably inherited from Neanderthals.

Pathogens are bacteria, viruses or fungi that cause disease.

The scientists say that the same genes appear to play a role in some people's allergies. Janet Kelso is a researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, and was the senior author of one of the new works.

She says, "It's a bit speculative, but perhaps this is some kind of trade-off.

Increased resistance to bacterial infection was advantageous but may have resulted in some increased sensitivity to non-pathogenic allergens."

Not everyone with Neanderthal DNA inherited the same genes, but immunity genes seem to be more popular than others. Among some Asian and European groups, researchers found that Neanderthal immunity genes can be found in half of the population. "That's huge," says Lluis Quintana-Murci, an evolutionary geneticist at the Pasteur Institute in Paris, France, who authored the other work.

He says, "It came as a big surprise to us."

Peter Parham is a professor of microbiology and immunology at Stanford School of Medicine in Stanford, California, and says that research implies that Neanderthal genes must have served human ancestors well because they are still around today.

He believes that if the DNA were not valuable, it would have been flushed out of the human gene pool. He says, "It suggests there was a benefit for the migrating modern human and the archaic human to get together.

What has survived is a hybridization of those populations."

Both of the research groups specifically report on a cluster of three genes.

These genes make up part of the body's innate immune response, immunity that people are born with, to invading bacteria and viruses.

The innate immune response is different from the acquired immune response, gained through vaccines or simply getting sick.

Innate immunity kicks in first and can destroy a pathogen in a few hours, before a person even knows that he or she is sick. Quintana-Murci says that because this innate immune response is so useful, it has been a strong player in positive selection.

Positive selection is the tendency of beneficial traits to increase in frequency in a population over time.

Both groups of researchers came to the same conclusion that Neanderthal DNA plays an important role in immunity.

However, the teams were asking different questions when they began their studies.

Quintana-Murci's group is trying to understand how microscopic pathogens influence the human genome as our species evolves. The spread of disease has killed many people throughout history, therefore, immunity genes must spread through natural selection. Only those who adapt to their environment survive and pass their genes to the next generations, and those less adapted are eliminated.

In their research, Quintana-Murci and his team examined 1,500 innate immunity genes in people.

Then they matched them up with a previously published map of the Neanderthal DNA in the human genome. The team calculated the percentage of Neanderthal DNA in innate immunity genes and other genes.

When they compared the percentages, they found that innate immunity genes had much higher proportions of Neanderthal in them.

Kelso's group is interested in ancient genomes like those of Neanderthals and wants to uncover the results of long-ago interbreeding between humans and Neanderthals. The scientists analyzed the genomes of thousands of present-day people from all over the world, looking for high similarity to the DNA of Neanderthals.

Then they checked how often they saw the Neanderthal-like DNA in humans today. Kelso says, "What emerged was this region containing three genes involved in the innate immune system."

  Both research groups say that they still need to figure out exactly how Neanderthal DNA helped humans survive. However, they are already certain that interbreeding with Neanderthals helped early humans when they left Africa. "The things we have inherited from Neanderthals are largely things that have allowed us to adapt to our environment," Kelso says.

