On Sunday, tens of thousands solemnly marched through Moscow to honor a Russian public figure who was murdered.

Boris Nemtsov was a politician who opposed Russia's president, Vladimir Putin.

Marchers bore flowers and tied black ribbons to railings.

The march was largely silent, though there were occasional chants of "Russia without Putin," or "Say no to war."

The killing of Nemtsov has shaken the Russian opposition, which sees President Vladimir Putin as responsible for his death.

It is unclear, however, whether his death will be enough to invigorate the delayed movement.

Despite Russia's ongoing conflict with Ukraine and the country's economic crisis, more than 80 percent of Russians have supported Putin the past year.

Mass anti-Putin protests brought hundreds of thousands to the streets of Moscow in 2011 and 2012.

Since then, however, Putin has marginalized and intimidated people who try to attack him.

He put some of his opponents in jail, forced others into exile, and ramped up fines and potential jail time for those arrested at protests.

The 55-year-old Nemtsov was among the few popular opposition figures who refused to back down.

Nonetheless, while many at the march expressed respect for his long political career and grief at his loss, few believed that his death would spark major change in Russia.

The government's control over national television, where a vast majority of Russians get their news, is just too powerful, they said.

"Maybe if 100 people were to die people would rise up, but I don't really believe in that," said 22-year-old Sergei Musakov.

"People are so under the influence of the (TV) box that they will believe anything that television tells them."

The government has called opposition figures like Nemtsov traitors who were only trying to help hostile countries in the West, such as the United States and parts of Europe.

About 30,000 people attended the march, making it the largest opposition rally in more than a year.

The demonstrators carried Russian flags and signs that read "I am not afraid" or "Propaganda kills."

At the site where Nemtsov was killed, a pile of flowers grew by the minute, as mourners tossed down bouquets of every color.

Nemtsov was shot shortly before midnight Friday as he walked across a bridge near the Kremlin.

The killing came just hours after a radio interview in which he denounced Putin's "mad, aggressive policy" in Ukraine.

Russia has been backing pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine who are fighting the government in the capital Kiev.

At the time of his death, Nemtsov was working on a report that he believed proved Russian troops were fighting alongside the separatists, despite official denials.

No one has been arrested in the killing.

Investigators said they were looking into several possible reasons for the shooting and have offered 3 million rubles (nearly $50,000) for information.

Investigators said Sunday they were again questioning the woman who was with Nemtsov, Ukrainian citizen Anna Duritskaya.

Fellow opposition activists said they hoped Nemtsov's death would encourage people to take action, rather than silence them.

"Essentially it is an act of terror," said Ilya Yashin, an opposition leader and friend.

"It is a political murder aimed at frightening the population, or the part of the population that supported Nemtsov or did not agree with the government.

I hope we won't get scared, that we will continue what Boris was doing."

Mikhail Kasyanov, a former prime minister who joined the opposition, told the crowd the killing should be a turning point for Russia.

"People who before thought that they could quietly sit in their kitchens and simply discuss problems within the family, now will start reconsidering everything that's going on in our country," he said.

Since Nemtsov's death, investigators, politicians and political commentators on state television have suggested numerous explanations for the attack.

The most popular theory seemed to be that Western secret services were behind the hit, with the aim of destabilizing Russia.

Putin's spokesman said the president saw the attack as a "provocation" against the state.

Some bristled at Western media coverage that suggested Nemtsov was killed for his relentless opposition to Putin.

"We haven't even recovered, the man hasn't even been buried, and the West is shoving down our throats that Russia supposedly has killed a key opposition politician," said state television anchor Dmitry Kiselyov.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States did know who was behind the shooting.

"We hope there will be a thorough, transparent, real investigation, not just of who actually fired the shots, but who, if anyone, may have ordered or instructed this or been behind this," Kerry said Sunday.

Kiselyov said that while Nemtsov was known in Russia from his political activity in the 1990s, when he served as a deputy prime minister overseeing reforms, he was no longer popular.

The anchor suggested that the West may have believed his death would affect average Russians more than his political activity: "When he was alive, Nemtsov was no longer necessary to the West, he had no prospects — but dead, he was a lot more interesting," he said.

For those at the march, it is the widespread influence of state television that makes the prospects for change seem dim.

"From my experience, trying to convince people isn't possible," said Mikhail Trofimenko, a 42-year-old screenwriter.

"I think things will only get worse, but I hope that by some miracle Russia will not fall apart and remain a united country."

He held up a painting of the Russian flag with four bullet holes in it, the number of times Nemtsov was shot.

Another mourning march was held earlier Sunday in St. Petersburg, drawing several thousand people.

Nelly Prusskaya, a 66-year-old doctor, said she came to pay her respects to Nemtsov.

"I also came to say that I'm against the war in Ukraine," she said.

"I'm against political murders."

