Tens of thousands of people solemnly marched through the streets of Moscow on Sunday.

They had come to honor Boris Nemtsov, who was killed on Friday.

Nemtsov was known for speaking out against the government of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The marchers were mostly silent as they walked through the streets, carrying flowers and tying black ribbons to railings.

Supporters of Nemtsov say Putin was responsible for the killing.

The Russian government said this was not the case.

Putin's popularity in Russia is strong.

Last year, 8 out of 10 Russians said they approved of the president.

But some Russians are strongly against Putin.

They say he has too much power and that he silences his enemies brutally.

Many also object to Russia's conflict with Ukraine.

The two countries in Eastern Europe have a long history.

They used to be ruled by the same government.

The two separated when the Soviet Union broke up more than 20 years ago.

Now, some Ukrainians want to be a part of Russia again.

Some people say Russia has been giving money to pro-Russia rebels in eastern Ukraine who are fighting Ukraine's government.

In 2011 and 2012, there were huge street protests directed against Putin.

Since then, however, Putin has mostly stopped the protests.

He put some of the protest leaders in jail and forced others to move out of the country.

Fines and jail time for those arrested at protests have also been increased.

The 55-year-old Nemtsov was among the few people who refused to give in, which made him a hero to some.

Nemtsov was a member of Russia's opposition.

The group disagrees with the actions of the Russian government and fights for change.

Still, few at the march believed that his death would bring a major change in Russia.

The government's control over national television, from which most Russians get their news, is just too powerful, they said.

"Maybe if 100 people were to die people would rise up, but I don't really believe in that," said Sergei Musakov, 22.

"People are so under the influence of the (TV) box that they will believe anything that television tells them."

The government says people like Nemtsov are traitors.

It says they are working for the United States and other Western countries that would like to see Putin removed from power.

About 30,000 people attended the march on Sunday.

Many carried Russian flags and signs that read "I am not afraid."

At the spot where Nemtsov was killed, a pile of flowers got bigger and bigger, as people threw bouquets of every color.

Nemtsov was shot just before midnight on Friday.

He was killed near the Kremlin, where the president of Russia lives.

The killing came just hours after a radio interview in which Nemtsov spoke against Putin and Russia's actions in Ukraine.

At the time of his death, Nemtsov was working on a report.

He believed it proved that Russian troops are fighting alongside the pro-Russia rebels.

The Russian government says these claims are not true.

No one has been arrested in Nemtsov's killing.

Investigators said they were looking into several possible reasons for the shooting and have offered a reward for information.

Fellow opposition figures said they hoped Nemtsov's death would encourage people to take action.

"Essentially it is an act of terror," said Ilya Yashin, an opposition leader.

"It is a political murder aimed at frightening the population, or the part of the population that supported Nemtsov or did not agree with the government.

I hope we won't get scared, that we will continue what Boris was doing."

Since Nemtsov's death, those loyal to Putin have suggested numerous explanations for the attack.

One theory seemed to be that Western secret services were behind the hit.

The idea of the killing, some have said, was to turn the Russian people against Putin.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said the United States had no information on who shot Nemtsov.

Many at the march do not believe Nemtsov's killing will bring about any real change.

The influence of government-controlled television news is just too strong, they say.

One protester held up a painting of the Russian flag with four bullet holes in it, the number of times Nemtsov was shot.

Another march to honor Nemtsov was held earlier Sunday in St. Petersburg, drawing several thousand people.

