powerful earthquake struck Nepal on Saturday.

More than 3,000 people were killed.

The quake destroyed highways and buildings.

It also set off avalanches that sent snow and ice tumbling down Mount Everest.

The earthquake struck just before noon.

It was Nepal's most powerful earthquake in 80 years.

The center of the earthquake was 48 miles northwest of Kathmandu, Nepal's capital, which has 1.4 million people.

The earthquake had a magnitude of 7.8.

Magnitude is a measure of how strong an earthquake is on a 1 to 10 scale.

Kathmandu and Kathmandu Valley were hit hardest by the earthquake.

It also shook several cities across northern India.

The quake was felt as far away as Pakistan, Tibet and Bangladesh, which are also in Asia.

Officials said the earthquake began only 7 miles below ground.

The closer to the earth's surface, the more powerful an earthquake is.

Witnesses said the earth shook for several minutes.

A magnitude-6.6 aftershock hit about an hour later.

At least 20 other aftershocks, which are like small quakes, followed the huge one.

"This quake was so big," said Prajana W. Pradham, who is with the CARE aid group.

"We've been feeling tremors for four hours.

I just felt another big jolt."

Kathmandu's airport was closed, and television and Internet services were stopped.

Phone and power lines were down.

People said the quake knocked over walls and telephone poles, and broke windows.

Many historic buildings were severely damaged or destroyed.

Many of them were in the Patan Durbar Square area.

The area is on the United Nation's list of world treasure sites and is filled with temples and Nepal's ancient royal palace.

The 200-foot-tall Dharahara Tower, which was built in 1832, collapsed.

As the quake became worse, people ran out of homes and buildings in panic.

Large cracks opened up on streets and walls.

An Indian Air Force plane brought rescue and medical workers to Kathmandu.

Three other airplanes were sent from India, said Sujatha Singh, an Indian government official.

One of them contained a mini hospital.

"There has been heavy damage in and around Kathmandu," Singh said.

Nepal's government has asked for tents and blankets, and also teams to search for people who survived the earthquake.

On Sunday, Singh said 10 helicopters would be sent to help with the rescue effort, airlift the injured and distribute food.

Nepal has about 30 million people.

It is located between India and China.

Many buildings in Nepal are made of brick or rubble and stone.

People were hurt by falling bricks.

No one knows yet how much damage was caused by the quake.

However, experts say it will be difficult for this poor country to bounce back.

Nepal is best known for Everest, the highest mountain in the world.

It depends on tourism for money, mainly from tourists hiking and climbing in the Himalaya Mountains.

Javier Camacho Gimenez is a mountaineer and photographer.

At the time of the earthquake, he was on Mount Everest trying to reach the top.

He said that avalanches caused by the earthquake buried some of the camps where climbers stayed.

He thinks that eight people had died and 40 were injured.

Alex Gavan, another mountaineer, posted on Twitter that the quake triggered an avalanche about 5 miles west of Everest.

"Huge disaster," he wrote.

Gavan said he helped rescue victims of the avalanche.

Newer buildings in Kathmandu seemed to have survived.

Severe aftershocks continued after nightfall.

Nepal's government said roads were blocked, delaying rescues.

Rain was expected for Sunday.

The bad weather could make life even harder for people whose homes were destroyed.

