Finding new planets is important.

In the last 20 years, scientists have found about 2,000 using a telescope in space.

No single planet is likely to be much of a big deal.

Last week, scientists announced they discovered another new planet.

This one is a very different story.

It does not circle a distant star.

Instead, it is part of our own solar system.

The new planet would be a very big deal.

The scientists are Konstantin Batygin and Mike Brown.

They work at the California Institute of Technology.

They are astronomers and study space.

They say the new planet is beyond Pluto.

It might be 10 times bigger than Earth.

They are calling it "Planet Nine."

It would be a so-called "Super Earth."

There are many Super Earth planets around other stars.

There have been none, until now, in our own solar system.

Sadly, they have not actually found it yet, Brown said.

No one has ever even seen it.

Even though Planet Nine is really big, it would be very dark.

The evidence for the planet is strong, though.

They think its gravity is very strong.

Its gravity is changing the orbits of nearby space objects.

Batygin and Brown are not the first to say there is an extra planet in our solar system. In 2014, two scientists thought there might be something planet-sized out there.

Batygin and Brown took another look.

At first, they said there could not be a planet out there.

The idea was crazy, Brown said.

Yet, there was no other explanation.

A new planet was the only one that fit the facts.

Many scientists think Batygin and Brown are right.

Not all agree, however.

Hal Levison is a scientist with the Southwest Research Institute in Colorado.

Over the years, some scientists have thought they found a new planet, Levison said.

They were wrong.

Levison thinks this one may be wrong, too.

Other scientists are excited about Planet Nine.

Scott Sheppard is a scientist with the Carnegie Institution for Science.

He is one of the scientists who had thought there might be a new planet.

When Sheppard was growing up, he thought that all the big planets were found.

He is excited by the idea that he could be wrong.

