In the last 20 years, astronomers have found about 2,000 new worlds using a telescope in space.

These planets lie trillions of miles from Earth.

Finding new planets is important.

No single one is likely to be much of a big deal.

Last week, scientists announced they discovered another new planet.

This new planet, though, is a very different story.

It does not circle a distant star.

Instead, it is part of our own solar system, a place you would think we had explored pretty well by now.

In a new study, two planetary scientists say they found strong evidence for a very large planet.

Their names are Konstantin Batygin and Mike Brown.

They work at the California Institute of Technology.

The scientists say the new planet is orbiting the sun beyond Pluto.

This new planet could be 10 times bigger than Earth.

They think its gravity is so strong it is changing the orbit of nearby space objects.

"I haven't been this excited about something in quite a while," says Greg Laughlin.

He is a planetary scientist at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

For the time being, the scientists have named it "Planet Nine."

It is very far away.

The new planet never comes closer than 19 billion or so miles from the sun.

It is not surprising that no one has ever seen it.

Even though it is gigantic, the planet would be very dim.

"Sadly," Brown says, the scientists have not actually found it yet.

The evidence for the planet is strong, though.

Other experts are taking it seriously.

"I think it's pretty convincing," says Chad Trujillo.

He is a scientist with the Gemini Observatory in Hawaii.

Batygin and Brown are not the first to say there is an extra planet in our solar system.

In 2014,  Trujillo and a scientist named Scott Sheppard argued that there might be something planet-sized out there.

Sheppard is with the Carnegie Institution for Science.

Batygin and Brown took another look at the information.

"At first," Brown says, "we said there can't be a planet out there — that's crazy."

Yet the only explanation that fit was the "crazy" idea of a new planet.

The planet that best fits the information would be 10 times bigger than Earth.

It would be a so-called "Super Earth."

There are many Super Earth planets around other stars but none, until now, in our own solar system.

The new planet would be smaller than Neptune.

Neptune is about 17 times the size of Earth.

Planet Nine might be seen with a telescope.

Until then, though, astronomers cannot really say that Planet Nine is real.

Hal Levison is a scientist with the Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colorado.

He said other scientists have claimed over the years to find an extra planet.

Before he believes this one, more research needs to be done.

Overall, planetary scientists are thrilled about Planet Nine.

"When I was growing up," Scott Sheppard says, "we thought the big planets had all been found.

It would be very exciting and very surprising to learn that we were wrong."

