The protesters are angry, but their chants are simple: "I can't breathe!"

"Hands up, don't shoot!"

"Black lives matter!"

Protesters have shouted these slogans from coast to coast after two recent grand juries decided not indict, or charge, white policemen in the deaths of unarmed black men.

Now, black leaders are counting on the rage and pain behind those words to create a new civil rights movement.

They want to challenge the United States to face issues of race and police.

They also demand that the government automatically investigates when police use too much force.

"They're asking for something simple.

They want to be treated the same," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said of protesters Thursday.

De Blasio sought to calm the city where many took to the streets to protest a grand jury's decision not to indict Daniel Pantaleo, a white officer, in the death of Eric Garner, who was black.

On July 17, Garner died after allegedly being put in a chokehold by Pantaleo.

Garner's death was captured on cellphone video.

As night fell on Thursday, helicopters thundered over New York for a second day of protests.

Large demonstrations also broke out across the nation, including Boston, Washington, Pittsburgh and Chicago.

"It was a murder on video and there was no justice," said Mickey Thomas, a 21-year-old Hunter College student.

"I definitely think we've had enough.

I feel like there is a new civil rights movement."

Ida Dupont is a Pace University sociology professor specializing in crime.

She said she was outraged at the grand jury decision, especially because of the video.

"I've been talking to my students about it," she said.

"All the young people know something is seriously wrong."

Last week, violence, arson and looting erupted in Ferguson, Missouri, after a grand jury there decided not to indict white police officer Darren Wilson.

On Aug. 9, Wilson shot and killed Michael Brown, another unarmed black man.

At a Thursday news conference, black leaders urged protesters from around the country to come to Washington, D.C., for a Dec. 13 rally.

They plan to press for federal intervention when police use excessive force.

If enough people come, the government must listen to them, the leaders said.

"Marches and boycotts led to the '64 Civil Rights Act," noted Al Sharpton of the National Action Network.

The Civil Right Act was passed by Congress in 1964.

It outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.

Sharpton said that federal legislation led to change 50 years ago.

Today, similar laws are needed.

He said prosecutors, who bring criminal cases against a defendant, should no longer be allowed to handle cases involving their own police force.

Those pushing for change have the attention of some of the nation's top leaders.

These leaders include President Barack Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who are black, and de Blasio, whose wife is black.

The New York mayor spoke emotionally this week of the concerns he and his wife had for their 17-year-old son, Dante.

"I couldn't help but immediately think of what it would mean to me to lose Dante," de Blasio said.

"Life could never be the same."

Holder has investigated several police departments in recent years, and has ordered changes.

But the black leaders say this is not enough.

They demand that the Justice Department automatically investigate cases in which law enforcement officials face criminal charges from civilian deaths or injuries.

Experts say that public anger over recent the recent killings could bring actual change.

Connie Rice is a civil rights lawyer and founder of the Advancement Project in Los Angeles.

"We'll see a response that's more than lip service," she said.

Rice said that the latest cries for change is "a continuation of a very old civil rights era."

She said, "It's not going to look like it did, but that doesn't mean it's new."

Darnell Hunt, a media and race expert at the University of California, Los Angeles, said only time could tell whether Sharpton's goals are realized.

But, he said, there does seem to be "a rising awareness around questions of race and fairness."

The New York Police Department is investigating the officer's actions on the day Garner died.

Pantaleo could face punishments, including being fired from the NYPD, said Lieutenant Colonel John Grimpel, a department spokesman.

Pantaleo has denied he used a chokehold on Garner, which is forbidden by police rules.

