In 1964, Congress passed the Civil Right Act.

It says that people cannot be treated unfairly because of their race, color, religion, sex or where they were born.

On Thursday, leaders of the black community said a new civil rights movement is sorely needed.

They hope it will lead to more justice for black people.

In recent weeks, two grand juries decided not to indict, or charge, white policemen who killed black men.

A grand jury is made up of a group of citizens.

They decide if a person should be charged with a crime.

They do it in secret.

Large demonstrations have broken out across the country to protest the decisions.

The protesters say the men would not have been killed if they had been white.

They believe the officers should have been charged with a crime.

"Black lives matter!"

many of them shouted during protests.

Now, black leaders are counting on the rage and pain of the protesters to create a new civil rights movement.

They want the United States to face up to how some police treat black people.

They also want to push the government to investigate whenever police use too much force.

"They're asking for something simple.

They want to be treated the same," New York Mayor Bill de Blasio said Thursday about the protesters.

The day before, a grand jury decided not to charge policeman Daniel Pantaleo.

On July 17, Eric Garner, who was black, died while Pantaleo, who is white, was trying to arrest him.

It was recorded on a cellphone video.

"It was a murder on video and there was no justice," Mickey Thomas, a 21-year-old student protesting in New York, said.

"I definitely think we've had enough.

I feel like there is a new civil rights movement."

Last week, violence broke out in Ferguson, Missouri.

A grand jury there decided not to charge police officer Darren Wilson.

On Aug. 9, Wilson, who is white, shot Michael Brown, another unarmed black man.

His dead body lay for hours in the street.

On Thursday, black leaders urged protesters around the country to come to Washington, D.C., on Dec. 13.

If enough people come, the government must listen to them, the leaders said.

"Marches and boycotts led to the '64 Civil Rights Act," Al Sharpton said on Thursday.

The well-known black leader is the head of the National Action Network.

Sharpton said that the Civil Rights Act led to change 50 years ago.

Today, similar laws are still needed.

Those pushing for change have the attention of top leaders.

President Barack Obama is the first black American president.

Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. is black.

Mayor De Blasio's wife is also black.

The New York mayor spoke this week about his teenage son, who has dark skin.

De Blasio is worried what could happen if police stopped his son.

"I couldn't help but immediately think of what it would mean to me to lose Dante," de Blasio said.

"Life could never be the same."

Holder is the head of the U.S. Justice Department.

He has investigated police departments for treating black people unfairly.

He has ordered them to change.

The black leaders say this is not enough.

They demand that the Justice Department investigate all cases where police hurt or killed someone.

Experts say that the anger over the killings could lead to real change.

Connie Rice is a civil rights lawyer in Los Angeles.

She said she believes the government will respond to the protests by making the system more fair.

Darnell Hunt is an expert at the University of California, Los Angeles.

He said that only time would tell if Sharpton fulfills his goals.

There does seem to be "a rising awareness around questions of race and fairness," he added.

Lieutenant Colonel John Grimpel is a spokesman for the New York Police Department.

The NYPD is investigating Panaleo's actions on the day Garner died.

If the department decides Garner's death was the officer's fault, he could be punished, even fired, Grimpel said.

