The National Football League (NFL) may soon have a new football team — based in London, England.

The team would be treated like any other in the league.

It would play against U.S.-based teams and might even host a Super Bowl.

According to a study released Wednesday, a new London team could be very good for Britain.

It would likely earn more than $250 million a year for British businesses.

However, the study also brings up a problem: It would likely be difficult to host a successful Super Bowl in the British capital.

U.S. football fans could react badly to the idea of their Super Bowl being played there.

Plans for a London team have been growing for some time.

Ever since 2007, the NFL has had U.S. teams play a few games a year there.

The success of those games led to the idea of London starting its own team.

The football games that are already played in London are part of the NFL's International Series.

They feature U.S. teams and are part of the regular NFL season.

So far this season, there have been two games played at London's famous Wembley Stadium.

The third and final game at Wembley will be next Sunday.

A new London team could mean a lot more money for city businesses.

If the team hosts eight home games in a season, the study says, the city could see $165 million in higher profits.

Those profits would mostly come from fans spending money.

People attending games would spend money on things like food, souvenirs and hotels.

There would also be spending outside of London.

With that added in, the boost from having a British NFL team is even larger.

Throughout Britain as a whole, a London team could lead to $252 million in new profits per season.

In general, the study views the idea of a new team in London very favorably.

However, it does raise serious doubts about holding the Super Bowl at Wembley.

The hardest thing about holding a Super Bowl in London would be choosing a good kickoff time.

If the game started when it was 4 p.m. on the East Coast in the United States, that would mean it was kicking off at 9 p.m. in London.

It would finish very late for Londoners.

On a Sunday night, that could be a problem for many.

On the other hand, starting a Super Bowl when it was 6 p.m. in London would discourage TV viewers in the United States.

It would only be 10 a.m. on the West Coast at that time.

Another problem is that many big NFL fans in the United States would be unable to travel to London.

With those fans absent, the game might feel less exciting.

The study also says U.S. fans could be angered by the idea of moving something as American as the Super Bowl overseas.

They might believe the NFL had only one reason for wanting to have the Super Bowl there: to make more money for itself.

Adding a new London team is not the only way the NFL can bring more money to Britain.

The NFL could instead chose to increase the number of International Series games held in London.

If it did that, the city would still benefit greatly.

The two games held in 2013 led to $52 million in profits for London, the study says.

A switch to four games a year would make a big difference.

It would likely bring an additional $42 million in profits, for a total of $94 million.

