The scene was nothing out of the ordinary: a white Gulfstream jet parked at Van Nuys Airport here.

The one unusual part of the plane was the large blue horseshoe near the top of the tail — the logo of pro football's Indianapolis Colts.

It was a clear message — not to the people of Los Angeles, but to those back in Indiana worried that their National Football League (NFL) team might leave.

The Colts wanted a new stadium, and they wanted to squeeze their city to pay for it.

Three years later, in 2005, the Colts broke ground on the $720 million Lucas Oil Stadium in downtown Indianapolis, with the team paying just $100 million.

The city and state kicked in the rest.

Los Angeles had again been passed over by another in a long line of would-be suitors.

In fact, the city has been more valuable to the NFL without a team than with one, and team owners have used the threat of moving here to improve aging stadiums or get brand new ones.

That's why the news this week that the St. Louis Rams owner plans to build a stadium in nearby Inglewood sounded familiar.

More than half of the NFL's 32 teams have used moving to Los Angeles as leverage to get the stadiums they want since the Rams and Oakland Raiders left the city, playing their last games here in 1994.

Some just stirred the pot by floating rumors they were looking at Los Angeles.

Others gave serious consideration to the idea of actually moving.

The tactic works.

Since the last pro game here in 1994, 27 NFL stadiums have been built or undergone at least $400 million in improvements.

"There's no question that's part of the game," said R.D.

Hubbard, who in the mid-1990s led an effort to build an NFL stadium at Hollywood Park.

Rams owner Stan Kroenke hasn't promised to bring his team.

Still, his stadium plan marks the boldest step toward an NFL return since February 1996.

For one week back then, the Seattle Seahawks worked out at Rams Park in Anaheim, which had been abandoned by the Rams when they departed for St. Louis.

Ken Behring, then the owner of the Seahawks, wanted a new stadium but comically cited earthquake concerns as part of his decision to leave Seattle for Southern California.

The NFL threatened a fine of $500,000 per week if the team didn't return, and soon the team was on its way back to Seattle.

The Seahawks eventually got their state-of-the-art home field in Seattle.

Kroenke's bid is different from past proposals: It is the first time an NFL owner, plot of land and stadium plan have come together in the same package.

Even longtime observers of the area's quest for a team find promise in the effort, with Hubbard saying it's "probably for real."

"The question really becomes: Los Angeles is the second-largest market in the country and can the NFL afford to continue to use it" as a threat, said Bob Graziano, the former L.A. Dodgers president who in the 1990s worked on the idea of an NFL stadium at Chavez Ravine, where baseball's Dodgers play.

"Or at some point in time does it make much more economic sense to actually put a team here?"

The tactic of using a city as leverage isn't new.

Florida's Tampa-St. Petersburg area filled the role for years in Major League Baseball, until 1998 when the Devil Rays (now the Rays) arrived.

After the National Basketball Association's Seattle SuperSonics moved to Oklahoma City in 2008, Seattle became a go-to spot for basketball teams interested in better deals from their cities.

Las Vegas is mentioned as a possible location for a National Hockey League team for the same reason.

Reminders of the false starts in Los Angeles linger.

The NFL has returned to each major city that has lost a team in the past few decades — but not to Los Angeles, despite years of pledges and plans.

In 2003, for instance, the San Diego Chargers moved their training camp to Carson for the summer, fueling speculation that the team was preparing for a full-time move north.

Two years later, the Chargers returned to their facility in San Diego.

Cozying up to Los Angeles hasn't always led to improved stadiums.

The Chargers and Raiders, two of the most frequently discussed candidates to relocate, still occupy stadiums regarded as among the NFL's worst.

Even without a team or two in Los Angeles, the NFL reigns as the country's most popular — and profitable — sport.

The league pulls in more than $9 billion each year.

"What's happened over the last 20 years is that the NFL hasn't taken a hit by not having a team in Los Angeles," said former Fox Sports President Ed Goren.

He pointed out that teams are now worth 10 times more than they were 20 years ago and the league's contracts with the television stations that pay to show games get larger and larger, proving how keeping Los Angeles open has been a moneymaker.

"You always want one guy on the outside and you use him.

It's just good business," he said.

