onetime point of pride for the New England Patriots has suddenly turned against the NFL franchise.

The team was known for getting the most out of talented players who were seen to have character problems and sometimes legal troubles, among them receiver Randy Moss and running back Corey Dillon.

Yet the Patriots have had to scramble to stop the damage caused by Aaron Hernandez's arrest on murder charges.

The former Patriots tight end, who was arrested in connection with a shooting death, had been deemed too risky to draft by some teams.

New England took a chance, however, selecting the troubled University of Florida standout in the fourth round of the 2010 draft — seemingly a bargain for a player many evaluators considered a first-round talent.

For three seasons, the move paid off, with Hernandez reaching the Pro Bowl in 2011 and receiving a five-year contract extension worth as much as $40 million.

Hernandez has pleaded not guilty in the death of 27-year-old Odin Lloyd and is being held without bail in a Massachusetts jail.

Less than two hours after his arrest on June 26, Hernandez was released by the Patriots.

To further distance itself from him, the team took the unprecedented step of a jersey exchange.

Fans with used Hernandez jerseys were allowed to swap them for those of any other player on the roster.

All the publicity surrounding Hernandez's arrest and the flood of information about his troubled past has sparked a debate within the NFL: When is a risky pick too risky?

"Without question, the owners are talking to their general managers as soon as this happened, saying, 'Let's make sure this doesn't happen to us,'" said former NFL coach Jimmy Johnson.

"There are probably going to be some players that are able to get on the straight and narrow who are going to be bypassed because people are going to be afraid of getting into a situation like this."

Johnson won two Super Bowls with the Dallas Cowboys with some troubled players on his roster.

Not everyone agrees.

Tony Dungy, who won a Super Bowl as coach of the Indianapolis Colts, believes there will be little ripple effect from the Hernandez situation.

He thinks clubs will continue to roll the dice on players with character issues if the price is right.

"You're going to get enough people to overlook it," Dungy said.

"People will say, 'I may not want to risk drafting this guy in the first round and paying him so much that if it goes haywire I've lost out.

But at some point, it's worth the risk.'

That's the way it is."

He added, "Talent is the overriding factor in the NFL.

Has been for a long time."

There were warning signs with Hernandez.

He failed drug tests and had run-ins with the law in college.

A scouting service that prepares confidential psychological profiles of NFL prospects determined that he enjoyed "living on the edge of acceptable behavior."

The information in the profile was found in a document obtained by the Wall Street Journal.

The evaluation, prepared by Human Resource Tactics in North Carolina, said Hernandez scored a lowest possible 1 out of 10 in "social maturity."

He scored a perfect 10 in "focus" and nines in other areas.

The test determined Hernandez "may be prone to partying too much and doing questionable things that could be seen as a problem for him and his team."

That evaluation was similar to one the company prepared on Maurice Clarett, the trouble-prone running back from Ohio State selected by Denver in the third round of the 2005 draft.

He never played in the NFL and was released in training camp a month after signing a four-year contract.

"He scored high in everything but a two in social maturity," former Broncos general manager Ted Sundquist recalled.

"That was his downfall in Denver, the ability to interact."

Sundquist was assigned to monitor Clarett by former coach Mike Shanahan.

Clarett is a dramatically changed man for the better after spending 3-1/2 years in prison on robbery and gun charges, according to Sundquist.

"I was the one who was counseling him all through training camp," Sundquist said.

"It's like (Clarett) was upset with us for drafting him."

Sundquist, the team's general manager from 2002 to 2008, said there's a mistaken belief that the NFL provides teams with thorough background checks on prospects.

At least that wasn't the case when he was in the league.

"You can contact the league for some things," he said.

"But for the most part they're not going to give you what people are wanting, which is a top-to-bottom full report on a guy's character, his police blotter, all that kind of stuff."

He said typically clubs do not hire private investigators but instead rely on their area scouts to obtain background information on prospects.

Some of those scouts are young and inexperienced.

Often, that information comes from the player's college, which might not tell you everything.

"Some of the schools will tell you what you need," Sundquist said.

"But if you don't have the relationship built, if it's a young scout that goes in there, they're going to protect their reputation and their head coach, and the fact that they recruited a knucklehead."

At Florida, Hernandez was coached by Urban Meyer, who is a close friend with Patriots Coach Bill Belichick.

The presumption is that Meyer gave Hernandez the thumbs up.

Gil Brandt, the Cowboys' chief talent evaluator for three decades, is assigned by the NFL to help shepherd prospects around the scouting combine each February.

He doesn't recall anything out of the ordinary about Hernandez.

A few hundred college players are invited to the scouting combine each year for four days of interviews with executives and coaches of NFL teams.

The college players are evaluated by the teams for possible drafting.

"There was this undercurrent of this guy having problems at Florida, supposedly testing positive — only the people at the school know for sure — but he was not a guy that was combative at the combine," Brandt recalled.

