Domestic violence — violence directed against wives or girlfriends — is a serious problem in professional sports.

Many people, though, feel that the punishment usually doesn't fit the crime.

Take the case of Ravens running back Ray Rice.

The football player is sitting out just two games for a serious offense: allegedly beating his girlfriend into unconsciousness.

For Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon, meanwhile, smoking pot may lead to a far harsher punishment — a yearlong ban.

Critics of the way the National Football League (NFL) deals with domestic violence are contrasting the two punishments.

They say it's time for the league to crack down on players who hurt women.

Many people are upset over Rice's not-so-harsh punishment.

Three members of Congress wrote NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell asking him to reconsider the penalty.

The governor of Maine says he'll stop attending league games in protest.

Numerous groups opposed to violence against women have condemned the punishment as far too light.

League officials may soon act on the matter.

The league is also looking into increasing future punishments for players involved in domestic violence.

"The first time with marijuana is different from the first time you are knocking your wife unconscious," said anti–domestic violence activist Judy Harris Kluger.

"What they did was such a small sort of slap on the wrist."

The league, she said, "should have suspended" Rice "for a season at least."

A stronger punishment would have sent "a message that this is not tolerated, that this matters."

Rice's suspension begins Saturday.

His punishment was handed down after grainy video footage surfaced, showing him dragging his unconscious girlfriend off of a casino elevator.

Rice is believed to have beaten the woman — to whom he was then engaged — so badly that she passed out.

Rice has not commented on what happened except to call his actions "totally inexcusable."

Rice's assault charges could be removed from his record once he completes a diversion program — a form of sentencing that allows him to avoid criminal charges.

So the only punishment he likely faces is what the NFL gave him — a suspension and a fine of around $500,000.

For most people, that would be a lot of money.

But for a professional football player, it's not so much.

Still, Rice argues that he will suffer.

"My daughter is 2 years old now," he said at training camp.

"Me having to explain that to her, what happened that night, that's something I have to live with the rest of my life."

Many people feel Rice got off easy compared to other players who have been disciplined.

Like Rice, Washington safety Brandon Meriweather was handed a two-game suspension — but his punishment was for a hit during an exhibition game.

Broncos kicker Matt Prater has been suspended four games for alcohol use.

Gordon was suspended for two games last season.

His possible one-year ban is for violating the drug policy at least a third time.

The NFL has guidelines that set out clear punishments for using unlawful and performance-enhancing drugs.

Domestic violence, however, is covered under separate personal conduct rules.

It has been left up to the commissioner to deal with individual cases as he sees fit.

The NFL's personal code of conduct makes it clear that domestic violence will not be tolerated, Kluger says.

However, she says the league didn't follow that code in punishing Rice.

"It boggles the mind that they did not act in a way that ... sent a message that this is more serious," said Kluger.

This is not a new issue for the NFL.

Since January 2000, 77 players have been involved in 85 domestic violence incidents, with six being cut by their teams.

The NFL suspended six players for one game each, and Rice now is the second player to be suspended for two games.

Goodell has defended the Rice suspension.

The league, he said, can't just "make up" the punishment.

He also said Rice took responsibility and had not been in trouble before.

U.S.

Senators Richard Blumenthal and Chris Murphy of Connecticut and Tammy Baldwin of Wisconsin sent a letter to Goodell and Ravens general manager Ozzie Newsome.

In it, they criticized Rice's punishment as far too light.

"The decision to suspend Mr. Rice for a mere two games sends" an "inescapable message," the letter said: "The NFL does not take domestic" violence with the "seriousness" it deserves.

The NFL has yet to punish Carolina Pro Bowl defensive end Greg Hardy, who is awaiting trial for attacking his ex-girlfriend.

According to domestic violence expert Mark Wynn, what the NFL does next is being watched closely.

"I hope," Wynn said, the NFL comes out and says: "'We want to be the national standard" when it comes to "violence against women."

If the NFL were to say strongly, "we have no tolerance for violence against women," he said, it would be a historically important moment for professional sports.

The message would be loud and clear: "Enough is enough."

