The National Football League (NFL) may soon have a new football team — based in London, England.

The team, which would be treated like any other in the league, would play against U.S.-based teams and could even host a Super Bowl.

According to a study released Wednesday by the accounting firm Deloitte, such a team could be very good for the British economy.

It would likely generate more than $250 million a year for Britain.

However, the study also suggests that it might prove to be difficult to host a successful Super Bowl in the British capital.

In addition, it warns that U.S. football fans could react negatively to the idea of a Super Bowl in London.

The idea of permanently basing a team in London has been growing since the NFL first brought regular-season games to the city in 2007 as part of its International Series.

So far this season, there have been two football games at London's Wembley Stadium.

The third and final game will be next Sunday.

The British government recently offered its backing to efforts to persuade a team to base itself there.

Deloitte's study predicts that if a new team is formed and hosts eight home games a season, the city would see $165 million in increased profits.

Those profits would largely come from fans spending money on things like food, merchandise and hotels.

If team-related spending outside the capital is considered, the boost from having a British NFL team appears even greater.

Deloitte says that a London team would generate $252 million in profits per season throughout Britain.

Deloitte is assuming the U.S. players and staff would not live in London, but would visit the city four times a season, playing two games each time.

While the report paints a positive picture overall, there are reservations about Wembley hosting the revered Super Bowl.

One big problem with holding a Super Bowl in London would be the difficulty of selecting a suitable kickoff time.

If the game started when it was 4 p.m. on the East Coast in the United States, it would mean it was starting at 9 p.m. in London.

The game would finish very late, which would make getting home from Wembley challenging on a Sunday night.

A 6 p.m. local-time kickoff, the study says, would "be unlikely to attract the desired television audience in the U.S.," where it would be 10 a.m. on the West Coast.

Deloitte said many die-hard fans in the United States would be unable to cross the Atlantic.

It cautions that the atmosphere inside the stadium and on television could be affected by their absence.

Lower game attendance and a drop in crowd enthusiasm could have an impact on the NFL as a brand.

In addition, the Deloitte report says, NFL fans in the United States could see moving such an American event overseas as negative.

The reasons for the move "may be perceived as solely financial or commercial."

According to Deloitte, adding a new London team is not the only way the NFL can bring increased profits to Britain.

If the NFL instead chose to increase the number of International Series games held in London, the city would still benefit greatly.

The two games held in 2013 generated $52 million for London, the report claims.

A switch to four games a year would bring an additional $42 million in profits, Deloitte estimates, for a total of around $94 million.

