The New England Patriots are known for getting a lot out of talented players that other teams thought were trouble.

Now one of the players it took a chance on is in really big trouble.

Aaron Hernandez was arrested in connection with a shooting death this summer.

New England snapped up Hernandez when he came out of college in 2010.

Other teams thought he was too risky to pick.

They got him in the fourth round.

That seemed like a bargain.

It even worked for three seasons.

Hernandez reached the Pro Bowl in 2011.

That is the award for the top players.

Today, Hernandez is in jail.

He is being held in the death of Odin Lloyd.

Hernandez told a judge he is not guilty.

The Patriots cut Hernandez less than two hours after he was arrested.

The arrest has caused NFL teams to ask a question: When a player is too risky to pick?

Owners want do not want what happened to the Patriots to happen to their teams, said former NFL coach Jimmy Johnson.

He won two Super Bowls with the Dallas Cowboys.

He had some troubled players on his teams.

Now Johnson thinks some players who had had some trouble but can now behave will not get the chance.

Not everyone agrees.

Tony Dungy won a Super Bowl as coach of the Indianapolis Colts.

He said clubs will continue to take chances on players with problems if the price is right.

"You're going to get enough people to overlook it," Dungy said.

"That's the way it is."

Talent is the thing that matters the most in the NFL, he said.

"Has been for a long time."

There were warning signs about Hernandez.

He failed drug tests and had problems with police in college.

A report was put together by Human Resource Tactics.

It said Hernandez scored a 1 out of 10 in "social maturity."

He did get a perfect 10 in "focus."

The report said that Hernandez might do things that could cause trouble for him and his team.

The Wall Street Journal reported on this.

That the company prepared a similar report on Maurice Clarett.

He was a running back from Ohio State who also had problems.

The Denver Broncos picked Clarett in the third round of the 2005 draft.

He never played in the NFL.

Clarett spent 3-1/2 years in prison on robbery and gun charges.

"I was the one who was counseling him all through training camp," Sundquist said.

"It's like (Clarett) was upset with us for drafting him."

Sundquist said Clarett has changed for the better.

Sundquist said people think that the NFL gives teams a lots of information on college players.

That wasn't the case when he was in the league, he said.

"You can contact the league for some things," he said.

But the league usually will not give what teams want, like "a full report on a guy's character."

He said clubs usually do not hire private investigators.

They count on their area scouts to get background information.

Some of those scouts are young and inexperienced.

Often, that information comes from the player's college.

"Some of the schools will tell you what you need," Sundquist said.

Other schools might want to protect their reputation by not talking about a player's troubles off the field, he explained.

They will try to hide "the fact that they recruited a knucklehead."

