Players hitting their wives or girlfriends is a serious problem in popular American sports like football.

While the players are punished, people feel that the punishments are not harsh enough for the crime.

Currently, there is the case of Ravens running back Ray Rice.

The football player is sitting out just two games after he beat his girlfriend so hard she became unconscious.

The two were engaged to be married at the time.

Meanwhile, Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon was punished much more harshly for a crime that wasn't violent.

Because he smoked marijuana, Gordon will not be able to play for an entire year.

Many people feel the National Football League (NFL) isn't doing enough to punish players who hurt their wives and girlfriends.

They say it's time for the league to crack down on players who hurt women.

Judy Harris Kluger is fighting to help stop women from being beaten by their husbands and boyfriends.

She thinks the NFL was far too easy on Rice.

"The first time with marijuana is different from the first time you are knocking your wife unconscious," she said.

"What they did was such a small sort of slap on the wrist."

The league, she said, "should have suspended" Rice "for a season at least."

Punishing him more severely would have sent "a message that this is not tolerated, that this matters."

Rice got into trouble after video footage surfaced.

It showed him dragging his knocked-out girlfriend off an elevator.

Rice is believed to have beaten the woman so badly that she passed out.

Rice has not commented on what happened, but he did say his actions were "totally inexcusable."

Rice won't be going to jail, so only the NFL will be punishing him.

He will sit out two games and will have to pay a fine of around $500,000.

For most people, that would be a lot of money.

For a big-time football player, though, it's not so much.

Still, Rice argues that he will suffer.

"My daughter is 2 years old now," he said at training camp.

"Me having to explain that to her, what happened that night, that's something I have to live with the rest of my life."

Many people feel Rice got off too easy.

"It boggles the mind that they did not act in a way that ... sent a message that this is more serious," said Kluger.

This is not a new problem for the NFL.

Since January 2000, 77 players have been accused of hitting their wives or girlfriends.

The NFL suspended six players for one game each, and Rice now is the second player to be suspended for two games.

Six players were cut by their teams.

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell defended the treatment of Rice.

He pointed out that Rice has apologized and that he had never been in trouble before.

Many are not convinced by those claims.

Three U.S.

Senators sent a letter to Goodell.

In it, they criticized the league for doing too little to punish Rice.

The decision to pull Rice for only two games sends an "inescapable message," the letter said: The NFL isn't treating the problem of players hitting women with the "seriousness" it deserves.

Rice is only one example of the problem.

The NFL has yet to punish Carolina Pro Bowl defensive end Greg Hardy.

He is awaiting trial for attacking his ex-girlfriend.

Mark Wynn is an expert on the problem of men hitting wives and girlfriends.

According to him, what the NFL does next is being watched closely.

If the NFL were to say strongly, "we have no tolerance" for players hitting women, he said, it would be an important moment for sports.

The message would be loud and clear: "Enough is enough."

