Players hitting wives or girlfriends is a serious problem in big-time American sports.

Many people also feel that the players who do it are not punished enough.

Recently, Ravens running back Ray Rice hit his girlfriend.

At the time, they were engaged to be married.

After hitting her so hard that he knocked her out, he was punished.

He is not being sent to jail.

His only punishment is that he cannot play for two games this year.

Meanwhile, Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon was punished much more harshly for a less violent crime.

Because he smoked marijuana, he cannot play for an entire year.

Many people feel the National Football League (NFL) is not punishing players enough.

They say it is time for the league to crack down on players who hurt women.

Judy Harris Kluger is fighting to help stop women from being beaten.

She thinks the NFL was far too easy on Rice.

"The first time with marijuana is different from the first time you are knocking your wife unconscious," she said.

"What they did was such a small sort of slap on the wrist."

In other words, the NFL hardly punished Rice at all.

The league, she said, "should have suspended" Rice "for a season at least."

Punishing him more severely would have sent an important message: "This matters."

Rice got into trouble after video footage surfaced.

It showed him dragging his unconscious girlfriend off an elevator.

He has not explained what happened.

He did, however, call his actions "totally inexcusable."

Rice won't be going to jail, so only the NFL will punish him.

He will sit out two games and will have to pay a fine of around $500,000.

For most people, that would be a lot of money.

For a big-time football player, though, it's not so much.

Still, Rice argues that he will suffer.

"My daughter is 2 years old now," he said.

"Me having to explain that to her, what happened that night, that's something I have to live with the rest of my life."

Rice is far from the only player to do what he did.

Since January 2000, 77 players have been accused of hitting their wives or girlfriends.

The NFL suspended six players for one game each.

Rice now is the second player to be suspended for two games.

Six players were cut by their teams.

NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell defended the treatment of Rice.

He pointed out that Rice has apologized.

In addition, Rice had never been in trouble before.

Many are not convinced by those claims.

Three U.S. senators sent a letter to Goodell.

In it, they criticized the league for doing too little to punish Rice.

The decision to pull Rice for only two games sends an "inescapable message," the letter said: The NFL is not treating the problem with the "seriousness" it deserves.

Rice is only one example of the problem of players hitting women.

The NFL has yet to punish player Greg Hardy.

He is awaiting trial for attacking his ex-girlfriend.

Mark Wynn is an expert on the problem.

According to him, what the NFL does next is being watched closely.

If the NFL were to say strongly that it won't put up with players hitting women, he said, it would be an important moment for sports.

The message would be loud and clear: "Enough is enough."

