The New England Patriots are known for getting a lot out of talented players that other teams thought were trouble.

Think of receiver Randy Moss and running back Corey Dillon who had legal troubles off the field.

But it has had to defend itself after Aaron Hernandez's arrest in connection with a shooting death.

Some teams thought the tight end was too risky to pick when he came out of college.

But New England took a chance.

It selected the University of Florida star in the fourth round of the 2010 draft.

That seemed like a bargain.

The move paid off for three seasons.

Hernandez reached the Pro Bowl in 2011.

He was given a five-year contract extension worth as much as $40 million.

Today, Hernandez is being held without bail in the death of 27-year-old Odin Lloyd.

Hernandez told a judge he is not guilty.

The Patriots cut Hernandez less than two hours after he was arrested.

The team also let fans exchange their used Hernandez jerseys for those of any other Patriot.

The high-profile arrest and the flood of information about his troubled past has caused a debate within the NFL: When is a risky pick too risky?

Owners were immediately saying, " 'Let's make sure this doesn't happen to us,'" said former NFL coach Jimmy Johnson.

He won two Super Bowls with the Dallas Cowboys.

He had some troubled players on his teams.

Now he thinks some players who can straighten up will not get the chance.

"... people are going to be afraid of getting into a situation like this."

Not everyone agrees.

Tony Dungy won a Super Bowl as coach of the Indianapolis Colts.

He said clubs will continue to take chances on players with problems if the price is right.

"You're going to get enough people to overlook it," Dungy said.

They might not draft the player in the first round.

"But at some point, it's worth the risk.'

That's the way it is."

Talent is the thing that matters the most in the NFL, he said.

"Has been for a long time."

There were warning signs with Hernandez.

He failed drug tests and had problems with police in college.

A scouting service said that he enjoyed "living on the edge of acceptable behavior," according to the Wall Street Journal.

A report was put together by Human Resource Tactics in North Carolina.

It said Hernandez scored a 1 out of 10 in "social maturity," although he scored a perfect 10 in "focus."

The test found Hernandez "may be prone to partying too much and doing questionable things that could be seen as a problem for him and his team."

The company prepared a similar report on Maurice Clarett.

He was a running back from Ohio State who also had problems.

Denver picked Clarett in the third round of the 2005 draft.

He never played in the NFL.

Clarett spent 3-1/2 years in prion on robbery and gun charges.

"He scored high in everything but a two in social maturity," former Broncos general manager Ted Sundquist recalled.

"That was his downfall in Denver, the ability to interact."

"I was the one who was counseling him all through training camp," Sundquist said.

"It's like (Clarett) was upset with us for drafting him."

Sundquist said Clarett has changed for the better.

Sundquist said people think that the NFL provides teams with thorough background checks on prospects.

That wasn't the case when he was in the league, he said.

"You can contact the league for some things," he said.

But the league usually will not give what teams want, like "a full report on a guy's character, his police blotter, all that kind of stuff."

He said clubs usually do not hire private investigators.

They count on their area scouts to get background information.

Some of those scouts are young and inexperienced.

Often, that information comes from the player's college.

"Some of the schools will tell you what you need," Sundquist said.

But to get that information, you need to already have a relationship with the college, he explained.

Otherwise, a young scout might not catch on that a college is protecting its reputation by having a troubled player on its roster, "that they recruited a knucklehead."

