Nigeria has stopped Ebola in what many call an amazing success story.

On Monday, the West African country was declared free of the deadly virus by the World Health Organization (WHO).

Since July, Nigeria had 19 cases of Ebola, and just seven people died.

In other West African countries, about 70 percent of the people who came down with Ebola died.

The disease has killed thousands in West Africa.

Stopping the outbreak took determination by the country's leaders.

Doctors were moved from other tasks and sent to care for people with Ebola.

Nigeria's military helped trace everybody who came into contact with Ebola patients, so they could be checked for signs of the disease.

Tens of thousands of text messages were sent to teach people how to prevent Ebola.

It also took a little bit of luck.

The WHO gave credit to Nigeria's "world-class" disease detective work.

If Nigeria can beat Ebola, other countries can limit Ebola to just a handful of cases, said Dr. Margaret Chan.

She is the director general of the WHO.

At the beginning of the Ebola outbreak, Nigeria was in the middle of a strike by doctors and nurses.

A strike is when workers stop working to protest something.

Dr. Doyin Oduyebo took part in Nigeria's effort to stop Ebola.

He said medical officials feared the disease would get out of control.

"We were afraid because we knew the epidemic was raging in other West African countries," Oduyebo said.

"So we decided to give it everything to bring it under control."

The crisis began July 23 with a Liberian American named Patrick Sawyer.

He left Liberia with Ebola.

He was so sick that he threw up on the airplane.

When he arrived in Nigeria, he passed out in the airport.

At a hospital, Sawyer kept important information from the doctor examining him.

He did not tell the doctor that he had collapsed at the airport.

Sawyer also did not say his sister recently died of Ebola, and he helped bury her.

Sawyer died five days after arriving in Lagos.

The doctor, Dr. Morris Ibeawuchi, became ill too.

"There was a night I thought my existence on this earth had ended," said Ibeawuchi, who survived.

As news spread, some people doubted that the Nigerian government could stop Ebola.

After all, it was not able find a group of kidnapped schoolgirls, people said.

In April, the militant group Boko Haram kidnapped more than 200 girls from their school.

False information spread.

A minister claimed on Facebook that he could cure Ebola by touching people.

Another rumor told people to drink as much salt water as they could.

The government began educating the public.

"Everybody in Lagos became aware that there was something called Ebola and that they had to take preventive measures," said Oduyebo.

Everyone began washing their hands.

The government set up an Ebola hotline where people could get information by telephone.

At least 57,000 Nigerians received text messages about preventing Ebola.

In late August, Nigerian health workers called off their strike.

Two actions were the key to the country's success.

The government tracked down nearly every single person who came into contact with an Ebola patient.

Then all the contacts were checked in person to make sure they hadn't developed Ebola.

The United States and other countries donated thermometers to check temperatures at airports and border crossings.

Ebola can only be spread after people develop symptoms, like a fever.

Also, two Nigerian billionaires donated more than $1 million to halt the virus.

Oil and cellphone companies also gave money.

And perhaps Nigeria was just lucky.

If Sawyer had gone to a small health care center in the country instead of a big hospital in Lagos, the outcome might have been different.

It was also lucky that nobody who flew on the airplane with Sawyer came down with Ebola.

Government officials had their own reason to stop Ebola.

They didn't want to be blamed for not doing enough to fight the disease.

This time, the president's name, Goodluck Jonathan, seemed appropriate.

