An Ebola epidemic in Lagos, Nigeria, one of the world's most crowded cities, could easily have turned into a nightmare.

If the deadly disease spread through Nigeria's population of more than 170 million, it would have firmly rooted Ebola in West Africa for years to come.

The virus has killed thousands in West Africa since March.

But in an extraordinary success story, Nigeria stopped the Ebola outbreak cold.

The country was declared free of the virus by the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday, after 42 days without a new case.

In total, 19 people came down with Ebola in Nigeria, according to the WHO.

Seven of them died.

Nigeria's survival rate of 63 percent is more than double the 30 percent average in other West African countries.

The effort took determination by the country's leaders.

Doctors and health facilities were shifted from Nigeria's anti-polio campaign to fighting Ebola, and a vast contact-tracing operation involved members of Nigeria's military.

The effort also involved tens of thousands of text messages sent out to educate people on how to prevent Ebola, as well as some hefty donations from wealthy Nigerians.

It also took just a little bit of luck.

The WHO praised Nigeria's "spectacular success story" and the country's "world-class" disease detective work.

Nigeria has also reduced polio cases and wiped out the parasite, guinea worm.

If Nigeria can beat Ebola, other countries can limit it to just a handful of cases, said Dr. Margaret Chan, director general of the WHO.

At the beginning of the Ebola outbreak in Nigeria, the country was in the middle of a strike by doctors and nurses.

Dr. Doyin Oduyebo, a microbiologist at the forefront of the Nigerian effort to contain the virus, said medical authorities initially feared the disease would race out of control.

"We were afraid because we knew the epidemic was raging in other West African countries," Oduyebo said in a phone interview.

"So we decided to give it everything to bring it under control."

The crisis began July 23 with a Liberian American named Patrick Sawyer.

He contracted Ebola in Liberia and was so sick that he vomited during his flight and collapsed in the airport in Nigeria.

At a hospital in Lagos, Sawyer and another man with him concealed from a doctor the fact that he had collapsed at the airport.

Sawyer also lied and said he had not been in close contact with an Ebola victim.

In fact, he had visited his sister as she lay dying of Ebola in Liberia and helped bury her.

Sawyer died five days after arriving in Lagos.

The doctor who examined Sawyer, Dr. Morris Ibeawuchi, became ill too, his temperature soaring.

But he survived.

"There was a night I thought my existence on this earth had ended," he later recalled.

As news spread that Ebola had reached Nigeria, the country's social media went into overdrive.

Critics asked how the government, which couldn't recover a group of kidnapped schoolgirls, hoped to contain Ebola.

In April, the militant group Boko Haram abducted more than 200 girls from their school.

They are still missing.

False information spread.

A pastor claimed on Facebook that he could cure Ebola by touching victims.

Another "solution," circulated by text message, advised people to drink as much salt water as they could, and two people reportedly died from that approach.

"There were a lot of rumors, which we dispelled," said Oduyebo, of the government response team.

During a public awareness campaign, nearly "everybody in Lagos became aware that there was something called Ebola and that they had to take preventive measures.

People ensured that they washed their hands."

News conferences were called to correct wrong information.

An information hotline was set up.

At least 57,000 Nigerians received multiple government text messages educating them about the virus.

The government established an Ebola command center, which held meetings twice a day.

Doctors who had been working on wiping out polio were sent into the fight.

More than 150 people kept track of the contacts of Ebola patients and checked them for signs of the disease.

In late August, Nigerian health workers called off their strike in response to the crisis.

In all, Sawyer had contact with only 20 Nigerians.

But their contacts ran into the hundreds.

The key to Nigeria's success lay in tracking down nearly every single one of them, and following up with face-to-face meetings to ensure they hadn't developed Ebola.

"People followed every contact tracing through," Oduyebo said.

The United States and other countries donated thermometers for airport and border screening, and two Nigerian billionaires donated more than $1 million to halt the virus.

Oil and cellphone companies also gave money.

And perhaps luck played a role.

If the patient sought treatment at a remote rural clinic instead of a private hospital in Lagos, the outcome might have been different.

It was lucky that nobody who flew on the flight with Sawyer from Liberia contracted Ebola.

Political timing may also have played a role.

After being criticized about their lack of action in the schoolgirl kidnappings, Nigerian authorities were determined to act decisively.

Also, with elections approaching in February, President Goodluck Jonathan, who is expected to run for another term as president, couldn't afford an Ebola disaster.

This time, his name, Goodluck, seemed apt.

