President Barack Obama said Tuesday that the U.S. will do everything it can to help Nigeria find nearly [300 teenage girls](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Nigerian+schoolgirls).

The girls have been missing since they were kidnapped from their school three weeks ago.

The terror organization, which has taken the girls, has threatened to sell them into slavery.

Obama said a team of U.S. experts will be sent to the African nation immediately to help find the girls.

Obama said the most urgent goal is finding the girls.

But the extremist group, Boko Haram, must also be dealt with, he said.

"In the short term our goal is obviously is to help the international community, and the Nigerian government, as a team to do everything we can to recover these young ladies," Obama said.

He spoke in an interview with NBC's "Today" show.

They were some of his first public comments about the kidnapping, which he called a "terrible situation."

"But we're also going to have to deal with the broader problem of organizations like this that ... can cause such (chaos) in people's day-to-day lives," Obama said of Boko Haram.

The April 15 kidnapping has sparked international outrage.

Nigeria has come under increasing pressure to find and free the girls before they can be sold into slavery or harmed.

Nigeria's police have said more than 300 girls were taken by force from their high school in the country's remote northeast area.

Of that number, 276 remain missing and 53 managed to escape.

Obama said he was glad the Nigerian government has accepted help from the U.S. "Obviously, what's happening is awful, and, as a father of two girls, I can't imagine what their parents are going through," he said.

Obama's daughters, Malia and Natasha, are 15 and 13.

Obama said the U.S. has long tried to work with Nigeria to stop Boko Haram.

Boko Haram is an Islamist extremist group that believes in a fundamentalist interpretation of Islam.

It forbids anything Western, including voting in elections and a secular, non-religious education.

Boko Haram means "Western education is sinful."

"You've got one of the worst regional or local terrorist organizations in Boko Haram in Nigeria.

They've been killing people ruthlessly for many years now.

And we've already been seeking greater cooperation with the Nigerians," Obama said.

The Nigeria government has been unable to rescue the girls.

And that may be what finally gets the world to "do something against this horrendous organization," Obama said.

The U.S. will soon be sending experts to Nigeria.

They specialize in intelligence, investigations, hostage negotiations, information sharing and victim assistance.

The U.S. will also send officials with expertise in other areas, White House spokesman Jay Carney said.

No U.S. armed forces are being sent, Carney noted.

Obama made his comments during a series of television interviews in the White House Rose Garden.

He spoke shortly after the Senate passed a resolution urging the girls' safe and immediate release.

Some lawmakers also observed a moment of silence on the Capitol steps.

Dozens of people also protested outside the Nigerian Embassy in Washington.

All 20 female senators urged Obama in a letter to severely punish Boko Haram.

A smaller group of senators urged Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan to address the causes of unrest.

Secretary of State John Kerry said the U.S. had been in touch with Nigeria "from day one" of the crisis.

But repeated offers of U.S. help were ignored.

On Tuesday, amid growing international concern and outrage over the kidnapping, Kerry got on the phone with Jonathan.

Kerry said Nigeria apparently did not want outside help.

But it now realizes more needs to be done.

Boko Haram's threat to sell the girls has "convinced everybody that there needs to be a greater effort," Kerry said at a State Department news conference.

"And it will begin immediately.

I mean, literally, immediately."

A statement from Jonathan's office said the U.S. will send security experts to work with Nigerian officials in the search and rescue operation.

The statement added that Nigeria's security forces are working at "full capacity" to find the girls.

It said Nigeria welcomes the American "know-how and expertise."

Nigeria's Islamic extremist leader, Abubakar Shekau, has claimed responsibility for the kidnapping and has threatened to sell the girls.

Shekau also warned that Boko Haram will attack more schools and kidnap more girls.

The State Department on Tuesday warned U.S. citizens against traveling to Nigeria.

