North Korea announced Wednesday that it exploded a powerful hydrogen bomb underground.

Experts around the world are not so sure.

North Korea is a poor country in Asia that keeps itself separate from the rest of the world.

It is an enemy of the United States.

Its government wants to create a bomb that it can put on a missile and reach the United States.

Wednesday's test might have helped it get closer to this goal.  However, experts thought that North Korea probably did not explode a hydrogen bomb.

The explosion was too small, they said.

A hydrogen bomb is hundred of times more powerful than an atomic bomb.

These bombs use nuclear energy.

Pyongyang is the North Korean capital.

People there were excited and proud about the nuclear test.

A large crowd celebrated in front of Pyongyang's main train station as the announcement was read on a big video screen.

People took videos or photos of the screen on their cellphones, applauding and cheering.

A North Korean television reporter read a government statement saying a miniature hydrogen bomb was tested.

The statement called it a "perfect success."

It said the explosion raised the country's "nuclear might to the next level."

North Korea's government media said the test was "self-defense" to protect the country in case of an attack by the United States.

Around the world, there was much worry about the test.

Park Geun-hye is the president of South Korea.

She ordered her military to strengthen its defense against its neighbor, North Korea.

During the Korean War, which ended in 1953, Korea was divided into two countries, North and South Korea.

Park called the test a "an act that threatens our lives and future."

In the past, North Korea claimed to have the hydrogen bomb.

Nuclear experts have doubted this.

North Korea already has a bad relationship with its neighbors.

If it actually has the hydrogen bomb, these problems would only get worse.

Matthew Rycroft is Britain's ambassador, or representative, to the United Nations (U.N.), the world group of countries.

He said an emergency meeting took place there Wednesday.

The United Nations wants to condemn the nuclear test and punish North Korea.

Countries are already forbidden to sell weapons, technology and many goods to North Korea.

In an atomic bomb, an element is split into smaller atoms by a process called fission.

It releases enormous amounts of energy.

In a hydrogen bomb, smaller atoms are combined together in a process called fusion. The explosion is hundreds of times more powerful.

Lee Cheol Woo, a South Korean lawmaker, said his country's spy department told him that North Korea may not have tested a hydrogen bomb.

The bomb was exploded underground, causing an earthquake.

He said that Wednesday's quake was just not large enough to be a hydrogen bomb, even a failed one.  A miniature hydrogen bomb could cause a weak quake.

However, only the United States and Russia have these kinds of bombs, Lee said.

In Pyongyang, people felt pride, and some confusion.

Kim Sok Chol, 32, said he does not know much about H-bombs.

He added that "Since we have it, the U.S. will not attack us."

Ri Sol Yong, 22, is a university student.

"If we didn't have powerful nuclear weapons, we would already have been turned into the slaves of the U.S.," he said.

Ferenc Dalnoki-Veress is with the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation in California.

The center studies the spread of nuclear weapons.

He said the world may never know if North Korea actually tested a hydrogen bomb Wednesday.

Some experts say North Korea probably does not have the technology to make an H-bomb.

No one knows for sure.

