Parent Amy Clipston had a new request for her daughter's first-grade teacher.

Many parents had marched in to demand that their children, even those who could not tie their shoes yet, get more homework.

Clipston was the first to request the opposite — that her daughter opt out of homework altogether.

"I felt my child was doing quite fine in school," said Clipston, a chemist with three children.

She noted that her daughter's school day in the highly competitive Lower Merion School District in Pennsylvania was already 6 1/2 hours, with a 20-minute recess.

"I felt 10 to 20 minutes of homework a night was not accomplishing anything."

Her request, which the teacher approved, represented one small step for a movement slowly gaining power in schools around the country.

Schools are beginning to question, scale back or even get rid of the nightly homework tradition once thought as all-American as school dances and cafeteria food fights.

For many years, homework's value has been hotly debated.

Some studies have shown China and India pulling ahead in educating young people.

But now a growing number of critics say the idea that America can close the learning gap with those countries by stuffing kids' backpacks with math worksheets as early as kindergarten is backfiring.

Instead, they say it increases worry and takes time away from sleep.

And they say there is little scientific evidence students are actually learning more from the reams of homework.

Some school administrators are starting to listen.

Radnor School District in Pennsylvania has begun a policy stating that homework shouldn't "interfere with the student's health and well-being."

Several New Jersey districts are experimenting with banning assignments on certain nights or weekends and school vacations.

An elementary school in Gaithersburg, Maryland, has banned homework.

Instead, student are required to do 30 minutes of nightly reading.

And under the radar, parents such as Clipston and others in Lower Merion are quietly opting their kids out of the daily grind.

That is all music to the ears of Vicki Abeles.

She triggered widespread debate on test and homework pressure with her 2010 documentary film "Race to Nowhere."

Abeles said educators should be seeking a balance between work and life for students.

It is no different than what some technology companies are doing for employees, she said.

"A lot has been written about adults having real time off from the workday, and that it improves creativity and productivity," Abeles said.

"We're doing the exact opposite with kids.

It's insanity."

Many schools try to stick to 10 minutes for each grade level.

But some, particularly private ones, load on a lot more.

For example, St. Joseph School in Downingtown, Pennsylvania, starts with 30 minutes for first and second grade, up to 120 minutes for seventh and eighth grade.

"The kids are overwhelmed," said Tom Di Giulio, a Latin teacher at Cedarbrook Middle School in Cheltenham, Pennsylvania.

"It's too much.

I'm getting work sent in to me at 12 o'clock at night," sometimes 1 and 3 a.m. Zach Masterman, 15, a student at Lower Merion's Harriton High School, knows what Di Giulio is talking about.

After putting in a full day of school, after-school activities and choir practice, he comes home and dives into three hours of homework nightly.

"I'm really busy," he said.

"I have a ton of things to do."

Stephanie Brant is the principal at the school in Gaithersburg.

Brant said she was surprised when she initially got pushback from some parents for eliminating homework.

They were worried, she said, that their kids would not be prepared for middle school.

But now, other schools in her district have dropped the worksheets.

A middle school principal also thanked her for sending him devoted readers.

"We demand so much of our students during the day," Brant said.

She says that often students do repetitive homework such as addition, and "the second you do one wrong problem, you're doing 25 wrong."

Scientific research increasingly supports the complaints from parents and teachers about the harmful effect of students emailing completed assignments at 3 a.m. or kids spending sunny weekends indoors on a laptop.

In 2013, a survey from the American Psychological Association, a scientific organization, found that 45 percent of schoolchildren were worried about school.

Homework was the leading cause.

Alfie Kohn, who wrote "The Homework Myth: Why Our Kids Get Too Much of a Bad Thing" said that numerous studies fail to find any link between homework and improved learning.

There is questionable "academic benefit to homework at any age, especially in younger kids," Kohn argued.

What's more, he argues, too much homework can cause considerable harm.

It raises levels of frustration, anxiety and family tension while robbing kids of time for imaginative play and outdoor exercise.

Most importantly, it crushes the ability for students to get excited about learning, he says.

More parents are asking the same questions.

"Many feel homework has kind of taken over, especially at the high school level," said Cheryl Masterman, Zach's mother.

"I just had a situation with my fifth-grader the other night, and he was up really late and totally freaking out and melting down."

