A Tunisian group won the Nobel Peace Prize.

The prize is one of the most famous in the world.

The group is called the Tunisian National Dialogue Quartet.

It helped the North African country of Tunisia become a democracy.

A democracy is a type of government where people can vote for their leaders.

People also have more freedom in a democracy.

Before becoming a democracy, the country was ruled by a leader who decided all the laws.

Life was difficult for the people in the country.

The quartet also helped move Tunisia away from war.

The Norwegian Nobel Committee gave out the prize.

It called the group a peacemaker.

The quartet began in 2013 after a Tunisian lawmaker was killed.

His death almost caused a war.

The quartet brought different groups together in Tunisia to talk peacefully.

It helped them agree on what kind of government they wanted.

The prize is a huge victory for small Tunisia.

Its democracy is still new.

Some people are trying to ruin it.

Extremist attacks this year killed many people.

Mohammed Fadhel Mafoudh is head of the Tunisian Order of Lawyers.

It is one of the four groups that make up the quartet.

Mafoudh said the prize sends an important message.

It tells people that everything can be settled by talking peacefully.

Weapons and war do not solve problems, he said.

Tunisians were excited about the prize.

Tunisian television and radio stations announced the news.

Many Tunisians celebrated through social media.

Joyful crowds gathered in front of buildings in Tunis.

It is the capital of Tunisia.

In 2011, Tunisian protesters started what is called the Arab Spring.

Other protests spread through the Arab world.

The protests led to new governments in Egypt and Libya.

Both countries are in North Africa.

Tunisia was the only country that became a democracy.

Kaci Kullmann Five is the head of the Nobel committee.

She said the prize encourages the Tunisian people.

She hopes the prize will protect democracy in Tunisia.

It will also give hope to other people making peace.

The award also comes with money.

The quartet will be given $960,000.

