The Nobel Prize in Literature is one of the highest awards a writer can receive.

On Thursday, Canadian Alice Munro won that honor.

Munro has written stories about the everyday lives of men and women in small towns in Canada and how they sometimes change in an instant.

Her writing is elegant and exact.

She is the first Canadian writer to receive the award since 1976.

Munro wrote about a wide range of lives and personalities.

She did not judge her characters.

Munro almost only wrote short stories.

Most Nobel winners write novels, or long books.

"Lives of Girls and Women" is her only novel.

Even that is often described as a collection of linked stories.

"I knew I was in the running, yes, but I never thought I would win," the 82-year-old said when contacted by The Canadian Press.

Munro told Canadian broadcaster CBC she was "surprised and delighted" at the news.

She heard she won in a predawn phone call from her daughter.

"It just seems impossible.

It seems so splendid a thing to happen that I can't describe it.

It's more than I can say," Munro said.

Other famous writers are fond of Munro.

So are critics who review books for a living.

She won a National Book Critics Circle prize for "Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage."

She also won the Governor General's prize, Canada's highest writing honor, three times.

Margaret Atwood is a fellow Canadian who some thought might win the Nobel.

She tweeted, "Hooray!

Alice Munro wins 2013 Nobel Prize in literature."

The award is likely to top off Munro's career.

She told Canada's National Post in June that she was "probably not going to write anymore."

Munro made the short story almost perfect, said Peter Englund of the Swedish Academy.

Munro once said she made a mistake in trying to write "Lives of Girls and Women" as a regular novel.

"It didn't feel right to me, and I thought I would have to abandon it," she said.

"I was very depressed.

Then it came to me that what I had to do was pull it apart and put it in story form.

Then I could handle it.

That's when I learned I was never going to write a real novel because I could not think that way."

The Nobel Pirze is 112 years old.

Munro is the 13th female literature winner.

Munro grew up in Wingham, a traditional Canadian town west of Toronto.

She tended to write about her experience there and her life after the social revolution of the 1960s.

It was a time when people began to break free of traditional roles.

She was born Alice Anne Laidlaw.

Her parents were a fox farmer and a teacher.

She liked to read in a town that didn't.

Munro hid her goals like they were forbidden.

She received a scholarship to study at the University of Western Ontario.

Munro was still in college when she sold a story to CBC radio in Canada.

She dropped out of college to marry James Munro.

He was also a student.

They had three children and she became a full-time housewife.

By her early 30s, she had become depressed and said she could barely write a full sentence.

She opened a bookstore with her husband, in 1963.

It was good for her writing.

Her storytelling talents came back.

But her marriage ended.

Her first collection, "Dance of the Happy Shades," came out in 1968 and won the Governor's prize.

She later married Gerald Fremlin.

He was a geographer.

Her stories are usually set in Ontario, where she lives.

Her most famous is "The Bear Came Over the Mountain."

The story is about a woman who begins losing her memory and agrees with her husband that she should be placed in a nursing home.

Some have called her "the greatest author in North America and, yes, I tend to agree with that," said the academy's Englund.

The 2013 Nobel announcements continue Friday with the Nobel Peace Prize.

The awards will be handed to the winners on Dec. 10, the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel's death in 1896.

Each Nobel comes with a $1.2 million prize.

