Three scientists in the United States worked for many years to figure out how important substances are moved within cells.

They each figured out a different piece of the puzzle.

Their work has helped scientists who do research on brain disease and diabetes.

On Monday, the three men won a huge prize.

James Rothman, Randy Schekman and Dr. Thomas Sudhof won the Nobel Prize in Medicine for their work.

It is one of the most important prizes in medicine and other fields.

And they get to share $1.2 million in prize money.

They got the award for their research on tiny bubbles called vesicles.

Vesicles act like cargo carriers inside cells.

Rothman works at Yale University.

Schekman is at the University of California, Berkeley.

Sudhof is at Stanford University.

What they discovered is like a traffic control system.

It makes sure that the cargo is delivered to the right place at the right time.

It keeps activities inside cells operating properly, the Nobel committee said.

If something goes wrong, there can be problems.

A person could develop brain diseases, diabetes and trouble fighting other diseases.

"Imagine hundreds of thousands of people who are traveling around hundreds of miles of streets; how are they going to find the right way?

Where will the bus stop and open its doors so that people can get out?"

committee secretary Goran Hansson said.

"There are similar problems in the cell."

The winners made their discoveries in the 1970s, '80s and '90s.

Those discoveries have helped doctors diagnose a severe form of epilepsy, Hansson said.

Epilepsy is a condition caused by unusual electrical activity in the brain.

They also helped doctors find conditions in the body that meant children had trouble fighting diseases, Hansson said.

These are called immune deficiency diseases.

Scientists also hope the research will help them develop medicines.

The medicines would help fight more common types of epilepsy, diabetes and other conditions, he added.

Schekman lives in California.

He said he got the call from the head of the prize committee at 1 a.m.

He was asleep at the time.

"I wasn't thinking too straight.

I didn't have anything elegant to say," he said.

"All I could say was 'Oh my God,' and that was that."

In the 1970s, Schekman discovered a set of genes.

The body needs the genes to move vesicles.

Rothman showed in the 1980s and 1990s how vesicles delivered their cargo to the right places.

Sudhof identified the machinery that controls when vesicles release chemical messengers from one brain cell that let it communicate with another.

He did this in the 1990s.

"This is not an overnight thing," Rothman said.

Most of the work has taken many years to develop, he said.

Rothman said he lost grant money for the work recognized by the Nobel committee.

He said he will reapply.

He hopes the Nobel prize will make a difference.

Sudhof was driving in Spain when the committee called.

"To be honest, I thought at first it was a joke.

I have a lot of friends who might play these kinds of tricks," he said.

The medicine prize kicked off this year's Nobel announcements.

There are also awards in physics, chemistry, literature, peace and economics.

They will be announced this week and next.

Each prize is worth 8 million Swedish kronor, or $1.2 million.

Rothman and Schekman won the Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award in 2002.

Getting the Lasker award is often seen as a sign of being a Nobel Prize contender.

Sudhof won the Lasker award this year.

"I might have been just as happy to have been a practicing primary-care doctor," Sudhof said after winning that prize.

But he worked with patients with severe brain diseases when he was a medical student, he said.

That made a lasting impression on him, he said.

The prizes were established by Swedish businessman Alfred Nobel.

They have been handed out since 1901.

The winners always receive their awards on Dec. 10, the day Nobel died in 1896.

