Canadian short story writer Alice Munro won the Nobel Prize in Literature on Thursday.

Munro writes stories about the everyday lives of men and women in rural Canada and how they sometimes suddenly change.

Her writing has been praised as elegant and exact.

She is the first Canadian writer to receive the award since 1976.

Munro captured a wide range of lives and personalities without passing judgment on her characters.

Her work consists almost entirely of short stories.

Most Nobel winners write novels or books.

"Lives of Girls and Women" is her only novel.

Even that is often described as a collection of linked stories.

"I knew I was in the running, yes, but I never thought I would win," the 82-year-old told The Canadian Press in Victoria, British Columbia.

Munro told Canadian broadcaster CBC she was "surprised and delighted" at the news.

She heard she won in a predawn phone call from her daughter.

"It just seems impossible.

It seems so splendid a thing to happen that I can't describe it.

It's more than I can say," Munro said.

Munro is beloved by other famous writers, from Lorrie Moore and George Saunders to Margaret Atwood and Jonathan Franzen.

She is equally admired by critics.

She won a National Book Critics Circle prize for "Hateship, Friendship, Courtship, Loveship, Marriage."

She also won the Governor General's prize, Canada's highest literary honor, three times.

Atwood — a fellow Canadian who some thought might win the Nobel — tweeted, "Hooray!

Alice Munro wins 2013 Nobel Prize in literature."

The award is likely to top off Munro's career.

She told Canada's National Post in June that she was "probably not going to write anymore."

Nobel prize secretary Peter Englund said he had not managed to get hold of her but left a message on her answering machine.

Munro has taken the short story and made it almost perfect, Englund said.

In a 1994 interview, she said she made a mistake in trying to write "Lives of Girls and Women" as a regular book, or novel.

"It didn't feel right to me, and I thought I would have to abandon it," she said.

"I was very depressed.

Then it came to me that what I had to do was pull it apart and put it in story form.

Then I could handle it.

That's when I learned I was never going to write a real novel because I could not think that way."

Munro is the 13th female literature winner in the 112-year history of the Nobel Prizes.

Munro grew up in Wingham, a traditional Canadian town west of Toronto.

Her stories tend to revolve around her experience there and her life after the social revolution of the 1960s.

It was a time when women stepped out of traditional roles and both sexes behaved more freely.

She was born Alice Anne Laidlaw.

Her parents were a fox farmer and a teacher.

She liked to read in a town that didn't.

Munro concealed her ambition like it was forbidden.

She received a scholarship to study at the University of Western Ontario, majoring in journalism.

Munro was still an undergraduate when she sold a story to CBC radio in Canada.

She dropped out of college to marry a fellow student, James Munro.

They had three children and she became a full-time housewife.

By her early 30s, she had become depressed and said she could barely write a full sentence.

Her good fortune was to open a bookstore with her husband, in 1963.

Her storytelling talents resurfaced but her marriage collapsed.

Her first collection, "Dance of the Happy Shades," came out in 1968 and won the Governor's prize.

She later married Gerald Fremlin, a geographer.

Her stories are usually set in Ontario, where she lives.

Among her best known is "The Bear Came Over the Mountain."

The story is about a woman who begins losing her memory and agrees with her husband that she should be placed in a nursing home.

Some have called her "the greatest author in North America and, yes, I tend to agree with that," said Englund.

The 2013 Nobel announcements continue Friday with the Nobel Peace Prize, followed by the economics prize on Monday.

The awards will be handed to the winners on Dec. 10, the anniversary of prize founder Alfred Nobel's death in 1896.

Each Nobel comes with a $1.2 million prize.

