The world has faced terrible and violent times this year.

It has been a time of ongoing war for many countries.

Other places saw fighting for the first time.

On Friday, the Nobel Prize Committee in northern Europe will announce the winner of the Peace Prize.

It is an award given to a man, woman or organization.

The award is very prestigious.

It is given to people or groups that have worked to make the world a more peaceful place.

This year presents a big challenge for the award.

There is so much violence that it is hard to find people who helped put a stop to it.

Political officials in the Middle East failed this year and last year to stop the fighting there.

The Middle East is a region in Western Asia.

John Kerry is an official from the U.S.

He tried to stop some of the fighting in the Middle East.

He did not succeed.

This year, that area saw bombings and violence between Israelis and Palestinians who have been fighting over the same land for many years.

Another political official was unable to stop the fighting in Syria.

It is unlikely that a government official will win the Peace Prize this year.

Peace prize winners are not always liked by everyone.

In the past, protesters and whistleblowers, or people who share secrets about the government, have received a Nobel.

Edward Snowden used to work for the U.S. government.

He shared government secrets with the world.

Snowden is currently hiding in Russia.

His whistleblowing was praised by some.

Others called him a traitor for sharing his country's secrets with the whole world.

It is not clear who will win the Peace Prize this year.

Still, there were a lot of people who were added to the list of nominees.

Among the nominees, or possible winners, are 47 organizations.

The committee deciding the prizes keeps this list secret for 50 years.

Still, people who nominate others often talk about who they chose.

One group puts out a list of possible winners each year.

For 2014, it suggested a Japanese peace group, an independent Russian newspaper and Snowden, the whistleblower.

The Japanese group wants to keep peace.

In part of Japan's constitution, the country promises to avoid military force.

Military force allows the government to kill people to keep the country safe.

The leader of Japan wants to change the constitution.

He wants to allow military force.

Another nominee for the peace prize is the Russian newspaper Novaya Gazeta.

The newspaper writes articles about the strict rule of Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The articles sometimes they say bad things about Putin.

Six of the newspaper's reporters have been killed since 1993.

Seventeen-year-old Malala Yousafzai also has a chance to win the prize.

She was shot by the Taliban in Pakistan in 2012.

The Taliban is a terror group with very strict rules for women and girls.

The group does not allow girls to get an education.

Malala did not follow their rules and went to school anyway.

Now, she fights to help girls all over the world go to school in places where they are not allowed to do so.

Many other groups and people are being considered for the Peace Prize.

The president of Uruguay, a doctor in Africa and a former leader of Germany could also win.

>UPDATE: Malala Yousafzai and Kailash Satyarthi awarded Peace Prize > >OSLO, Norway (AP) — Malala Yousafzai of Pakistan and Kailash Satyarthi of India were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday for their work for children's rights.

> >The Norwegian Nobel Committee cited the two "for their struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education."

> >Malala, 17, is the youngest ever winner of a Nobel Prize.

A schoolgirl and education campaigner in Pakistan, she was shot in the head by a Taliban gunman two years ago.

Satyarthi, 60, has maintained the tradition of Mahatma Gandhi and headed various forms of peaceful protests, "focusing on the grave exploitation of children for financial gain," the Nobel committee said.

