If a 9.0 earthquake struck in the ocean off California, it would be a huge disaster for North America's West Coast.

Earthquakes on land can cause a lot of damage.

But earthquakes in the ocean have their own dangers.

These earthquakes can cause a tsunami, a huge wave that rushes into coastal cities.

Last year, scientists studied the possible effects of a huge earthquake coming from the Cascadia fault system, which sits 700 miles off the coast of northern California.

Their predictions are frightening.

A giant tsunami along the West Coast would wash away coastal towns, destroy U.S. Highway 101 and cause $70 billion in damage.

More than 100 bridges would be lost, power lines knocked down and coastal towns cut off.

Local residents would have as few as 15 minutes' notice to flee to higher ground, and as many as 10,000 would die.

Officials in Northern California, Oregon and Washington are beginning to address the dangers of an earthquake and tsunami.

They hope to learn lessons from a recent disaster in Japan.

A 9.0 earthquake there in 2011 created a huge tsunami that swept through coastal areas.

That tsunami took people by surprise.

It killed more than 10,000 and left more than 300,000 homeless.

It also damaged a nuclear power plant.

A meltdown at the plant spread dangerous radiation in the area.

Researchers on the West Coast hope to save lives by quickly spotting a tsunami and warning local citizens.

They hope that new tsunami detectors deep under the ocean can provide early warnings of a wave.

Predicting a tsunami's strength is important to saving lives.

During the 2011 Japan tsunami, scientists underestimated its size and did not realize the damage it would do.

"You want to have this information as accurate as possible."

said Vasily Titov, head of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Center for Tsunami Research.

Installing tsunami sensors on the deep ocean floor would provide better information on the tsunami's size in as little as five minutes.

It now takes about half an hour.

To escape a tsunami, people must flee to high ground such as a hill or mountain.

But in flat areas, there is nowhere to go.

Safety officials must build high ground.

One option is "vertical evacuation centers."

People go to specially-designed buildings and take shelter on the roof in case of a tsunami.

One building at an elementary school in Washington state will protect 1,000 people with a high wall.

We have no natural high ground, so we have to escape upwards, said Ocosta School District Superintendent Paula Akerlund.

Officials have also discussed building man-made hills that could hold as many as 800 people.

Many scientists expect that the famous San Andreas fault will produce "The Big One," a massive earthquake that could rock the West Coast at any time.

The San Andreas fault runs through the heart of California.

But recently, scientists have realized that the Cascadia fault is far more dangerous than they thought.

The Cascadia fault is made up of three tectonic plates that are pushing against each other.

The most powerful earthquakes in the last 10 years in California were caused by this fault line.

Scientists had believed that the Cascadia fault could only produce a 7.5 earthquake.

But they now believe that it could create an enormous 9.0 quake.

The Cascadia fault is powerful for two reasons.

First, it is extremely long.

Second, it is an area where two huge tectonic plates are being pushed under the gigantic North American plate.

The smaller plates push under little by little, dragging the North American plate down with them.

But the North American plate is old and strong, and it won't be pulled down forever.

Once every couple hundred years, the North American plate snaps back upward like a rubber band, creating a powerful earthquake.

On March 16, a small earthquake caused by the Cascadia fault erupted 50 miles off the coast, causing light shaking.

No injuries or damages were reported.

The West Coast was spared this time, but scientists still wonder when "The Big One" will hit.

"It could be today.

It could be 100 years from now," U.S. Geological Survey seismologist David Oppenheimer said.

