If a 9.0 earthquake were to strike in the ocean off California, it would have a catastrophic effect for much of North America's West Coast.

While earthquakes on land can cause massive damage, an earthquake in the ocean can trigger a tsunami, a huge wave that rushes inland, destroying everything in its path.

A giant tsunami along the West Coast would wash away coastal towns, destroy U.S. Highway 101 and cause $70 billion in damage.

More than 100 bridges would be lost, power lines toppled and coastal towns isolated.

Residents would have as few as 15 minutes' notice to flee to higher ground, and as many as 10,000 would die.

Last year, scientists studied the possible effects of a huge earthquake coming from the Cascadia fault system, which sits 700 miles off the coast of northern California.

They predicted massive damage.

Many scientists have long expected that the famous San Andreas fault will produce "The Big One," a massive earthquake that could rock the West Coast at any time.

But recently, scientists have realized that the Cascadia fault is far more dangerous than they thought.

The Cascadia fault is made up of three tectonic plates that are pushing against each other.

Cascadia produced the two largest earthquakes in California in the last decade: a 6.8 quake on Sunday and a 7.2 quake in 2005.

The area has produced six quakes of magnitude 7.0 or greater in the last 100 years, the California Geological Survey said.

Officials in Northern California, Oregon and Washington are beginning to address the dangers.

Many scientists have begun to focus on the dangers of an earthquake and tsunami.

In 2011, a 9.0 earthquake created a huge tsunami in Japan that swept through coastal areas.

That tsunami took residents by surprise.

It killed more than 10,000 people and left more than 300,000 homeless.

It also damaged a nuclear power plant, causing a meltdown and spreading dangerous radiation in the area.

Researchers from the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) hope that new tsunami detectors off Oregon's coast could provide early warnings of a wave, and also tell scientists its size.

Predicting  a tsunami's strength is crucial to saving lives.

During the 2011 Japan tsunami, scientists underestimated its size and did not anticipate the massive damage it would do.

"You want to have this information as accurate as possible."

said Vasily Titov, director of NOAA's Center for Tsunami Research.

Installing tsunami sensors on the deep ocean floor would provide better information on the tsunami's size in as little as five minutes.

It now takes about half an hour.

Titov said two underwater test sensors off the Oregon coast seemed to perform well in Sunday's earthquake, though the quake did not produce a tsunami.

To escape a tsunami people must flee to high ground — a hill or mountain for example.

But in flat places, there is nowhere to go.

Safety officials must get creative.

One option is buildings that are designed as "vertical evacuation centers."

In case of a tsunami, people could go to these buildings and take shelter on the roof.

One building at an elementary school in Washington state will be able to protect 1,000 people with a high wall.

"We have no natural high ground," said Ocosta School District Superintendent Paula Akerlund.

"So we have to evacuate vertically."

Officials have also discussed building about 50 "tsunami safe havens," such as artificial hills that could hold as many as 800 people.

After the 2011 Japan tsunami, officials began to prepare for a major quake on the Cascadia fault.

And in the back of their minds is Hurricane Katrina, which devastated New Orleans in 2005.

The huge hurricane completely overwhelmed the city as the levees gave way.

A Cascadia earthquake and tsunami could similarly overwhelm the West Coast, said Paul Whitmore, director of the National Tsunami Warning Center in Alaska.

Scientists had believed that the Cascadia fault zone could only produce a 7.5 earthquake.

But they now believe that it could create an enormous 9.0 quake — the same size as the one that rocked Japan.

The Cascadia fault is powerful for two reasons.

First, it is extremely long.

Second, it is an area where two huge tectonic plates are being pushed under the gigantic North American plate.

The smaller plates push under little by little, dragging the North American plate down with them.

But the North American plate is old and strong, and it won't be pulled down forever.

Once every couple hundred years, the North American plate snaps back upward like a rubber band, creating a powerful earthquake.

On March 16, a small quake caused by the Cascadia fault erupted 50 miles off the coast, causing moderate shaking.

No injuries or damages were reported.

The West Coast was spared this time, but scientists still wonder when "The Big One" will hit.

"It could be today.

It could be 100 years from now," U.S. Geological Survey seismologist David Oppenheimer said.

