There is no escaping the Kim family in North Korea.

According to North Korean legend, "Eternal President" Kim Il Sung continues to reign, even though he died 21 years ago.

His son Kim Jong Il died in 2011 and is called "Dear Leader."

His body is on display with his father's in a huge tomb the size of Buckingham Palace.

The tomb is at the edge of the capital city, Pyongyang.

Kim Il Sung's grandson is Kim Jong Un.

He is called "Great Successor."

He is making sure none of his subjects forget about the family line by strengthening the strange worship of the ruling family that has lasted for the past 60 years.

The latest outlet for that worship is new statues.

The government has been tearing down statues of Kim Il Sung around the country.

Doing this must require all sorts of ceremony since it is a treasonous offense to even place a newspaper with a photo of one of the Kims face down.

The statues are being replaced with huge new statues of Kim Senior and Kim Junior.

The changes appear to be part of Kim Jong Un's effort to make his right to succeed his father as ruler more clear, says Curtis Melvin.

He studies North Korea.

Melvin has studied the country's geography extensively using satellite pictures.

He has noted the steady replacement of the statues over time, thanks to his remarkable knowledge of the country through Google Earth.

The first statue to go was the one of Kim Il Sung that stood at Mansudae, a hill in the center of Pyongyang.

The hill was the required first stop for all important groups of foreigners visiting Pyongyang.

There, visitors were given bouquets of flowers to place at Kim Il Sung's feet and were expected to bow.

But in 2012, soon after Kim Jong Il's death, the statue was removed and replaced with two statues.

One was a new, or at least extensively remolded, one of Kim Il Sung.

The other was a brand new statue of Kim Jong Il next to him.

But that statue, which showed the second Kim in a light coat, didn't last long.

It was soon replaced by a statue of him in a heavier winter coat, like his dad.

The statues are thought to be about 70 feet tall and appear to be made of bronze.

Since those statues were replaced, the authorities have been methodically going around the country pulling down statues of Kim Il Sung.

They have replaced the statues with new ones of him and his son.

The addition of the statues has been widely reported in the North Korean press.

One news organization called the placement of new statues in one province a "noteworthy event."

The cost of the statues is hard to figure as it is not clear exactly how big they are or what they're made of.

Adam Cathcart, a North Korea expert at Leeds University, says that replacing the statues would have been very costly.

But the statues are not the extent of it.

"In addition to the statues, there are Kim Il Sung/Kim Jong Il monuments going up across the country," Melvin says, adding that he has counted 233, and more are being built.

At least there's one business that North Korea can say is really booming.

