Weather forecasters were warning that the nation's Northeast would be hit by a "crippling and potentially historic blizzard."

The powerful winter storm, named Juno, was expected to arrive on Monday.

It could dump as much as 3 feet of snow on the region.

On Sunday, people in cities and towns from Philadelphia to Boston were flocking to hardware and grocery stores to pick up emergency supplies.

By early Monday, the storm got the nickname "Snowmaggedon" on social media like Twitter and Facebook.

Tens of millions of Americans live in the path of the storm that was churning along the East Coast.

The blizzard was expected to hit New Jersey, New York City, Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts especially hard.

It could shut down the nation's most densely populated region for days, closing schools and businesses from Monday afternoon through the week.

New Yorkers jammed checkout aisles across the city Sunday evening to buy food, water, batteries and snow shovels.

Mayor Bill de Blasio said thousands of city employees were bracing for the storm.

The blizzard, he said, could turn out to be "one of the top two or three largest storms in the history of this city."

In the neighborhood of Morningside Heights in New York City, one grocery store's narrow aisles were crowded with shoppers, and checkout lines stretched 20 deep.

"It's chaos," manager Nick Glenis said.

"You might need shoulder pads today — it's full-contact shopping."

Glenis said Sundays typically were busy at the market, so it was ready for the rush.

More milk, bread and eggs will be delivered Monday, he said.

Blizzard warnings along the East Coast from New Jersey to Maine were to go into effect Monday afternoon and could last through early Wednesday.

Up to 4 inches of snow could fall per hour in some areas.

Wind gusts were expected to reach 65 miles per hour (mph).

Governors and mayors across the region called for residents to check forecasts and stock up on supplies.

They also asked that people check on elderly and disabled neighbors, who could be especially at risk.

De Blasio urged New Yorkers not to drive, and instead use buses and trains.

Displaying a list of snowstorms going back to 1872, de Blasio said, "We need to prepare for something worse than we've seen before."

The city's record for a single storm is just over 26 inches of snow.

Across the river in Hoboken, New Jersey, officials were preparing for up to 30 inches of snow and 70 mph winds.

"My major concern is power outages," said Hoboken Police Chief Kenneth Ferrante.

"We still have a lot of above-ground lines.

With the heavy snow and 70 mph winds, there's risks of wires being severed and things coming off buildings, scaffolding coming down," he said.

City crews will be towing cars along emergency snow routes, and will open warming centers and shelters and a command center in the basement of City Hall.

"We're looking at a best-case scenario where it stays east and we're getting at least 12 to 18 inches of snow," Ferrante said.

"We could handle that, but we're preparing for the worst."

Predictions for the blizzard worsened quickly over the weekend.

As the storm went along the East Coast, cold air from Canada was expected to move down behind it, making the weather even colder.

The blizzard's severity will depend on how far off the coast the center of the storm tracks.

Forecasters emphasized that the amount of snow that falls depends on the storm's movements over the next 48 hours.

However, forecasts have been growing worse and worse.

"We need to be prepared," Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy said in a statement.

"Just as the state is monitoring and preparing, the public should do the same."

Boston Mayor Martin Walsh said he had been in "constant communication" with city officials.

City workers have prepared 700 pieces of snow-removal equipment.

"Our city has been through blizzards before, and I am confident we are prepared," Walsh said.

The mayor asked Boston residents to help by removing snow, slush and ice from sidewalks and curbs.

Back in New York City, the commissioner of the Office of Emergency Management, Joseph Esposito, said New Yorkers should exercise common sense.

"Don't go outdoors if you don't have to" starting Monday evening.

"You should not be out in this storm."

De Blasio noted that city crews will have 6,000 miles of streets to clear.

"Everything will be delayed," he said.

He added, "This could be a storm the likes of which we've never seen before.

Be careful.

Stay safe."

