Four huge drilling rigs sit near the North Dakota-Montana border.

However, these machines, which create holes in the earth to drill for oil, sit unused.

They are waiting for oil prices to rise again.

Last year, when oil was selling for $100 a barrel, each rig employed almost 200 people.

Today, with oil prices cut in half, they employ Shay Hunt, the night watchman.

"Over there, that was my rig," said Hunt, a 35-year-old father of three from Williston.

He has worked the oil fields for more than 13 years.

"Rain comes, 40-below (temperatures) comes, lightning and tornadoes come, we keep working," he said, facing away from the downed rigs and into the biting wind.

"One time a (grass) fire a came up around the rig.

We kept on working."

Now there's a new threat to the oil fields — one you cannot work through.

For six years, an oil boom, or period in which oil was huge business, changed the lives of people in North Dakota.

Unemployment was at record lows and people were making more money than ever.

Then oil prices dropped, and things started to change again.

Half of the oil rigs stopped being used.

Thousands of oil workers lost their jobs.

Here in Williston, the center of the boom, people are not that concerned.

Officials say they welcome the chance for their city to catch its breath after years of rapid change.

"We grew so fast, so quickly," said Shawn Wenko, who works for the town.

"Obviously, we have some catch-up to do."

In cities across the oil fields, people are waiting to see whether this is just a slowdown or a real bust, when things get dramatically worse after a boom.

There are billions of barrels of oil in the rock below, and every day millions of barrels still pump to the surface.

To make up for the rigs that are not being used, communities are counting on a lot of new construction.

And they hope the people who moved here for jobs will not move back home.

Hunt, who used to work on a rig and now works as a night watchman, said some of his friends have gone back to their home states.

They are waiting for oil prices to rise again.

Oil has been part of Williston since the first oil strike nearby in 1951.

Art galleries sell framed pictures of oil wells at sunset.

The visitor's bureau sells Pipeline Pretzels, Frack Jacks pancake mix and Drill Bits crackers.

At the city line, signs welcome you to Boomtown, U.S.A. Chuck Wilder's grandmothers were in Williston for its founding in 1887.

He has seen oil busts empty out his hometown before — first in the 1950s and again in the 1980s.

This, he said, does not feel anything like a bust.

The oil below Williston is so rich, companies can still make money drilling here, even with oil prices cut in half.

And the city has many projects on its to-do list.

At the state employment office in Williston, there are two job openings for every job seeker.

Office manager Cindy Sanford flips through five pages of oil industry job listings.

The list of jobs outside the industry is even longer.

"If you know any civil engineers, I need 10," Sanford said, looking around at the dozen or so job seekers hunched over computers.

"There's not a job we don't need."

Still, the employment situation is very different than during the crazy days of the boom, when almost anyone could step off a bus and into a well-paying job in the oil industry.

Around town, they joked that oil companies would hire anything with a pulse.

Newcomers are still walking into Sanford's office every day, straight from the bus stop or airport.

But the jobs they are finding no longer offer top salaries.

These days, employers are looking for workers with training, skills and a solid work ethic.

Just like employers back home.

Many workers who lost jobs have jumped to new ones in the still-booming construction business.

Some have started companies of their own.

On Main Street, Kelsey Thorne of California is getting ready to open Williston's first Italian restaurant.

Starting a business here has been easier than it would have been back home, she said.

"We see Williston as a land of opportunity, for sure."

