There is no escaping the Kim family in North Korea.

According to North Korean lore, "Eternal President" Kim Il Sung continues to reign, 21 years after his death.

His son, "Dear Leader" Kim Jong Il, died in 2011\.

He lies in state with his father in a huge tomb the size of Buckingham Palace on the outskirts of Pyongyang.

The grandson, "Great Successor" Kim Jong Un, is making sure none of his subjects forget about the family line — by strengthening the strange personality cult the family has perpetuated during the past 60 years.

The latest outlet for Kimism: new statues.

The regime has been tearing down statues of Kim Il Sung around the country — an act that must be require all sorts of ceremony since it's a treasonous offense to even place a newspaper with a photo of one of the Kims face down — and replacing them with huge new statues of Kim Senior and Kim Junior.

"This looks like part of Kim Jong Un's plan to solidify his hereditary succession, carry on his father's mantle," says Curtis Melvin, a North Korea researcher at the U.S.-Korea Institute at SAIS, Johns Hopkins.

Melvin has studied the country's geography extensively using satellite pictures.

He has noted the steady replacement of the statues over time, thanks to his remarkable knowledge of the country through Google Earth.

The first statue to go was the one of Kim Il Sung that stood at Mansudae, a hill in the center of Pyongyang.

The hill was the required first stop for all groups of important foreigners visiting Pyongyang.

There, visitors were given bouquets of flowers to place at Kim Il Sung's feet and were expected to bow.

But in 2012, soon after Kim Jong Il's death, the statue was removed and replaced with two statues.

One was a new, or at least extensively remolded, statue of Kim Il Sung.

The other was a brand new statue of Kim Jong Il next to him.

But that statue, which showed the second Kim in a light coat, didn't last long, and was soon replaced by a statue of him in a heavier winter coat, like his dad.

The statues are thought to be about 70 feet tall and appear to be made of bronze.

Since then, the authorities have been methodically going around the country pulling down statues of Kim Senior and replacing them with new statues of him and Kim Junior.

The addition of the statues has been widely noted in the North Korean press.

"The erection of the statues in the province is a noteworthy event in glorifying the revolutionary careers and feats of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il," the state-run Korea Central News Agency reported this week when new statues in Phyongsong were unveiled.

The cost of the statues is unknown as it is not clear exactly how big they are or what they're made of.

Adam Cathcart, a North Korea specialist at Leeds University, says it would have required "huge expenditure."

But the statues are not the extent of it.

"In addition to the statues, there are Kim Il Sung/Kim Jong Il monuments going up across the country.

I have counted 233 of those and they are still going up," Melvin says.

At least there's one business that North Korea can say is really booming.

