The Kim family has ruled North Korea for more than 60 years.

The current ruler is Kim Jong Un.

His government is replacing statues of his grandfather with new ones.

Those show his father and grandfather together.

Experts say he is doing this to help prove he has the right to rule like his father and grandfather.

Kim Jong Un's grandfather was Kim Il Sung.

He is known as "Eternal President."

Korean legend says that he still runs the country even though he died 21 years ago.

Kim Il Sung's son was Kim Jong Il.

He was called "Dear Leader."

He died in 2011 and his body is on display with his father's in a huge building the size of Britain's Buckingham Palace.

Kim Jong Un is called "Great Successor."

He is making sure the people he rules continue to worship the Kim family line.

The latest way he is doing this is with the new statues.

The government has been tearing down statues of Kim Il Sung around the country.

The statues are replaced with huge new statues of Kim Il Sung and Kim Jong Il.

Curtis Melvin is an expert on North Korea.

He has studied the country by looking at pictures from space.

He noticed that the statues were being replaced.

Melvin said the changes appear to be part of how Kim Jong Un is making it clear that he deserves to rule the country.

The first statue to go was the one of Kim Il Sung that stood at a hill called Mansudae.

The hill is in the center of North Korea's capital, Pyongyang.

Groups of important foreign visitors who visited Pyongyang were required to stop at the hill.

There, visitors were given flowers to place at Kim Il Sung's feet.

The visitors were expected to bow.

In 2012, soon after Kim Jong Il's death, the statue was removed.

It was replaced with two statues.

One was of Kim Il Sung.

It was either a brand new statue or the old one fixed up.

The other was a brand new statue of Kim Jong Il.

That statue showed the second Kim in a light coat.

It did not last long.

It was soon replaced by a statue of him in a heavier winter coat, like his dad.

The statues are thought to be about 70 feet tall.

They appear to be made of bronze.

Since those statues were replaced, offiicals have been going around the country pulling down  statues of Kim Il Sung.

They have replaced the statues with new ones of him and his son.

The addition of the statues has been widely reported in the North Korean press.

It is hard to say how much the new statues cost.

North Korea is a very secretive country.

It is not clear exactly how big they are or what they are made of.

Adam Cathcart is a North Korea expert at Leeds University.

He says that replacing the statues would have been very costly.

The statues are not all that is different about the country.

Melvin says other buildings are also going up to celebrate Kim Il Sung and his son.

These buildings are called monuments.

Melvin said he has counted 233 monuments across the country.

More are being built.

One thing is for sure in North Korea.

The statue and monument businesses are booming.

