Four huge drilling rigs sit near the border of North Dakota and Montana.

These machines, which dig holes in the earth to drill for oil, are not being used.

They are waiting for oil prices to rise again.

Last year, when oil was selling for $100 a barrel, each rig provided jobs for almost 200 people.

Recently, oil prices have been cut in half.

Shay Hunt used to work on a rig.

Now he is the night watchman.

"Over there, that was my rig," said Hunt, a 35-year-old father of three from Williston.

He has worked the oil fields for more than 13 years.

"Rain comes, 40-below (temperature) comes, lightning and tornadoes come, we keep working," he said, facing away from the rigs and into the biting wind.

"One time a (grass) fire a came up around the rig.

We kept on working."

There is a new problem facing the oil fields that cannot be worked through.

For six years, North Dakota was in an oil boom, a time when oil was a huge business.

It changed the lives of people in the state.

Jobs were easy to find and people were making more money than ever.

Then oil prices dropped, and things started to change.

Half of the oil rigs stopped being used.

Thousands of oil workers lost their jobs.

Here in Williston, people are not too worried.

City officials say they welcome the chance for their city to catch its breath after years of fast change.

"We grew so fast, so quickly," said Shawn Wenko, who works for the town.

"Obviously, we have some catch-up to do."

In cities around the oil fields, people are waiting to see what happens next.

They wonder whether this is just a slowdown or a real bust, when things get much worse after a boom.

The area has tons of oil and it is still being pumped to the surface.

To make sure business stays strong, communities are building new roads, schools and pipelines.

They hope the people who moved here for new jobs will not move back home.

Hunt said some of his friends have gone back to their home states.

They are waiting for oil prices to rise again.

Chuck Wilder, whose grandmothers were in Williston when the city was founded in 1887, has watched oil busts empty out his hometown before.

The first time was in the 1950s and the second time was in the 1980s.

This, he said, does not feel anything like a bust.

The oil below Williston is so rich, companies can still make money drilling here, even with oil prices cut in half.

The city has many projects on its to-do list.

At the state's job office in Williston, there are two openings for every person looking for work.

Cindy Sanford, who works there, flips through five pages of jobs in the oil business.

There are even more jobs listed outside the oil business.

"There's not a job we don't need," she said.

Still, the situation is very different than during the crazy days of the boom.

Back then, almost anyone could step off a bus and into a well-paying job in the oil business.

Around town, they joked that oil companies would hire anything with a heartbeat.

Newcomers are still walking into Sanford's office every day, straight from the bus stop or airport.

But the jobs they are finding no longer offer top salaries.

Many workers who lost their jobs now work in the construction business, which is still booming.

Some have started companies of their own.

On Main Street, Kelsey Thorne of California is getting ready to open Williston's first Italian restaurant.

Starting a business here has been easier than it would have been back home, she said.

"We see Williston as a land of opportunity, for sure."

