The sun is finally shining on the small Norwegian town of Rjukan.

The town is tucked between steep mountains.

It is normally shrouded in shadow for almost six months a year.

Residents have to catch a cable car to the top of a nearby cliff to get a dose of Vitamin D. But on Wednesday, faint rays from the winter sun reached the town's market square for the first time.

Three 183-square-foot mirrors placed on a mountain helped the town see the light.

Cheering families donned shades as the sun crept from behind a cloud.

Some reclined on sun loungers, drinking beverages and waving Norwegian flags.

The sunlight hit the mirrors and reflected down onto the faces of delighted children below.

TV footage of the event showed the center of the crowded square light up like a touch.

It was not like the town was hit by direct sunlight.

Still, residents said they could notice the effect.

"Before when it was a fine day, you would see that the sky was blue and you knew that the sun was shining.

But you couldn't quite see it.

It was very frustrating," said Karin Roe.

She works for the local tourist office.

"This feels warm.

When there is no time to get to the top of the mountains on weekdays, it will be lovely to come out for an hour and feel this warmth on my face."

Like much of Scandinavia, the town of Rjukan often is freezing throughout the winter.

On Wednesday, it was 45 degrees Fahrenheit there.

The Italian town of Viganella has a similar, but smaller, sun mirror.

Norwegian businessman Sam Eyde came up with the plan to illuminate Rjukan 100 years ago.

Eyde built the town between the mountains to provide workers for a power plant he located at the foot of a nearby waterfall.

Eyde never saw his plan become reality.

But his plant and the town he founded still was well-known in Norway.

It was the site of the country's most famous wartime story.

Norway was occupied by the Germans during World War II.

The factory was an important spot in Germany's search for the atomic bomb.

Twelve Norwegians parachuted into the nearby tundra and survived freezing temperatures to sabotage the factory's "heavy water" plant with bombs.

The mission inspired a 1965 Hollywood film, "The Heroes of Telemark."

It is also being turned into a 10-part TV series by Oscar-winning director Danny Boyle.

Ironically, the three mirrors that reflected the sun onto the town are controlled remotely from Germany.

The three mirrors captured the sunlight and sent it in an ellipse that illuminated about one-third of the square below.

A cloud weakened the effect of the mirrors at first.

A band encouraged it to move away by playing the song, "Let The Sunshine In."

Jan-Anders Dam-Nielsen is director of the Norwegian Industrial Museum, located on the site of the famous factory.

He said the solar experiment would mark another chapter in the history of Rjukan.

"Soon we will celebrate 70 years since the saboteurs struck the factory," he said.

"Then we will think about how we mark this.

This is a really important day in the history of this town.

And like the mirrors reflected the sun, we will reflect this in the museum."

The $850,000 mirrors were helicoptered in and installed 1,500 feet above the town square.

The computer-controlled mirrors, or heliostats, are more commonly used to create solar power in sundrenched regions of the Middle East.

Here, the solar energy the heliostats capture is used to power them as they follow the sun's brief dash across the Norwegian winter sky.

The century-old idea was revived in 2005 by artist Martin Andersen, a resident of the town who helped raise the sponsorship money.

The lion's share has come from Norsk Hydro — the company founded by Sam Eyde.

