Imagine your favorite baseball team just lost the World Series.

And not to just anybody.

To its biggest rival.

And then in the same weekend, your favorite football team lost the Super Bowl.

And it also lost to its biggest rival from the same town.

Imagine how bad you would feel.

Then you might begin to understand how people in Norway feel.

Their country did very badly in last weekend's cross-country skiing events at the Olympics.

In both the men's and women's relay events, Norway didn't win a single medal.

For Norwegians, it's practically a national sports disaster.

In Norway, people are said to be born with skis on their feet.

It was only the second time Norway hasn't won a single one of the relay medals since 1964.

But the news got even worse.

Its biggest rival Sweden won both races.

Sweden and Norway are neighboring countries.

"To be beaten by the Swedes is the worst that can happen," Petter Northug said.

He is the Norwegian anchor, or team captain.

The loss has been all over the news in Norway.

There are rumors that the team's coaches could lose their jobs after the Sochi Games.

"This is, like, huge drama," said Ida N. Rasch.

She is a journalist with NRK, the Norwegian broadcaster.

Her co-worker, Morten Stenberg, agreed.

"The whole country is talking about the bad results this week," he said.

In fact, Norway's problems began last Thursday and Friday.

That's when the men's and women's singles distance races were held.

Between those two races, the country won just a single medal.

That was far below what the Norwegians had been hoping.

Norwegian women hold the top four spots in the women's world rankings.

And Norwegian men have three of the top four spots in the men's rankings.

Norwegians are very proud of their success at the relay races.

Relay races are when four skiers run a single race.

They go one after another.

Norwegian fans love the singles medals their stars win.

But they also want a strong place in the four-leg team events.

Winning a medal in relay shows Norway is a real power in cross-country skiing.

But other countries have been beating them.

The Swedish men's team have now won two Olympic relays in a row.

Norway lost the women's race on Saturday.

Afterward, the athletes and coaches blamed their failure on skis.

They said they were slower than the other teams' skis.

This led to a last-minute effort to fix the problem in time for the men's event.

The day of that race, the Canadian team saw 22 Norwegians.

They were out on the trails testing skis.

There were only seven testers on the Canadian team.

"That's just what we saw on the track.

Maybe there were more in the wax cabin," said Sacha Bergeron, the Canadian ski technician who did the count.

"For sure, they were trying to find a solution."

The attempts at fixing it didn't work.

Norway's men again complained about slow skis after their race.

But other countries' coaches and fans think it's something else.

They think that Norway's skiers are simply not performing.

"I think they'll probably blame their skis," said Justin Wadsworth.

He is the coach of the Canadian cross-country team.

But the Norwegians are "obviously not in top shape.

I think they're just off their A-game."

Vidar Lofshus is the chief of Norway's cross-country team.

He strongly disagreed.

"Right now, I have no explanation," he said.

He blamed the country's poor showing on slow skis.

"It's just a horror right now."

Even the Swedish team is starting to feel sorry for Norway.

"You know they are much better than the results show," Teodor Peterson said.

He won a silver medal for Sweden last week.

"You'd rather beat them by this much," he said, spreading his fingers a few inches apart, "than by a lot."

