The sun is finally shining on the small Norwegian town of Rjukan.

The town is tucked between steep mountains.

It is normally covered in shadow for almost six months a year.

Residents have to catch a cable car to the top of a nearby cliff to get a fix of sunshine in the middle of the day.

That changed a bit on Wednesday.

Dim rays from the winter sun reached the town's market square for the first time.

Three 183-square-foot mirrors placed on a mountain helped the town see the light.

TV footage of the event showed the center of the crowded square light up.

But it was just a bit.

It was not like the town was hit by direct sunlight.

Still, people who live there said they could notice the effect.

Cheering families put on sunglasses as the sun crept from behind a cloud.

Some reclined on sun loungers.

They drank beverages and waved Norwegian flags.

The sunlight hit the mirrors and reflected down onto the faces of delighted children below.

"Before when it was a fine day, you would see that the sky was blue and you knew that the sun was shining.

But you couldn't quite see it.

It was very frustrating," said Karin Roe.

She works for the local tourist office.

"This feels warm.

When there is no time to get to the top of the mountains on weekdays, it will be lovely to come out for an hour and feel this warmth on my face."

The town of Rjukan often is freezing throughout the winter.

So is much of Scandinavia.

But on Wednesday, it was 45 degrees Fahrenheit in the town.

Rjukan is not the first place with mirror-assisted sunshine.

The Italian town of Viganella has a similar sun mirror.

Its mirror is smaller, though.

Norwegian businessman Sam Eyde came up with the plan to bring sunlight to Rjukan 100 years ago.

Eyde built the town between the mountains.

He needed it to have workers at a plant he located at the foot of a nearby waterfall.

The plant generated power from the rushing water.

Eyde never saw his plan happen.

But his plant and the town he founded still were well-known in Norway.

They were the site of the country's most famous wartime adventure.

The Germans took over Norway during World War II.

The factory was an important spot in Germany's search for the atomic bomb.

Twelve Norwegians parachuted into the nearby tundra and survived freezing temperatures to sabotage the factory's "heavy water" plant with bombs.

The mission inspired a 1965 Hollywood film, "The Heroes of Telemark."

It is also being turned into a 10-part TV series by Oscar-winning director Danny Boyle.

Now, the three mirrors that reflected the sun onto the town are operated from Germany.

The mirrors captured the sunlight and sent it in an curve that lit up about one-third of the square below.

A cloud weakened the sun's effect.

But a band encouraged the cloud to move away with the song, "Let The Sunshine In."

Jan-Anders Dam-Nielsen is director of the Norwegian Industrial Museum, located on the site of the famous factory.

He said the solar experiment would mark another chapter in the history of Rjukan.

"Soon we will celebrate 70 years since the saboteurs struck the factory," he said.

"Then we will think about how we mark this.

This is a really important day in the history of this town.

And like the mirrors reflected the sun, we will reflect this in the museum."

The mirrors, or heliostats, cost about $850,000.

They were helicoptered in and installed 1,500 feet above the town square.

The computer-controlled mirrors are more commonly used to create solar power in the sunniest regions of the Middle East.

Here, the solar energy the heliostats capture is used to power them as they follow the sun's brief dash across the Norwegian winter sky.

The century-old idea was revived in 2005 by artist Martin Andersen, a resident of the town who helped raise the money to pay for the mirrors.

The lion's share has come from Norsk Hydro — the company founded by Sam Eyde.

