Imagine how you might feel if you were a New Yorker waking up on a Monday after a weekend where the Red Sox finished a four-game sweep of the Yankees on Saturday.

And then imagine it got worse: a Super Bowl Sunday in which the Patriots demolished the Giants.

Then you might begin to understand the anguish people in Norway feel after last weekend's cross-country skiing results at the Olympics.

In both the men's and women's relay events, Norway failed to win a single medal.

This is a national sports disaster for the country where residents are said to be born with skis on their feet.

It was only the second time Norway hasn't won a relay medal since 1964.

What's worse, arch-rival Sweden won both races.

The Swedes had such a big lead in Sunday's men's competition that Marcus Hellner, the Swedish anchor, had time to ease up and carry the Swedish flag down the homestretch.

"To be beaten by the Swedes is the worst that can happen," Petter Northug, the Norwegian anchor, said after the race.

For Norway, the collapse has prompted fevered news coverage.

There are rumors that the team's coaches, and ski technicians, could lose their jobs after the Sochi Games.

"This is, like, huge drama," said Ida N. Rasch, a journalist with NRK, the Norwegian broadcaster.

Her co-worker, Morten Stenberg, added: "The whole country is talking about the bad results this week."

In fact, Norway's problems began last Thursday and Friday, in the men's and women's individual distance competitions.

Between those two races, the country won just a single medal.

That was far below what the Norwegians had been expecting.

Their skiers hold the top four spots in the international women's rankings, and three of the top four spots among men.

The relay races are a matter of deep national pride.

At the Olympics, Norwegian fans love the individual medals won by stars like Northug and Marit Bjorgen.

But a strong showing in the four-leg team events affirms Norway's place as a cross-country power.

The Swedish men's team has now won two Olympic relays in a row, which started with their victory at Vancouver, Canada, in 2010.

"You hear Norway talking about the relay 12 months a year," Canadian cross-country star Alex Harvey said in an interview.

"You hear Northug talking about how he'll beat Hellner every day."

Much of the blame around the country's collapse has centered on ski preparation.

The athletes apply sticky and slippery waxes to the bases of the cross-country skis.

This helps them push off from the snow and glide over it.

After the loss in the women's race on Saturday, Norway's athletes and coaches pinned their failure on skis.

They said they were slower than their competition's, which led to an all-out effort to fix the problem in time for the men's event.

The day of that race, the Canadian team counted 22 Norwegians who were out on the trails testing skis.

That's compared to the seven testers on the Canadian team.

"That's just what we saw on the track.

Maybe there were more in the wax cabin," said Sacha Bergeron, the Canadian ski technician who did the count.

"For sure, they were trying to find a solution."

The desperate measures didn't work.

Norway's men again complained about slow skis after their race.

The Norwegian television station TV 2 called it a "smøreskandale" — Norwegian for "wax scandal."

But there are also questions about the Norwegians' fitness.

Other countries' coaches, athletes, and fans suspect that Norway's skiers are simply failing to perform.

"I think they'll probably blame their skis," said Justin Wadsworth, the coach of the Canadian cross-country team.

"But their athletes are obviously not in top shape.

I think they're just off their A-game."

Vidar Lofshus, the chief of Norway's cross-country team, denied that.

"Right now, I have no explanation," he said in an interview following the men's relay, in which he pinned the country's poor performance on slow skis.

"It's just a horror right now."

Norway's struggles may be painful at home.

But officials at the International Ski Federation (FIS), which organizes the cross-country races, view the diversity on the Olympic podiums as a positive development.

France, for example, won its first-ever relay medal on Sunday.

It took bronze, at the expense of fourth-place Norway.

The upset should help make the sport more popular there, according to Pierre Mignerey, FIS's race director for cross-country skiing.

"We all know when you have a medalist in your ski club, you have more kids who want to be skiing," he said.

"It's good for cross-country when it's not only gold medals for Norway."

The Swedish media has also enjoyed Norway's defeat, much in the way the Boston press would celebrate a Red Sox blowout of the rival Yankees.

But in Sochi, the Norwegian performances have been so bad that even the Swedish athletes are starting to feel sympathetic.

"After seeing them ski, you know they are much better than the results show," Teodor Peterson said in an interview.

He's a Swede who won a silver medal in the cross-country sprint last week.

"You'd rather beat them by this much," he said, spreading his fingers a few inches apart, "than by a lot."

