American and British agents are going into online games to spy on people.

They are watching activity in "World of Warcraft" and other games, news reports said.

The New York Times, the Guardian, and ProPublica all reported on the spying on Monday.

They said U.S. and U.K. spies have spent years looking in on online games.

They are trying to find terrorists or people who give them information.

The stories were based on documents leaked by Edward Snowden.

He used to work for the National Security Agency (NSA).

The stories offer an unusual take on America's spying campaign.

Even make-believe worlds aren't beyond the attention of the NSA and British spies the document suggests.

The British version of the NSA is called GCHQ.

Millions of people play online games like "World of Warcraft."

Those players spend a lot of time online.

They compete with other players for glory, treasure and magical loot.

At one point, about 12 million people were paying to play "World of Warcraft."

That is more than the population of Greece.

Millions more people are in other online worlds.

These include Linden Labs' "Second Life."

The various games on Microsoft's Xbox host millions more.

Xbox is home to the popular science fiction-themed game "Halo."

Spy agencies have long worried that enemies are using the games.

They could use in-game messaging systems to swap information.

Linden Labs and Microsoft did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

Blizzard Entertainment said that it did not know of any spying taking place.

"If it was, it would have been done without our knowledge or permission," the company said.

Microsoft made a similar statement.

It said it is did not know about any monitoring.

"If it has occurred as reported, it certainly wasn't done with our consent," Microsoft said.

The 82-page-document was published on The New York Times website.

It said enemies could use video games to get others to join them.

They could also hold weapons training, the document said.

The Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers had used software to practice flying planes, the document said.

Important details were not clear, the Times and ProPublica said.

How did the agencies get the gamers' information?

How many players were watched?

Were Americans swept up in the spying?

At the request of GCHQ, the NSA began looking at information from "World of Warcraft."

The Guardian said the spy group tried to link accounts and characters to Islamic extremism and weapons selling.

Intelligence on the fantasy world could eventually translate to real-world success, one of the documents suggested.

"World of Warcraft" wasn't the only target.

Another memo noted that GCHQ had "successfully been able to get the discussions between different game players on Xbox Live."

Meanwhile, a special unit had to be set up for "Second Life."

There were so many U.S. spies roaming around in the virtual world, they needed a system to keep them from getting in each other's way.

