American and British agents are spying on people who play online games.

They are watching over games like "World of Warcraft."

The New York Times, the Guardian and ProPublica all reported on the spying on Monday.

They said the spying has been going on for years.

The stories were based on documents leaked by Edward Snowden.

He used to work for the National Security Agency (NSA).

He handed over secret documents to reporters.

The documents explained all the different ways the U.S. is spying.

Millions of people play online games.

At one point, about 12 million people were paying to play "World of Warcraft."

That is more people than live in Greece.

Millions more people are in other online worlds.

These include "Second Life" made by Linden Labs.

Millions more play games on Microsoft's Xbox.

Xbox is home to the popular game "Halo" Spy agencies have been worried for a while that enemies are using the games.

They could use in-game messaging systems to swap information.

Linden Labs did not immediately comment.

Blizzard Entertainment said that it did not know about any spying.

Microsoft made a similar statement.

The 82-page-document was published on The New York Times website.

It said enemies could use video games to get others to join them.

They could also hold weapons training online, the document said.

Important details were not clear, the Times and ProPublica said.

How did the agencies get the gamers' information?

How many players were watched?

Were Americans spied on?

The NSA began looking at information from "World of Warcraft" for the British.

The Guardian said they tried to link accounts and characters to certain targets.

They were looking for people with extreme religious beliefs.

They also looked for people who sold weapons.

Intelligence on the make-believe world could eventually be used in the real world, one of the documents suggested.

"World of Warcraft" wasn't the only target.

Another document noted that the British had been able to get "discussions"  between players on Xbox Live.

Meanwhile, a special unit had to be set up for "Second Life."

There were so many U.S. spies in the online world, they needed a system to keep from getting in each other's way.

