He was a high school dropout, sometime community college student and failed Army recruit.

But Edward Joseph Snowden eventually used his computer skills for America's spy services, rising from a lowly security position to life as a well-paid temporary worker for the National Security Agency.

At age 29, he rented a bungalow with his girlfriend north of Pearl Harbor in Hawaii, and claimed to earn $200,000 a year.

On Monday, hours after he admitted disclosing a trove of intelligence secrets to the media, Snowden checked out of the glitzy Mira Hotel in Hong Kong, and then dropped out of sight.

The secrets he revealed included U.S. government programs that tracked information about people's telephone calls and Internet usage.

Whether he has gone into hiding, is seeking asylum with a sympathetic government, or been taken into custody by U.S. or Chinese authorities, is unclear.

Also unclear is how the American public will view Snowden's actions.

Before fleeing, Snowden gave a 12-minute videotaped interview to _The Guardian_, the British newspaper that broke many of his disclosures.

He said he was determined to shine a light on what he called the federal government's almost unlimited tracking of private citizens' phone calls and Internet usage.

Daniel Ellsberg, who leaked a secret report about how the U.S. government misled the public about the Vietnam War in the 1970s, told the Associated Press that Snowden's leaks were the "most significant disclosures" in the nation's history, and said what the government was doing was "blatantly unconstitutional."

But others say that what Snowden did could hurt the U.S. war on terror, and was illegal.

"I don't look at this as being a whistle-blower.

I think it's an act of treason," U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) told reporters.

Other lawmakers have voiced similar sentiments.

On Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the Obama administration, saying that the telephone data collection program was illegal.

It asked a judge to stop the program and get rid of the records.

So far, public opinion has come down on the side of preventing terrorism, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center and _The Washington Post_.

Almost two-thirds of those polled said investigating security threats takes a higher priority than preserving personal privacy.

Younger Americans were more likely to favor privacy.

But even a slight majority of people under 30 still came out for investigation.

Snowden chose privacy.

"I do not want to live in a world where everything I do and say is recorded," he said.

Snowden was born in North Carolina.

His family soon moved to a Baltimore suburb near NSA's vast headquarters at Fort Meade.

He told the _Guardian_ that he struggled in high school, eventually dropping out.

A neighbor recalled him as a quiet boy who often was on his computer.

His parents are divorced.

His father, Lonnie Snowden, was an officer in the U.S. Coast Guard, according to public records, and lives in Pennsylvania's Lehigh Valley.

His mother, Elizabeth Snowden, is chief deputy clerk in charge of administration and information technology at the U.S. District Court in Baltimore.

A spokeswoman for Anne Arundel Community College said an Edward Joseph Snowden took classes there intermittently from 1999, when Snowden was about 15, through the fall of 2005.

He earned a high school equivalency degree, but did not get a college degree.

In May 2004, Snowden enlisted in the Army, hoping to join the Special Forces.

He reported to Fort Benning, Ga., but was discharged four months later, the Army said Monday.

Snowden told the _Guardian_ that he left the Army after he broke both legs in a training accident.

The following year, Snowden got his start in intelligence by landing a job as a "security specialist" at the Center for the Advanced Study of Languages at the University of Maryland.

The center is run by the NSA.

After that, Snowden said, his computer skills helped him get a job with the Central Intelligence Agency.

In 2007, he said, the CIA sent him to Geneva for two years to maintain security for the CIA's computer network.

The CIA considers Geneva an important spying base because it hosts so many foreign diplomats and financial institutions.

Snowden said he began to grow disillusioned with the CIA while in Switzerland.

He claimed that CIA officers deliberately got a Swiss banker drunk, and then offered to fix his drunken-driving arrest if he agreed to disclose secret financial information.

"I realized that I was part of something that was doing far more harm than good," he said.

Still, Snowden continued to move up the ranks in the intelligence community.

He passed a government background check which made him easily employable in the private sector, and in 2009, he left the CIA to work as a contractor at an NSA facility on a military base in Japan.

That's when he first saw the astonishing breadth of the cyber-agency's surveillance capabilities, he said.

Snowden became a firm proponent of civil liberties.

His laptop bore a sticker promoting the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a group that advocates for Internet users' rights.

In 2012 he made two contributions totaling $500 to the presidential campaign of Ron Paul, the libertarian Republican congressman from Texas, according to federal records.

Sometime that year, Snowden moved to Honolulu.

Last March, he took a job with Booz Allen Hamilton, a government contractor, as an infrastructure analyst at the NSA's huge mountaintop facility on Oahu.

He rented a single-story blue bungalow in Waipahu, an upscale suburb 10 miles from the NSA facility.

Booz Allen said Tuesday that it had fired Edward Snowden "for violations of the firm's code of ethics and firm policy."

