The Obama administration is looking at who we are calling and how long those calls last.

They are also gathering Internet usage data.

Those are some of the things high school dropout Edward Joseph Snowden revealed by leaking information he gained after using his computer skills to find work at the National Security Agency.

On Monday, hours after he admitted disclosing intelligence secrets to the media, Snowden checked out of a fancy Hong Kong hotel and disappeared.

Has he gone into hiding?

Sought protection from a sympathetic government?

Been taken into custody by U.S. or Chinese authorities?

Who knows?

Another question is just how will the American public judge Snowden's actions.

Before fleeing, Snowden gave a 12-minute videotaped interview to The Guardian, the British newspaper that broke many of his disclosures.

He said he was determined to shine a light on the federal government's tracking of private citizens' phone calls and Internet usage.

Daniel Ellsberg is famous for leaking an important secret report in the 1970s about how the U.S. government misled the public about the Vietnam War.

He told the Associated Press that Snowden's leaks were the "most significant disclosures" in the nation's history, and said what the government was doing was "blatantly unconstitutional."

But others say that what Snowden did was illegal.

It could also potentially hurt the U.S. war on terror.

"I think it's an act of treason," U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) told reporters.

Other lawmakers have voiced similar sentiments.

On Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the Obama administration, saying that the telephone data collection program was illegal.

It asked a judge to stop the program and get rid of the records.

So far, public opinion has come down on the side of preventing terrorism, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center and The Washington Post.

Almost two-thirds of those polled said investigating terrorism threats takes a higher priority than preserving personal privacy.

Younger Americans were more likely to favor privacy.

But even a slight majority of people under 30 still favored security over privacy.

Snowden chose privacy.

"I do not want to live in a world where everything I do and say is recorded," he said.

Snowden was born in North Carolina.

His family  moved to a Baltimore suburb near NSA's vast headquarters at Fort Meade.

He told the Guardian that he struggled in high school, eventually dropping out.

A neighbor recalled him as a quiet boy who often was on his computer.

His parents are divorced.

His father, Lonnie Snowden, was an officer in the U.S. Coast Guard, according to public records, and lives in Pennsylvania.

His mother, Elizabeth Snowden, is chief deputy clerk in charge of administration and information technology at the U.S. District Court in Baltimore.

A spokeswoman for Anne Arundel Community College said an Edward Joseph Snowden took classes there intermittently from 1999, when Snowden was about 15, through the fall of 2005.

He earned a high school equivalency degree.

He did not get a college degree.

In May 2004, Snowden enlisted in the Army, hoping to join the Special Forces.

He reported to Fort Benning, Ga., but was discharged four months later, the Army said.

Snowden told The Guardian that he left the Army after he broke both legs in a training accident.

The following year, Snowden got his start in intelligence by landing a job as a "security specialist" at the Center for the Advanced Study of Languages at the University of Maryland.

The center is run by the NSA.

After that, Snowden said, his computer skills helped him get a job with the CIA.

In 2007, he said, the CIA sent him to Geneva for two years to maintain security for the CIA's computer network.

The CIA considers Geneva an important spying base because it hosts so many foreign diplomats and banks.

Snowden said he began to lose faith in the CIA while in Switzerland.

He claimed that CIA officers deliberately got a Swiss banker drunk, and then offered to fix his drunken-driving arrest if he agreed to tell them secret banking information.

"I realized that I was part of something that was doing far more harm than good," he said.

Still, Snowden continued to move up the ranks in the government spying business.

He passed a government background check which made it easy for him to get a job in the private sector.

In 2009, he left the CIA to work as a contractor at an NSA office on a military base in Japan.

That's when he first saw the astonishing breadth of the cyber-agency's capabilities to spy on everyone, he said.

Snowden became a firm supporter of civil liberties.

His laptop bore a sticker promoting the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which advocates for Internet users' rights.

In 2012 he made two contributions totaling $500 to the presidential campaign of Ron Paul, the libertarian Republican congressman from Texas, according to federal records.

Sometime that year, Snowden moved to Honolulu.

He took a job last March with Booz Allen Hamilton, a company that does work for the government.

Snowden was employed as a computer analyst at the NSA's huge mountaintop facility on Oahu.

He rented a single-story blue bungalow in Waipahu, an upscale suburb 10 miles from the NSA office.

Booz Allen said Tuesday that it had fired Edward Snowden "for violations of the firm's code of ethics and firm policy."

