The government is looking at who we are calling on the phone.

They are also watching how people use the Internet.

A high school dropout named Edward Joseph Snowden told a British newspaper that the government was doing this.

He learned about the programs while working for a government agency called the National Security Agency.

The programs were supposed to be a secret.

Hours after he admitted giving the secrets to the media, Snowden left his fancy Hong Kong hotel and disappeared.

Has he gone into hiding?

Is he seeking protection from another government?

Been arrested by U.S. or Chinese authorities?

Who knows?

Another question is was it right for him to tell the secrets.

Snowden told the British newspaper, the _Guardian,_ he wanted to show that the government was tracking private citizens' phone calls and Internet usage.

Some people think that Snowden is a hero.

Daniel Ellsberg leaked an important secret report about the Vietnam War in the 1970s.

He told the _Associated Press_ that Snowden's leaks were the most important leaks in U.S. history.

But others say that what Snowden did could hurt efforts to stop criminals.

It was also illegal.

"I think it's an act of treason," U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein told reporters.

On Tuesday, one group sued the Obama administration.

The group is called the American Civil Liberities Union, said that the data collection was illegal.

So far, the public has come down on the side of preventing terrorism.

That is what a new poll says.

People were asked what was more important, investigating possible terrorist threats or protecting personal privacy.

Almost two-thirds said the government should look into the threats.

Snowden chose privacy.

"I do not want to live in a world where everything I do and say is recorded," he said.

Snowden grew up in a Baltimore suburb near NSA's headquarters at Fort Meade.

He told the _Guardian _ that he struggled in high school.

Eventually he dropped out.

A neighbor said he was a quiet boy who often was on his computer.

In May 2004, Snowden joined the Army.

He reported to Fort Benning, Ga.

But was discharged four months later, the Army said.

Snowden said that he left the Army after he broke both legs in a training accident.

The following year, Snowden got his start in intelligence.

He was hired as a "security specialist" at a language study center run by the NSA.

After that his computer skills helped him get a job with the CIA, Snowden said.

In 2007, the CIA sent him to Geneva for two years.

He worked on the CIA's computer network, Snowden said.

Geneva is an important spying base to the CIA.

There are a lot of foreign diplomats and banks there.

Snowden said he began to be disappointed with the CIA while he was in Switzerland.

But he continued to get better intelligence jobs.

His security clearance made it easy for him to get a job outside of the government.

In 2009, he left the CIA to work at an NSA office on a military base in Japan.

That's when he first saw how much spying the NSA could do, he said.

In 2012, Snowden moved to Honolulu.

He took a job last March with Booz Allen Hamilton.

Booz is a company that does works for the government.

Snowden worked at the NSA's huge mountaintop building on Oahu.

He rented a single-story blue house in Waipahu, a rich suburb 10 miles from the NSA.

Booz Allen said Tuesday that it had fired Edward Snowden for breaking company rules.

