American and British intelligence agencies have taken their spying into the online gaming universe.

The world's most powerful spy groups have been sending undercover agents into virtual universes.

They are going there to monitor activity in online fantasy games such as "World of Warcraft," several news organizations reported.

Stories carried Monday by The New York Times, the Guardian and ProPublica said U.S. and U.K. spies have spent years digging into online games for terrorists or informants.

The stories were based on documents leaked by former National Security Agency (NSA) contractor Edward Snowden.

The stories offer an unusual take on America's global surveillance campaign.

Even the fantasy worlds popular with children, teens, and escapists of all ages aren't beyond the attention of the NSA and its British counterpart, GCHQ, the document suggests.

Virtual universes like "World of Warcraft" draw in millions of players who spend months' worth of real-world time competing with other players for online glory, virtual treasure and magical loot.

At its height, "World of Warcraft" boasted 12 million paying subscribers.

That is more than the population of Greece.

Other online worlds, like Linden Labs' "Second Life" or the various games on Microsoft's Xbox host millions more.

Xbox is home to "Halo," the popular science fiction-themed shoot-em-up game.

Spy agencies have long worried that such games serve as a good cover for terrorists or other evildoers.

Those people could use in-game messaging systems to swap information.

In one of the documents cited Monday, the NSA warned that the games could give intelligence targets a place to "hide in plain sight."

Linden Labs and Microsoft Inc. did not immediately return messages seeking comment.

In a statement, Blizzard Entertainment said that it is "unaware of any surveillance taking place.

If it was, it would have been done without our knowledge or permission."

Microsoft made a similar statement.

It said it is "not aware of any surveillance activity.

If it has occurred as reported, it certainly wasn't done with our consent."

The 82-page-document, published on The New York Times website, also noted that opponents could use video games to recruit other users.

They could also hold weapons training, the document said.

It pointed to the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers as examples of terrorists who had used flight simulation software to hone their skills.

Important details — such as how the agencies secured access to gamers' data, how many players had their information examined, or whether Americans were swept up in the spying — were not clear, the Times and ProPublica said.

Still, the reports point to a determined effort to go undercover into a world many people associate with adolescents and shut-ins.

At the request of GCHQ, the NSA began extracting "World of Warcraft" data from its global intelligence haul.

It tried to tie specific accounts and characters to Islamic extremism and weapons dealers, the Guardian reported.

Intelligence on the fantasy world could eventually translate to real-world espionage success, one of the documents suggested.

"World of Warcraft" subscribers included "telecom engineers, embassy drivers, scientists, the military and other intelligence agencies," it said.

"World of Warcraft" wasn't the only target.

Another memo noted that GCHQ had "successfully been able to get the discussions between different game players on Xbox Live."

Meanwhile, so many U.S. spies were roaming around "Second Life" that a special unit was set up to prevent them from stepping on each other's toes.

