The government is looking at who we are calling and how long those calls last.

They are also gathering information about how people use the Internet.

Those are some of the things high school dropout Edward Joseph Snowden showed by leaking information he gained as a private computer worker for the government.

He worked for an outfit called the National Security Agency.

Hours after he admitted giving secrets to the media, Snowden checked out of a fancy Hong Kong hotel and disappeared.

Has he gone into hiding?

Sought protection from a sympathetic government?

Been taken into custody by U.S. or Chinese authorities?

Who knows?

Another question is just how will the American public react to what he did.

Before he left, Snowden gave a 12-minute interview to _The Guardian_, the British newspaper that reported many of his leaks.

He said he wanted to shine a light the federal government's tracking of private citizens' phone calls and Internet usage.

Daniel Ellsberg leaked an important secret report about how the U.S. government lied to the public about the Vietnam War in the 1970s.

He told the _Associated Press_ that Snowden's leaks were the "most significant disclosures" in the nation's history.

What the government was doing was "blatantly unconstitutional," he said.

But others say that what Snowden did could hurt efforts to stop terrorism.

It was also illegal.

"I think it's an act of treason," U.S. Sen. Dianne Feinstein told reporters.

Other lawmakers have said the same thing.

On Tuesday, the American Civil Liberties Union sued the Obama administration.

The ACLU is a group that stands up for personal freedoms.

It said that the telephone data collection program was illegal.

It asked a judge to stop the program and get rid of the records.

So far, the public has come down on the side of preventing terrorism, according to a poll by the Pew Research Center and The _Washington Post_.

When asked what was more important, investigating possible terrorist threats or protecting personal privacy, almost two-thirds said the government should look into the threats.

Snowden chose privacy.

"I do not want to live in a world where everything I do and say is recorded," he said.

Snowden was born in North Carolina.

His family moved to a Baltimore suburb near NSA's vast headquarters at Fort Meade.

He told the _Guardian_ that he struggled in high school, eventually dropping out.

A neighbor recalled him as a quiet boy who often was on his computer.

A community college said an Edward Joseph Snowden took classes there occassionally from 1999, when Snowden was about 15, through the fall of 2005.

He earned a high school degree.

He did not get a college degree.

In May 2004, Snowden joined the Army.

He reported to Fort Benning, Ga.

But was discharged four months later, the Army said.

Snowden told the _Guardian_ that he left the Army after he broke both legs in a training accident.

The following year, Snowden got his start in intelligence.

He was hired as a "security specialist" at the Center for the Advanced Study of Languages at the University of Maryland.

The center is run by the NSA.

After that his computer skills helped him get a job with the CIA, Snowden said.

In 2007, the CIA sent him to Geneva for two years to work on the CIA's computer network, Snowden said.

Geneva is an important spying base to the CIA.

There are a lot of foreign diplomats and banks there.

Snowden said he began to be disappointed with the CIA while in Switzerland.

"I realized that I was part of something that was doing far more harm than good," he said.

Still, Snowden continued to move up the ranks in the government spying business.

He passed a background check which made it easy for him to get other jobs.

In 2009, he left the CIA to work at an NSA office on a military base in Japan.

That's when he first saw how much spying the cyber-agency could do, he said.

Snowden became a firm supporter of civil liberties.

In 2012, Snowden moved to Honolulu.

He took a job last March with Booz Allen Hamilton.

Booz is a company that works for the government.

He worked at the NSA's huge mountaintop facility on Oahu.

He rented a single-story blue house in Waipahu, an upscale suburb 10 miles from the NSA office.

Booz Allen said Tuesday that it had fired Edward Snowden for breaking company rules.

