In the office of the team that is trying to get rid of Maryland's beaver-like nutria, there is a large whiteboard.

The board has names and numbers on it.

They're bets about how many nutria the team will find in the marshes of the Wicomico River.

"The people that guessed 90, 70, 120, they've already lost," said Stephen Kendrot, the team's leader.

It was a gray April afternoon, and the nutria project leader was coming back from a site in Quantico, Md.

There, four of his trappers were roaming the Wicomico River in boats.

They had killed about 120 nutria there so far.

The river is the site of the final battle in their effort to get rid of the animals.

Nutria means otter in Spanish.

Kendrot describes them as "a 20-pound rat with a scaly tail and buck teeth."

The nutria have destroyed thousands of acres of the state's wetlands over the past 40 years.

It has taken longer than expected, but the state is almost free of them.

Led by Kendrot, the project has cleared marshes up and down the state over the last 12 years.

On the Wicomico River, Kendrot's team is after the last remaining colony.

The nutria feed on the roots of marsh plants.

That cuts up the root mat, which holds the marsh together.

Water can then flush in and out with the tide, damaging the root mat.

The marsh begins to sink.

Eventually, the wetlands turn to ponds.

The open water has little value to fish and wildlife that rely on the wetlands.

And it can't support plants and trees that could provide new places to live.

Marshes also stop poisons from draining to the bay.

They even trap some carbon dioxide, said Doug Myers.

He is a scientist at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation.

The wetlands in the Chesapeake region have lost more marsh than most other wetlands around the world, Kendrot said.

A study in the 1990s proved that the nutria were largely responsible.

The nutria were brought to the United States from South America in the 1940s.

People planned to sell their fur.

The nutria have set up colonies in states throughout the Southeast and Pacific Northwest.

In Louisiana, the nutria population reached 20 million in 20 years.

The problem there is now too large to get rid of.

The team is confident it can get rid of the nutria in Maryland.

They use GPS and mapping technology that Kendrot says sets the program apart.

They are using new approaches to help them track, trap and kill the nutria.

The team has also collected a huge amount of information about the creatures.

The team caught 5,000 nutria at the Blackwater Wildlife Refuge in the first year of trapping and in nearby private lands, Kendrot said.

It's now been two and a half years since a nutria was spotted at the refuge.

To date, the team has killed more than 13,000 nutria in Maryland.

There are probably between 200 and 500 nutria remaining in the area, Kendrot said.

They don't expect to catch the last one, but rather to get the number so low that the remaining few die off.

The team will finish the first round of trapping by the end of 2014.

However, they won't declare the state officially nutria free until 2017.

That's after a period of monitoring to make sure new nutria do not sneak in.

In some areas, the marsh recovered completely after the team removed the nutria there.

But there are other places that can never fully recover.

Though the environment is more important than the nutria, Myers, the scientist, wished the dead animals didn't go to waste.

"There are lots of good uses for nutria, including the meat and the furs," he said.

"We think they're cute and cuddly."

But there is no market for nutria fur or meat.

It would cost a lot and Wildlife Services couldn't ensure the safety of the meat for humans to eat, Kendrot said.

Not everybody agrees with his line of work, but Kendrot said it is justified when looked at from an environmental point of view.

"It's a hard leap for some people to make.

How can killing animals be considered conservation?

But the project isn't to kill nutria.

It's to save the marsh," Kendrot said.

