A team of trappers in Maryland are trying to get rid of all of the state's nutria.

They want to stop the rat-like animals from destroying Maryland's marshes.

Stephen Kendrot is the team's leader.

His team has cleared marshes up and down the state over the last 12 years.

On the Wicomico River, Kendrot's team is after the last surviving colony.

It's a gray April afternoon.

In Quantico, Md.,four of the trappers are roaming the Wicomico River in boats.

They've killed about 120 nutria there so far.

They found a few more this particular morning.

They are fighting the final battle in their long effort to get rid of the beaver-like animals.

Nutria means otter in Spanish.

Kendrot describes the nutria as "a 20-pound rat with a scaly tail and buck teeth."

The nutria have destroyed thousands of acres of the state's wetlands over the past 40 years.

Now, Maryland is almost free of them.

The nutria feed on the roots of marsh plants.

That cuts up the root mat.

The root mat is what holds the marsh together.

Water can then come in and out with the tide, damaging the root mat.

The marsh begins to sink.

Eventually, the wetlands turn to ponds.

The open water has little value to animals that rely on the wetlands for food.

And it can't support plants and trees that could provide new places to live for the animals.

Marshes also help keep poisons from draining into the bay.

There has been more marsh lost in the wetlands in the Chesapeake region than most other wetlands around the world.

A study found that the nutria were largely to blame.

The nutria were brought to the United States from South America in the 1940s.

People wanted to sell their fur.

The nutria have set up colonies in the Southeast and Pacific Northwest.

In Louisiana, the number of nutrias reached 20 million in 20 years.

That has created a problem there that is now too large to deal with.

Kendrot's team is confident they can get rid of all the nutria in Maryland.

The team caught 5,000 nutria at the Blackwater Wildlife Refuge and in the surrounding area.

That was in the first year.

In total, the team has killed more than 13,000 nutria in Maryland.

There are probably between 200 and 500 nutria left, Kendrot said.

Kendrot's team doesn't expect to catch the last one.

They just want to get the number very low, then the remaining few can die off.

No nutria has been seen at the Blackwater Wildlife Refuge in two and a half years.

The team will finish trapping by the end of 2014.

But they won't declare the state officially nutria free until 2017.

First, they want to keep watch to make sure new nutria don't sneak in.

In some areas, the marsh recovered completely after the team got rid of the nutria.

But there are other places that will never recover.

Kendrot said his work is important for the environment.

"The project isn't to kill nutria," he said.

"It's to save the marsh."

