In the office of the team that is trying to rid Maryland of beaver-like nutria, there is a large whiteboard with names and numbers on it.

They're bets for a long-running pool: How many nutria will the team find in the marshes of the Wicomico River?

"The people that guessed 90, 70, 120, they've already lost," says Stephen Kendrot.

He is driving along a back road in Wicomico County, Md.

It's a gray April afternoon with a long-awaited bit of warmth in the air.

The nutria project leader is coming back from a site in Quantico, Md., where four of his trappers are roaming the Wicomico River in boats.

They've killed about 120 nutria there so far and found a few more this particular morning.

The river is the site of the final battle in their quest to get rid of the beaver-like rodents.

Nutria means otter in Spanish.

Kendrot describes them as "a 20-pound rat with a scaly tail and buck teeth."

The nutria have destroyed thousands of acres of the state's wetlands over the past 40 years.

It has taken longer than expected but finally, the state is almost free of the rodents.

Led by Kendrot, the project has cleared marshes up and down the Delmarva Peninsula over the last 12 years.

On the Wicomico River, Kendrot's team is after the last surviving colony.

The nutria feed on the roots and and other underground parts of marsh plants, cutting up the root mat, a layer of fibers that holds the marsh together.

Water can then flush in and out with the tide, eroding the root mat.

The marsh begins to sink.

Eventually, the wetlands turn to ponds.

The open water has little value to fish and wildlife that rely on the wetlands.

And it can't support plants and trees that could provide new places for animals to live.

Additionally, marshes serve as filters that keep poisons from draining to the bay.

They even trap some carbon dioxide, said Doug Myers, a scientist at the Chesapeake Bay Foundation.

A weaker marsh is also more exposed to other environmental factors.

Those factors include rising sea levels, saltwater pushing inland, land surfaces sinking and groundwater withdrawal, Kendrot said.

A marsh "with nutria doesn't stand a chance," he said.

The wetlands in the Chesapeake region have experienced more marsh loss than most other wetlands around the world, Kendrot said.

A study in the 1990s proved that the nutria were largely responsible.

The semi-aquatic nutria were brought to the United States from South America in the 1940s for the fur trade.

They have established colonies in states throughout the Southeast and Pacific Northwest.

In Louisiana, the nutria population reached 20 million in 20 years, creating a problem that is now too large to get rid of.

The team is confident it can get rid of the nutria in Maryland.

Their approach uses geographic information systems, GPS and mapping technology that Kendrot says sets the program apart.

They have pioneered various detection approaches that help them track, trap and kill the nutria.

The team has also collected a huge amount of information about the creatures.

During the first year of trapping on the peninsula, the team caught 5,000 nutria at the Blackwater Wildlife Refuge and in nearby private lands, Kendrot said.

Today, it's been two and a half years since a "nute" was spotted at the refuge.

To date, the team has killed more than 13,000 nutria in Maryland.

There are probably between 200 and 500 nutria remaining in the area, Kendrot said.

They don't expect to catch the last one, but rather to get the population so low that the remaining few die off.

The team will finish initial trapping by the end of 2014, but they won't declare the state officially nutria free until 2017.

That's after a period of monitoring to make sure new nutes do not sneak in.

In some areas, like two sites on the Choptank River and in Somerset County, Md., the marsh recovered completely after the team removed the nutria there, Kendrot said.

But there are other places that can never fully recover.

Though the environment is more important than the nutria, Myers, the scientist, said he wished the dead animals didn't go to waste.

"There are lots of good uses for nutria, including the meat and the furs, and we would probably prefer that that happen as opposed to just allowing them to go," Myers said.

"We think they're cute and cuddly."

But there is no market for nutria fur or meat, as places like Louisiana learned when they tried to start a commercial nutria meat market.

It would cost a lot and Wildlife Services couldn't ensure the safety of the meat for humans to eat, said Kendrot.

Kendrot said the line of work is controversial but justified when looked at from an environmental point of view.

"It's a hard leap for some people to make.

How can killing animals be considered conservation?

But the project isn't to kill nutria.

It's to save the marsh," Kendrot said.

