In 2011, a Nevada public elementary school decided to require students to wear a uniform.

The school's motto, "Tomorrow's Leaders," is emblazoned on the shirt in small letters.

The words curve above a drawing of the campus mascot, a gopher.

One parent objected to the uniforms and eventually sued.

She claimed that they violated the First Amendment's guarantee of free speech.

That Constitutional amendment guarantees the freedom to speak one's mind.

It also ensures freedom from being made to say something against one's will.

In a ruling Friday, a three-judge panel of the 9th U.S.

Circuit Court of Appeals largely agreed with her.

The panel said the words "Tomorrow's Leaders" could trample on students' right to free speech.

The uniform policy, the panel declared, must go unless the school district can defend it legally.

That is seen as difficult, however.

The "policy compels speech," wrote Judge Jacqueline H. Nguyen.

That is, it forces students to "say" something they may not wish to by requiring "the written motto, 'Tomorrow's Leaders,' on the uniform shirts."

The panel also objected to the school's exemption policy because certain groups can skip wearing the uniform.

Students in national youth organizations like the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts can wear the attire of their group on meeting days.

"The exemption explicitly favors the uniforms of the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts over all other uniforms," the court said.

It "favors the uniforms of 'nationally recognized' youth organizations."

These are given preference over the uniforms of "locally or regionally recognized youth organizations."

The lawsuit was filed against Roy Gomm Elementary School in Reno, Nev.

However, the ruling also would affect public school uniforms in California and other Western states.

Siding with the mother were a student organization and a national legal group.

Eugene Volokh, a professor of constitutional law, represented the mother for free.

Public schools, he said, are allowed to enforce strict dress codes.

But they may not require people to wear clothing with messages, even if those messages don't seem particularly controversial.

"What is ideological and what is not is often in the eye of the beholder," said Volokh, a First Amendment scholar.

"You can't be compelled to become a moving billboard for the state's messages."

Volokh said the school motto could be viewed as glamorizing leadership, and as conveying the idea that "the school is producing leaders."

In ruling for the mother, the 9th Circuit referenced a 1977 U.S. Supreme Court decision that struck down a New Hampshire law.

The state had required motorists to display license plates inscribed with the state motto, "Live Free or Die."

Volokh said the elementary school could still encourage students to wear the uniform.

But they also would have to permit similar attire without the motto and the uniforms of other groups in addition to the Scouts.

Mary Frudden, the mother who filed the lawsuit, is herself a lawyer.

It is "vitally important to protect our First Amendment rights," she said.

"I believe we should consider the best interest of every child in our public schools and foster those interests by means which advance independent, creative thinkers — not standardized, uniformed thinkers," Frudden said.

"To do anything less is to do our children and our society a disservice."

