New York City elected its first Democratic mayor in two decades on Tuesday.

Bill de Blasio, who ran on a platform to tax the rich, defeated Republican Joe Lhota.

His plans contrasted sharply with billionaire Michael Bloomberg's record during 12 years in office.

De Blasio is the city's public advocate, an elected government watchdog.

Lhota is the former chief of the metropolitan area's transportation agency.

De Blasio, 52, will take office on Jan. 1.

He will be the 109th mayor of the nation's largest city.

The candidate had been heavily favored, holding an overwhelming lead in the polls for weeks.

Bloomberg, who first ran as a Republican and later became an independent, guided the city through the economic crisis and the years after the 9/11 attack.

He is leaving office after three terms.

De Blasio ran as the anti-Bloomberg.

He railed against economic inequality and portrayed New York as a "tale of two cities" — one rich, the other working class — under the pro-business mayor.

Bloomberg made his fortune in business on Wall Street.

De Blasio comes from Brooklyn.

He reached out to New Yorkers he believed were left behind by Bloomberg's leadership which was often focused on Manhattan.

He called for a tax increase on the wealthy to pay for pre-kindergarten for everyone.

De Blasio also pledged to improve economic opportunities in minority and working-class neighborhoods.

He condemned the police department's practice of stopping and frisking people on the street, which some New Yorkers said unfairly targets minorities.

His campaign got a boost when a federal judge ruled that police had unfairly singled out blacks and Hispanics under the policy.

De Blasio, a white man married to a black woman, also received a boost from a campaign ad featuring their son.

He is a 15-year-old with a big Afro haircut.

The new mayor worked for both Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton and Gov.

Andrew Cuomo.

He was also known for behind-the-scenes wheeling-and-dealing while serving on the City Council.

Lhota, 59, slammed de Blasio's "tale of two cities" appeal as class warfare.

De Blasio spent time in the 1980s with anti-government revolutionaries in Nicaragua as an aid worker.

Lhota argued that made De Blasio a communist, or someone who wants to create a society without money.

Lhota also said stop-and-frisk helped lower crime in the city.

He said that a de Blasio victory would return the city to its past when crime was high.

He made that point with a TV ad that showed harsh images of violence from decades ago.

Polling shows New Yorkers mostly approve of Bloomberg's policies.

But those same surveys revealed the city was hungry for a change.

Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city 6-to-1.

But the last time a Democrat was elected mayor was 1989 when David Dinkins, de Blasio's former boss, was victorious.

If de Blasio's margin of victory holds, it will best Abe Beame's 40-point win in 1973.

That was the largest by somebody who wasn't already mayor since five-borough elections began in 1897.

Lhota, a deputy mayor to Rudolph Giuliani, announced his mayoral bid on a surge of praise for his leadership of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority during last year's Superstorm Sandy.

But his campaign struggled early, and he was slow to raise money.

De Blasio was an afterthought for much of the crowded Democratic primary, spending most of the year in a distant fourth, trailing City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, former Rep. Anthony Weiner and the Democrats' 2009 nominee, Bill Thompson.

But Thompson's campaign never ignited, and Quinn could not shake her role in the decision to amend the city's term limits to let Bloomberg run again in 2009.

Weiner's support evaporated  after he was caught sending inappropriate pictures of himself again.

Many of his backers went to de Blasio.

