Bill de Blasio was elected mayor of New York City on Tuesday.

He will be the city's first Democratic mayor in 20 years.

De Blasio beat Republican Joe Lhota.

De Blasio is the city's public advocate, an elected official who helps people have a say in the city's government.

Lhota was chief of the New York area's transportation agency.

The current mayor is Michael Bloomberg.

De Blasio will take over from him on Jan. 1.

De Blasio focused on ideas like raising taxes on the rich.

De Blasio's plans are a lot different than the things Bloomberg did in his 12 years as mayor.

De Blasio, 52, will take office on Jan. 1.

He will be the 109th mayor of the nation's largest city.

The candidate had been expected to win.

In surveys weeks before the vote, many people said they would vote for him.

Bloomberg first ran as a Republican.

He later became an independent.

He guided the city through the stock market crash when many people lost jobs and the years after the 9/11 attack.

He is leaving office after three terms.

The terms last for four years each.

De Blasio ran as the anti-Bloomberg.

He described New York as a "tale of two cities" — one rich, the other working class.

He blamed Bloomberg for the split.

Bloomberg is a billionaire.

He favored businesses.

De Blasio comes from from Brooklyn.

He reached out to New Yorkers he said were left behind by Bloomberg, who focused on Manhattan.

He called for a tax increase on the rich to pay for pre-kindergarten classes for all children.

De Blasio also pledged to bring more jobs to non-white and poorer neighborhoods.

He was against a police department practice where police stop and frisk people on the street.

A judge ruled that police had unfairly singled out blacks and Hispanics to be stopped.

The ruling helped De Blasio.

De Blasio is white.

He's married to a black woman.

He also received help when his son appeared in an ad for him.

De Blasio worked for both Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton.

He also worked for Gov.

Andrew Cuomo.

He was known for doing deals while serving on the City Council.

Lhota, 59, slammed de Blasio's views on jobs and the poor.

He said it set rich and poor against each other.

Lhota also said stop-and-frisk helped lower crime in the city.

He said that a de Blasio victory would return the city to its past when crime was common.

Polling shows New Yorkers mostly support what Bloomberg did.

But those same surveys showed the city wanted a change.

People signed-up as Democrats outnumber Republicans in the city 6-to-1.

But the last time a Democrat was elected mayor was 1989.

David Dinkins won then.

Abe Beame won the mayor's race by 40 points in 1973.

That was the largest victory by somebody who wasn't already the mayor since 1897.

It looks like de Blasio beat that record.

Some votes were still being counted.

Lhota worked for Rudolph Giuliani, who was mayor before Bloomberg.

He was praised for how he ran the city's transportation agency during last year's Superstorm Sandy.

But he struggled early on.

He was slow to raise money.

De Blasio wasn't expected to run for mayor.

He was in fourth place among Democrats who also wanted to be mayor.

He trailed City Council Speaker Christine Quinn, former Rep. Anthony Weiner and the Democrats' 2009 candidate, Bill Thompson.

But Thompson's campaign never got going.

And Quinn lost some support for changing the city's rules that let Bloomberg run for a third time.

Weiner's campaign fell apart and many of his backers went to de Blasio.

