President Barack Obama on Wednesday paid his first visit to the Everglades to deliver an Earth Day speech.

He spoke about the threat of rising seas at the endangered national park and the risk of climate change across the nation.

But his choice of South Florida clearly had a political reason, as well.

Voters will elect Obama's successor in 18 months, and the Republican candidates for president, including one from Florida, question whether climate change is man-made.

They have taken this position despite significant scientific research concluding that climate change is mainly caused by pollution from fossil fuels like oil.

In a speech delivered at Everglades National Park, the president also got a subtle dig in at Florida Governor Rick Scott, who has come under fire after he ordered state workers to avoid using the term "climate change."

"Climate change can no longer be denied … cannot be edited out of the conversation," Obama said.

The Republican governor, who declined an invitation to join Obama on his Everglades tour, has denied that state workers are forbidden to use the term.

Before his speech, the president and park rangers walked the Anhinga Trail, the park's most popular tourist stop.

They passed baby alligators, sleek cormorants and a pair of black vultures, which are famous for occasionally eating the rubber off visitors' vehicles.

Obama said he could think of "no better place" to spend Earth Day than the River of Grass, as the Everglades is called.

He praised the virtues of the Everglades, remarking that it provides a habitat for both alligators and crocodiles.

"I'm told this is a good thing," he joked.

The president was also in South Florida to speak about his administration's record on tackling environmental problems.

Most notably, it has limited carbon emissions, the pollution many scientists say causes climate change, and spent $2.2 billion on projects to restore the Everglades.

Obama was expected to reveal new conservation efforts in four areas of the country, including Southwest Florida.

And in a move some say is long overdue, the National Park Service will designate Marjory Stoneman Douglas' cottage in Florida as a national monument.

Douglas is a pioneering preservationist whose book, "Everglades: River of Grass," inspired restoration efforts.

Obama's decision to focus on climate change in South Florida also could have implications on the presidential campaign.

It could pressure Republicans to debate the subject, which is a touchy one for the Republican Party.

Among the climate-change skeptics is presidential candidate Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida.

A trip to Rubio's backyard to warn about climate change will hardly go unnoticed in the early days of the 2016 campaign.

"This is not an effort necessarily to go to anybody's home state," White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Tuesday.

"The truth is those Republicans that choose to deny the reality of climate change, they do that to the detriment of the people that they're elected to represent," Earnest said.

Governor Scott on Tuesday called on the federal government to speed up funding to Everglades restoration projects.

The White House admits that the government has owed the project money since even before Obama took office.

The state has invested $1.9 billion in the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Project, nearly a billion dollars more than the federal government.

Scott said in a statement that Obama must find a way to give Florida the $58 million the government still owes.

"President Obama needs to live up to his commitment on the Everglades," Scott said.

"This has caused critical maintenance delays in the Everglades to linger for over a year."

Earnest suggested that Scott make the funding request to the Republican-controlled Congress.

He said the governor's criticism was over the top given that Scott's government is avoiding even the use of the term "climate change."

Obama's visit comes at a critical time for Everglades restoration, which has dragged on for nearly 15 years.

Last November, Florida voters overwhelmingly to buy land for restoration projects.

Yet state lawmakers balked at using the money to buy about 46,000 acres.

Restoration work is also becoming more critical as the rising seas begin taking a toll on the wetlands.

This week, scores of scientists revealed new research that showed even more dramatic changes caused by climate change could occur in the future.

A United Nations group predicts increases in temperature, sea level and ocean salinity.

Mangrove forests, which provide protection against extreme storms and floods in the Everglades, could disappear, studies found.

The soil will become more salty, which would allow the ocean to flood the Everglades, shrinking it.

The wetlands of the Everglades, which provides much of South Florida's freshwater, are already half their original size.

"We're at this key moment where there's crucial public recognition" of the effects of global warming, said Florida International University ecologist Evelyn Gaiser, who has been invited to meet with Obama after his speech.

She said awareness of the slow death of the Everglades could be a model for other natural areas endangered by climate change around the world.

