President Barack Obama explained in a speech on Wednesday why the U.S. was dropping bombs in Iraq and Syria.

The U.S. wants to destroy the violent group Islamic State (ISIL), he said.

The group calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

ISIL is trying to form a new country in the Middle East.

It has already taken over parts of Iraq and Syria.

The group has killed U.S. journalists and local citizens.

"There can be no reasoning with this brand of evil," Obama said.

"The only language understood by killers like this is the language of force."

Obama spoke to world leaders at the United Nations.

He said all countries must work together to fight violent groups.

Obama said religious conflict around the world must be stopped.

To fight ISIL and other groups like al-Qaida, Obama hopes to form a coalition.

A coalition is many countries working together.

He hopes a coalition will be able to destroy ISIL.

He called the group a "network of death."

The U.S. military has been dropping bombs in Iraq and Syria.

They have targeted the violent group.

The military said it destroyed eight ISIL vehicles in one bombing.

Videos on Syrian social media showed people looking at destroyed houses.

Reports from inside Syria said some non-fighters, or civilians, died in the bombings.

Still, Obama called for toughness at the U.N.

He explained that some people can be motivated by religion to do terrible things.

The world must face these people, he said.

Groups like ISIL teach hate against people of other religions, Obama said.

He called on Muslim leaders to spread more peaceful ideas.

Obama warned that hateful groups could spread through poor countries in the Middle East and North Africa.

Obama also spoke about foreign fighters.

These young men leave their countries to fight with groups like ISIL.

He asked for tougher penalties and more travel restrictions on these fighters.

Obama said the U.S. will train forces in other countries to fight against ISIL.

He promised to cut off the group's money and stop foreign fighters from joining.

"We will demonstrate that the future belongs to those who build — not those who destroy," he said.

Obama also promised to help control the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

The Ebola disease has killed 2,600 people in Africa.

There are worries it could spread faster.

He had strong words for Russia.

Obama said Russia was acting aggressively toward Ukraine.

He said the U.S. will continue to support Ukraine.

