President Barack Obama can be a pretty musical guy.

He has sung the 1972 hit "Let's Stay Together."

He has led a church group through the hymn "Amazing Grace."

He even tweeted his Spotify music playlist.

The president and his wife, Michelle, also have singers from many different backgrounds perform at events.

R&B and soul singers, like Patti LaBelle and B.B.

King, appeared at White House dinners.

They also performed at White House music history events.

They even sang during the Easter Egg Roll.

Soul and R&B are music styles.

They began in the black community.

"In Performance at the White House" is a television show.

Famous artists play music at the White House for the president and first lady and their guests.

The latest show celebrated the history of American music.

It included many African-American musicians, even a rap star.

Some of the musicians were Queen Latifah, Smokey Robinson, Usher, Trombone Shorty and Esperanza Spalding.

The program will be on public television stations on Jan. 8.

Spalding is on the first lady's Spotify music playlist.

She is a singer and bass player.

Spalding has won several of music's Grammy Awards.

Spalding said many different kinds of musicians have performed at the White House.

This shows everyone is included at what the Obamas call the "People's House," Spalding said.

Spalding said the Obamas want "to really support artists who are working hard."

They support artists who work not just on their art, but also talk about important problems, she said.

Spalding said the Obamas also feel strongly that every musician is important.

"Just because you're not famous, doesn't mean you're not important," she said.

Spalding has taught student musicians at the White House.

Dalton Delan is in charge of "In Performance at the White House."

He works for the television station that produces the program.

He helps choose the artists for the show.

Then people in Obama's office approve the list.

Delan asked White House official Deesha Dye about the best hip-hop artists.

She suggested female rapper MC Lyte.

Pop superstar Beyonce is another favorite of both the president and first lady.

She sang at a ball after Obama became president in 2009.

She also sang at a dinner for the Mexican president.

At Obama's 2013 inauguration, Beyonce performed the "Star Spangled Banner."

An inauguration is the ceremony when a person becomes president.

Desiree Rogers was the first Obama social secretary.

She organized dinners and other events at the White House.

When Rogers chose entertainers, she considered different things, she said.

She tried to pick the president's favorite musicians.

She also listened to the first lady's opinion.

White House workers suggested names, too.

For state dinners, Rogers said she thought about the country being honored.

She also wanted to make sure the Obamas enjoyed the artist.

The Obamas especially like including talented Americans from different backgrounds.

Lea Berman was a social secretary for President George W. Bush, who served as president from 2001 to 2009.

Sometimes the Bushes would suggest people they wanted to invite, she said.

Other times, Berman would come up with a few names, and the first lady would chose one.

Berman said many times it came down to who was free that night.

