What do the minimum wage, preschool and gun laws have in common?

They are all things President Barack Obama wants to expand.

The president talked about these goals in his State of the Union speech on Tuesday.

He then spent the rest of the week on the road and in cyberspace.

The president is trying to spread the word about his ideas from the speech.

Jobs were a top item in the president's speech.

Currently, employers must pay workers at least $7.25 an hour.

That's the [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

Obama wants to raise the minimum wage to $9.

He also wants to spend more on job training and high-tech factory hubs.

The next day he flew to North Carolina to visit an auto parts factory.

American factories have been closing in recent years.

Companies can save money by making their products overseas.

The president said the U.S. should focus on high-tech factories.

That's how the U.S. can win back jobs that pay a good, living wage.

"We don't give up.

We get up.

We innovate.

We adapt.

We learn new skills.

We keep going," Obama said to the factory workers.

On Wednesday, Obama flew to Georgia.

He visited a preschool class.

He gave high-fives and fist bumps to the class of 4-year-olds.

The president said in his State of the Union speech that preschool should be available to all children.

The "earlier a child begins learning, the better he or she does down the road," Obama said.

"We are not doing enough to give all of our kids that chance."

Obama's critics say the preschool plan will be too costly.

They say there's no proof that preschool helps students in the long term.

The State of the Union is a yearly speech that the president must give to Congress.

Presidents usually invite special guests.

This year, the president and Mrs. Obama invited the parents of Hadiya Pendleton.

Hadiya was a 15-year-old who was gunned down in Chicago.

Just last month she had marched in a parade for the president.

In his speech, Obama asked Congress to act on gun control.

Sitting in the chamber was Gabrielle Giffords.

She's the former Arizona congresswoman who survived a shooting.

Many in the audience wore green ribbons.

The ribbons were in honor of the teachers and students killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Connecticut.

The president talked more about gun control on Thursday on Google.

He called the talk a "fireside hangout."

President Franklin D. Roosevelt used to make informal radio broadcasts called "fireside chats."

Obama's fireside hangout included many questions from different kinds of people One hangout guest asked if the president wants to ban handguns.

Obama replied that he didn't want to ban them.

He only wants to ban certain military-type guns.

He said he wants stricter rules for buying handguns.

The same guest asked a question about the minimum wage.

She worried that companies will raise prices if they must pay their workers more.

She asked if she would still be able to afford coffee from Starbucks.

Obama pointed out that companies are making more money than ever.

He said that better wages could actually help businesses.

He recalled that Henry Ford raised his autoworkers' pay so that they could afford their own Ford vehicles.

"Nobody's going to be getting rich on $9 an hour," Obama said.

"They're still going to be struggling.

But it could make the difference between whether they can afford to buy groceries or whether they are going to a food bank."

The president answered a few personal questions from the guests.

One woman asked if his daughters want careers in engineering or science.

He replied that Sasha and Malia enjoy math and science classes.

However, he said they are young and haven't decided yet what they want to be.

Another hangout guest introduced his pregnant wife.

They asked the president if they should name their baby "Alice" or "Eleanor."

Obama declined to answer.

But he had a message for their baby: "Don't forget to be awesome," he said.

