WASHINGTON—President Barack Obama announced a new marine sanctuary Tuesday that would close a large area of the central Pacific Ocean to fishing and drilling for oil and gas.

The creation of the sanctuary was part of a series of steps to protect the world's oceans.

The plan would require several U.S. government departments to take action to address pollution, overfishing and acidification of ocean water.

[Climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) is causing ocean waters to become more acidic.

"Rising levels of carbon dioxide are causing our oceans to acidify.

Pollution endangers marine life.

Overfishing threatens whole species," Obama said in statement to an international conference on ocean policy.

The conference was hosted by the State Department in Washington.

"If we ignore these problems, if we drain our oceans of their resources, we won't just be squandering one of humanity's greatest treasures.

We'll be cutting off one of the world's major sources of food and economic growth," the president said.

The announcement showed Obama's willingness to use his presidential authority to take action over objections from Congress.

His plan quickly drew criticism from Republicans in Congress.

They argue he has put too many restrictions on companies in the natural resources business.

They also say he has overreached the powers given to the president under the U.S. Constitution.

U.S. Rep. Doc Hastings, a Republican from Washington, called it another example of how Obama is taking action on his own and in secret "to impose new regulations and layers of restrictive red tape."

Hastings is chairman of the House of Representatives Natural Resources Committee.

Oceans, like federal lands, are intended to be used for different purposes, including business activities, he said.

This includes fishing, recreation, conservation and energy production, he said.

The plan's most far-reaching step would be to enlarge the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument southwest of Hawaii.

In January 2009, President George W. Bush designated nearly 87,000 square miles as a national monument.

The protected zone is around Howland, Baker, and Jarvis Islands, Johnston, Wake, and Palmyra Atolls, and Kingman Reef.

The islands are uninhabited.

And the area is one the few untouched stretches of marine environment left in the world.

It is home to thousands of migratory birds, fish and mammals.

Currently, 50 nautical miles around the islands is protected.

A nautical mile is slightly largely than a regular mile.

Obama's plan would extend the protection to 200 miles.

The proposal doubles the area of ocean protected by the United States, environmental groups said.

Under federal law, the president can create the monument without approval from Congress.

The new marine sanctuary could go into effect this year after a public comment period.

Joshua S. Reichert is the executive vice president of the Pew Charitable Trusts.

He expects the U.S. tuna industry to resist the plan.

Fishermen would not be permitted to fish in the protected waters.

But he said that probably only 1 percent to 3 percent of the U.S. annual tuna catch would be affected by the plan.

"The importance of these uninhabited islands is far greater than the value of the fish there," Reichert said.

The area holds some of the world's "richest marine life and least disturbed areas.

It's immensely valuable to science and home to vast numbers of ocean species."

The plan would also put together a task force of at least a dozen federal agencies.

The task force will develop recommendations to fight seafood fraud and illegal fishing.

Of all the seafood caught in the wild and imported to the U.S. in 2011, one-fifth to one-third of it was illegally caught, according to a recent study.

Also, about one-third of seafood is mislabeled.

The environmental group Oceana analyzed more than 1,200 seafood samples bought in 21 states.

It found that 87 percent of the time fish sold as snapper was really another, usually cheaper, fish.

Tuna was mislabeled 59 percent of the time.

"There are numerous opportunities for seafood fraud to occur and illegally caught fish to enter the U.S. market," said Beth Lowell.

She is the director of Oceana's Stop Seafood Fraud campaign.

"By tracing our seafood from boat to plate, consumers will have more information about the fish they purchase."

The White House plan would also improve the monitoring of ocean acidification.

The acidification is caused by the ever-greater amounts of carbon dioxide the oceans absorb.

Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased by about 40 percent since the preindustrial era, before about the 19th century.

This from burning fossil fuels, according to a report issued Tuesday by the White House.

Oceans absorb about 25 percent of the carbon dioxide that humans make.

When carbon dioxide dissolves in seawater, some of it forms a type of acid called carbonic acid.

Greater ocean acidity poses a threat to marine life, like coral reefs and oyster beds.

Under the new plan, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration would get $9 million over three years.

The money would be spent to better monitor how the acidification is effecting parts of the ocean.

This, in turn, could help communities on the coast.

