_The following is a speech that President Barack Obama gave on Oct. 1, adapted by Newsela.

He spoke after a shooting killed 10 people in Oregon._ There has been another shooting in America.

This time, it was at a community college in Oregon.

The shooting means there are now even more American families whose lives have been changed forever.

There is another community that has lost loved ones.

The shooting was in Roseburg, Oregon.

I have been there.

There are really good people there.

I want to thank all the police and firefighters who came to the scene right away.

Their bravery probably saved some lives.

Soon we will learn about the people who died.

They were young men and women who were studying and learning and working hard.

America will be sad for everyone who lost loved ones.

We will pray for them.

Still, this is not enough.

I have said over and over, each time we see one of these shootings, that our thoughts and prayers are not enough.

They will not stop this violence from happening somewhere else in America.

We do not yet know why the shooter did what he did.

It is fair to say anyone who would do this is sick.

We are not the only country that has people with mental problems.

Although, we are one of the only countries with a democracy that sees these kinds of shootings often.

Somehow we have gotten used to this.

It happens all the time.

We have become numb.

We talked about this after many other shootings.

It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to harm other people to buy a gun.

Every time this happens, people who do not want any gun laws speak out.

Right now, I can imagine them arguing that we need more guns and fewer gun-safety laws.

Does anybody really believe that?

There are many people who own guns in this country who are responsible.

They know that it's not true.

Most Americans understand we should be changing these laws.

Even law-following gun owners believe we should change these laws.

There is a gun for nearly every man, woman and child in America.

So how can anyone make the argument that more guns will make us safer?

We know that states with the most gun laws tend to have the fewest gun deaths.

People who do not want gun laws say that they will lead to more criminals having guns.

They say people who follow the law will not be able to get guns.

This is just not true.

I would ask news reporters to add up the number of Americans who have been killed through terrorist attacks over the last 10 years.

Then I want them to add up the number of Americans who have been killed by guns.

They should post those numbers side-by-side.

We spend so much money and pass countless laws to prevent terrorist attacks.

We should do this.

Still, we have lawmakers who stop us from getting more information on how we could stop gun violence.

How can that be?

By not calling for stricter gun laws, we are letting this gun violence happen.

All of us must answer to those families who lost their loved ones because we did not do anything.

We do all sorts of things to help make communities safer.

Gun violence should not be different.

Tonight, those of us who are lucky enough to hug our children are thinking about the families who aren't so fortunate.

While we do this I ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws.

If you think this is a problem, then you should expect the lawmakers you vote for to do something about it.

I would especially ask America's gun owners to think about this issue.

Think about whether your views are being heard.

Each time this happens I'm going to bring this up.

Each time this happens I am going to say that we can do something about it, but we're going to have to change our laws.

This is not something I can do by myself.

I hope and pray that I do not have to give another speech like this during my time as president.

I do not want to talk to the nation about another mass shooting.

But based on my experience as president, I can't guarantee that.

That's terrible to say, but it can change.

