Ahead of a historic trip to the Arctic, President Barack Obama erased a former Republican president's name from North America's tallest peak.

The change was applauded in Alaska, but heavily criticized more than 3,000 miles away in Ohio.

Further controversy surrounding the presidential visit is likely, as the president will be focusing on two touchy subjects: climate change and Arctic drilling.

Obama departed Monday morning to Anchorage for the start of a three-day visit.

His trip will give the president a chance to see to shrinking glaciers, Arctic temperatures and a mix of messy energy politics.

His tour of the nation's largest state is carefully choreographed to call attention to the ways Obama says climate change is already damaging Alaska's stunning scenery.

Showing solidarity with Alaska Natives, Obama announced Sunday that his administration would rename Mount McKinley as Denali, its traditional Athabaskan name.

Alaska's governor and congressional delegation praised the long-sought change.

However, in Ohio the reaction was very different.

There lawmakers widely condemned the decision to strip the mountain of a name honoring former President William McKinley, a son of Ohio.

"This political stunt is insulting to all Ohioans," said Representative Bob Gibbs, Republican of Ohio.

"I will be working with the House Committee on Natural Resources to determine what can be done to prevent this action."

House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio, added that he is "deeply disappointed in this decision."

In renaming the 20,320-foot mountain, Obama was recognizing the moniker Alaskans have informally used for centuries.

The name means "the high one" in Athabaskan.

The central Alaskan peak, which is growing at a rate of about a millimeter a year, was named Mount McKinley in 1896.

A prospector exploring the area's mountains came up with the name upon hearing that McKinley had been selected as the Republican presidential nominee.

The name was then formally recognized.

Obama's excursion north of the Arctic Circle makes him the first sitting president to set foot in the Alaska Arctic, home to Alaska Natives.

Alaska Natives have received less attention than other Native groups amid Obama's recent efforts to improve conditions for Native Americans.

Still, the primary focus of Obama's trip is global warming.

By showcasing thawing permafrost, melting sea ice and eroding shorelines, Obama hopes the trip will underscore the urgent need to combat climate change in the U.S. and overseas.

In Alaska itself, however, that message has been met with skepticism by state leaders, as the state is heavily dependent on oil revenue.

At the same time, environmental groups argued in the lead-up to Obama's trip that he has not done enough to protect Alaska and the climate.

They particularly objected to his administration's decision just a few weeks ago to give Royal Dutch Shell a final permit for expanded drilling off Alaska's northwest coast.

"I share people's concerns about offshore drilling.

I remember the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico all too well," Obama said in his weekly address.

However, he said, the state's economy still must rely on oil and gas until the move to cleaner renewable fuels is complete.

He said his administration was minimizing the risks of expanded offshore drilling.

Obama touched down in Anchorage in the afternoon.

He expected to hear from Alaska Natives before speaking at the climate-focused Arctic summit, which involves leaders from Arctic and non-Arctic nations.

Setting the stage on Sunday night, Secretary of State John Kerry told reporters in Alaska that history will not remember climate change skeptics kindly.

Obama and Kerry are seeking a global climate treaty this December.

Obama has pledged a U.S. cut in greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28 percent by 2030, compared to 2005 levels.

He plans to use the Alaska visit to press other nations to commit to similarly ambitious measures.

On Tuesday, Obama is scheduled to embark on a camera-friendly boat tour of Kenai Fjords National Park and a hike to Exit Glacier.

The sprawling expanse of ice is retreating, and environmentalists point to it as a dramatic sign of warming temperatures.

Obama's schedule then called for a trek through wilderness.

The president's trek will be taped for an episode of "Running Wild with Bear Grylls," an NBC television show that tests celebrities on their survival skills.

The visit continues Wednesday in Dillingham, in southwest Alaska.

There Obama will meet with fishermen locked in an ongoing conflict with miners over plans to build a massive gold and copper mine in Bristol Bay, home to the world's largest salmon fishery.

Then he will fly north to Kotzebue, a regional hub in the Alaska Arctic, to focus on the plight of rural, native villages threatened by encroaching climate change.

