U.S. President Barack Obama said Tuesday night that poison gas weapons may be able to be removed peacefully from Syria, but he also insisted the U.S. military will keep the pressure on President Bashar Assad "and be ready to respond" if other measures fail.

Speaking in a nationally televised address from the White House, Obama said he had asked congressional leaders to postpone a vote on legislation he has been seeking to authorize the use of military force against Syria's regime.

Obama acknowledged the weariness the nation feels after a decade of war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"America is not the world's policeman," he said.

And yet, he added, "When with modest effort and risk we can stop children from being gassed to death and thereby make our own children safer over the long run, I believe we should act.

That's what makes America different.

That's what makes us exceptional."

The speech capped a frenzied 10-day stretch of events that began when he unexpectedly announced he was stepping back from a threatened military strike.

Obama said he would first ask Congress to pass legislation authorizing the use of force against Assad.

Polls consistently show most people are against American military intervention.

The White House has struggled to generate support among lawmakers in both parties.

They fear getting involved in another war in the Middle East.

They have questioned whether U.S. national security interests were at stake in Syria.

Obama also had trouble building international support for a military attack.

But events took an unexpected turn this week.

First Russia and then Syria reacted positively to a seemingly off-hand remark from Secretary of State John Kerry.

He indicated that there was a way out of the crisis.

Syria could agree to put its poison gas weapons under international control.

The president said he was sending Kerry to meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Thursday.

Obama added, "I will continue my own discussion" with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The United States and its allies will also work with Russia and China to present a resolution to the United Nations Security Council.

It will require Assad to give up his chemical weapons.

They would eventually be destroyed.

Obama recounted the events of the deadly chemical weapons attack on Aug. 21 that the United States blames on Assad.

"When dictators commit atrocities, they depend upon the world to look the other way until these horrifying pictures fade from memory.

But these things happened.

The facts cannot be denied," he said.

The president said firmly that Assad's alleged attack was "not only a violation of international law, it's also a danger to our security."

If peaceful negotiations fail and the United States does not act, Assad could keep using poison gas.

So could other tyrants.

U.S. troops could face the threat of being gassed.

"These weapons could threaten allies like Turkey, Jordan and Israel," Obama added.

The president sought to answer what he said were questions asked by lawmakers and citizens who wrote him with their concerns about U.S. military action.

"I will not put American boots on the ground in Syria," he promised.

"I will not pursue an open-ended action like Iraq or Afghanistan.

I will not pursue a prolonged air campaign like Libya or Kosovo."

The military strike would have a clear objective, Obama said.

It would be meant to stop Assad from using poison gas.

Before the president's speech, Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel told a congressional hearing that the threat of military action needed to stay in place for the peaceful negotiations to work.

Kerry said that any agreement must include binding consequences if Syria fails to follow through.

U.S. officials say more than 1,400 died in the Aug. 21 incident.

At least 400 were children, they said.

Other death estimates are lower.

Assad has said the attack was launched by rebels who have been fighting to drive him from power in a civil war.

So far, more than 100,000 non-soldiers have died in the war.

Russia supports Assad and has blocked U.S. attempts to rally the Security Council behind a military strike.

But Monday, after a remark by Kerry, it spoke favorably about requiring Syria to surrender control of its chemical weapons.

The Syrian foreign minister did likewise.

The foreign minister said Tuesday that his government was ready to turn over its chemical weapons stockpile in order to stop a U.S. attack.

It would do this in line with Russia's proposal.

He also said Syria was prepared to sign an international chemical agreement it has long rejected.

The response in Congress to support a military strike has been lukewarm at best.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Tuesday became the first congressional leader to come out against legislation giving the president authority for limited strikes.

"There are just too many unanswered questions about our long-term strategy in Syria," he said.

Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia have supported Obama's request.

They are the top two Republicans in the House.

Still, there was plenty of skepticism in Congress about the United Nations as well as Russia's true intentions.

Lawmakers also questioned Syria's willingness to be bound by international agreements.

