What do the minimum wage, preschool and gun control have in common?

They are all things President Barack Obama wants to expand in his second term.

The president revealed these and other goals in his State of the Union address on Tuesday.

He then spent the rest of the week on the road and in cyberspace trying to drum up support for his agenda.

Employment was a main theme of the president's speech to Congress.

He proposed investing more in education and raising the [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) from $7.25 an hour to $9.

He also called for the creation of high-tech factory hubs.

The next day Obama flew to North Carolina to visit one such factory that manufactures auto parts.

American manufacturing has suffered in the past few decades as more companies choose to produce products overseas to save money.

The president said by focusing on high-tech factories, the U.S. can win back manufacturing jobs that pay a good, living wage to restore the American middle class.

"We don't give up.

We get up.

We innovate.

We adapt.

We learn new skills.

We keep going," Obama said to the factory workers.

On Wednesday, Obama flew to Georgia, where he visited a preschool class, giving high-fives and fist bumps to the students.

The president urged Congress in his State of the Union speech to make high-quality preschool available to all children.

"Study after study shows that the earlier a child begins learning, the better he or she does down the road," Obama said.

"We are not doing enough to give all of our kids that chance."

Obama's critics responded saying the universal preschool plan will be too costly.

They argued there's no evidence that shows preschool has a long-term effect on students' academic success.

The State of the Union is an annual speech that the president is required by law to deliver to Congress.

Presidents usually invite special guests who represent some of the issues mentioned in the speech.

This year, the president and Mrs. Obama invited the parents of Hadiya Pendleton, a 15-year-old who was gunned down in Chicago.

Pendleton had just performed at the president's inauguration last month.

Obama made an emotional plea to Congress, urging action on gun control.

Sitting in the chamber was Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman who suffered brain damage when she was shot in the head.

Many in the audience wore green ribbons in honor of the 26 teachers and students killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.

Gun control was one of the topics the president addressed on Thursday in a "fireside hangout."

The question-and-answer forum on Google+ was a modern version of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's informal radio broadcasts known as "fireside chats."

One hangout participant pointed out that handguns, not assault weapons, cause most gun deaths.

She asked if the president wants to ban handguns.

Obama replied that he didn't want to ban them, but rather require stricter background checks to buy them.

The same guest raised concerns about a higher minimum wage.

She worried that companies would have to raise prices if they are required to pay their employees more.

She wondered whether she would still be able to afford things, such as coffee from Starbucks.

Obama pointed out that corporations are making higher profits than ever and that better wages could actually benefit U.S. businesses.

He recalled that Henry Ford raised his workers' salaries so that they would be able to buy Ford vehicles for themselves.

"Nobody's going to be getting rich on $9 an hour," Obama said.

"They're still going to be struggling.

But it could make the difference between whether they can afford to buy groceries or whether they are going to a food bank."

Obama told the woman he suspected she would still be able to afford Starbucks even with a higher minimum wage.

The president answered a few personal questions from the Google participants.

One woman asked if his daughters were interested in pursuing careers in engineering or science.

He replied that Sasha and Malia enjoy math and science classes, but that they are still young and haven't decided yet what they want to be.

Another hangout guest introduced his pregnant wife and asked the president if they should name their baby "Alice" or "Eleanor."

Obama declined to answer, saying he didn't want to take sides but said they should tell their baby "don't forget to be awesome."

