A proposed new sea refuge would close a large area of the central Pacific to fishing and exploration for oil and gas.

The refuge was part of a series of steps to protect the world's oceans.

The plan was announced by President Barack Obama on Tuesday.

Under the plan, the government would take action to solve the problems of pollution, overfishing and acidification of ocean water.

[Climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global warming) is causing ocean waters to become more acidic.

"Rising levels of carbon dioxide are causing our oceans to acidify.

Pollution endangers marine life.

Overfishing threatens whole species," Obama said.

Obama said that if people ignore these problems, people won't just be wasting a great treasure.

"We'll be cutting off one of the world's major sources of food and economic growth," he said.

Republican lawmakers were quick to criticize Obama's plan.

They argued he overstepped his authority and was using powers the U.S. Constitution doesn't grant the president.

They say he already is making the oil and gas companies and other natural resource businesses follow too many rules.

U.S. Rep. Doc Hastings is a Republican lawmaker from Washington.

He is also the chairman of the House of Representatives Natural Resources Committee.

Hastings called the plan an example of how Obama is acting on his own and in secret to make new rules.

The plan's most important part is to make the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument larger.

The marine refuge is located southwest of Hawaii.

In January 2009, President George W. Bush created a national monument on almost 87,000 square miles.

This protects the area from being developed.

The protected zone is around Howland, Baker, and Jarvis Islands, Johnston, Wake, and Palmyra Atolls, and Kingman Reef.

The islands are deserted.

This is one of the last untouched stretches of ocean left in the world.

The monument is home to thousands of birds, fish and mammals.

Currently, 50 nautical miles around the islands is protected.

A nautical mile is slightly longer than a regular mile.

Obama's plan would extend the protection to 200 miles.

The proposal doubles the area of ocean protected by the United States, environmental groups said.

Under federal law, the president can create the refuge without Congress.

It will start probably this year after people have had a chance to comment on the plan.

Joshua S. Reichert is with the Pew Charitable Trusts.

He said the U.S. tuna industry will not like the plan.

Fishermen would not be allowed to fish in the protected waters.

But he said that probably only 1 percent to 3 percent of the U.S. annual tuna catch would be affected by the plan.

"The importance of these uninhabited islands is far greater than the value of the fish there," Reichert said.

The area holds some of the world's "richest marine life and least disturbed areas.

It's immensely valuable to science."

The area is home to a huge number of ocean species.

A group of experts will also suggest ways to fight illegal fishing.

Of all the seafood imported to the U.S. in 2011, one-fifth to one-third of it is was caught in ways that were against the law.

This is according to a recent study.

Also, about one-third of seafood isn't labeled correctly.

Oceana is a marine environmental group.

It checked more than 1,200 seafood samples bought in 21 states.

They found that most of the time fish sold as snapper was really another, usually cheaper, fish.

Tuna was mislabeled 59 percent of time.

Beth Lowell is with Oceana.

"By tracing our seafood from boat to plate, (buyers) will have more information about the fish they purchase."

The plan would also better track the acid in ocean water.

The oceans absorb carbon dioxide in the air.

The gas gas comes from burning fossil fuels, like coal and oil.

Oceans absorb about 25 percent of this carbon dioxide.

When carbon dioxide dissolves in seawater, some of it forms a type of acid.

This acid threatens marine life, like coral reefs and oyster beds.

The White House plan will set aside $9 million to monitor ocean acidification.

In particular, it will look at the effect of acidification on local communities.

