_The following is a speech that President Barack Obama gave on Oct. 1, adapted by Newsela.

The speech was a response to a shooting that killed 10 people at a community college in Oregon._ There has been another mass shooting in America.

This time, it was at a community college in Oregon.

The shooting means there are now even more American families whose lives have been changed forever.

The shooting means that there is another shocked and grieving community.

There are parents across the country who are scared because they know it might have been their families or their children.

I have been to Roseburg, Oregon, where the shooting took place.

There are really good people there.

I want to thank all the police and firefighters, whose bravery probably saved some lives today.

In the coming days, we'll learn about the victims — young men and women who were studying and learning and working hard.

America will cover everyone who is grieving with our prayers and our love.

But as I said just a few months ago, and I said a few months before that, and I said each time we see one of these mass shootings, our thoughts and prayers are not enough.

It's not enough.

It does not capture the heartache and grief and anger that we should feel.

And it does nothing to stop this violence from happening someplace else in America — next week, or a couple of months from now.

We don't yet know why the shooter did what he did.

And it's fair to say that anybody who does this has a sickness in their minds.

But we are not the only country on Earth that has people with mental illnesses or want to do harm to other people.

We are the only advanced country that sees these kinds of mass shootings every few months.

Somehow we have gotten used to this.

It happens all the time.

We've become numb.

We talked about this after many other shootings.

It cannot be this easy for somebody who wants to harm other people to get his or her hands on a gun.

And what's become routine, of course, is the response of those who do not want any kind of gun laws.

Right now, I can imagine them arguing that we need more guns and fewer gun-safety laws.

Does anybody really believe that?

There are scores of responsible gun owners in this country, and they know that it's not true.

We know because people have been asked and have voted online or over the phone.

These polls say most Americans understand we should be changing these laws.

The majority of responsible gun owners who follow the law believe we should change these laws.

There is a gun for nearly every man, woman and child in America.

So how can you make the argument that more guns will make us safer?

We know that states with the most gun laws tend to have the fewest gun deaths.

So the idea that gun laws don't work, or just will make it harder for law-abiding citizens and criminals will still get their guns, is not proven by the evidence.

Of course, somebody, somewhere will say, Obama made this issue political.

Well, this is something we should make political.

I would ask news organizations to tally up the number of Americans who have been killed through terrorist attacks over the last decade and the number of Americans who have been killed by gun violence, and post those side-by-side on your news reports.

This won't be information coming from me; it will be coming from you.

We spend over a trillion dollars and pass countless laws to prevent terrorist attacks.

And we should do this.

But we still have lawmakers who stop us from even getting more information on how we could potentially reduce gun deaths.

How can that be?

This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America.

All of us must answer to those families who lose their loved ones because we did not do anything.

We do all sorts of things to help make communities safer.

We fix roads or we pass laws to require seat belts.

The idea that gun violence is somehow different -- that our freedom and our Constitution do not allow any rules about how we use a deadly weapon -- does not make any sense.

Gun owners all across the country would still be allowed to hunt and protect their families under such rules.

So, tonight, as those of us who are lucky enough to hug our kids a little closer are thinking about the families who aren't so fortunate, I'd ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws, and to save lives, and to let young people grow up.

If you think this is a problem, then you should expect the lawmakers you vote for to share your views.

And I would particularly ask America's gun owners to think about whether your views are being heard and whether gun groups are fighting for what you really want.

And each time this happens I'm going to bring this up.

Each time this happens I am going to say that we can actually do something about it, but we're going to have to change our laws.

This is not something I can do by myself.

I hope and pray that I don't have to come out again during my time as president to talk to the nation about another mass shooting.

But based on my experience as president, I can't promise that.

And that's terrible to say, and it can change.

