President Barack Obama gave his State of the Union address on Tuesday night.

It is a speech the president gives every year to tell Congress and the American people how the country is doing and what the government's plans are for the coming year.

In his speech, Obama made a promise to go around Congress "whenever and wherever" necessary to close the wage gap between rich and poor people.

In America, there is a big difference between how much money the ultra-rich have and how much money the poor have.

Obama wants to make this difference smaller.

Presidents have some power that they can use without the help of Congress.

It is called a president's "executive" power.

Declaring 2014 a "year of action," Obama also wants to convince an unbelieving public that he still holds power in Washington even if he can't get Democrats and Republicans to get along.

He talked about some executive actions to increase pay for people who temporarily work on government projects.

He is also planning to make it easier for millions of low-income Americans to save for retirement.

Democrats and Republicans are two groups with different opinions about what the government should do.

They are currently fighting to win the next election.

The group with the most members in the government gets to pass laws they think are important.

Republicans and Democrats have not gotten along recently.

Their disagreements keep laws from being passed in Congress.

President Obama is a Democrat.

The Democrats are trying to make Republicans look like they don't care about the middle class.

Democrats have tried to get Obama to talk about Americans who have trouble making money.

They want him to fix the gap between rich and poor Americans.

Republicans have also been talking about the gap between rich and poor recently.

But they blame the gap on Obama.

Obama had a difficult year in 2013.

He was not able to pass as many laws as he wanted to.

Now, White House officials say Obama will be able to do more for Americans using his executive powers.

Obama was mostly focused on old ideas that didn't make enough progress over the year.

He pushed Congress to pass a law to help people who have come to America from other countries.

He also wants to pass an [increase in pay](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) for workers and give more children the chance to go to preschool.

In an emotional part of the speech, Obama talked about Cory Remsburg.

Remsburg is an Army Ranger who was a guest of first lady Michelle Obama.

He was nearly killed in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) during one of the 10 times he was sent there.

Everyone clapped for Remsburg.

In 2008, when Obama was first elected president, many people lost their jobs and their houses.

Now, six years later, he wants make sure that everything will go back to the way it was before.

But for many people, it is happening too slowly.

Though Obama tried to talk about what he can do with his executive powers, he has limits.

For example, he can raise the hourly pay for some temporary government workers from $7.25 to $10.10, as he announced.

But he'll need Congress in order to extend that increase to all of America's workers.

Republicans quickly said this plan would not work.

Said Republican House Speaker John Boehner: "The question is how many people, Mr. President, will this executive action actually help?

I suspect the answer is somewhere close to zero."

White House officials countered by saying many more working people would benefit if Congress would go along with Obama's plan to raise pay for everyone.

"Give America a raise," Obama declared.

The president also plans to pass a law to help workers save money for when they get older and stop working.

Some companies don't offer plans to help workers save for retirement.

The president's plan to make changes himself is, in a way, his admitting failure.

He promised the American people that he would unite Washington and that his re-election would make it easier for Congress to pass significant laws.

Neither has happened.

Some Republicans have warned that the president's use of executive orders could backfire by making Republican leaders angry.

But Obama still needs help from Republicans in Congress.

He wants to pass a law to help people who have come to America illegally find ways to become citizens.

It is something he has tried to make happen since becoming president.

"Let's get it done.

It's time," he said.

