President Barack Obama announced Thursday he would limit the use of drones in targeting terrorists.

Drones are unmanned aircraft that fire missiles.

They have been a central part of Obama's plan to fight terrorism.

However, both Congress and other countries have criticized Obama's use of the drones.

The president said he would continue ordering deadly drone strikes if a terror attack is about to take place.

But a new rule book will mean the U.S. military and CIA will have to meet strict requirements if it wants to kill someone using a drone.

[Drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) fly with no pilot and can be controlled from a location thousands of miles away.

This saves the military from having to send troops or from dropping a traditional bomb.

Drone attacks have killed some innocent people.

Critics complain the White House is too secretive about its drone program.

Obama made the announcement in a speech about America's long battle with al-Qaida.

Under the old rules, anyone who was considered a "significant threat" could be a target of a drone strike.

Now, such attacks will only be allowed on fighters who are planning a real terrorist act.

Before a drone strike can be approved, it must be certain that no innocent people will be killed or injured, said a top White House official.

He spoke under ground rules that did not allow him to be named.

The rules for striking against foreign fighters are the same as those for striking against U.S. citizens who have joined forces with al-Qaida, the official said.

On Wednesday, the White House said four U.S. citizens have been killed in drone attacks since 2009.

One of the victims was the 16-year-old son of a suspected terrorist.

Just because a military tactic is legal, doesn't mean "it is wise or moral in every instance," Obama said.

The president made his speech at the National Defense University.

The new rules mean there will be fewer secret drone strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, an aide said.

Such strikes have been common during Obama's time in office.

However, the president still wants to be able to order secret, deadly attacks anywhere the White House finds a threat from al-Qaida.

Obama didn't spell out exactly why he was pulling back on drones.

He inherited the program from President George W. Bush and then dramatically expanded it.

Congress has been skeptical of the drone program.

It held a series of hearings on targeted killing.

None of America's major allies has fully embraced the U.S. legal theory of why the strikes are justified.

The change was made because the core group of al-Qaida leaders in Pakistan is all but defeated and the war in Afghanistan is winding down, aides said.

That means there is less reason to hit massed groups in Pakistan.

The tactic is known as "signature strikes," where the CIA fired missiles at groups of suspected militants whose identities were unknown.

Obama addressed the issue indirectly in his speech.

He pointed out that the last of the U.S. troops are set to leave Afghanistan in 2014.

"That means we will continue to take strikes against high-value al-Qaida targets, but also against forces that are massing to support attacks on (the troops).

However, by the end of 2014, we will no longer have the same need for force protection, and the progress we have made against core al-Qaida will reduce the need for unmanned strikes."

Many of the drone strikes that the CIA and the military have launched have been in Yemen.

A new pro-American government is making progress against the al-Qaida fighters.

U.S. officials said that is making U.S. drone strikes less needed.

