!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_JFK50YEARS_5_MCT.jpg) WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama laid a wreath at John F. Kennedy's gravesite to honor the slain president as a nation remembers his assassination.

Obama also recognized a group of distinguished Americans — including Bill Clinton and Oprah Winfrey — with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, an award created by Kennedy.

Kennedy was killed 50 years ago Friday in Dallas.

Clinton joined Obama at Arlington National Cemetery on Wednesday.

Each president held hands with Ethel Kennedy, widow of Robert F. Kennedy.

They climbed a flight of stairs to the burial site on a steep hillside overlooking the nation's capital.

Robert F. Kennedy was the former president's brother and U.S. attorney general.

He was assassinated less than five years after his brother.

First lady Michelle Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton helped their husbands place a large wreath of white flowers in front of the gravesite of America's 35th president.

The gravesite is marked by an ever-burning flame.

Both couples placed their hands over their hearts to the sound of a bugle playing taps.

A U.S. flag flew at half-staff.

Then the couples greeted Kennedy relatives.

The day of tributes began at the White House.

There, Obama awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to 16 living and dead Americans honored for contributions in fields ranging from sports and entertainment to science and public service.

"These are the men and women who in their extraordinary lives remind us all of the beauty of the human spirit, the values that define us as Americans, the potential that lives inside of all of us," Obama said.

Hillary Rodham Clinton, daughter Chelsea Clinton and film director Steven Spielberg were among scores of people at the ceremony.

Obama said giving the medals is "one of my favorite events every year."

Kennedy established the modern version of the medal.

But he was killed by Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, weeks before he was to honor the inaugural group of winners.

Hundreds of notable figures since have received the honor.

Obama said a few words about each medal winner.

He said Clinton's presidency was just the start of his work to make the world a better place.

Obama noted Clinton's humanitarian efforts after he left office.

They helped to save or improve the lives of millions worldwide, Obama said.

"I'm grateful, Bill, as well, for the advice and counsel that you've offered me, on and off the golf course," Obama said to chuckles.

Bill Clinton shook hands with Kennedy as a teenager in the Rose Garden the summer before the assassination.

He and other high school students in the Boys Nation program had come to Washington.

Obama also honored the late Sally Ride.

She was the first American woman in space.

Ride became a role model for young girls, he said.

"You can't be what you can't see," Obama said.

"Today our daughters, including Malia and Sasha, can set their sights a little bit higher because Sally Ride showed them the way."

Tam O'Shaughnessy received the award for Ride, who died last year.

O'Shaughnessy was introduced as Ride's life partner.

The president made a point of highlighting those who had overcome additional obstacles and insults because they are gay, black, female or Asian.

He noted that early in her career, Oprah Winfrey's bosses suggested she change her name.

They said she should choose something more relatable.

"It turned out, surprisingly, that people could relate to Oprah just fine," Obama said.

Obama planned an evening speech at a dinner at the Smithsonian's National Museum of American History honoring medal winners.

Among those expected to attend were baseball's Hank Aaron, singer Aretha Franklin, activist Jesse Jackson, civil rights leader Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., and former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.

Kennedy's grandson, Jack Schlossberg, was to introduce Obama at the dinner.

He is the son of Kennedy's only surviving child, Caroline.

Caroline Kennedy recently followed her father into public service when she was sworn in as the newest U.S. ambassador to Japan.

On Friday's assassination anniversary, Obama plans to meet privately at the White House with leaders and volunteers from the Peace Corps program.

Kennedy also established that program.

The Clintons' presence at Kennedy's gravesite was sure to spark speculation.

People will wonder whether Obama has a favorite in the 2016 race to succeed him.

Every move by the former secretary of state is being watched for signs of whether she'll run.

Vice President Joe Biden is another possible candidate.

He attended only the White House ceremony.

