_This is a speech by President Barack Obama.

He gave the speech Oct. 1, and it has been adapted by Newsela.

He spoke after someone shot people at a college in Oregon._ There has been another shooting in America.

This time, it was at a local college in Oregon.

There are now even more American families who have been hurt by guns.

Their lives have been changed forever.

There is another community that has lost loved ones.

The shooting was in Roseburg, Oregon.

I have been there.

There are really nice people there.

I want to thank all the police and firefighters in Roseburg.

Their bravery probably saved some lives.

Soon we will learn about the people who died.

They were young men and women who were going to school.

They were learning and working hard.

America will be sad for everyone who lost people they loved.

We will pray for them.

Still, this is not enough.

Our thoughts and prayers are not enough.

I have said this again and again.

They will not stop this violence from happening again.

We do not yet know why the shooter did what he did.

It is fair to say anyone who would do this is sick.

Many countries have people with mental problems.

Still, we are a rich country with a democracy.

We are the only wealthy country with this problem of gun violence.

Somehow we have gotten used to this.

It happens all the time.

We talked about gun laws after many other shootings.

It cannot be so easy for somebody who wants to hurt others to buy a gun.

Every time this happens, people speak out.

Some people do not want any gun laws.

Right now, I can imagine them arguing.

We need more guns and fewer gun safety laws, they will say.

Does anybody really believe this?

Many people who own guns in this country are responsible.

They know that it's not true.

Most Americans understand we should be changing these laws.

Even law-following gun owners believe we should change these laws.

There is a gun for almost everyone in America.

How can you make the argument that more guns will make us safer?

We know that states with the most gun laws usually have the fewest gun deaths.

People who do not want gun laws say that they will lead to more criminals having guns.

They say people who follow the law will not be able to get guns.

This is just not true.

By not calling for stricter gun laws, we are letting this gun violence happen.

All of us must answer to those families who lost their loved ones.

We did not do anything to stop this.

We do all sorts of things to help make communities safer.

Gun violence should not be different.

We must pass laws.

Tonight, those of us who are lucky enough to hug our children are thinking about the families who are not so fortunate.

While we do this I ask the American people to think about how they can get our government to change these laws.

If you think this is a problem, then you should expect the lawmakers you vote for to do something about it.

I would especially ask America's gun owners to think about this problem.

Think about whether your views are being heard.

Each time this happens I'm going to bring this up.

Each time this happens I am going to say that we can do something about it.

We are going to have to change our laws.

This is not something I can do alone.

I hope and pray that I do not have to give another speech like this.

I do not want to talk to the nation about another shooting.

After seeing many shootings as president, I cannot promise that.

This is terrible to say.

Still, it can change.

