President Barack Obama has canceled a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the White House said Wednesday.

The meeting was supposed to take place in Moscow next month.

Many were surprised that Obama would call off such an important event.

The United States is upset that Russia is letting Edward Snowden stay there for a year.

Snowden is accused of telling U.S. secrets.

So the White House canceled the trip.

But the decision was made not only because of  Snowden.

The United States is upset with Russia for other things.

They disagree over weapons, trade and human rights.

The White House said the two countries were not getting any closer on the problems.

So it said there would be no meeting.

Obama will go to Sweden, instead.

White House Spokesman Jay Carney said the United States and Russia still work together.

They cooperate on Afghanistan, Iran and North Korea.

They have worked on a new missile treaty.

The two countries were often at odds from the end of World War II until the 1990s.

It was a time called the Cold War since things never heated up into real fighting.

Obama was on  the Tonight Show with Jay Leno on Tuesday.

He said that Russia sometimes thinks the Cold War is still going on.

"What I continually say to them and to President Putin, 'that's the past.'"

Obama and Putin already have a tense relationship.

Canceling the meeting, called a summit, could make it worse.

They don't agree about the civil war in Syria.

Russia also decided to stop U.S. citizens from adopting Russian children.

The United States is upset with Russia because of possible human rights violations.

Obama also has criticized a new law in Russia that is called unfair to gays and lesbians.

Moscow has its own complaints.

One is that the United States has set up a missile shield in Eastern Europe.

This was done to block Russia from Europe, Moscow says.

Snowden gave secrets to reporters about government programs that gather information.

These programs involve calls people make on their cellphones and how they use the Internet.

Snowden fled to Hong Kong and then Russia.

He was in the Moscow airport for more than a month.

Russia granted him permission to stay in the country.

It means he will not be sent back to the U.S. to face charges.

He could also leave the airport.

Obama will attend the Group of 20 economic meeting in Russia.

The G20 is a group of 19 big countries and the European Union.

But Obama will no longer meet with Putin in Moscow.

Obama and Putin last met in June at the Group of 8 summit in Northern Ireland.

The G8 is a smaller group of major countries.

Experts on U.S.-Russia relations said the decision not to have the meeting was a bad idea.

"All this does is say 'You're not worth our time, we have better things,''' said Matthew Rojanksy.

He runs a group that studies Russia.

But Russia angered U.S. lawmakers when it let Snowden stay.

Both Republicans and Democrats applauded Obama's decision not to meet with Putin.

The G-20 meeting is scheduled to take place in Russia Sept. 5-6.

Obama will make his first visit to Sweden before the summit.

"Sweden is a close friend and partner to the United States," Carney said.

