!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_JFK50YEARS_5_MCT.jpg) WASHINGTON — President John F. Kennedy was killed 50 years ago this week.

President Barack Obama and other leaders have been honoring him.

Kennedy was the 35th president.

He was shot and killed on Nov. 22, 1963, in Dallas.

The anniversary of his death is Friday.

Obama put flowers at Kennedy's gravesite Wednesday.

Obama gave a group of important Americans the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

The award was created by Kennedy.

Bill Clinton and Oprah Winfrey were two of the people Obama honored.

Kennedy's grave is at Arlington National Cemetery.

Clinton joined Obama there.

Each president held hands with Ethel Kennedy.

She is the widow of Robert F. Kennedy.

The three climbed a flight of stairs to where President Kennedy is buried.

Robert F. Kennedy was the former president's brother.

He served in the president's cabinet.

He also wanted to be president, but he was killed less than five years after his brother.

First lady Michelle Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton were also at the cemetery.

As Secretary of State, Clinton worked with the governments of other countries.

The Clintons and the Obamas placed a large wreath of white flowers in front of the gravesite.

The gravesite is marked by a flame that never burns out.

The tributes began at the White House.

There, Obama awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

He gave it to 16 living and dead Americans.

Some were famous for sports or entertainment.

Some were known for their work in science and public service.

Hillary Rodham Clinton was at the ceremony.

So was daughter Chelsea Clinton and movie director Steven Spielberg.

Obama said giving the medals is one of his favorite events.

Kennedy set up the award.

But he was killed by Lee Harvey Oswald weeks before he was to give the medals out to the first group of winners.

Hundreds of important people have received the honor.

Obama said a few words about each medal winner.

He said Clinton's presidency was just the start of his work to make the world a better place.

Obama talked about Clinton's works after he left office.

Those works have helped to save or improve the lives of millions worldwide, Obama said.

Bill Clinton shook hands with Kennedy as a teenager at the White House.

It was the summer before Kennedy was killed.

Clinton and other high school students had come to Washington.

Obama also honored the late Sally Ride.

She was the first American woman in space.

Ride became an example for young girls, he said.

The president talked about people who struggled because they are gay, black, female or Asian.

Early on, Oprah Winfrey's bosses suggested she change her name, he said.

They thought her name should be something more people could connect with and relate to.

"It turned out, surprisingly, that people could relate to Oprah just fine," Obama said.

Obama planned an evening speech at a dinner.

He would honor medal winners.

Baseball star Hank Aaron, singer Aretha Franklin and civil rights leader and congressman John Lewis were on the guest list.

Kennedy's grandson, Jack Schlossberg, will introduce Obama at the dinner.

He is the son of Kennedy's only living child, Caroline.

Like her father, Caroline Kennedy serves in government.

She is a U.S. ambassador.

She lives in Japan and represents the U.S. in that country.

People wonder why the Clintons went to Kennedy's gravesite.

They will want to know whether Obama favors Hillary Clinton to be president after him.

Hillary Clinton's every move is being watched.

People want to know if she's going to run in the 2016 race.

Vice President Joe Biden might also run for president.

But he was only at the White House ceremony.

