President Barack Obama used executive actions on immigration Thursday night to stop deportations.

Nearly 5 million people in the U.S. illegally will now be able to stay in the U.S.

He also directed enforcement efforts against illegal immigrants to track down just "felons, not families."

The moves are the largest changes to U.S. immigration laws in nearly 30 years.

The president spent months trying to get a law passed through Congress.

When Congress didn't act, he took action on his own.

Executive actions allow Obama to pass rules without Congress.

By doing so, Obama set off a fierce fight with Republicans.

They claim he went over the limits of his presidential powers.

In a televised speech to the nation, Obama defended his actions.

He challenged Republican lawmakers to not block his actions.

Instead, he asked them to approve a law to replace his executive actions.

"To those members of Congress who question my authority to make our immigration system work better, or question the wisdom of me acting where Congress has failed, I have one answer: Pass a bill," Obama said.

As Obama spoke from the White House, immigration supporters marched in Washington D.C.

They walked with American flags draped over their shoulders, carrying signs that read, "Gracias, Presidente Obama."

Despite Obama's challenge to Republicans to pass an immigration bill, his actions and the angry GOP response could do the opposite.

They might prevent any chance of an immigration law for the rest of his presidency.

Republicans recently took control of Congress in midterm elections and feel strengthened by their victories.

They are debating their possible responses to the president's actions.

Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky is the top Republican in the Senate.

He said Obama will "regret" his decision.

Republicans have spoken of possible legal action to block Obama's actions.

Obama's measures have sweeping goals.

Yet more than half of the 11 million people living in the U.S. illegally won't have their problems solved.

The president announced new deportation rules.

Serious criminals and people who have recently crossed the border will be tracked down by the law.

People who have been in the U.S. for more than 10 years will not be.

Obama insisted that his actions were not an amnesty.

An amnesty for illegal immigrants would forgive them for entering the U.S. without permission.

It would also give them some legal rights to stay in the U.S. An amnesty would affect all illegal immigrants.

Obama's actions will affect mostly parents and young people.

One group will benefit most: Immigrants who have been in the U.S. illegally for more than five years but whose children are citizens or permanent residents.

Those individuals will be able to apply to not be deported.

They'll also be able to get work permits.

Before doing so, they'll have to pass background checks and pay fees.

The administration expects about 4.1 million people to qualify.

Obama is also broadening his 2012 directive.

It delayed deportation for some young immigrants who entered the country illegally.

The current cutoff was for people who arrived in the U.S. as minors before 2007.

Obama will expand so that some young people arriving before 2010 can avoid deportation.

In all, those changes are expected to affect about 300,000 people.

Those who qualify would receive delays for three years at a time.

The White House insists Obama has the right to halt deportations for parents and children.

It says deportations can be stopped on humanitarian grounds.

The White House said other presidents used similar executive actions.

More adults may gain citizenship through Obama's decision.

Adult citizens can already sponsor their parents for immigration.

Obama's plan goes a step further.

Now, young citizens can sponsor their parents.

Immigration-rights supporters gathered around the country to listen to the president.

Many have sought the changes for years.

"This is a great day for farmworkers.

It's been worth the pain and sacrifice," said Jesus Zuniga, a 40-year-old who picks tomatoes in California.

In New York City, however, a couple of protesters held "no amnesty" signs.

"We have a lot of unemployed Americans right now, and I don't understand why unemployed Americans can't be hired to do the jobs these illegals are doing," said John Wilson.

