About 62 million girls around the world are not in school.

President Barack Obama's wife, Michelle, said this is not right.

On Thursday, she and Japan's first lady promised to work together to help these girls go to school.

Obama visited Japan, one of the richest countries in Asia, to help promote the Let Girls Learn project.

She and President Barack Obama announced it earlier this month.

It will help girls in poorer countries get an education.

During the visit, Obama met with young women from Japanese universities and high schools.

The American first lady told them her own story.

She grew up in a poorer neighborhood in Chicago, worked hard and attended Princeton University.

Princeton is one of the best universities in the United States.

Obama encouraged the young women to pay attention to education.

She also told them to dream big.

"We have the opportunity to change the world," Obama said.

"You can do that, too, and so can the 62 million girls out there who aren't getting their education."

Obama sat in a circle with the students and Akie Abe.

She is the wife of the Japanese prime minister.

Her husband heads the Japanese government.

Japanese women are some of the best educated in the world.

Still, they often struggle to get good jobs.

Many Japanese think that women should stay at home and take care of children.

The Japanese government wants more women to work.

This is an important part of its plan to make Japan stronger.

On Thursday, the Japanese students sat nervously in a house decorated with flowers.

They were invited to talk about education.

Obama quickly made them feel comfortable.

At one point, she burst out laughing.

She realized that she forgot to wait for her speech to be translated from English into Japanese.

Obama was joined by Michelle Phan.

She is a businesswoman.

She has a YouTube show about makeup.

Phan is very popular in Asia.

She wrote about the trip through Twitter.

"Who agrees it's time to help more girls around the world get the education they deserve?"

Phan tweeted before the event.

President Obama plans to spend millions of dollars next year to pay for the Let Girls Learn plan.

Japan will also help pay for girls' education.

Under the plan, American Peace Corps volunteers will work with leaders and families in poorer countries.

Japanese volunteers will do the same.

Their goal is to help girls go to school and stay in school.

The Peace Corps sends volunteers to countries around the world.

The volunteers will be sent to 11 countries.

One of the countries is Cambodia.

It is one of the poorest countries in Asia.

Obama traveled there on Friday to meet the wife of the Cambodian prime minister.

Obama will talk to students there, too.

Some girls do not go to school because their parents cannot afford it.

Obama said there was another reason, too.

She said it is about how countries think of girls.

It is about whether parents think daughters deserve an education like sons do, Obama said.

It is about whether communities think girls are for housework and having children, she said.

Obama added that it's about "whether they value girls for their minds as well."

It is not just poorer countries that have this problem, Obama said.

Rich countries often do not value girls enough, too, she said.

