KAR, Senegal - President Barack Obama arrived in this corner of West Africa to deliver messages about civil society and good governance, democracy and development.

Senegal's message to him was simpler: Welcome home.

The greeting was plastered on signs and T-shirts wherever Obama went Thursday during his first full day of a week-long, three-country trip to Africa.

Although Obama was born and raised in Hawaii, his father was born and is buried in Kenya.

On this day, Senegal treated the president as one of its own.

Lampposts were covered with signs reading, "Welcome home, Mr.

President."

Obama's likeness appeared everywhere.

Crowds of people danced and waved.

Obama seemed to claim Senegal too.

He shook hands and posed for pictures, but also acknowledged the dark history of slavery the country shares with the United States.

The president and his family visited a small slave house on Goree Island off the coast of Dakar, the nation's capital.

It is said that men, women and children were traded, weighed and shackled there before being sent across the Atlantic to the Americas.

The president stared pensively out the "door of no return," described as the exit for those boarding slave ships.

He spent about half an hour in the two-story salmon-colored house that is filled with dark holding cells.

"Obviously, for an African-American — and an African-American president — to be able to visit this site, I think, gives me even greater motivation in terms of the defense of human rights around the world," Obama said afterward.

The visit reminded him that we have to be watchful and defend human rights, he said.

"I'm a firm believer that humanity is fundamentally good, but it's only good when good people stand up for what's right."

Other U.S. presidents and their families have toured Goree Island.

But the Obamas were the first to make the visit knowing that some of their ancestors had experienced slavery.

Obama's mother is believed to have had at least one slave among her ancestors.

First lady Michelle Obama's, great-great-grandfather was freed from a South Carolina plantation.

The first lady, her mother and Obama's daughter Malia accompanied Obama.

Information about the first family's ancestors usually comes from outside researchers who have made a small industry out of studying the family's roots.

The Obamas rarely comment about this information.

But the president described the visit as a meaningful experience.

He said it was especially powerful for his family "to be able to come here and to fully appreciate the magnitude of the slave trade, to get a sense in a very intimate way of the incredible inhumanity and hardship that people faced" before crossing the Atlantic.

Michelle Obama did not comment on the family's private tour of Goree Island.

The slave house on Goree Island is a frequent destination for celebrities and world leaders.

They stop there because they want to acknowledge the horrors of the international slave trade.

The walls of the small, crowded gift shop are covered with faded images and yellowing newspaper clippings of visitors.

Those include former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, former South African President Nelson Mandela and entertainers Harry Belafonte and Stevie Wonder.

Historians have debated whether the slave house at Goree Island was actually a major slave trading post.

Some historians have suggested the dusty island was mainly a shipping stop.

The slave house, built in 1776 by the Dutch, may have primarily served as a merchant's home, they say.

Still, the symbolic significance remains a powerful draw.

For a dollar, Goree Island tour guides tell stories of slaves to visitors.

They describe the moment Africans may have passed through the door for the last time before, as one put it, "bye-bye Africa."

Eloi Coly, who led the president's tour, said the weight of that moment hits visitors of all races.

"It is impossible not to feel — it is a question of being a human being," Coly said.

"It is very difficult for everybody.

No matter the position of who is visiting the slave house."

Earlier Thursday, Obama praised the U.S. Supreme Court's rulings the day before on same-sex marriages.

Senegalese President Macky Sall did not join him in celebrating gay rights.

Sall said Senegal is tolerant but that the issue requires greater review.

"We are still not ready to decriminalize homosexuality," Sall said, according to news reports.

"This does not mean we are homophobic."

