President Barack Obama canceled his trip to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow next month, the White House said Wednesday.

Russia has granted national security leaker Edward Snowden the right to stay in the country, while the U.S. wants him to return to face American charges.

The decision was not solely based on Snowden.

The United States has grown frustrated with Russia on missile defense and arms control, trade and commercial relations, and human rights.

"We have reached the conclusion that there is not enough recent progress in our bilateral agenda with Russia to hold a U.S.-Russia Summit in early September," according to a statement released by White House press secretary Jay Carney.

Summits are meetings between heads of states and are typically major events.

Carney said the United States values cooperation on a variety of issues between the two nations.

They include a new nuclear weapons treaty and cooperation on Afghanistan, Iran and North Korea.

Obama, who is traveling in California, said in an interview Tuesday that he was "disappointed" by Russia's move to grant Snowden asylum for one year.

But he said the two nations still work together on Afghanistan and the investigation of the Boston Marathon bombing.

"There are times when they slip back into Cold War thinking and Cold War mentality," Obama said on the Tonight Show with Jay Leno.

"What I continually say to them and to President Putin, 'that's the past.'"

Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel and Secretary of State John Kerry will meet with their Russian counterparts Friday in Washington to discuss the relationship.

The decision will only hurt an already uneasy relationship between Obama and Putin.

The two remain at odds over the civil war in Syria.

The United States also has been frustrated with Russia's decision to ban U.S. adoptions of Russian children, and with potential human rights violations.

Obama also has criticized a new law in Russia that is seen as hostile to gays and lesbians.

Snowden is accused of leaking information about the government's program of monitoring cellphone calls and Internet usage.

He has been charged with espionage.

He fled to Hong Kong and then to Russia.

He was in the Moscow airport for more than a month before Russia granted him asylum last week.

Moscow has accused the United States of installing a missile shield in Eastern Europe as a way to block Russian influence.

Obama will attend the Group of 20 economic summit in St. Petersburg, but will no longer meet with Putin in Moscow in early September as he had planned.

Instead, he will travel to Sweden.

The G20 is a group of 19 big countries and the European Union.

Obama and Putin last met in June at the Group of 8 summit in Northern Ireland.

The G8 is a smaller group of major countries.

The United States has informed Russia that "it would be more constructive to postpone the summit until we have more results from our shared agenda."

The decision to scrap the meeting dismayed experts on U.S.-Russia relations.

They argue that it will do little to improve relations between the two superpowers.

"All this does is say 'You're not worth our time, we have better things,''' said Matthew Rojanksy, director of the Wilson Center's Kennan Institute on Russia.

"In no sense does this encourage Russia to come back with a better offer."

But lawmakers have been angered with Russia's decision to grant Snowden temporary asylum.

Both Republicans and Democrats applauded the move.

"This should help make it clear that the Russian government's giving Edward Snowden 'refugee' status is unacceptable," said House Foreign Affairs Committee chairman Rep. Ed Royce, R-Calif. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said the president made the right decision.

"President Putin is acting like a schoolyard bully and doesn't deserve the respect a bilateral summit would have accorded him," he said.

Schumer had urged Obama to cancel the meeting.

The G-20 summit is scheduled to take place in St. Petersburg Sept. 5-6.

Obama will make his first visit to Sweden before the summit.

"Sweden is a close friend and partner to the United States," Carney said.

He said the country plays a leading role on trade and the environment.

