The sons and daughters of presidents have always fascinated the American public.

These "first children" have also faced criticism through the years.

A radio host called Amy Carter and Chelsea Clinton ugly.

Susan Ford had her dates and fashion critiqued.

In recent decades it has been mostly girls and young women who have come under fire.

Recent harsh criticism of Sasha and Malia Obama by a Republican congressional staffer has sparked outrage.

The outrage is particularly strong among African-Americans who see the Obamas as an example of black family success.

Because Obama is the first African-American president, his presidency has powerful symbolism, said James Peterson, director of Africana studies at Lehigh University.

"I'm a substance guy, but the symbolic nature of this president is a force to be reckoned with," Peterson said.

Elizabeth Lauten, communications director for Republican Representative Stephen Fincher from Tennessee, reportedly resigned Monday after facing heavy criticism.

Lauten wrote a post attacking the Obama daughters for their dress and behavior at the annual pardoning of a Thanksgiving turkey at the White House.

"Try showing a little class," Lauten wrote on Facebook.

"Act like being in the White House matters to you.

Dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar."

Lauten apologized Friday on Facebook.

"I reacted to an article and quickly judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged as a teenager," she wrote.

But the damage had already been done.

Attacking Obama's teenage daughters for their fashion choices had gone too far.

"The Obama girls are untouchable," said Mark Anthony Neal, a professor of African and African-American studies at Duke University.

Lauten's criticism offended blacks and non-blacks alike because the Obamas are seen as a role model for families, Neal said.

Today, criticizing presidential children — especially young ones — is considered off limits.

Yet the practice is almost as old as our country itself.

Former first daughter Patti Davis wrote an open letter to Sasha and Malia on Sunday, noting that she was criticized for an outfit she wore to an event with Queen Elizabeth II when her father, Ronald Reagan, was president.

"There were 150 people there; 149 of them were properly dressed," she said the journalist wrote.

"As first daughters, you can't win," Davis wrote to the girls.

"There will always be (mean) people sitting at their keyboards, seething with anger at their own lives, ready to take it out on you."

First daughters Amy Carter and Chelsea Clinton both came under especially nasty criticism.

Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh once called Carter the "most unattractive presidential daughter in the history of the country."

He eventually apologized.

Later, holding up a photograph of then-13-year-old Clinton on his 1993 television show, he asked his viewers, "Did you know there is also a White House dog?"

Clinton has said that she developed a thick skin as a way to deflect attacks.

"That was not about me, that was about him," Clinton said earlier this year at the National Conference for College Student Leaders.

President George W. Bush's twin daughters, Jenna and Barbara, were criticized for underage drinking and for sticking out their tongues at photographers.

Historian Doug Wead, a staffer in the George H.W.

Bush White House, wrote about first families in the book "All the Presidents' Children."

He says the critiques of first families stretch back into earlier eras.

In 1966, Lyndon Johnson's 18-year-old daughter Luci complained that "we don't get paid, but we sure get criticized."

In a Newsweek magazine interview, she noted that when her grades "weren't so good, complete strangers scolded me.

And they got better and we sort of leaked the news about my B average, people said I was bragging."

Susan Ford was criticized for wearing blue jeans in the White House and had her high school dates critiqued.

"I kept thinking, 'I want to be normal.

But I can't be normal,'" she said at the time.

"Everyone was watching."

"The idea that children aren't involved, that it's taboo, is incorrect.

But in recent times we've all been very respectful," Wead said.

He said he thought that was why Lauten's remarks were so controversial.

The American people realize that the Obamas are good parents, he said, whether or not they agree with Obama's politics.

Theodore Roosevelt's oldest daughter, Alice, attracted attention when she moved into the White House at age 17.

Roosevelt smoked, and she drove a car by herself.

When she drove from Washington, D.C., to New York, the press would follow as if it were Lindbergh crossing the Atlantic, Wead said.

At one point, President Roosevelt told a visitor, "I can run the country and I can be a father to Alice Roosevelt, but I can't do both."

