First, Michelle Obama got kids around the country to get up and move to fight weight problems.

Now, the first lady is telling them to eat home-cooked meals.

In Obama's campaign to slim down the nation's kids, she is encouraging people to cook more meals at home.

Home-cooked meals are healthier.

And they save money too, said Obama at a health conference in Washington on Friday.

The first lady said home-cooked meals have less fat and salt — which can lead to heart disease — than meals prepared in restaurants.

She said too many people think they don't have the time or ability to cook for themselves.

But plenty of meals can be put together in less than 30 minutes.

Home-cooked meals also can cost less than fast food.

Obama began focusing on the problem of overweight children as soon as she got to the White House in 2009.

She pledged Friday to stick with the issue even after her husband leaves office.

"We cannot walk away from this issue until obesity rates drop for children of every age and every background," she said.

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) is when a person has too much body fat.

Obese children are more likely to have heart disease, high blood pressure and diabetes when they are adults.

"We cannot walk away until every child in this country has a shot at a healthy life," she said.

"And that's why I'm in this thing for the long haul.

And I mean long after I leave the White House, because I believe in finishing what I start."

Obama praised recent federal numbers showing a sharp decline in obesity rates among children ages 2 to 5.

She called it a small, though important, achievement.

But the decline in obesity is still not enough to say the problem is solved, she said.

Obama urged everyone to keep working on solutions, especially among older kids.

"Now is not the time to take our foot off the gas and congratulate ourselves on a job well done," Obama said.

"Just the opposite.

Now is the time to fight even harder, because we now know it is possible to make a difference on this issue."

Obama has been trying to convince food and drink makers, restaurants and others to make healthier products.

Federal laws and rule are leading to healthier school breakfast and lunch programs.

The government also will require food makers to update the "Nutrition Facts" label on packaged foods.

The label lists basic information about a food, such as how much fat, sugar and salt it contains.

The updated label will include the latest scientific information about the link between food and health.

The first lady said she is working with supermarkets to give out recipes and offer cooking demonstrations.

She is also asking schools to teach students basic cooking skills.

Chefs should offer affordable cooking classes in their restaurants, she said.

Obama said eating home-cooked meals is one of the best ways families can be healthier.

Growing up, Obama said her mother set aside a certain amount of money to spend on food.

Her mother planned her meals weekly.

She also shopped for groceries every Saturday.

"The question is 'How do we help families start cooking again, even if it's just one or two meals a week?'"

she told the audience.

The conference was organized by the Partnership for a Healthier America.

The audience included health professionals and business leaders.

Obama is honorary chairwoman of the partnership.

It is a nonprofit group created in connection with "Let's Move," the program she began to fight childhood obesity.

The partnership works to support the goals of Let's Move.

It also works with businesses to help improve the health of Americans.

So far, more than 70 companies have promised to make their products healthier, said Larry Soler.

He is in charge of the Partnership for a Healthier America.

Among the companies was yogurt maker Dannon.

The company announced Friday that it will reduce the amount of sugar and fat in all its products.

