President Obama watched as the small Lego machine came to life, flipping the pages of a storybook.

He was witnessing the demonstration of a new device that someday may allow paralyzed or arthritic patients to read books despite their disabilities.

"How did you figure this out?"

Obama asked its five inventors.

"We had a brainstorming session," one replied.

Obama was impressed, and with good reason.

The inventors, dressed in matching Girl Scout uniforms and visiting the White House from Tulsa, Oklahoma, were just six years old.

They were among 35 young science fair winners who came to the White House Monday to showcase their work in science, technology, engineering and math (known collectively as STEM).

The projects on display included spinal implants, carbon-dioxide powered batteries, and a keystroke identity system that can boost computer security by identifying people based on how they type on a keyboard.

Obama used the fair as an opportunity to encourage more students to study math and science in school.

He also announced more than $240 million in donations to boost study in STEM fields.

This year's fair focused, in particular, on increasing diversity in STEM fields.

Historically, most of the people working in science and technology have been white men, so Monday's fair aimed to inspire girls and minorities to enter these fields as well.

One of the new pledges that Obama announced was $150 million to help scientists who are in the first stages of their careers to stay on track.

Another was a $90 million campaign to expand STEM opportunities to youth underrepresented in those fields, such as minorities and girls.

Additionally, more than 100 colleges and universities have committed to training 20,000 new engineers, and a coalition of CEOs has promised to expand high-quality STEM education programs to an additional 1.5 million students this year.

Obama has been interested in supporting STEM education and careers since his early days in office.

In 2009, he launched "Educate to Innovate," an effort to encourage the study of science, technology, engineering and math.

On Monday, he was impressed by all of the displays, but none seemed to delight Obama more than the Lego page-turning machine.

He did point out, however, that the device might need a little adjustment.

It was turning pages so quickly that a reader might only catch three sentences on a page before it flipped ahead.

One of the device's inventors explained to the president that the machine was a prototype, an original model of an invention — or a work-in-progress.

"Have you ever had a brainstorming session yourself?"

one little girl asked the president.

Indeed, yes, he replied.

"What did you come up with?"

"I mean, I came up with things like, you know, health care," he said, amused.

In 2010, he signed a health care law called the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

"It turned out OK, but it started off with some prototypes."

Obama said the fair is one of the most fun events held annually at the White House.

"Every year I walk out smarter than when I walked in," he added.

Obama's science adviser, John Holdren, joined the president during the tour of the displays, introducing himself to the young inventors and researchers.

"Amazing," he said.

"These kids are so much more advanced than when I was in school."

At each of the 12 display stations, Obama quizzed the participants about their projects.

At one, Anvita Gupta, a 17-year-old from Scottsdale, Arizona, described the special mathematical algorithm she had devised to identify new medical applications for existing drugs.

Obama turned to the group of reporters and photographers trailing him.

"Just saying, I don't know what you all have been doing," he said.

"This is what she's been doing."

Later on, Obama addressed students and scientists in the White House East Room.

"It's not enough for our country just to be proud of you," he said.

"We've got to support you."

