While President Barack Obama's popularity has slipped in public opinion polls, he still has strong support among one key voting group: the leaders of the 566 Indian tribes recognized by the government.

"I'd rank him as high as I can go; a 10, really, to be honest with you," said Leo Lolnitz, first chief of the Koyukuk Native Village in Alaska.

Brian Cladoosby, the chairman of Washington state's Swinomish Indian Tribal Community for the past 17 years, said Obama was "second to none" when compared with other U.S. presidents.

Tribal leaders consider the occupant of the White House one of their own.

To them, he's Barack Black Eagle Obama.

A couple on the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana gave him his Indian name in 2008 they when formally adopted him.

On Wednesday, they got a chance to meet with him yet again, as the president kept a campaign promise by hosting his fifth White House Tribal Nations Conference.

In a 14-minute speech to the tribal leaders, Obama said he'd make his first visit to [Indian Country](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) as president sometime next year, though he didn't say where he plans to go.

He visited the Montana reservation when he was challenging Hillary Clinton for the Democratic presidential nomination in his first presidential primary campaign.

The annual gathering gives tribal leaders a chance to make pitches for what they want from Washington in the coming year.

For 2014, tribal leaders want an end to the budget cuts known as sequestration.

They also want more authority to manage their own affairs, among other things.

A dozen Cabinet officials met with the tribal leaders.

They promised more help for fighting crime, fixing schools and getting better health care.

But some tribal leaders said the president and his team had been too quick to promise and slow to deliver.

"He's reaching out to us.

We really appreciate that, but there's not a whole lot of things that have happened," said Bryan Brewer, the president of South Dakota's Oglala Sioux Tribe.

"I feel there's been a lot of promises to us, but we're still struggling."

For example, Brewer said, Obama should have done more to protect tribes from the cuts caused by sequestration: "We should have been exempted from a lot of those things, but we haven't."

Obama and his team outlined their list of accomplishments, including: renewing the Violence Against Women Act, which makes it easier for tribes to prosecute non-Indians for domestic violence; getting an additional 230,000 acres placed into trust on behalf of the tribes; spending more on law enforcement, schools and emergency relief; launching a nearly $2 billion buyback program later this year to return thousands of property parcels to tribes; and creating the first White House Council on Native American Affairs.

Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, who oversees the Bureau of Indian Affairs, said the forced budget cuts and last month's 16-day government shutdown had hit Indian Country hard.

But she told the tribal leaders that the Obama administration is determined to help "make your world a better place" despite the tough financial climate.

"I know from growing up in this country that the federal government does not have a proud legacy with tribes," Jewell said.

Things can't be fixed overnight, she added.

Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said that only 36 percent of tribal members were covered by health insurance now.

But, 94 percent would be covered either under an expansion of Medicaid or by enrolling through the new marketplace created by the president's health insurance program.

The Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare as it's more commonly known, is the new health program.

Eric Shinseki, the secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs, acknowledged that some veterans lack trust in the government and his department.

But, he said he wanted to make things better and ensure that all tribal members got equal access to benefits for veterans.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the administration wanted to do more to reduce crime in Indian Country, including the rates of rape and murder, which he said were far too high among girls and women.

He said that was "unjust and unacceptable" and can't go on.

Obama said the poverty rate was too high in Indian Country and that the federal government must do more to expand job opportunities.

He also said he wanted to build a stronger relationship between tribes and the federal government, "based on trust and respect."

The president said he also wanted to make it easier for more tribal members to get access to health care.

He saluted the Puyallup Tribal Health Authority in Washington state, where he said tribal members had created the country's first tribal advanced medicine program.

"Patients are cared for in a culturally sensitive way, often by Native American staff," Obama said.

Tribes outlined a long list of their own priorities.

They want more help with economic development projects, and more money for housing, and to collect better data to track tribal members.

They'd like more tribal members to be made judges, and have high-level federal jobs.

Arlan Melendez, the tribal chairman of the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony in Nevada, said tribal leaders wanted to urge the administration to get the Internal Revenue Service to stop conducting audits, where they look into the use of money on Indian land.

"Tribes think it's an intrusion on sovereign federal land," he said.

The tribes have their own nations and can make their own laws on their land.

They have some freedom from the federal government.

Still, tribes are happier with Obama than previous presidents.

The tribes got one meeting with President Clinton.

During the Bush administration, they had no meetings.

