President Barack Obama made an announcement on Tuesday.

He wants to change laws about gun sales.

His plan is to have tougher gun laws.

In the past it was hard to have tough gun laws.

Gun rights groups say that it would take away people's rights.

Many people believe the Second Amendment gives Americans the right to own guns, no matter what.

The amendment is written in the U.S. Constitution.

Gun rights groups want to make sure Americans keep this right.

There have been several shootings in the United States recently.

Many people have died. "It makes me mad," Obama said.

There were tears on his face.

Obama hopes these changes to gun laws will keep Americans safe.

He said that he can both protect the Second Amendment and make changes.

Right now, some people are not allowed to have guns.

People who break certain laws cannot own a gun. A background check is a way to find out if a person has broken certain laws.

The check looks into a person's background or history.

Some people are required to have a background check.

If they pass the background check, they can buy a gun.

If they do not pass, they cannot buy one.

Obama said that he does not want to take away all guns.

People who pass a background check can buy a gun.

People who do not pass cannot buy a gun.

Today, the law is messy.

Some gun sellers are licensed.

The licensed gun sellers have official papers from the government.

The papers give them permission to sell guns.

These licensed gun sellers also have to do background checks on their gun buyers.

However, some gun sellers are not licensed.

These gun sellers do not have to do background checks on their buyers.

So then, anybody can buy a gun.

These people have not passed background checks.

They could hurt others with their guns.  Obama wants to make some new rules about selling guns.

He wants every gun seller to do background checks.

The people who pass the check can buy guns.

Obama hopes that this will help to keep people safe.

Gun rights groups do not think it will help.

They say that shootings will happen anyway.  Still, Obama says we need to try. "We maybe can't save everybody, but we could save some," he said.

