About 62 million girls around the world are not in school.

Calling this an "injustice," Michelle Obama and Japan's first lady promised to work together to help girls get an education.

The American first lady was on a visit to Japan and Cambodia.

The trip was part of her effort to promote the Let Girls Learn plan.

She and President Barack Obama announced it earlier this month.

It will help support programs in poorer countries to help girls go to school and stay in school.

During the visit, Obama met Thursday with young women from Japanese universities and high schools.

She told them of her own journey from a poorer neighborhood in Chicago to Princeton University, one of the best colleges in the United States.

Obama encouraged the young women to pay attention to education.

She also told them to dream big.

"We have the opportunity to change the world," Obama said.

"You can do that, too, and so can the 62 million girls out there who aren't getting their education."

Obama sat in a circle with the students and Akie Abe.

She is the wife of the Japanese prime minister, who heads the Japanese government.

Japanese women are among the best educated in the world.

Yet they often struggle to get good jobs.

Many Japanese people think that women should stay at home after they get married and have children.

The Japanese government wants to increase the number of women who work.

This is an important part of its plan to strengthen Japan and create more jobs and money.

On Thursday, the Japanese students sat nervously in a house decorated with flowers.

They were invited to talk about ways to promote education with Obama.

When she came, Obama quickly made them feel comfortable.

She forgot to wait for her speech to be translated from English into Japanese and burst out laughing.

The first lady was joined by businesswoman Michelle Phan.

She is a makeup artist.

She has a popular YouTube show.

Phan has a huge following in Asia.

She wrote about the trip on social media.

"Who agrees it's time to help more girls around the world get the education they deserve?"

Phan tweeted before the event.

President Obama asked lawmakers in Washington to spend $250 million to pay for the Let Girls Learn program.

Japan is one of Asia's richest countries.

It has promised $340 million for girls' education.

Under the plan, American Peace Corps volunteers will work with leaders and families in poorer countries.

Japanese volunteers will do the same.

Their goal is to help girls go to school and stay in school.

The Peace Corps sends volunteers to countries around the world.

The volunteers will be sent to 11 countries to start.

One of them is Cambodia, one of the poorest countries in Asia.

Obama traveled there Friday night to meet the wife of the Cambodian prime minister.

She will also hear from students about how they have been helped by community programs.

People often think that girls do not go to school because their parents cannot afford it.

Obama said that it was "also about attitudes and beliefs."

"It's about whether fathers — and mothers — think their daughters are as worthy of an education as their sons.

It's about whether communities value girls" just for their ability to do housework and have children, she said, "or whether they value girls for their minds as well."

Poorer countries are not the only ones with this problem, Obama said.

"We have to admit that these kinds of challenges aren't just limited" to poorer countries.

