SHINGTON – President Barack Obama wants to bring fast Internet to American public schools.

He wants to do it very soon.

On Tuesday, he made a promise.

He said he wants to make sure students in the United States have the same chances as students in other countries.

We expect free Internet at a coffee shop, he said.

We should "demand it in our schools."

Obama had already launched his plan, called "ConnectED," last year.

He said recently that he wants to speed up the project.

He wants to make sure all schools can use the Internet.

The plan will cost a lot of money.

The government can pay for some of it.

Obama is asking businesses to help pay for the rest.

A few U.S. companies are giving about $750 million in goods and services to help students get connected to the Internet.

They include Apple, AT&amp;T, Microsoft, Sprint and Verizon.

The money from the companies will be used with $2 billion from the government's Federal Communications Commission.

It is also called the FCC.

The money will give about 20 million students Internet service in their schools and libraries.

The plan will take about two years.

It is much faster than the president expected it to be.

At first, White House officials thought the FCC would not be allowed to spend money right away.

Usually it must wait.

But the FCC recently decided it could give the money to schools faster.

This means students can get Internet faster.

The faster timeline comes without a single vote from the rest of the government.

Obama has had problems in getting some members of the government to agree on plans in the past.

Obama added that the plan will not push the United States to spend more than it has planned for the year.

But he also told lawmakers that he was about to ask them to help.

He said he wants the government to give teachers the technology they deserve.

He also wants to train teachers so that technology can be used in the best way possible.

The speech showed that Obama was serious about doing things his way.

He gave his yearly State of the Union speech last week.

In it the president said that Congress was fighting too much.

Congress is made up of people elected to vote on laws.

Because they were fighting, fewer and fewer laws were being passed.

Because of this, President Obama said his second term would be different.

He would announce what he would do.

Then he would take action without a vote wherever possible.

He would use the executive power of the White House.

After that, he would ask Congress to vote to make bigger changes.

He also wants to get business leaders who have given money to these projects to ask Congress to act.

"I'm going to ask every business leader to join us in this effort," the president said.

That way, they can "give every young person every shot at success."

