Michelle Obama normally does not fight with lawmakers.

But on Tuesday, she became upset about people trying to change a law about what kids eat at school.

She publicly took on lawmakers, food companies and lunch ladies.

They disagree with a [school lunch law](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school lunch).

She helped get the law passed nearly four years ago.

Her opponents say it is leading kids to bring their own lunches instead of buying food at school.

People are trying to weaken new nutrition rules for school lunches, Obama said.

That is unacceptable.

She delivered the remarks at a meeting with school nutrition officials.

It was the beginning of her public push to defend the law.

The first lady had angry words for lawmakers.

She said they were playing "politics with our kids' health."

"It's unacceptable to me not just as first lady," she said, "but also as a mother."

The fighting remarks were new for the first lady.

She has mostly tried to work with the food companies.

She prefers not to go through Congress.

Obama is the nation's best-known healthy-eating champion.

She has mostly searched for partnerships.

She gets food companies to make promises.

Her goal has been to get companies to make small changes in their products.

The Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 set new rules for school food.

Obama pushed to get it passed.

The law limited the amount of salt in school lunches and breakfasts.

It added targets for more whole grains and fresh fruit.

But the law is being challenged in Congress.

The School Nutrition Association is trying to stop it.

The association is a group of school officials and food companies.

The food companies include Pizza Hut and Coca-Cola.

The group supported the law in 2010.

But its leaders now say the rules are too strict.

House Republicans have backed the group's efforts.

They are offering to allow school districts a way out.

Some districts will get to have an extra year before they have to follow the new rules.

Some schools have lost money.

More students are deciding not to buy school lunches.

Instead, they are bringing their own food.

Some districts say they have had trouble finding products they can afford that meet the new rules.

Meanwhile, they have watched students throw away large amounts of the healthy food they are served.

People who want the schools to have an extra year say it is a small attempt to make the program more reasonable.

They said the first lady's response seemed too harsh.

But the White House wants to protect the law.

White House officials sent a letter by ex-presidents of the School Nutrition Association.

The letter opposes the plan to let schools have an extra year to follow the rules.

The first lady has the support of the president.

They both want to prevent lawmakers from getting in the way.

They will not let lawmakers "put politics ahead of what's good for our kids," said Sam Kass.

He does not want to let Congress decide what's healthy for kids to eat.

Kass runs the first lady's [anti-obesity campaign](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity).

He is also the White House chef.

On Tuesday, David Binkle joined the first lady for the event.

Binkle runs food services for the Los Angeles Unified School District.

He said that he was a member of the School Nutrition Association.

But he said its tough stand on the law did not reflect his views.

"In fact, we don't serve the typical corn dog and chicken nuggets," he said.

"We don't even have pizza on the menu."

