KAR, Senegal - President Barack Obama came to West Africa to talk about democracy and growth.

Senegal's message to him was simpler: Welcome home.

The greeting was all over signs and T-shirts wherever Obama went Thursday as he began a three-country trip to Africa.

Obama was born and grew up in Hawaii.

But his father was born and is buried in Kenya, in Africa.

The people of Senegal treated Obama like he was one of their own.

Lampposts were covered with signs reading "Welcome home, Mr.

President."

Obama's face was everywhere.

Crowds danced and waved.

Obama shook hands and posed for pictures.

But his visit also had a serious tone.

He talked about the history of slavery that Senegal and the United States both share.

The president and his family visited a small slave house on Goree Island.

The island is off the coast of Dakar, the nation's capital.

Men, women and children were traded, weighed and chained there.

Then they were sent across the Atlantic to the Americas to work on plantations.

The president stared thoughtfully out the "door of no return."

Slaves were led through that exit onto ships.

He spent about half an hour in the two-story salmon-colored slave house.

The building is filled with dark cells for holding slaves.

The visit had special meaning for an African-American president, Obama said.

It "gives me even greater motivation" to stand up for human rights, he said.

Other U.S. presidents and their families have visited the island.

But the Obamas were the first whose ancestors were slaves.

At least one of Obama's mother's relatives is believed to have been a slave.

First Lady Michelle Obama's great-great-grandfather was slave on a South Carolina plantation.

The first lady, her mother and Obama's daughter Malia were with Obama.

Information about the first family's ancestors usually comes from outside researchers.

The Obamas rarely talk about their roots.

But the president said the visit meant a great deal to him.

He said it was especially powerful for his family "to be able to come here and to fully appreciate" how big the slave trade was.

It meant something for them to get a close look at what happened to slaves before they were put on ships to the Americas.

Michelle Obama did not comment on the family's private tour of Goree Island.

Celebrities and world leaders often visit the slave house.

The walls of the small, crowded gift shop are covered with faded images of visitors.

Those include former Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and former South African President Nelson Mandela.

Historians have argued about whether the slave house at Goree Island was actually a major slave trading post.

Some historians say the dusty island was mainly a place for ships to stop.

The slave house was built in 1776 by the Dutch.

It may have mostly been a merchant's home, some historians say.

Still, the house is an important symbol.

Goree Island tour guides tell stories about slaves to visitors.

They describe the moment Africans may have passed through the door for the last time before, as one put it, "bye-bye Africa."

Eloi Coly, who led the president's tour, said the weight of that moment hits visitors of all races.

"It is impossible not to feel — it is a question of being a human being," Coly said.

"It is very difficult for everybody.

No matter the position of who is visiting the slave house."

Earlier on Thursday, Obama praised the U.S. Supreme Court's rulings the day before on gay marriages.

But Senegalese President Macky Sall did not share Obama's support of gay rights.

Being gay is against the law in Senegal.

Sall said the country is not ready to end that law.

This does not mean Senegal is against gay people, he said.

