President Barack Obama canceled his trip to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow next month.

The United States is upset that Russia is letting Edward Snowden stay there for a year.

Snowden is accused of leaking U.S. secrets.

But the decision was not made only because of  Snowden.

The United States is also not happy with Russia on weapons, business relations and human rights.

"We have reached the conclusion that there is not enough recent progress" to hold the summit, the White House said.

Summits are meetings between heads of states.

They are usually very big deals, especially between the United States and Russia.

White House Spokesman Jay Carney said the United States and Russia work together on some issues.

Those include a new nuclear weapons treaty and cooperation on Afghanistan, Iran and North Korea.

Obama said on Tuesday that he was "disappointed" by Russia's move to let Snowden stay in Russia.

But the two nations still work together on Afghanistan and are looking into the Boston Marathon bombing, he said.

The two superpowers often worked against each other's interests from the end of World War II until the 1990s.

It was a time called the Cold War since things never heated up into real fighting.

Obama said on the Tonight Show with Jay Leno that Russia sometimes thinks the Cold War is still going on.

"What I continually say to them and to President Putin, 'that's the past.'"

Obama and Putin already have a tense relationship.

They don't agree about the civil war in Syria.

Russia also decided to stop U.S. citizens from adopting Russian children.

The United States is upset with Russia for possible human rights violations.

Obama also has criticized a new law in Russia that is called unfair to gays and lesbians.

Snowden is accused of leaking information about government programs that gather information.

These programs  involve calls people make on their cellphones and how they use the Internet.

Snowden fled to Hong Kong and then Russia.

He was in the Moscow airport for more than a month.

Then Russia granted him asylum last week.

It means he will not be sent back to the U.S. to face the charges.

Moscow has its own complaints.

One is that the United States has put up a missile shield in Eastern Europe.

Russia sees it as a way of blocking its influence with Europe.

Obama will attend the Group of 20 economic meeting in St. Petersburg.

The G-20 is a group of 19 big countries and the European Union.

But Obama will no longer meet with Putin in Moscow.

He'll go to Sweden instead.

Obama and Putin last met in June at the Group of 8 summit in Northern Ireland.

The G-8 is a smaller group of major countries.

The decision to scrap the summit surprised and confused experts on U.S.-Russia relations.

They argue that it will do little to improve relations between the two countries.

"All this does is say 'You're not worth our time, we have better things,''' said Matthew Rojanksy.

He runs the Kennan Institute on Russia.

"In no sense does this encourage Russia to come back with a better offer."

But U.S. lawmakers have been angered with Russia's decision to let Snowden stay.

Both Republicans and Democrats cheered Obama's decision to cancel.

The G-20 meeting is scheduled to take place in St. Petersburg Sept. 5-6.

Obama will make his first visit to Sweden before the summit.

"Sweden is a close friend and partner to the United States," Carney said.

He said the country is an important player in trade and protecting the Earth.

