President Barack Obama pushed for his plan to improve the fortunes of the middle class on Aug. 28 as he honored the marchers who fought for civil rights 50 years ago.

He recalled how they powered their movement by coming together in a "coalition of conscience."

He called for people to come together in the same way to fight for better economic opportunity today.

"In the face of impossible odds, people who love their country can change it," Obama said.

The president spoke at a ceremony on the anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom.

The 1963 protest became the most well-known moment of the civil rights movement.

The first African-American president spoke from the steps of the Lincoln Memorial.

Martin Luther King Jr. spoke there 50 years ago.

He described his dream that people of all colors would be equal.

Many black Americans still struggled just to vote back then.

Obama's remarks came after several days of events in Washington observing the anniversary.

Thousands marched Saturday on the National Mall.

They wanted to call attention to current civil rights causes.

Those included gay rights, voting rights and gun laws.

The event Wednesday was a more solemn affair.

Former Presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter spoke, as did Oprah Winfrey and Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga. Lewis was the only speaker from the 1963 march.

The president addressed a crowd huddled under umbrellas on a drizzly summer day.

He paid tribute to the 1963 marchers.

He mentioned both King and "those ordinary people whose names never appear in the history books."

He noted that "no one can match King's brilliance."

But he called on all citizens to keep up the fight for more opportunity.

"The arc of the moral universe may bend toward justice," he said, quoting King.

"But it doesn't bend on its own."

Obama has often said that King was an example to him.

The president regularly uses King's words in his speeches.

The president has a bust of King and a copy of the program from the original march in the Oval Office.

Obama took the oath of office this year using a Bible owned by King.

These have helped make the symbolic connection between the two most recognizable black leaders in U.S. history more strong.

But Obama's relationship with the civil rights movement and King's memory and mission has not been simple.

Obama's mother was white.

His father was Kenyan.

He has wrestled with this and his connection to the movement that defined a generation of black political life.

He has identified with the Joshua generation.

This label is  given to the children of movement's founders.

They are charged with carrying on the mission.

But he has also criticized the civil rights movement.

The president says it is split.

Obama on Wednesday repeated some of those comments.

Over the years, real outrage over discrimination turned into "excuse-making for criminal behavior," Obama said.

People once called for equal opportunity.

That turned into asking for government support, he said.

"As if poverty was an excuse for not raising your child."

Some people say Obama has tried not to talk much about race while he has been president.

However, he has recently spoken more openly about the discrimination he sees in the criminal justice system.

He has also talked about unfairness in education and economics.

Obama also has wrestled publicly with living up to King's teachings on avoiding physical conflict while he serves as commander in chief to the U.S. military.

As he spoke Wednesday, his cabinet and staff were weighing a missile strike against the government of Syria.

The Middle Eastern country is believed to have killed hundreds with poison gas a week ago.

White House officials have described the attack as a moral outrage.

They suggested that a military response is justified.

