A new plan could make two-year community colleges free for millions of students.

President Barack Obama said it would change college education.

The program could help about 9 million students, the White House said.

Under the plan, the government would pay three-quarters of the cost.

States would pay the rest.

"What I'd like to do is to see the first two years of community college free for everybody who is willing to work for it," Obama said.

He announced the plan in a video that was made on his airplane, Air Force One.

It was posted Thursday on Facebook.

On Friday, he visited a community college in Tennessee.

It is not known how much the plan would cost the government.

Experts said the plan could cost billions of dollars.

Obama's plan would make going to two years of college a common thing, Cecelia Munoz said.

She works at the White House.

Right now, more than 13 million people go to a four-year college or university.

Only about 7 million attend a two-year community college.

Yet the cost of a public four-year college has become expensive.

In the past 30 years, it has gone up more than 2 1/2 times.

Over time, the government has given less money to people to attend college.

The president sees this as a big block to people who want better lives.

Obama's idea would save community college students an average of $3,800 a year.

President Obama may have a hard time making his plan happen.

First he has to convince lawmakers in Washington.

Ben Miller does not think that will be easy.

Miller is with the New America Foundation.

Republicans and Democrats are the two big political parties in the United States.

Right now, Republicans control Congress, which makes the country's laws.

Members of the Republican Party often oppose paying for new government programs.

The Democratic Party often supports them.

Munoz disagreed.

Obama's plan is based on one in Tennessee, which has a Republican governor, she said.

She said the plan would appeal to both Republicans and Democrats.

Two-year colleges are cheaper than four-year universities.

Students pay about $4,646 each year for four-year state universities in Wyoming.

They pay about $14,712 in New Hampshire.

That is a big difference.

Community colleges are much cheaper.

On average, they cost $2,719 a year in Wyoming.

It is the cheapest state for community colleges.

Vermont community colleges are the most expensive.

Students there pay $7,320.

Some students spend the first two years of college at a community college.

Then they transfer to a four-year university.

Obama's plan would make it easier for them to afford a four-year university.

There is another benefit, Miller said.

The plan would make students hopeful about their future.

The plan sends a good message to students, Miller said.

It lets them know they can go to college even if they do not have money.

Many students and families do not know how much college is going to cost.

They think college costs much more than it does.

If a sixth grader thinks he has no chance of going to college "that's discouraging," Miller said.

He may think there is no point in trying hard to do well in school.

