The United States has used aircraft that fly without pilots to kill enemies in its war on terror.

Such strikes have become more common since Barack Obama became president.

But on Thursday, Obama said he would limit the use of the strikes.

The unmanned airplanes are called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

They can be controlled from thousands of miles away.

Missiles can be fired from them with the touch of a button from another country.

The drones have been a major part of Obama's plan to fight terrorism.

But Congress and other countries have criticized the drones.

Some complain innocent people have been killed by them.

Others say the program is too secretive.

The president said he's not ruling out drone strikes.

He would still use them to stop a terror attack.

But the new limits mean the United States may not use drones to kill anyone it wants.

Before, anyone who was thought to be a major threat could be a killed by a drone.

Now, a drone strike will only be allowed against fighters planning a terror attack.

Obama made the announcement in a speech about America's battle with al-Qaida.

The terrorist group planned the 9/11 attack.

If innocent people could get killed, drone strikes will not be allowed, a White House official said.

On Wednesday, the White House said that drone strikes have killed four U.S. citizens.

One of the victims was the 16-year-old son of a terrorist suspect.

Just because something is legal, Obama said, doesn't mean "it is wise or moral" in every case, The new rules mean there will be fewer drone strikes in Pakistan and Yemen, an aide said.

However, Obama still wants to be able to order a strike anywhere there's a threat from al-Qaida.

Obama didn't say exactly why he was cutting back on drones.

He inherited the program from President George W. Bush and then greatly expanded it.

Congress has had its doubts about the drone program.

It held a series of meetings about targeted killing.

No other countries that are friendly with the United States have fully accepted the White House's reason for the drone strikes.

The reasons for the rule change may be that drone strikes are just not needed any more.

The al-Qaida leaders in Pakistan are all nearly defeated, an aide said.

The war in Afghanistan is winding down.

The United States will not have a reason to fire missiles at groups of suspected fighters.

Obama made that point in his speech.

The U.S. is set to leave Afghanistan in 2014.

The president said that the United States must continue to protect the troops until then.

It will continue to strike against top al-Qaida targets, but also against fighters who are gathering to attack the U.S. troops.

"However, by the end of 2014, we will no longer have the same need for force protection," Obama said.

Many of the U.S. drone strikes have been in Yemen.

The new government there is pro-American.

It is beating al-Qaida.

U.S. officials said that is making U.S. drone strikes less needed.

