!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_JFK50YEARS_5_MCT.jpg) WASHINGTON — President John F. Kennedy was killed 50 years ago this week.

President Barack Obama and other leaders have been honoring Kennedy.

The country is also remembering Kennedy's life and death.

Obama laid a wreath at Kennedy's gravesite Wednesday.

Obama also recognized a group of important Americans with the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

The award was started by Kennedy.

Bill Clinton and Oprah Winfrey were two of the people Obama honored.

Kennedy was the 35th president.

He was killed Nov. 22, 1963, in Dallas.

The 50th anniversary of his death is Friday.

Clinton joined Obama at Arlington National Cemetery.

Each president held hands with Ethel Kennedy.

She is the widow of Robert F. Kennedy.

The three climbed a flight of stairs to the burial site on a hill overlooking the nation's capital.

Robert F. Kennedy was the former president's brother and served in the president's cabinet.

He also wanted to be president.

He was killed less than five years after his brother.

First lady Michelle Obama and former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton accompanied their husbands Wednesday.

Together they placed a large wreath of white flowers in front of the gravesite.

A flame marks the grave, burning continuously.

The tributes to Kennedy began at the White House.

There, Obama awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

He gave it to 16 living and dead Americans.

They were honored for contributions in different fields.

Some were in sports and entertainment.

Some excelled in science and public service.

Hillary Rodham Clinton, daughter Chelsea Clinton and movie director Steven Spielberg were among the people at the ceremony.

Obama said giving the medals is "one of my favorite events every year."

Kennedy created the medal, but he was killed by Lee Harvey Oswald in Dallas weeks before the first group of winners were honored.

Hundreds of notable figures since have received the honor.

Obama said a few words about each medal winner.

He said Clinton's presidency was just the start of his work to make the world a better place.

Obama talked about Clinton's works after he left office.

Those works have helped to save or improve the lives of millions worldwide, Obama said.

"I'm grateful, Bill, as well, for the advice and counsel that you've offered me, on and off the golf course," Obama said to laughter.

Bill Clinton shook hands with Kennedy as a teenager at the White House the summer before the assassination.

He and other high school students had come to Washington.

Obama also honored the late Sally Ride.

She was the first American woman in space.

Ride became a role model for young girls, he said.

"You can't be what you can't see," Obama said.

"Today our daughters, including Malia and Sasha, can set their sights a little bit higher because Sally Ride showed them the way."

The president made a point of highlighting those who had overcome great difficulties and insults because they are gay, black, female or Asian.

Early in her career, Oprah Winfrey's bosses suggested she change her name, he said.

They thought it should be something more people could connect with or relate to.

"It turned out, surprisingly, that people could relate to Oprah just fine," Obama said.

Obama planned an evening speech at a dinner at the Smithsonian museum.

He would honor medal winners.

Among those expected to attend were baseball's Hank Aaron, singer Aretha Franklin, activist Jesse Jackson, civil rights leader Rep. John Lewis, D-Ga., and former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger.

Kennedy's grandson, Jack Schlossberg, was to introduce Obama at the dinner.

He is the son of Kennedy's only surviving child, Caroline.

Caroline Kennedy recently followed her father into public service when she was became the newest U.S. ambassador to Japan.

She represents the U.S. in its relations with the Asian country.

On Friday's anniversary of Kennedy's death, Obama plans to meet privately at the White House with leaders and volunteers from the Peace Corps program.

Kennedy also started the program, which sends young Americans to work in poor countries to help people and spread peace and understanding.

The Clintons' presence at Kennedy's gravesite was sure to spark curiosity.

People will wonder whether Obama has a favorite in the 2016 presidential race.

Hillary Clinton's every move is being watched for signs of whether she'll run.

Vice President Joe Biden is another possible candidate.

He attended only the White House ceremony.

