President Barack Obama has strong support from Indian tribes.

That's good because his popularity has slipped in surveys of other Americans.

On Wednesday, he invited the leaders of 566 Indian tribes to the White House.

It's the fifth year in a row they've been invited to meet Obama.

It's one big reason Indian tribes like him.

Brian Cladoosby has led Washington state's Swinomish Indian Tribal Community for the past 17 years.

He said Obama was "second to none" when compared with other U.S. presidents.

Tribal leaders consider the president one of their own.

To them, he's Barack Black Eagle Obama.

A couple on the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana adopted him in 2008.

They gave him his Indian name.

On Wednesday, he gave a 14-minute speech to the tribal leaders.

Obama said he'd make his first visit to Indian Country as president sometime next year.

But, he didn't say where he plans to go.

He visited the Montana reservation the first time he ran for president.

Tribal leaders tell the government what they want at the yearly meeting.

For 2014, tribal leaders want the government to give them more money.

Last month the government shut down for 16 days.

That hit [Indian Country](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) hard.

It stopped money from getting to the tribes for things they needed.

The tribes also want more freedom to run things on their own land.

Obama's team met with the tribal leaders.

They promised the leaders more help fighting crime, fixing schools and getting health care.

But some tribal leaders said the president has been slow to keep his promises.

"He's reaching out to us.

We really appreciate that, but there's not a whole lot of things that have happened," said Bryan Brewer.

He's the president of South Dakota's Oglala Sioux Tribe.

Obama and his team said they've done a lot.

They've supported a law that makes it easier for tribes to arrest non-Indian people for attacking women.

They're giving 230,000 acres of land to the tribes.

They are also spending more on police, schools and emergency help.

Only one-third of tribal members have health care now.

But more than nine in 10 would be covered.

They would get health care under changes to Medicaid.

Or the new national health care law would cover them.

Medicaid is health care that poor people can use.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the government wanted to help lower crime in Indian Country.

There are a lot of attacks on women there.

He said that was "unjust and unacceptable."

Obama said too many people were poor in Indian Country.

He wants the government to help produce jobs there.

He also said he wants stronger ties between the tribes and the government.

The ties would be "based on trust and respect," Obama said.

The tribes had a long list of what they want from the government.

They want more help with projects that help their community.

They need more money for housing.

They'd like more tribal members to be made judges.

They also want more of their members to get good government jobs.

Arlan Melendez leads the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony in Nevada.

He said tribal leaders wanted the government to stop checking into money being made on Indian land.

The tribes have their own land.

They also have their own nations.

They aren't totally under the power of the government.

They can make some of their own decisions.

They can make laws and have their own leaders.

The tribes think it's unfair for the government to look into how they run their land, he said.

