The U.S. government is already working to help girls around the world get an education.

This week, President Barack Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama announced it will do more.

The new program is called Let Girls Learn.

It is building on a campaign started last year by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID).

That campaign is attempting to provide an education for the more than 60 million girls around the world who are not in school.

Government programs are already addressing topics like education, leadership, nutrition and protection against violence and forced marriages.

"I want to make sure that no girl out there is denied her chance to be a strong, capable woman with the resources that she needs to succeed — that no girl is prevented from making her unique contributions to the world," President Obama said.

"Every child is precious.

Every girl is precious.

Every girl deserves an education."

The president and first lady said this issue is personal for them because they have two daughters.

"I see myself in these girls.

I see our daughters in these girls," Michelle Obama said.

"And like all of you, I just can't walk away from them.

Like you, I can't just sit back and accept the barriers that keep them from realizing their promise."

The Peace Corps is one group that will work toward the Obamas' goals.

The Peace Corps is a volunteer program that was founded by the U.S. government in 1961.

It sends U.S citizens abroad to help people in developing countries.

Peace Corps volunteers will try to identify the barriers that prevent girls from completing their education.

These include things like the cost of a uniform, school fees or a lack of textbooks.

The organization has nearly 7,000 volunteers in more than 60 countries, according to its director, Carrie Hessler-Radelet.

These volunteers are already working with communities through training programs, she said.

"Peace Corps volunteers are in a unique position to break down barriers to girls' education at the community level," Hessler-Radelet said.

"They speak the local language, they understand the local culture."

The girls education program will start with 11 countries the first year: Albania, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Georgia, Ghana, Moldova, Mongolia, Mozambique, Togo and Uganda.

More countries will be included the following year, the White House said.

Michelle Obama will travel to Japan and Cambodia later this month as part of the initiative.

She will meet with Akie Abe, the wife of Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, and Caroline Kennedy, the U.S. ambassador to Japan.

In Cambodia, she will meet with Peace Corps volunteers and visit a local school.

President Obama's budget asks for $250 million for girls programs worldwide, including education, said Tina Tchen, the first lady's chief of staff.

USAID already invests $1 billion annually in international education.

The organization has helped train more than 300,000 teachers worldwide.

It has provided more than 35 million textbooks and teaching materials in a single year, said Susan Markham, USAID's senior coordinator on women's issues.

"Access to education is one of the foremost challenges we face as a global community," Representative Kay Granger, a Republican from Texas, said at the White House on Tuesday.

Gayle Smith of the U.S. National Security Council said improving education for girls helps a country's economy and can create more potential leaders.

Smith pointed to the troubles of girls and women in places like Nigeria and Sudan.

She said the initiative will also focus on the rights and safety of girls around the world.

National security adviser Susan Rice said this program comes "at a vital moment."

"We cannot allow these challenges to rob generations of young women of their future," Rice said.

"Together let's make sure that every child … has a chance to forge the future that they deserve, starting with an education."

To the young girls and boys in the U.S., Michelle Obama said she wanted them to "understand the transformative power of education."

She said they should learn about the sacrifices girls around the world must make and the difficulties they face in order to receive an education.

