Politics can get ugly.

Children of politicians can usually avoid the ugliness, but not always.

This week, President Barack Obama's two teenage daughters, Malia and Sasha, received a lot of attention.

After a public appearance by the girls, a worker in Congress spoke harshly of them.

"Try showing a little class," Elizabeth Lauten wrote on Facebook.

"Act like being in the White House matters to you.

Dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar."

Lauten works for a congressman from Tennessee.

She was writing about an event last Wednesday.

Malia and Sasha stood to the side as their father went through a yearly presidential tradition: pardoning a Thanksgiving turkey at the White House.

Pardoning a prisoner lets him out of jail.

Pardoning a turkey means it will not be killed and eaten on Thanksgiving.

On Friday, Lauten apologized for her Facebook comments.

"I reacted to an article and quickly judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged as a teenager," she wrote.

The apology was not enough.

Lauten quit her job on Monday.

"The Obama girls are untouchable," Mark Anthony Neal of Duke University said.

The criticism of Malia and Sasha made people angry because the Obamas are a role model for families, Neal said.

Patti Davis wrote an open letter to Malia and Sasha on Sunday.

She is another first daughter.

Davis told the young women that she was criticized for an outfit she wore to an event with Queen Elizabeth II when her father, Ronald Reagan, was president.

"There were 150 people there; 149 of them were properly dressed," she said the journalist wrote.

"As first daughters, you can't win," Davis wrote to the girls.

There will be always be people who are angry with their own lives, ready to take it out on you, she continued.

Because Obama is the first African-American president, he carries important symbolism, said James Peterson of Lehigh University.

That symbolism is powerful, he added.

Many first daughters have faced criticism.

Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh once called President Jimmy Carter's daughter, Amy, the "most unattractive presidential daughter in the history of the country."

He later apologized.

Limbaugh later attacked 13-year-old Chelsea Clinton.

He held up a picture of her and compared her to the White House dog.

Speaking to college students this year, Clinton said she developed a thick skin.

She needed it to deal with attacks.

"That was not about me, that was about him," Clinton said of Limbaugh.

President George W. Bush's twin daughters, Jenna and Barbara, were criticized, too.

They were caught drinking before they turned 21.

People also called them rude when they stuck out their tongues at photographers.

Historian Doug Wead wrote about first families in the book "All the Presidents' Children."

He says the attacks on first families stretch back into earlier eras.

In 1966, Lyndon Johnson's 18-year-old daughter Luci complained that "we don't get paid, but we sure get criticized."

She said when her grades "weren't so good, complete strangers scolded me.

And they got better and we sort of leaked the news about my B average.

People said I was bragging."

Susan Ford was President Gerald Ford's daughter.

She was criticized for wearing blue jeans in the White House.

Her high school dates were also judged.

"I kept thinking, 'I want to be normal.

But I can't be normal,'" she said at the time.

"Everyone was watching."

Another famous first daughter is Alice Roosevelt.

She was the daughter of President Theodore Roosevelt.

She moved into the White House when she was 17.

Her behavior shocked people and brought her lots of attention.

She smoked.

She drove a car by herself.

President Roosevelt told one visitor: "I can run the country and I can be a father to Alice Roosevelt, but I can't do both."

