President Barack Obama called Wednesday for a foreign policy that downplays military intervention.

Obama instead promoted diplomacy and international partnerships as a better approach to tackling global threats of terror.

"This is American leadership.

This is American strength."

Obama was speaking of efforts to work with Europe to isolate Russia for its intervention in Ukraine and to persuade Iran to abandon its nuclear pursuit.

He acknowledged that neither crisis has yet been resolved, but argued there's an opportunity to resolve them peacefully.

In a speech before graduating cadets at the U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York, the president sought to rebut criticism that his foreign policy has been one of scaling back.

Obama declared that the U.S. remains necessary, and will strike if its interests are threatened.

"America must always lead on the world stage.

If we don't, no one else will," he said, telling the cadets that the U.S. military "is and always will be the backbone of that leadership."

The speech comes amid criticism of Obama's cautious approach to conflict.

Critics say his policies have emboldened U.S. rivals such as Russian President Vladimir Putin.

Earlier this year, Putin annexed Ukraine's Crimea region.

The U.S. threatened to block trade from Russia, but it didn't stop Putin.

Obama argued that a military response "cannot be the only" solution to every conflict.

It cannot even be just the "primary" solution.

"Just because we have the best hammer does not mean that every problem is a nail," he said.

Since World War II, he said, "some of our most costly mistakes came not from our restraint, but from our willingness to rush into military adventures."

In those mistakes, the U.S. acted "without thinking through the consequences."

The speech came a day after Obama unveiled his plan to end combat operations in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan) by the end of the year.

Cadets cheered as the president said they would be the first graduating class since Sept. 11, 2001, not to be sent into combat in [Iraq](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Iraq) or Afghanistan.

Obama said he was "haunted" by the deaths in Afghanistan of four West Point service members.

The soldiers had been in attendance as graduating cadets when he announced an Afghanistan troop surge in 2009.

And he said he'd be betraying his duty to them if he rushed into conflict.

Obama said he won't use force just because he "was worried about critics who think military intervention is the only way for America to avoid looking weak."

The president did pledge to work with Congress to ramp up support for groups opposing Syria's government.

However, he has decided not to send U.S. troops to Syria.

Obama defended that decision by saying there's "no military solution that can eliminate the terrible suffering anytime soon."

A senior White House official said the administration would consider a U.S. military role in helping Syrian rebels.

The official said Obama wanted to discuss with Congress the "potential" for such a role.

The official did not want to be named.

Obama said the U.S.'s biggest threat was no longer a centralized al-Qaida capable of a large-scale attack on the U.S.

The danger now comes from smaller offshoots of al-Qaida and extremists.

Many have agendas focused in countries where they operate, the president said.

But they can target U.S. military and government workers overseas.

He pointed to the 2012 Benghazi attacks on U.S. diplomats in Libya.

Obama was elected in 2008 in part because of his opposition to the war in Iraq.

He said it's unrealistic to invade every country that harbors terrorist networks.

Instead, he has argued that the U.S. should partner with countries fighting rebels.

To that end, he called on Congress to approve a $5 billion fund to fight terrorism.

The money would go to help countries in the Middle East and North Africa that are fighting extremists.

Yemen, for instance, is battling al-Qaida and would receive money.

The U.S. is spending $10 billion to $15 billion a month in Afghanistan.

A White House official said that some of that could be applied to the fund.

The counterterrorism money would also support a multinational force in Somalia, train security and border forces in Libya and assist French operations in Mali.

The official asked not to be named.

The fund would also be used to help Syria's neighbors Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq.

They're dealing with refugees spilling over from Syria, as well as terrorism.

Republicans said U.S. allies were already concerned with what they said were Obama's failures to live up to his threats.

"Too often, strong words have been followed by weak actions or no actions," said Rep. Ed Royce.

The Republican from California chairs the House Foreign Affairs Committee.

"President Obama's diplomatic efforts cannot work if our allies lack confidence in U.S. commitments, and our opponents do not fear U.S.

warnings."

Obama sought to reserve his right to conduct targeted killings such as [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) strikes.

"There are times when those actions are necessary," he said.

Obama said so too is military action, when the U.S. or its allies are in danger.

But he said the threshold should be higher for crises that don't directly threaten the U.S.

The U.S. needs to be more careful to use force in cases that "stir our conscience or push the world in a more dangerous direction."

In those cases, he argued, working with other countries is more likely to succeed.

That course of action is "less likely to lead to costly mistakes."

