North America's tallest mountain now has a new name.

President Barack Obama announced the name change on Sunday.

For years the central Alaskan peak has been called Mount McKinley.

It was named after William McKinley, who was president of the United States from 1897 to 1901.

It has now been officially renamed Denali.

The new name is the traditional Native American name for the mountain.

The word is from a language called Athabaskan, which is spoken by the Native Americans who live around the mountain.

It means "the high one."

The name change was cheered in Alaska.

Many feel it is only right to use the name Native Americans have always used.

However, not everyone is happy with the name change.

It was heavily criticized in Ohio, McKinley's home state.

Lawmakers there attacked the decision to drop the old name.

They said it was as if McKinley was being erased from history.

The change "is insulting to all Ohioans," Ohio congressman Bob Gibbs said.

Gibbs added that he plans to do what he can to "prevent this action."

John Boehner is the leader of the House of Representatives and represents part of the state of Ohio.

Boehner voiced his anger as well.

He said he is "deeply disappointed in this decision."

The mountain was first called Mount McKinley in 1896, even before McKinley became president.

An explorer looking for gold came up with the name upon hearing that McKinley was running for office.

McKinley won the election and the name stuck.

Obama announced the name change just before leaving for a three-day visit to Alaska.

The main purpose of his visit is to draw attention to global warming, also known as climate change.

Global warming is the term scientists use for a rise in global temperatures they have detected.

For a number of years average temperatures have been steadily rising around the world.

Scientists think global warming is a man-made problem.

They believe it is caused by a buildup of greenhouse gases.

Greenhouse gases trap heat in the Earth's air.

They are created when fuels such as coal and oil are burned.

Scientists say rising temperatures are already causing serious problems worldwide.

They warn that things will get far worse if nothing is done about the problem.

In the future, it may become much harder to grow enough food.

Water may become very scarce and some parts of the world may become unbearably hot.

Scientists believe global warming is already having a big effect on Alaska.

During his visit Obama will point to evidence of change.

He will visit places where ice and snow that has been frozen for millions of years is melting.

Obama is hoping his trip will make more people realize how serious the problem is.

His goal is to get a global climate treaty passed in December.

The treaty would set new limits on how much greenhouse gas each country is allowed to produce.

Obama has promised that the U.S. will greatly cut down on the amount of greenhouse gases it produces.

He is hoping his trip to Alaska will encourage other countries to do the same.

The presidential trip to Alaska is not all serious business, however.

Obama will also make time for a bit of fun.

On Tuesday, he planned to go on a boat tour of Kenai Fjords National Park.

Later in the day he is going off on a wilderness hike.

His hike will be filmed for the TV show "Running Wild with Bear Grylls."

