Police in Ferguson, Missouri, used U.S. military equipment during protests this summer.

They sent officers with armored vehicles, assault rifles and body armor to at times peaceful marches.

Now, President Barack Obama is ordering up new rules for giving local police agencies such weapons.

Obama also proposed to spend $263 million over three years to expand training.

It will increase the use of body cameras for recording police interaction with the public.

The proposal includes $75 million that would help buy as many as 50,000 cameras.

Cameras like these might have provided more information in Michael Brown's death.

In August, the unarmed black 18-year-old was shot by a white police officer in Ferguson.

The president's new rules came along with the release of a new White House review.

It criticized the "surplus" programs of the Department of Defense and other federal agencies.

The surplus programs give military supplies that are no longer being used by the military to local police departments.

The government found that the program was run by a mixed-up set of rules and practices.

For example, there is no clear sign that all police are correctly trained and ready to use the military equipment they receive.

The results of the review came a week after a grand jury in St. Louis County chose not to bring the Ferguson police officer, Darren Wilson, to trial.

He was the officer who fatally shot Brown.

The shooting led to unrest in Missouri and prompted protests across the nation.

It also brought attention to the use of military equipment by local law enforcement officials.

Protests around the country and in Ferguson began again last week after the grand jury's decision.

Now that the report is finished, Obama told his staff to act.

They have to come up with a list of military gear that can be put to good use by police.

This will make sure it can be safely sent to local police forces around the country, senior administration officials said Monday.

The new rules will also affect how local police forces buy small arms and other "controlled" equipment."

Local officials will have to review and approve any purchases with their communities first.

Police will also have to be specially trained in their use so they don't accidentally harm someone.

The new rules will come within the next four months.

The White House will give an order to the Pentagon and all other federal agencies that run the surplus programs.

Obama is asking his defense agencies to "add a very specific layer of accountability," said one member of the Obama administration.

"These layers of accountability aren't currently present in the program."

In Ferguson this summer, the police brought out military equipment.

However, it served to make the conflict worse between police and protesters angry about the shooting.

Community leaders demanded to know why the police showed up to peaceful protests with riot gear.

In response, Obama ordered a White House review of the rules that allow police forces to get those weapons.

The new report sees a "lack of consistency."

The various federal programs are run and overseen in many different ways.

It raises questions about whether police know how to use the military-grade equipment, the senior administration official said.

Obama discussed the report's findings and his new directive in a series of meetings on Monday.

He held the meetings with his Cabinet, young civil rights leaders, community leaders and police officials from around the country.

At the top of the agenda was finding ways to build trust between police and communities.

Obama told his staff to help resolve the issue.

They wrote an executive order.

It requires officials who are not police to review and approve any equipment, such as small arms and armored vehicles, before it can be sent to their communities.

Police departments would have to take a lot of training before using any military equipment.

Under the executive order, there would also have to be follow-up reports for any serious incidents involving the federal equipment.

In addition, Obama is setting up a task force to come up with ideas for fighting crime while still building public trust.

