President Barack Obama addressed the nation on Tuesday, encouraging Americans to rekindle their belief in change.

It was his slogan when he ran for president eight years ago.

He declared that the country must not allow the next presidential election to bring more fear and division.

The president spoke to lawmakers as well as millions of Americans watching him on television.

He hoped to use his speech to both shape how he will be remembered as president, and influence voters.

He defended his actions as president and hinted that a Democratic president could help build on the work he has done. He also acknowledged the fears some Americans have — not being able to succeed in a changing world or being at risk of a terror attack.

Obama did not mention by name the candidates running to take his spot as president.

Still, he spoke about some of the common claims made by popular Republican presidential candidates who had spoken out against him.

Candidates like Donald Trump and Ted Cruz have criticized the Obama presidency.

They have called Obama too soft on security threats.

They have also claimed he has not done enough to strengthen businesses and provide more jobs.

Obama dismissed those claims, saying, "The United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth.

Period.

It's not even close."

Obama also warned against dangerous voices.

He said there were voices urging Americans to not trust "fellow citizens who don't look like us or pray like us or vote like we do or share the same background."

This warning was a response to some of the anti-Muslim speeches made by some of the presidential candidates.

Surprisingly, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley agreed with Obama.

She is a Republican.

Haley highlighted how the heated words in speeches about immigrants and minorities from Republican candidate Donald Trump have concerned some Republican leaders.

She called on Americans to resist the temptation "to follow the siren call of the angriest voices."

"No one who is willing to work hard, abide by our laws and love our traditions should ever feel unwelcome," Haley said in her written remarks.

These were released before she spoke to the media about Obama's speech.

Obama also wanted the nation to look back at all he had done in office.

He discussed how he created jobs and helped businesses after the 2007 financial crisis.

This economic disaster caused many businesses to stop hiring, leaving millions of Americans without jobs.

He mentioned the aggressive action he took on lowering the human impact on climate change.

He also spoke about putting an end to the historic trade freeze between the United States and the country of Cuba, which had been in place since 1961 during the Kennedy administration.

He proudly spoke of his agreement with the Middle Eastern country of Iran.

The country agreed to not develop the power to make deadly nuclear weapons.

President Obama, however, did not mention of the 10 American sailors who had recently been picked up by Iran.

The U.S. Department of Defense, also called the Pentagon, said the sailors had drifted into Iranian waters after encountering mechanical problems and would be returned safely and promptly.

One of the most vexing foreign policy challenges of his presidency was the threat of the Islamic State.

The group of fighters in the Middle East wants to set up its own country and rule it with strict Islamic law.

It has taken over parts of Iraq and Syria and threatened the United States as well as other Western countries with violence.

Obama promised to "take out" the Islamic State group.

However, he criticized Republicans who believe that the extremist group is more powerful than it actually is. Obama said the fighters must be stopped, but they do not threaten the United States' security.

The president's words were unlikely to satisfy Republicans, as well as some Democrats.

Many believe that Obama is not taking the Islamic State seriously enough and is leaving the U.S. vulnerable to attacks at home.

Obama was honest about one of his biggest regrets.

He said he failed to create more unity between Democrats and Republicans.

The bitterness between the parties has gotten worse, he admitted.

"There's no doubt a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt might have better bridged the divide, and I guarantee I'll keep trying to be better so long as I hold this office."

Knowing that he cannot get many laws passed in his last year in office, Obama avoided the traditional list of policy proposals.

He did restate that he wanted to work with Republicans on bettering the prison and policing system, decreasing gun violence and fixing the nation's broken immigration laws.

Obama was eager to look beyond his own presidency.

He seemed to view the actions he has taken as a starting point for future progress.

His optimism was meant to draw a contrast with what the White House sees as doom-and-gloom scenarios often heard in speeches by Republican candidates.

Republicans were largely dismissive of the president's address.

House Speaker Paul Ryan sat in the speaker's traditional seat behind the president for the first time.

Ryan said that while Obama's speech sounded impressive, it did not do much to explain how to solve the nation's current problems.

