First, Michelle Obama got kids around the country to get up and move to fight weight problems.

Now, the first lady is telling them to eat home-cooked meals to slim down.

Obama said Friday that she has a new plan to get the nation's young people healthier.

She's encouraging people to cook more meals at home.

Home-cooked meals are healthier.

And they also save money, said Obama at a health conference in Washington.

The first lady said home-cooked meals have less fat and salt than restaurant meals.

Too much fat and salt can lead to heart disease and high blood pressure.

She said too many people think they don't have the time or ability to cook for themselves.

But plenty of meals can be cooked in less than 30 minutes.

Home-cooked meals also can cost less than fast food.

Obama began working on the problem of overweight children as soon as she got to the White House in 2009.

She promised that she won't give up even after her husband leaves office.

"We cannot walk away from this issue until obesity rates drop for children of every age and every background," she said.

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) is when a person has too much body fat.

Obese children are more likely to have health problems later in life.

"We cannot walk away until every child in this country has a shot at a healthy life," she said.

"And that's why I'm in this thing for the long haul.

And I mean long after I leave the White House."

Obama said she believes in finishing what she starts.

The first lady said there has been a big drop in obesity rates among children ages 2 to 5.

She said this is a small, though important, achievement.

But the problem isn't solved.

Obama urged everyone to keep working on solutions to the problem, especially for obesity among older kids.

"Now is not the time to take our foot off the gas and congratulate ourselves on a job well done," Obama said.

"Just the opposite.

Now is the time to fight even harder, because we now know it is possible to make a difference."

Mrs. Obama is working with some food and drink makers to make healthier products.

Government laws and rules are making schools serve healthier meals.

The first lady said she is working with grocery stores to give out recipes and offer cooking demonstrations.

She is asking schools to teach students how to cook.

Chefs should give cooking classes in their restaurants, she says.

Obama said she will announce new programs in the next few months.

Eating home-cooked meals is one of the best ways families can be healthier.

Studies have proved this, she said.

Growing up, Obama said her mother set aside a certain amount of money to spend on food.

Her mother planned her meals weekly.

She also shopped for groceries every Saturday.

She asked, "How do we help families start cooking again, even if it's just one or two meals a week?"

The conference she spoke at was set up by the Partnership for a Healthier America.

The partnership was created to support a program Obama began to fight childhood obesity.

Her program is called "Let's Move."

The partnership also works with businesses to make healthier products.

So far, more than 90 companies promised to make their products healthier, said Larry Soler.

He is in charge of the Partnership for a Healthier America.

Among them was yogurt maker Dannon.

The company announced Friday that it plans to make products with less fat and sugar.

