SHINGTON -- President Barack Obama said Tuesday night that efforts to remove poison gas weapons from Syria peacefully may work.

But the U.S. military will keep the pressure on President Bashar Assad "and be ready to respond" if other measures fail, he said.

The president went on national television from the White House to discuss the crisis in Syria.

He has been asking Congress to give him permission to  use military force against Syria.

But he said on Tuesday he asked congressional leaders to delay a vote on that request to give peaceful negotiations a chance to work.

Obama said the country was tired after 10 years of war in Iraq and Afghanistan.

"America is not the world's policeman," he said.

But if, with a little bit of effort and risk, "we can stop children from being gassed to death and thereby make our own children safer over the long run, I believe we should act.

That's what makes America different.

That's what makes us exceptional."

A lot has been happening around Syria over the past 10 days.

First Obama unexpectedly stepped back from a threatened military strike.

He said he would first ask Congress to pass a law authorizing the use of force against Assad.

Most people do not want the American military to get involved in Syria.

Polls keep showing this.

Lawmakers in both parties also have offered little support.

They worry about getting into another war in the Middle East.

Obama also had trouble building international support for a military attack as well.

But things changed again this week.

First Russia and then Syria reacted positively to a remark from Secretary of State John Kerry.

He indicated th at there was a way out of the crisis.

Syria could agree to put its poison gas weapons under international control.

Kerry will meet with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Thursday.

Meanwhile, Obama said he will keep talking with Russian President Vladimir Putin.

The United States and its allies will also work with Russia and China on another front.

They would ask the United Nations to make Assad give up his poison gas weapons.

They would eventually be destroyed.

The United States blames an Aug. 21 poison gas attack on Assad.

The president said the alleged attack was "not only a violation of international law," it was also a danger for the United States.

If peaceful negotiations fail and the United States does not act, Assad could keep using poison gas.

So could other tyrants.

U.S. troops could be gassed, he said.

Obama said he would not put U.S. troops in Syria.

The military action would not be like the long wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

The military strike would have a clear goal, Obama said.

It would be meant to stop Assad from using poison gas.

Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel spoke to a congressional hearing before the speech.

He said the threat of military action needed to remain in order for peaceful negotiations to work.

Kerry said Syria had to face punishment if it did not live up to an agreement.

U.S. officials say more than 1,400 died in the Aug. 21 attack.

At least 400 were children, they said.

Other death estimates are lower.

Assad has said the attack was launched by rebels.

They have been fighting to drive him from power in the civil war.

So far, more than 100,000 civilians have died in the war.

Russia supports Assad.

It has blocked U.S. attempts to rally the U.N. Security Council behind a military strike.

But on Monday it spoke favorably about requiring Syria to surrender control of its poison gas.

The Syrian foreign minister did likewise.

The foreign minister said on Tuesday that his government was ready to turn over its chemical weapons in order to stop a U.S. attack.

The response in Congress to support a U.S. strike has not been great.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky on Tuesday became the first congressional leader to come out against giving the president permission to attack Syria.

"There are just too many unanswered questions" about the long-term U.S. plan in Syria, he said.

Speaker John Boehner of Ohio and Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia have supported Obama's request.

They are the top two Republicans in the House.

