President Barack Obama said the U.S. may bomb inside Syria for the first time.

The U.S. will bomb even more in Iraq, he said.

The target is a group that calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

ISIL was once part of the al-Qaida terrorist group.

Al-Qaida was blamed for the 9/11 attacks in the U.S. Later ISIL broke off from al-Qaida.

It has now taken over parts of Iraq and Syria.

It wants to set up its own country under Islamic law.

Recently, the group killed two American journalists in Syria.

Videos of the killings shocked the world.

"We will hunt down terrorists who threaten our country, wherever they are," Obama declared.

He spoke to the nation from the White House Wednesday night.

"If you threaten America, you will find no safe haven."

Obama said he will send nearly 500 more U.S. troops to Iraq.

They won't be combat troops.

They will just help Iraqi forces.

It will bring the total number of American forces sent there this summer to more than 1,500.

He also wants to give money to train and arm Syrian rebels.

The rebels are fighting both ISIL and Syria's government.

Obama's plan is a major change.

Before becoming president, he spoke out against the U.S. war in Iraq.

While president, he has tried to end American wars in the Middle East and avoid new ones.

He's tried to stay out of Syria.

The country has a war raging inside its borders.

Chaos in Syria helped ISIL to grow there.

It has moved across the border to Iraq.

Obama spoke on the night before the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on the U.S. Obama's plans showed that since 2001, the U.S. has not stopped terror threats coming from the Middle East.

Obama said he was not sending U.S. combat troops back to the Middle East.

Even so, he said "any time we take military action, there are risks involved."

Obama said the troops who carry out these air missions are most at risk.

"But I want the American people to understand how this effort will be different from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

It will not involve American combat troops fighting on foreign soil," he added.

White House officials do not know if ISIL plans to attack in the U.S.

Still, they say ISIL threatens Americans in the Middle East.

Officials also say that Americans have joined the group.

When they return home, they could launch attacks in the U.S.

Surveys show that most Americans support airstrikes in Iraq and Syria against ISIL.

The U.S. used air attacks against ISIL in Iraq earlier this summer.

But Obama did not want to get the U.S. in any deeper.

Now, Obama plans to go ahead with the airstrikes in Iraq and Syria.

It will be "a steady, relentless effort to take out ISIL," he said.

The U.S. will bomb from its planes.

Partners of the U.S. will fight on the ground.

Obama wants to give money to rebels fighting Syria's government.

The money would train them and buy them weapons.

The White House said Wednesday that it will give $25 million to the Iraqi government.

The money will help fight ISIL.

The U.S. will also try to cut off the group's money supply.

The U.S. has been asking countries in Europe and the Middle East to help fight ISIL.

France and Germany said they will help.

ISIL has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

