President Barack Obama on Wednesday asked world leaders at the United Nations to "choose hope over fear" and help fight the extremist group Islamic State (ISIL) in Syria and Iraq.

In his speech  Wednesday, he also called on leaders to oppose violent extremists and religious conflict around the world.

The militant group calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

ISIL wants to take over land in the Middle East and create a strict religious government.

The group has already taken control of land in Iraq and Syria.

Speaking to the U.N. General Assembly in New York, Obama urged leaders to support Iraqis and Syrians who are fighting to save their communities.

He also defended the new military campaign he has begun in Syria and Iraq against ISIL, al-Qaida and other extremist groups.

"No God condones this terror," Obama said.

"There can be no reasoning — no negotiation — with this brand of evil.

The only language understood by killers like this is the language of force.

The United States of America will work with a broad coalition to dismantle this network of death."

In his speech, Obama emphasized cooperation, not conquest, and he criticized governments around the world who have acted aggressively.

He singled out Russia's actions in Ukraine for criticism, saying the U.S. would support democracy in Ukraine and come to the defense of NATO allies.

NATO — the North Atlantic Treaty Organization — was formed in 1949 by the United States, the United Kingdom and other Western countries to counter the Soviet Union, now Russia.

Obama also promised to help stop the outbreak of the Ebola virus devastating West Africa.

Most of the speech, though, was dedicated to events in the Middle East.

Obama discussed recent global conflict as well as recent U.S. military action, including U.S. bombings of ISIL targets in Iraq and Syria.

The Pentagon said it hit and damaged eight ISIL vehicles in Syria near the border with Iraq, and carried out four bombing strikes on targets near Baghdad in Iraq.

Videos posted on social media showed Syrian civilians picking through the rubble of destroyed homes.

Syrian activists reported that civilians had been killed in the bombings.

Still, at the U.N., Obama urged toughness.

The world must take concrete steps to deal with "religiously motivated fanatics," he said.

It's also important to identify trends that help extremist groups to recruit new members, he noted.

In the past, Obama has blamed many problems in the Middle East on the continuing conflict between Israelis and Palestinians.

In this speech, he had a different focus, emphasizing that Muslim community leaders need to fight the extreme views of groups like al-Qaida and ISIL.

Obama warned that extremist, violent views are spreading to countries in the Middle East and North Africa that may lack food, water, jobs and other necessities.

"No children anywhere should be educated to hate other people," Obama said.

"It is time for a new compact among the civilized peoples of this world to eradicate war at its most fundamental source: the corruption of young minds by violent ideology."

After the speech, the president planned to ask the 15 countries on the  U.N. Security Council to crack down on citizens who join violent extremist groups.

Obama wants tougher penalties and more travel restriction on these foreign fighters, who leave their home countries to join groups like ISIL.

Obama did not ask the Security Council for permission to use military force in Syria.

It's likely that Russia, a longtime ally of Syria, would have vetoed the proposal.

As he criticizes aggressive governments, Obama must explain why the U.S. is bombing in Syria without U.N. permission.

The Obama administration's view is that Iraq is facing a direct threat from militant fighters in Syria, and has asked for U.S. help.

A year ago, Obama was also at the U.N. talking about Syria.

He pointed out U.S. success in asking Syrian President Bashar Assad to get rid of his nation's chemical weapons.

Obama had hoped the decision would "energize a larger diplomatic effort to reach a political settlement within Syria."

Now, a year later, Obama is explaining why the U.S. military is bombing in Syria.

"We will use our military might in a campaign of airstrikes to roll back ISIL," Obama said.

"We will train and equip forces fighting against these terrorists on the ground.

We will work to cut off their financing, and to stop the flow of fighters into and out of the region."

He added, "Those who have joined ISIL should leave the battlefield while they can.

Those who continue to fight for a hateful cause will find they are increasingly alone.

We will demonstrate that the future belongs to those who build — not those who destroy."

