SHINGTON – President Barack Obama says he wants to move quickly to bring fast Internet to American public schools.

On Tuesday, he made a promise.

He said he wants to make sure students in the United States have the same advantages that students in other countries have.

We expect free Internet at a coffee shop, he said.

We should "demand it in our schools."

Obama gave a speech to announce plans to speed up his project.

He wants to make sure all schools can use the Internet.

To pay for it, he wants to use money from the government and from businesses.

Several U.S. companies are pitching in about $750 million in goods and services to help students get connected to the World Wide Web.

They include Apple, AT&amp;T, Microsoft, Sprint and Verizon.

The money from the companies will be used with $2 billion from the government's Federal Communications Commission.

It is also called the FCC.

For about 20 million students, the money will mean they can get the Internet in their schools and libraries.

The plan will take place over the next two years.

It is sooner than Obama thought it would be when he launched his "ConnectED" plan last year.

Back then, White House officials thought the FCC would have to go through a long process to be allowed to spend $2 billion.

Right now, that money is already dedicated to helping schools get high-speed Internet.

But the FCC recently decided it could give the money out faster.

This will speed up the funding of high-speed Internet projects without having to vote on them.

The sped-up timeline comes without a single vote from the rest of the government.

Obama has had problems in getting some members of the government to agree on plans.

Obama added that the plan won't cost the country money that it doesn't have.

But he also warned lawmakers that he was about to ask them to pitch in.

He said he would ask Congress to give teachers the cutting-edge technology they deserve.

He also wants to train teachers so that technology can be used in the best way possible.

The speech showed Obama using a new game plan in his second-term.

He said in his State of the Union speech that Congress was fighting too much.

Congress is made up of people elected to vote on laws.

Because they were fighting, fewer and fewer laws were being passed.

Because of this, Obama said his second term would be different.

He would announce what he would do and take action without a vote.

He would use his executive power wherever possible.

After that, he would ask Congress to vote to make bigger changes.

In this case, he also wants to get business leaders who have put money in these projects to ask for congressional action.

"I'm going to ask every business leader to join us in this effort," Obama said.

That way, they can "give every young person every shot at success."

