Speaking at the United Nations on Wednesday, President Barack Obama defended the U.S. bombing of the violent group Islamic State (ISIL) in Iraq and Syria.

He asked world leaders to fight such groups around the world.

The militant group calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

"Choose hope over fear," Obama said in his speech.

Iraqis and Syrians are fighting to save their communities from violent invaders and they need help, Obama said.

The U.S. recently began to bomb ISIL in Iraq and Syria.

ISIL wants to take over land in the Middle East and create a strict religious government.

The group has already taken control of land in Iraq and Syria.

"There can be no reasoning with this brand of evil," Obama said.

"The only language understood by killers like this is the language of force."

The United States will form a coalition of countries that will work together to destroy ISIL, Obama said.

He called the group a "network of death."

The U.S. military announced bombings in Syria near the border with Iraq and near Iraq's capital of Baghdad aimed at ISIL.

It said it had destroyed eight ISIL vehicles in one bombing.

On social media, videos showed Syrian people looking at destroyed homes.

Some regular people, or civilians, had been killed in the bombings, according to local reports.

Still, Obama called for toughness at the U.N.

He said some people are motivated by religion to do terrible things, and the world must face these people.

Groups like ISIL and al-Qaida teach intolerance.

Obama said Muslim community leaders must fight against these extreme views.

He warned that poor conditions in the Middle East and North Africa make it possible to find angry young men who might be willing to join a violent group.

"No children anywhere should be educated to hate other people," Obama said.

He added that the civilized countries of the world must destroy war at its source: young people being taught to hate and kill.

Another concern for Obama is foreign fighters.

These young fighters leave their countries to fight for ISIL or similar groups.

Obama planned to ask the U.N. for tougher penalties and more travel restrictions on foreign fighters.

Obama did not ask the U.N. for permission to attack ISIL in Syria.

The United States believed Russia would probably have said no.

Russia is an ally of Syria.

Obama explained that Iraq asked the U.S. for help in facing the threat from ISIL.

A year ago at the U.N., Obama saw hope for Syria.

Syrian President Bashar Assad had agreed to give up his country's chemical weapons.

Obama hoped there could be discussion and an end to the civil war in Syria.

A year later, Obama returned to the U.N. to explain the U.S. bombings in Syria.

Obama said the U.S. will train forces in other countries to fight against ISIL.

He promised to cut off the group's money and stop foreign fighters from joining it.

"We will demonstrate that the future belongs to those who build — not those who destroy," he said.

In his speech, Obama also promised to help control the Ebola outbreak in West Africa.

Since March, the disease has killed 2,600 people, and there are fears it could spread.

He also had strong words for Russia.

Obama said Russia was acting aggressively toward Ukraine.

The U.S. will continue to support Ukraine, he said.

