President Barack Obama spoke to the nation on Tuesday in a State of the Union address.

The speech is used to tell Americans his plans as well as how the country is doing.

This was his last State of the Union speech of his time as president.

Obama encouraged Americans to continue believing in change.

"Change" was part of his motto when he ran for president eight years ago.

The president spoke to lawmakers as well as millions of Americans watching him on television.

He hoped to use his speech to shape how he will be remembered as president.

He also knows that there is an election coming.

One big problem Obama faced as president has been trying to get two political parties, or groups, to get along.

The two parties are the Democrats and the Republicans.

Lawmakers in the two groups often disagree about which ideas should be turned into laws.

Obama, a Democrat, said in his speech that the country must not allow the election to bring more fear and arguing.

The Democrats and the Republicans both want to have a president who is from their party.

Obama would prefer another Democrat to take over after he is not longer the president.

Obama did not mention the names of candidates, or individuals who are trying to become president.

Still, he spoke about some of the common claims made by popular Republican candidates.

Many of them have said negative things about Obama. They said Obama was not doing enough to protect Americans.

They have also claimed he has not done enough to strengthen businesses and provide more jobs.

Obama said they were claiming that America was getting weaker.

He disagreed.

"The United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth," he said.

"Period.

It's not even close."

Obama also warned against dangerous voices.

Some candidates for president have said things that were anti-Muslim.

Obama said these voices were urging Americans to not trust other Americans "who don't look like us or pray like us or vote like we do or share the same background."

Obama also wanted the nation to look back at all he had done in office.

He discussed how he created jobs and helped businesses after 2007.

That year, many people lost money, their jobs and even their homes.

He also spoke of some deals he made in countries overseas.

One of the most challenging issues overseas for Obama was a new enemy called the Islamic State.

The group of fighters in the Middle East wants to set up its own country and rule it with strict Islamic law.

It has taken over parts of Iraq and Syria and threatened the United States as well as other Western countries with violence.

Obama promised to destroy the Islamic State group.

He also said many Republicans made them sound more powerful and scary than they are.

Many believe that Obama is not taking the Islamic State seriously enough.

Republicans are afraid the U.S. could be attacked.

Obama was honest about one of his biggest regrets.

He said he failed in helping Democrats and Republicans work together.

The anger between the parties has gotten worse, he admitted.

"There's no doubt a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt" might have done a better job, Obama said.

He promised, "I'll keep trying to be better so long as I hold this office."

Obama was eager to look beyond his own presidency.

He seemed to view the actions he has taken as a starting point for future progress.

Many Republicans did not like the president's address.

Paul Ryan is an important lawmaker in Congress.

Ryan said that while Obama's speech sounded impressive, it did not do much to explain how to solve the nation's current problems.

