President Barack Obama urged Congress on Wednesday to raise wages and secure the social safety net, issuing an appeal to correct economic inequalities that he said make it harder for a child to escape poverty.

"That should offend all of us," he declared.

"We are a better country than this."

Focusing on the pocketbook issues that concern Americans most, Obama argued that the dream of upward economic mobility is breaking down.

The growing income gap is a "defining challenge of our time," he said.

"The basic bargain at the heart of our economy has frayed," the president said in remarks at a nonprofit community center.

It was a short drive from the White House in one of Washington's most impoverished neighborhoods.

He offered no new proposals.

But Obama blended a call for Congress to act on short-term economic measures that are up for vote, with an ambitious vision aimed at repairing a growing level of income inequality in the United States.

The speech served as a guide for the remaining three years of his term, which has been hurt by growing doubts about how well he is dealing with the economy.

The speech drew attention to past proposals he has made that have met a dead end in the divided Congress.

But in doing so, Obama also admitted to the political failures and economic difficulties he has faced trying to halt widening inequality trends.

He acknowledged his administration's "poor execution" in rolling out the flawed health care website that was supposed to be an easy means of purchasing insurance.

But he still blamed Republicans for a "reckless" shutdown of the government.

"Nobody has acquitted themselves very well these past few months," Obama said.

"So it's not surprising that the American people's frustrations with Washington are at an all-time high."

Worse for Americans, he added, are their growing difficulties in trying to make ends meet no matter how hard they work.

The speech coincided with growing national and international attention to the wide gap between the rich and the poor — from the writings of Pope Francis to the protests of fast-food workers in the U.S. Obama recalled the pope's words, the deeds of past presidents as well as his own personal story as a young boy with a mother who struggled to make ends meet.

And he noted that in the United States, a child born into the bottom 20 percent of income levels has less than a 5 percent chance of making it to the top income levels.

She is 10 times likelier to stay where she is — worse than other rich countries such as Canada, Germany and France.

House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio blamed Senate Democrats and Obama for the lack of action on jobs legislation.

He said bills passed by the Republican-controlled House that would help the economy and create jobs have been blocked in the Democratic-controlled Senate.

"The Senate and the president continue to stand in the way of the people's priorities," he said on the House floor.

Obama admitted that "the elephant in the room" is the political gridlock that has prevented congressional action.

But he pointed to the health care law, despite its troubled website launch, as one example that he said is already helping families.

It provides insurance coverage to more Americans and is supposed to push down the costs of health care.

Obama specifically called on Congress to increase the federal minimum wage from the current $7.25 an hour.

A Democratic bill by Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa would raise the threshold to $10.10 an hour in three steps.

A vote in the Senate is not expected in December, when the chamber will mostly focus on the budget and other issues.

Whenever it is debated, the measure seems unlikely to win the 60 votes it would need to clear the Senate due to Republican opposition.

Obama also pressed Congress to extend jobless benefits to 1.3 million long-term unemployed people.

The benefits are set to expire just three days after Christmas.

The additional weeks of benefits have been extended each year since 2009, but a senior Republican lawmaker, Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, said Tuesday that lawmakers in his party oppose yet another extension.

