SHINGTON – The American public feels unusually bad about the direction of the country and they're increasingly fed up with the lack of cooperation in Washington.

As a result, more people disapprove of President Barack Obama than ever before.

People gave elected officials unusually low grades, according to a new McClatchy-Marist poll.

About a third, 31 percent, rated them "D" and 38 percent gave them an "F." "The lack of confidence in Washington to right itself is showing up," said Lee Miringoff.

He is the head of the Marist Institute for Public Opinion in New York, which worked on the poll.

Obama's disapproval rating climbed to 53 percent – the worst in 29 surveys since he took office in January 2009.

Only 43 percent approved of his job performance.

The disapproval number was up from 47 percent in September and tops the previous high of 52 percent in September 2011.

The government is split into two parties – Democrats and Republicans.

President Obama is a Democrat and, not surprisingly, other Democrats approved of him – 77 percent to 18 percent.

He faced disdain from Republicans – with 90 percent to 8 percent disapproval, while independents disapproved 56 percent to 41 percent.

Obama's personal ratings were also down.

By 52 percent to 46 percent, people had an unfavorable impression of him, the first time since November 2011 the unpopular number was higher.

The unfavorable number was also the worst he has endured.

Obama in recent weeks has been battered by fighting over his health care program.

The highly promoted website where people could sign up for coverage didn't work.

It embarrassed the president, and Obama had to backtrack from his promise that people could keep their plans if they wanted.

Congress fared even worse in the poll.

By 74 percent to 22 percent, voters did not approve of the Republicans' performance, the highest since the question was first asked in April 2011.

Republicans control the House of Representatives and 45 of the Senate's 100 seats.

People soured on Democrats, too.

Sixty-four percent disapproved of congressional Democrats, who control the Senate.

Both Republican and Democratic disapproval numbers were up sharply from the last survey in July.

The key reason for the glum ratings is how people are feeling about getting jobs and being able to pay their bills.

Things are getting better, but people aren't feeling it.

Instead, Miringoff said voters focused on the 16-day October government shutdown and the health care chaos.

That helped create the pessimism that left two-thirds of people seeing things going the wrong way; only 30 percent felt matters were heading in the right direction.

Democrats felt much better about how things are going.

The survey found 57 percent thought the country was going in the right direction.

Republicans overwhelmingly saw the country moving the wrong way – 95 percent to 4 percent – as did independents, 69 percent to 26 percent.

The fighting over how to spend money is the most obvious symbol of how Washington has had trouble getting anything done.

Lawmakers have wrangled all year.

Negotiators this week are said to be close on a deal that will avoid another shutdown when money again runs out Jan. 15.

Obama got low marks for making sure that people have jobs and can afford what they need.

Fifty-eight percent disapproved of how he's dealing with it, while 40 percent approved.

More people, though, blamed Republicans for the mess.

Almost half, 48 percent, said it's their fault while 38 percent blamed Obama.

The president suffered in two other areas where he had shown strength, working with other countries and personal appeal.

The latest survey was done after the government announced an agreement with Iran that eases some punishments on that country.

In return, Iraq agreed to some limits on its nuclear program.

That plan has won little congressional support, with lawmakers from both parties expressing doubts.

Forty-six percent approved of how Obama handles other countries, while 51 percent did not.

Voters have mixed views about how all this will translate in next year's elections.

Equal numbers –43 percent – said they would vote for a Republican or a Democratic candidate.

Independents preferred Republicans, 41 percent to 34 percent.

Moderates favored Democrats, 49 percent to 35 percent.

