What do the minimum wage, preschool and gun control all have in common?

They are all things President Barack Obama wants to expand in his second term in office.

Obama revealed these and other goals in his State of the Union address on Tuesday and then spent the rest of the week on the road and in cyberspace trying to rally support for his sweeping agenda.

Employment was a main theme of Obama's speech to Congress, which outlined several strategies for supporting the middle class and closing the gap between the rich and the poor.

He proposed increasing the [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) from $7.25 an hour to $9 and investing more in education and job training.

He also called for the creation of high-tech factory hubs.

The next day he flew to North Carolina to visit one such factory that manufactures auto parts.

American manufacturing has suffered in the past few decades as more companies choose to produce products overseas where labor is less expensive.

Obama said by focusing on high-tech manufacturing, such as 3D printing, the U.S. can win back factory jobs that pay a good, living wage to restore the American middle class.

"We've got to help our workers get the training to compete for the industries of tomorrow," Obama said to the factory employees.

On Wednesday, Obama flew to Georgia, where he visited a community center and a preschool class, giving high-fives and fist bumps to 4-year-olds.

The president urged Congress in his State of the Union speech to make high-quality preschool available to all children so that kids start kindergarten ready to learn.

Obama's critics responded there's no evidence that shows preschool has a long-term effect on students' academic success.

They argue that the plan will be too costly for the country to afford, but the president sees it otherwise.

"Every dollar we invest in high-quality early education can save more than seven dollars later on – boosting graduation rates, reducing teen pregnancy, reducing violent crime," Obama said in Georgia.

Air Force One will be back in the skies on Friday, as Obama returns to his old neighborhood in Chicago to talk more about his proposals to help middle and working class families.

The president's visit will take place at a high school, and it's expected that he will discuss his State of the Union remarks about curbing gun violence with the students.

The State of the Union is an annual speech that the president must deliver to Congress as required by the U.S. Constitution.

Presidents usually invite special guests who represent some of the issues mentioned in the speech.

This year, the president and Mrs. Obama invited the parents of Hadiya Pendleton, a 15-year-old who was gunned down in Chicago.

Pendleton had just performed with her school band at the president's inauguration last month.

Obama made an emotional plea to Congress, urging them to hold a vote on gun control.

Sitting in the chamber was Gabrielle Giffords, the former Arizona congresswoman who suffered brain damage when a gunman shot her in the head.

Many in the audience wore green ribbons in honor of the 26 teachers and students killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.

Gun control was one of the topics the president addressed on Thursday in a "fireside hangout."

The question-and-answer forum on Google+ was a modern version of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's informal radio broadcasts known as "fireside chats."

One hangout guest pointed out to the president that handguns, not assault weapons, cause most gun deaths.

She asked if the president wants to ban handguns.

Obama replied that he didn't want to ban them, but rather require stricter background checks to buy them.

The same guest raised concerns about a higher minimum wage, the lowest pay rate that U.S. employers are allowed to give their workers.

She worried that companies would have to raise prices if they are required to pay their employees more.

She wondered whether she would still be able to afford things, such as a daily coffee from Starbucks.

Obama pointed out that corporations are making higher profits than ever and that better wages could actually benefit U.S. businesses.

He recalled that Henry Ford raised his workers' salaries so that they would be able to buy Ford vehicles for themselves.

"Nobody's going to be getting rich on $9 an hour," Obama said.

"They're still going to be struggling.

But it could make the difference between whether they can afford to buy groceries or whether they are going to a food bank."

Obama told the woman he suspected she would still be able to afford Starbucks even with a higher minimum wage.

The president answered a few personal questions from the hangout guests.

One woman asked if his daughters were interested in pursuing careers in engineering or science.

He replied that Sasha and Malia enjoy math and science classes, but that they are still young and haven't decided yet what they want to be.

Another hangout guest introduced his pregnant wife and asked the president if they should name their baby "Alice" or "Eleanor."

Obama declined to answer, saying he didn't want to take sides but said they should tell their baby "don't forget to be awesome."

