The children of presidents have always captured the imaginations of the American public.

They have also faced their share of criticism.

A radio host once said Amy Carter was ugly.

Susan Ford had her dates critiqued.

Chelsea Clinton's appearance was criticized.

In recent decades, it has been almost all girls and young women who have become targets.

Now, biting criticism of Sasha and Malia Obama by a Republican congressional aide has sparked a round of outrage.

The outrage is particularly strong among African-Americans who consider the Obamas an example of black family success.

The fact that Obama is the first African-American president means a lot to people, said James Peterson, director of Africana studies at Lehigh University.

"The symbolic nature of this president and this first family in many black households outweighs the substance of the presidency itself," Peterson said.

"I'm a substance guy, but the symbolic nature of this president is a force to be reckoned with."

Elizabeth Lauten, communications director for Representative Stephen Fincher, a Tennessee Republican, reportedly resigned Monday after receiving heavy criticism on social media for a post on her Facebook page.

Lauten's post sharply criticized Obama's teenage daughters last Wednesday during the annual pardoning of a Thanksgiving turkey at the White House.

"Try showing a little class," Lauten wrote on Facebook.

"Act like being in the White House matters to you.

Dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar."

Lauten apologized Friday on Facebook.

"I reacted to an article and quickly judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged as a teenager," Lauten wrote.

But the damage had already been done.

"Black folks might not be gung-ho for Team Obama these days, but the Obama girls are untouchable," said Mark Anthony Neal, a professor of African and African-American studies at Duke University.

"When (Lauten) discussed them lacking class, that not only struck a chord with blacks but with non-blacks, because the Obamas are viewed as role models for families."

Today, criticizing presidential children — especially young ones — is considered off limits, but the practice is almost as old as our country itself.

Former first daughter Patti Davis wrote an open letter to Sasha and Malia on Sunday.

She noted that she was criticized for an outfit she wore to an event with Queen Elizabeth II when her father, Ronald Reagan, was president.

"There were 150 people there; 149 of them were properly dressed," she said the journalist wrote.

"As first daughters, you can't win," Davis wrote to the girls.

"There will always be (mean) people sitting at their keyboards, seething with anger at their own lives, ready to take it out on you."

First daughters Amy Carter and Chelsea Clinton both came under particularly harsh criticism.

Conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh once called Carter the "most unattractive presidential daughter in the history of the country."

He eventually apologized.

Later, holding up a photograph of then 13-year-old Clinton on his 1993 television show, he asked his viewers, "Did you know there is also a White House dog?"

Clinton has said that she developed a thick skin as a way to deflect attacks.

"I have the dubious honor of being compared to a dog as a 13-year-old by Rush Limbaugh," she said earlier this year, addressing the National Conference for College Women Student Leaders at the University of Maryland.

"That was not about me, that was about him."

President George W. Bush's twin daughters, Jenna and Barbara, were criticized for underage drinking and for sticking out their tongues at photographers.

Historian Doug Wead, a staffer in the George H.W.

Bush White House who wrote about what he called the "triumph and tragedy" of first families in the book "All the Presidents' Children," says the critiques of first families stretch back into earlier eras.

In 1966, Lyndon Johnson's 18-year-old daughter Luci complained that "we don't get paid, but we sure get criticized."

In a Newsweek magazine interview, she noted that when her grades "weren't so good, complete strangers scolded me.

And they got better and we sort of leaked the news about my B average — people said I was bragging."

Susan Ford was criticized for wearing blue jeans in the White House and had her high school dates critiqued.

"I kept thinking, 'I want to be normal.

But I can't be normal,'" she said at the time.

"Everyone was watching."

"The idea that children aren't involved, that it's taboo, is incorrect.

But in recent times we've all been very respectful," Wead said.

He said he thought that was why Lauten's remarks were so controversial.

"The American people instinctively realize that whatever political differences they may have with the Obamas, they're good parents and you can see that," he said.

Theodore Roosevelt's oldest daughter, Alice, moved into the White House when she was 17.

Her behavior constantly brought her under close scrutiny.

"The pulpits of America were filled with sermons every weekend about Alice Roosevelt," Wead said.

Roosevelt smoked, and she drove a car by herself.

When she drove from Washington to New York, the press would follow as if it were Lindbergh crossing the Atlantic, Wead said.

At one point, President Roosevelt told an exasperated visitor, "I can run the country and I can be a father to Alice Roosevelt, but I can't do both."

