President Barack Obama asked Congress to raise wages for the lowest paid workers and strengthen the government programs that help people in hard times.

On Wednesday, he made a broad appeal to correct inequalities that he said make it harder for a child to escape poverty.

"That should offend all of us," he said.

"We are a better country than this."

Obama focused on the household issues that concern Americans the most.

He argued that the dream of working hard and bettering your situation is breaking down.

The growing gap between the lowest paid and highest paid workers is a "defining challenge of our time," he said.

"The basic bargain at the heart of our economy has frayed," the president said.

He gave the remarks at a nonprofit community center.

It was a short drive from the White House to one of Washington's poorest neighborhoods.

He offered no new solutions.

But Obama mixed a call for Congress to act on short-term bills he wants to pass with an ambitious vision aimed at fixing a growing level of income inequality in the United States.

The speech served as a guide for what Obama might do in the remaining three years of his term.

The speech drew attention to past laws he has tried to get passed.

Those acts have met a dead end in Congress, where the parties are sharply divided.

In doing so, Obama also acknowledged the government failures and economic difficulties he has faced in his efforts.

He admitted his team did a poor job in rolling out the flawed health care website that was supposed to be an easy way to buy insurance.

But he still blamed Republicans for a careless shutdown of the government.

"Nobody has acquitted themselves very well these past few months," Obama said.

"So it's not surprising that the American people's frustrations with Washington are at an all-time high."

Worse for Americans, he added, are their growing difficulties in trying to make ends meet no matter how hard they work.

The speech came at a time when there is growing attention to the troubles poor and working people face.

Pope Francis wrote recently against allowing the poor to suffer, and fast-food workers in the U.S. have led protests to press for higher wages.

Obama recalled the pope's words and the deeds of past presidents.

But he also spoke about his own personal story as a young boy with a mother who struggled to make ends meet.

Obama noted that in the United States, a child born into the poorest 20 percent of society has less than a 5 percent chance of making it to the top.

She is 10 times likelier to stay where she is.

These are worse odds than in other rich countries such as Canada, Germany and France.

Republican John Boehner of Ohio, the House Speaker, blamed Democrats and Obama for the lack of action on jobs.

He said bills passed by the Republican-controlled House that would help get people working have been blocked in the Democratic-controlled Senate.

"The Senate and the president continue to stand in the way of the people's priorities," he said on the House floor.

Obama admitted that "the elephant in the room" is the fighting in Washington that has kept new laws from being passed.

But he pointed to the health care law, despite its troubled launch, as one example that he said is already helping families.

It provides health insurance to more Americans and is supposed to push down the costs of health care.

Obama specifically called on Congress to raise the federal minimum wage from the current $7.25 an hour.

The minimum wage is the lowest amount an employer can legally pay a worker.

A Democratic bill by Sen. Tom Harkin of Iowa would raise the minimum wage to $10.10 an hour in three steps.

A vote in the Senate is not expected in December.

The chamber will mostly focus on its own spending and other issues.

Whenever it is debated, the bill seems unlikely to win the 60 votes it would need to clear the Senate.

Republicans will likely oppose it.

Obama also pressed Congress to extend unemployment checks to 1.3 million jobless people.

The checks are set to end just three days after Christmas.

The additional weeks of benefits have been extended each year since 2009, but a senior Republican lawmaker, Rep. Tom Cole of Oklahoma, said Tuesday that lawmakers in his party oppose it.

