President Barack Obama announced on Sunday that North America's tallest mountain has a new name.

The central Alaskan peak until now was known as Mount McKinley, after President William McKinley.

It has been officially renamed Denali.

The new name is what the mountain is known as in Athabaskan, the local Native American language.

The Obama administration's decision to erase McKinley's name was applauded in Alaska.

However, it was heavily criticized in McKinley's home state of Ohio.

Lawmakers there widely condemned the decision.

"This political stunt is insulting to all Ohioans," said Ohio Representative Bob Gibbs.

"I will be working with the House Committee on Natural Resources to determine what can be done to prevent this action."

House Speaker John Boehner, also from Ohio, added that he is "deeply disappointed in this decision."

In renaming the 20,320-foot mountain, Obama was recognizing the word Alaskans have informally used for centuries.

The name means "the high one" in Athabaskan.

The mountain was first called Mount McKinley in 1896, even before McKinley became president.

A prospector exploring the area for gold came up with the name upon hearing that the Republicans had selected McKinley as their party's candidate in the general elections, which McKinley went on to win.

The name was then formally recognized.

Obama announced the name change just before leaving on a historic trip to the Arctic.

The president's visit is likely to lead to disputes over more than just the name change.

As he travels throughout the state Obama will be focusing on two touchy subjects: climate change and Arctic drilling.

On Monday morning, Obama headed off to Anchorage for the start of a three-day visit.

His tour of Alaska will call attention to various problems, both social and environmental.

Obama's excursion north of the Arctic Circle makes him the first sitting president to set foot in the Alaska Arctic.

The rugged and remote region is home to Alaska Natives.

So far they have received less attention than other Native groups during Obama's recent efforts to improve conditions for Native Americans.

Still, the primary focus of Obama's trip will be on global warming.

Global warming, or climate change, is the term used to describe an ongoing rise in worldwide temperatures.

Scientists believe global warming is a man-made phenomenon, caused by a buildup of heat-trapping greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere.

Such gases are largely created through the burning of fossil fuels such as coal and oil.

Scientists say that rising worldwide temperatures are already leading to a host of environmental problems.

They warn that things will get far worse if the problem is not confronted.

In the future, food production may be disrupted, droughts may become more common and some parts of the world may become unbearably hot.

Scientists believe that climate change is already damaging Alaska's stunning scenery.

Obama's presidential visit has been designed to showcase evidence of that damage.

It will spotlight thawing permafrost, melting sea ice and eroding shorelines.

The hope is that Obama's trip will underscore the urgent need to combat climate change.

In Alaska itself, however, that message has been met with skepticism by state leaders.

The state is heavily dependent on money raised through oil production.

At the same time, environmental groups say Obama has not done enough to protect Alaska and the climate.

They particularly object to his recent decision to allow Royal Dutch Shell to expand oil drilling off Alaska's northwest coast.

"I share people's concerns about offshore drilling.

I remember the BP spill in the Gulf of Mexico all too well," Obama said.

However, he said, the state still must rely on oil and gas until the move to cleaner fuels is complete.

He said the White House will seek to minimize the risks of expanded offshore drilling.

Obama landed in Anchorage on Monday afternoon.

He planned to meet first with Alaska Natives and then to speak at the climate-focused Arctic summit, which involves leaders from Arctic and non-Arctic nations.

Obama is hoping that a global climate treaty can be drawn up and signed by this December.

He has pledged a U.S. cut in greenhouse gas emissions of up to 28 percent by 2030, compared to 2005 levels.

He plans to use the Alaska visit to persuade other nations to set their own challenging climate goals.

On Tuesday, Obama is scheduled to embark on a boat tour of Kenai Fjords National Park.

Next comes a hike to Exit Glacier.

The sprawling glacier is shrinking, and scientists point to it as a dramatic sign of warming temperatures.

Obama is then scheduled to trek through wilderness.

His trek will be filmed for the TV show "Running Wild with Bear Grylls."

The visit continues Wednesday in Dillingham, in southwest Alaska.

There Obama will meet with a group of fishermen.

Local fisherman are locked in a conflict with miners over plans to build a massive gold and copper mine in Bristol Bay, home to the world's largest salmon fishery.

Next the president will fly north to Kotzebue, a regional hub in the Alaska Arctic.

There he will focus on the problems of rural, native villages threatened by climate change.

