Calling it an "injustice" that 62 million girls worldwide are not in school, Michelle Obama joined forces with Japan's first lady Thursday.

Together, the two women will work to promote education for girls in poorer, developing countries.

Obama's solo trip — her first visit to Japan — was part of her effort to promote the Let Girls Learn plan.

She and President Barack Obama announced the plan earlier this month.

It will support programs in poorer countries to help girls go to school and stay in school.

During the visit, the American first lady met with young women from Japanese universities and high schools.

She told them of her own journey from a working-class neighborhood in Chicago to Princeton University, one of the best colleges in the United States.

Obama encouraged them to pay attention to education and dream big, too.

"I'm sitting here with my good friend in Japan (and) with all of you, and we have the opportunity to change the world," Obama said.

"You can do that, too, and so can the 62 million girls out there who aren't getting their education."

Obama sat in a circle with the students, as well as with Akie Abe, the wife of the Japanese prime minister, and U.S.

Ambassador Caroline Kennedy.

Abe studied education in Myanmar for her master's degree.

Japanese women are among the best educated in the world but often struggle to achieve high positions in companies.

Many Japanese think women should not work after they get married and have children.

The Japanese government aims to increase the number of women in the workforce.

This is a key part of its plan to strengthen the weak Japanese economy, so the country will have more jobs and money.

The students chosen to meet Obama Thursday sat nervously in a house decorated with flower arrangements.

They were invited to discuss ways to promote education.

Obama soon put them at ease, bursting out laughing when she realized that she'd forgotten to wait for her remarks to be translated into Japanese.

In Japan, students and office workers dress in dark suits.

Obama stood out in a bold, flowery red-and-white skirt suit.

The first lady was joined by Michelle Phan, a businesswoman and popular YouTube makeup artist.

Phan has a huge following in Asia.

She was writing about the trip on social media.

"Who agrees it's time to help more girls around the world get the education they deserve?"

Phan tweeted before the event.

To pay for the Let Girls Learn program, the president asked Congress for $250 million.

Japan is one of Asia's richest countries.

It has pledged $340 million for girls' empowerment and education.

For the U.S. part, Peace Corps volunteers will work with local leaders and families in developing countries to help girls go to school and stay in school.

The Peace Corps is an American program that sends volunteers to countries around the world.

The Japanese version of the Peace Corps — the Overseas Cooperation Volunteers — will do the same.

Eleven countries will be targeted at first, including Cambodia, one of the poorest countries in Asia.

Obama was set to travel there Friday night to meet Bun Rany, the wife of the Cambodian prime minister.

Obama will also hear from high school students about how they have been helped by community-led programs.

Many people think girls are prevented from getting an education because of financial reasons.

Their parents don't have enough money to send them to school or they need them to work to support the family.

Yet Obama said there were other reasons, too, and that it was "also about attitudes and beliefs."

"It's about whether fathers — and mothers — think their daughters are as worthy of an education as their sons.

It's about whether communities value girls simply for their bodies, for their household labor" and their ability to have children, Obama said, "or whether they value girls for their minds as well."

"And if we're being honest with ourselves," she added, "we have to admit that these kinds of challenges aren't just limited" to poorer countries.

