While President Barack Obama's popularity has slipped in public opinion polls, he still has many fans among one key group: the leaders of the 566 big Indian tribes.

"I'd rank him as high as I can go; a 10, really, to be honest with you," said Leo Lolnitz, first chief of the Koyukuk Native Village in Alaska.

Brian Cladoosby has been the chairman of Washington state's Swinomish Indian Tribal Community for the past 17 years.

He said Obama was "second to none" when compared with other U.S. presidents.

Tribal leaders consider the president one of their own.

To them, he's Barack Black Eagle Obama.

A couple on the Crow Indian Reservation in Montana gave him his Indian name in 2008 when they formally adopted him.

And on Wednesday, they got a chance to meet with him yet again, as the president kept a campaign promise by hosting his fifth White House Tribal Nations Conference.

In a 14-minute speech to the tribal leaders, Obama said he'd make his first visit to [Indian Country](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) as president sometime next year.

He didn't say exactly where he plans to go.

He visited the Montana reservation when he was challenging Hillary Clinton to be the Democratic candidate in his first presidential primary campaign.

The annual gathering gives tribal leaders a chance to make pitches for what they want from Washington in the coming year.

For 2014, tribal leaders want an end to the cuts in government spending called sequestration.

The legally required cuts are preventing money from being released by the government for things the tribes want paid for.

The tribes also want more control over their own affairs.

A dozen members of Obama's team met with the tribal leaders.

They promised more help fighting crime, fixing schools and getting better health care.

But some tribal leaders said the president had been quick to promise and slow to deliver.

"He's reaching out to us.

We really appreciate that, but there's not a whole lot of things that have happened," said Bryan Brewer, the president of South Dakota's Oglala Sioux Tribe.

"I feel there's been a lot of promises to us, but we're still struggling."

Obama and his team outlined their list of accomplishments.

These include renewing a law that makes it easier for tribes to charge non-Indians for domestic violence; getting an additional 230,000 acres of land for the tribes; spending more on law enforcement, schools and emergency relief; and creating the first White House Council on Native American Affairs.

Interior Secretary Sally Jewell oversees the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

She said the cuts in federal money and last month's 16-day government shutdown had hit Indian Country hard.

But she told the tribal leaders that the Obama administration wants to help "make your world a better place."

Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius said that only 36 percent of tribal members were covered by health insurance now.

But, 94 percent would be covered either under Medicaid, which is health care that poor people can use, or they could get covered by the president's health insurance program.

The program is called the Affordable Care Act, or Obamacare.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the administration wanted to do more to reduce crime in Indian Country.

Rates of rape and murder are high among girls and women.

He said that was "unjust and unacceptable" and can't go on.

Obama said the poverty rate was too high in Indian Country.

He wants the federal government to do more to expand job opportunities.

And he said he wanted to build a stronger relationship between tribes and the federal government, "based on trust and respect."

Tribes outlined a long list of their own desires.

They want more help with projects that help their community.

They need more money for housing and to collect better information to track tribal members.

They'd like more tribal members to be made judges, and to get more tribal members into high-level federal jobs.

Arlan Melendez is the tribal chairman of the Reno-Sparks Indian Colony in Nevada.

He said tribal leaders wanted to urge the administration to get the Internal Revenue Service to stop making checks on Indian land.

The tribes have their own land where they can make some of their own decisions, without being totally controlled by the federal government.

The tribes think the government is being insensitive in how it's looking into Indian land, he said.

