After the deaths of unarmed black men in Missouri and New York, President Barack Obama created a task force to study the issue.

This week, the task force released their recommendations.

Obama said that police departments need to change their policies to build trust in minority communities.

The task force said that there should be independent investigations when police action causes someone's death.

Last year, Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, and Eric Garner in New York City were both killed by police.

Their deaths exposed "deep-rooted frustration in many communities of color around the need for fair and just law enforcement," Obama said.

The policing task force found that police departments need to improve training, data collection and cooperation with their communities, Obama said.

"The moment is now for us to make these changes," Obama said.

He was at a White House meeting with members of the task force, who worked on the recommendations for three months.

"We have a great opportunity coming out of some great conflict and tragedy to really transform how we think about community law enforcement relations so that everybody feels safer and our law enforcement officers feel — rather than being embattled — feel fully supported.

We need to seize that opportunity," he said.

The task force held seven public hearings across the country.

It heard the opinions of more than 100 people.

The panel also met with the leaders of groups fighting for the rights of blacks, Hispanics, Asians, veterans, gays, the disabled and others.

In the end, the task force made 63 recommendations.

One recommendation was for more police training.

In particular, training could help officers reduce bias and deal with stressful situations, Obama said.

He recognized that another recommendation would be controversial with police groups: independent investigations after police shootings.

It is important to make sure that police are held accountable when they are involved in a shooting, the president said.

Today police often investigate their own shootings and other deadly incidents.

The internal investigations have police deciding whether their own coworkers made a mistake.

The task force recommended external independent investigations.

They should be run by other cities or counties, the state government, or the next highest level of government, the panel said.

"In order to restore and maintain trust, this independence is crucial," the report said.

A representative for the National Association of Police Organizations said an outside investigation of police shootings may make sense only if the department cannot do the investigation itself.

Still, he said, the idea is unnecessary and perhaps even counterproductive — doing the opposite of what it is meant to do.

"I think it helps to drive a wedge between a local police department and the community it serves — which is exactly contrary to what the intent of this police task force was supposed to be," Bill Johnson said.

"I think it sends a message that your local police can't be trusted."

The task force also focused on police record-keeping.

U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and FBI Director James Comey have called for better records kept on police-involved shootings across the country.

Currently, local police report these incidents voluntarily.

There is no central or reliable collection of these numbers.

"There's no reason for us not to have this data available," said Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey, who co-chaired the task force.

He said he was surprised to learn that no reliable records were kept.

"Now that we know that this does not exist, it is our responsibility to do everything we can to develop that information."

Another recommendation from the task force was keeping local police separate from enforcing immigration laws.

Today, people in immigrant communities might fear calling the police for help if they or a family member are in the country illegally.

But police could keep information on immigrants who are felons, the task force said.

Earlier, Obama called for Congress to help pay for 50,000 body cameras for police to wear.

These cameras would record police interactions with the public.

But the task force found that the cameras raise extremely complex legal and privacy issues.

"There's been a lot of talk about body cameras as a silver bullet or a solution," the president said.

"I think the task force concluded that there is a role for technology to play in building additional trust and accountability but it's not" a cure-all.

The technology has to be part of a broader change that ensures people's privacy is respected, he said.

Laurie Robinson is a professor at George Mason University and helped lead the task force.

She told reporters that it will take time for police to build good relations with the communities they cover.

"It takes time.

It takes relationship-building.

And it doesn't happen overnight," she said.

