This week, President Obama held a science fair.

A science fair is a special event for students.

Students who have been working on science projects, sometimes for months or years, get to show off their work.

Visitors get to talk to the students and learn about their projects.

The White House Science Fair took place on Monday.

Young scientists from all over the country came to Washington, D.C.

There were 35 winners showing off 12 different science projects.

President Obama visited the fair to see what the young scientists had come up with.

One group of students had built a special machine.

It was made out of Legos.

It automatically turned the pages of a book.

Some people can't read books because they have trouble moving their hands.

They may have been injured.

With the help of this machine, they could read.

As he looked at the page-turning machine, Obama seemed impressed.

The students who built it were just six years old.

"How did you figure this out?"

Obama asked.

"We had a brainstorming session," one replied.

A brainstorming session is when a group sits down to come up with ideas.

The White House Science Fair helps bring attention to subjects like science and math.

Obama spoke at the fair.

He encouraged students to study these subjects in school.

In particular, Obama encouraged girls and children of color to study science and math.

Historically, most scientists and mathematicians have been white men.

Obama feels that it is important to make science and math popular with everyone.

Also, he wants to make sure everyone has a fair chance at becoming a scientist or mathematician.

Making these changes may cost money.

Obama announced that people and businesses had given a lot of money to help.

This money will be spent to help young mathematicians and scientists.

There were other announcements as well.

Some students may be able to take part in more math and science education this year.

A group of companies promised to bring math and science programs to 1.5 million more students in 2015.

Out of all the projects Obama saw, the Lego page-turning machine seemed to delight him the most.

He pointed out that it was moving a little too quickly, though.

A reader might only have time to read three sentences before the page turns.

One of the girls explained it was just a prototype.

A prototype is the first model of an invention.

It will be improved.

Obama said that the fair is one of the most fun events held at the White House.

"Every year I walk out smarter than when I walked in," Obama said.

Later on, Obama addressed students and scientists in the White House.

"It's not enough for our country just to be proud of you," he said.

"We've got to support you."

