For people who don't live in the South Side neighborhood of Washington Park, there aren't many reasons to visit Garfield Boulevard.

Though barely a mile from the impressive University of Chicago campus, this grim block of East Garfield Boulevard has little to offer, mostly one empty store after another and broken signs from the businesses that once existed there.

But it's possible that the landscape could change.

Washington Park residents are hoping that President Barack Obama will choose to build his presidential library in their neighborhood.

While the site for the library will not be announced until early 2015, Chicago is considered by some observers to be the front-runner.

Both the president and first lady Michelle Obama have strong personal and political ties to the city.

Honolulu and New York are also expected to bid for the library.

Across Chicago, other neighborhoods are also hoping that the Obama library could bring a cultural and economic renaissance to their areas.

At least five community groups, universities or developers from around Chicago are preparing bids for the library.

They believe that placing the Obama library in their neighborhood would have many benefits.

"Placing the library in the middle of an urban community would bring opportunity, economic development and inspiration," said Carol Adams, a Chicago sociologist.

"Kids could just be passing by and stop in.

They wouldn't have to wait on school trips, with something as fantastic as a presidential library just down the street or around the corner from where they live."

No presidential library has been built in a low-income, inner-city neighborhood.

Library experts are not sure if building one could actually help turn around a struggling area.

"There could be a risk of crime, poverty or reputation, and all of it has to be considered," said Curt Smith, author of the book "Windows on the White House: The Story of Presidential Libraries."

Smith added that it's a noble thought to use a presidential library to help a poor neighborhood, "but, you have to make sure you don't damage the library as a whole and end up not helping anyone."

Residents in Chicago's Bronzeville neighborhood want the library on the site of an old hospital.

Developer Dan McCaffery wants the library amid his developments in southeastern Chicago.

The University of Illinois at Chicago has six sites it is considering for the library.

Chicago State University has three.

Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel had hoped that his city could make one unified bid for the library.

But with so many groups preparing to compete for it, the city is going to support all of them.

Presidential libraries have helped cities and neighborhoods before.

The Clinton library in Little Rock, Ark., sparked more than $2 billion in development along the downtown riverfront since the library was announced in 1994.

More than half of it came before the library opened in 2005.

"It has transformed downtown Little Rock and had a positive impact on housing," said James "Skip" Rutherford, a friend of Bill Clinton's who helped plan the library.

"It changed the scope of downtown, which continues to expand and grow, and it became Arkansas' gateway to the world in terms of access to tourism that had been needed in the state for a long time," he said.

Choosing the right spot wasn't easy.

Once Clinton selected Little Rock, community groups, developers and universities came up with 40 potential sites, which a committee of city officials narrowed to five finalists.

"What we did was allow everybody who thought they had a good idea for a site to present it and have it considered," said Rutherford.

"There were people saying they wanted it as an economic engine in residential neighborhoods.

President Clinton wanted his library to be not only an economic engine but to stimulate growth in tourism and research."

Rutherford was among those who visited each site, looking at access, parking, cost of rehabbing the land, and proximity to hotels, restaurants and other tourist attractions.

In the end, Clinton selected the old warehouse district downtown on the banks of the Arkansas River.

"The one chosen had an economic impact on the entire city," Rutherford said.

The area known as the River Market District averages more than 300,000 visitors a year, according to Sharon Priest, director of the Downtown Little Rock Partnership.

One reason, she said, is that there are other attractions, such as museums and entertainment venues, also in the area.

Marshall Brown, an assistant professor of architecture at the Illinois Institute of Technology, said location is important because presidential libraries have only a limited ability to attract large numbers of people on their own.

Brown led graduate students in a semester-long project to judge potential spots for the library in Chicago and to design their own ambitious visions for the campus.

He gave President John F. Kennedy's library, which sits on a peninsula jutting into a bay in Boston, as an example.

"The (Kennedy) library, which has been sitting on Columbia Point in Boston since the 1980s, has attracted very little energy," Brown said.

"There's a limit to how remote these facilities can be before they're actually not that effective at attracting large numbers of people or economic development."

