Ottoman Turks killed more than 1 million Armenians starting in 1915.

The Armenians were then living in the Ottoman Empire.

Now, that area is the country of Turkey.

President Barack Obama will speak about the killings on Friday.

He will honor those who died.

However, he will not call the killings "genocide."

Genocide is the planned killing of a large group of people.

Armenians say the 1915 killings should be called genocide.

The Turkish government says they should not.

In the past, Obama said the killings should indeed be called genocide.

But he has changed his mind.

Many Armenian-Americans are very angry.

Aram S. Hamparian is the head of the Armenian National Committee of America.

He said it is a "national disgrace" that Obama's speech will not use the word genocide.

"It is a betrayal of the truth."

The White House defended the president.

They said it is important not to anger Turkey.

The United States needs Turkey's help to solve some big problems in the Middle East.

Many lives are at stake in Syria and in other countries.

Still, Armenian-Americans and their supporters are unhappy.

California is the state with the largest number of Armenians.

More than 200,000 Armenian-Americans live in the Los Angeles area.

Adam B. Schiff is a California lawmaker.

He said he was "deeply disappointed" the word genocide would not be used by the president.

Schiff wondered how long Armenians must wait before the truth is admitted.

"If not after 100 years, when?"

he asked.

Susan Rice works for the White House.

On Tuesday, she met with someone from the Turkish government.

She told him Turkey should try harder to get along with Armenia.

She also said Turks should talk honestly about what happened in 1915.

Several people from the U.S. government are heading to Armenia this week.

California lawmaker Jackie Speier is one of them.

Speier said: "I will call it a genocide everywhere I go."

Around 1.5 million Armenians were killed beginning in 1915.

At the time, the Ottoman Empire was falling apart.

The Turkish government says there was no plan beforehand to wipe out Armenians.

The fighting just got out of control.

Therefore, the killings were not genocide, it says.

Most historians do not agree, however.

They believe it was genocide.

For years, the U.S. government has avoided using the word genocide.

They have not wanted to upset Turkey.

Some hoped Obama would break with the past this year.

They became particularly hopeful after a speech given by Pope Francis.

The pope used the word genocide in his speech.

"We had hoped and expected that President Obama would have done the same," said Armenian-American Bryan Ardouny.

Before he became president, Obama supported using the word genocide.

He criticized President George W. Bush for not doing so.

Armenian genocide is a "fact," Obama said in 2008.

"The facts are undeniable."

