The American public feels unusually poorly about the direction of the country and is increasingly fed up with Washington gridlock.

It's so bad that President Barack Obama is facing his worst disapproval ratings since he took office.

People gave elected officials unusually low grades, according to a new McClatchy-Marist poll.

About a third rated them "D" and 38 percent gave them an "F," .

"The lack of confidence in Washington to right itself is showing up," said Lee Miring, who is director of Marist Institute for Public Opinion in New York.

Obama's disapproval rating climbed to 53 percent — the worst in 29 polls since he took office in January 2009.

Only 43 percent approved of his job performance.

The disapproval number was up sharply from the 47 percent reading in September and tops the previous high of 52 percent in September 2011.

Obama retained strong support among Democrats — 77 percent to 18 percent approval — and disdain from Republicans — 90 percent to 8 percent disapproval.

Independents disapproved 56 percent to 41 percent.

Obama's personal ratings were also down, with more people having an unfavorable impression of him, 52 percent to 46 percent.

It was the first time since November 2011 the negative number was higher, and the worst he has endured.

Obama in recent weeks has been battered by controversy over his health care program.

The highly touted website where people could sign up for coverage proved to be a dysfunctional embarrassment.

Obama had to backtrack from his assertion that people could keep their plans if they wanted.

Congress fared even worse in the survey, with voters not approving of the Republicans performance, 74 percent to 22 percent — the highest since the question was first asked in April 2011.

Republicans control the House of Representatives and 45 of the Senate's 100 seats.

People soured on Democrats, too, with 64 percent disapproving of congressional Democrats, who control the Senate.

Both Republican and Democratic disapproval numbers were up sharply from the last poll in July.

The key reason for the glum ratings is the economy.

Though indicators suggest a healthy comeback, people aren't feeling it.

Instead, said Miringoff, the two Washington stories that have dominated headlines in recent months were the 16-day October government shutdown and the health care chaos.

As a result, two-thirds saw things going in the wrong direction and only 30 percent felt matters were heading in the right direction.

Democrats felt better about the direction of the country, 57 percent to 40 percent.

Republicans overwhelmingly saw the country moving the wrong way — 95 percent to 4 percent, while independents agreed, 69 percent to 26 percent.

The federal budget drama is the most obvious symbol of Washington inaction.

Lawmakers have wrangled all year, passing stopgaps after extended, often bitter debate.

Negotiators this week are said to be close on a deal that will avoid another shutdown when money again runs out Jan. 15.

Obama got low marks for his handling of the economy, with 58 percent disapproving of how he's dealing with it.

Republicans were blamed by 48 percent for the budget mess, while 38 percent named Obama.

Obama also suffered in foreign policy.

The latest poll was conducted after the administration announced a pact with Iran that eases some punishments on that country.

In return, Iran agreed to some limits on its nuclear program.

That plan has won little congressional support, as lawmakers from both parties expressed doubts.

Forty-six percent approved of Obama's handling of foreign policy, while 51 percent did not.

Voters have mixed views about how all this will translate in next year's elections.

Equal numbers — 43 percent — said they would vote for a Republican or a Democratic candidate.

Independents preferred Republicans, 41 percent to 34 percent, while moderates favored Democrats, 49 percent to 35 percent.

