WASHINGTON—President Barack Obama set aside a new sea refuge on Tuesday.

Fishing will no longer be permitted in the area.

Nor will companies be allowed to explore there for oil and gas.

The refuge is part of a new White House plan to protect the world's oceans.

Under the plan, the government would take action to prevent pollution, overfishing and acidification of ocean water.

[Climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) is changing the chemistry of the ocean waters.

This harms fish and other sea life.

"Rising levels of carbon dioxide are causing our oceans to acidify.

Pollution endangers (sea) life.

Overfishing threatens whole species," Obama said.

Carbon dioxide is a gas in the air.

It is given off by the burning of natural fuels, like oil and coal.

This causes the earth to get warmer.

Obama said world can't just ignore these problems.

People wouldn't just be wasting a great natural treasure.

"We'll be cutting off one of the world's major sources of food," he said.

Obama's plan was attacked by some lawmakers in the U.S. Congress.

They argued that under law, he cannot create the refuge.

They said these are powers the U.S. Constitution doesn't grant the president.

The lawmakers said he has already made too many rules that restrict the oil and gas companies.

Doc Hastings is a Republican congressman from Washington.

Hastings is one of the lawmakers who doesn't like the plan.

He said Obama is acting on his own and in secret to make new the rules.

Under Obama's plan, the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument would be made much larger.

It would more than double in size.

The sea refuge is located southwest of Hawaii.

In January 2009, President George W. Bush created a national monument on almost 87,000 square miles.

A national monument protects an area from being developed.

Included in the protected zone are three islands and a reef.

The islands are deserted.

It is one the last untouched stretches of ocean left in the world and home to thousands of birds, fish and animals.

Currently, 50 nautical miles around the islands is protected.

A nautical mile is slightly longer than a regular mile.

Obama's plan would extend the protection to 200 miles.

Under federal law, the president can create the refuge without Congress.

It will go into effect probably later this year.

But first, people will be given a chance to comment on the plan.

Joshua S. Reichert is with the Pew Charitable Trusts.

He said many fisherman will not like the plan.

No one will be allowed to fish in the protected waters.

But he said that U.S. fishermen wouldn't lose much money from the plan.

Tuna is a big money-maker for fisherman.

But only about 1 or 2 out of every hundred tuna sold in the U.S. comes from the new refuge.

"The importance of these ... islands is far greater than the value of the fish there," Reichert said.

The area holds some of the world's richest sea life.

It's home to a huge number of ocean creatures.

It is also one of the world's most untouched areas.

"It's immensely valuable to science," he said.

Experts will also suggest ways to stop illegal fishing.

Also, about one-third of seafood isn't labeled correctly.

Oceana is an ocean protection group.

It checked more than 1,200 seafood samples bought.

The group found that fish sold as snapper was really another, usually cheaper, fish.

Also, other kinds of fish were wrongly labeled as tuna.

Beth Lowell is with Oceana.

"By tracing our seafood from boat to plate, (buyers) will have more information about the fish they purchase."

The plan would also better track the acid in ocean water.

The acid comes from burning fuels like coal and oil.

Many sea creatures can not live in water with too much acid.

It can harm coral reefs and oyster beds.

