President Barack Obama asked Congress on Wednesday to raise the pay for low-wage workers and make sure poor people don't go hungry or homeless.

He said he wants to fix the things that he says make it hard for a child to escape poverty.

"That should offend all of us," he said in a speech.

"We are a better country than this."

Obama focused on household issues.

He says Americans say household issues are their main worry.

He argued that the dream of working hard to get a good life is breaking down.

The growing number of people in poverty is a "defining challenge of our time," he said.

The president offered no new ideas for laws.

Obama gave a call for Congress to act on laws he wants to put to action soon.

But he also shared a big vision.

There is a growing number of poor people in the United States.

Obama wants to use laws to make it easier for these people to make money and get out of poverty.

But many people do not think that Obama can make the way America spends its money any better.

The talk came at a time when there is growing worry about the troubles poor and working people face.

Pope Francis has written about not allowing the poor to go hungry.

Fast-food workers in the U.S. have led protests to try to get more pay.

Obama mentioned the pope's words.

But he also spoke about his own personal story.

He was once a young boy with a mother who struggled to make ends meet.

Obama told a story about a child's chances in the United States.

He talked about a child born into one of the poorest families in America.

This child has only a tiny chance of ever becoming one of the richest people in America.

She is 10 times more likely to stay where she is.

In other countries like Canada, Germany and France, she has a better chance of not staying poor.

Republican John Boehner blamed Democrats and Obama for the growing numbers of poor people.

He said they were the reason for there not being any laws to create jobs.

He said he had passed bills that would help get people working.

But they have been blocked by Democrats.

Obama admitted that the main problem is the fighting between political parties.

It has stopped Congress taking action.

But he used the health care law as one example that he said is already helping families.

It gives health care to more Americans and is supposed to push down the costs.

Obama called on Congress to raise the nation's lowest wages.

Right now, the lowest you can be paid per hour is $7.25.

A new law would raise that to $10.10 an hour.

A vote is not expected in December.

And even if a vote is held, it is unlikely to pass.

