SHINGTON – On Tuesday, President Barack Obama announced his plans to move quickly in bringing high-speed Internet to American public schools.

He pledged to make sure students in the United States have every advantage that "some child in South Korea has right now."

Obama told a crowd at a school in Adelphi, Maryland, "We shouldn't give that kind of competitive advantage over to other countries."

He added, "In a country where we expect free Wi-Fi with our coffee, we should definitely demand it in our schools."

Obama made the remarks as he unveiled plans to speed up the start of his pet project.

He wants to link schools to the Internet through a combination of government investment and support from businesses.

Several U.S. companies, including Apple, AT&amp;T, Microsoft, Sprint and Verizon, are pitching in about $750 million in goods and services to help students get connected to the World Wide Web.

The money from companies will be used, along with $2 billion from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

For about 20 million students, the money will mean they can get Wi-Fi in their schools and libraries over the next two years – a lot sooner than Obama anticipated when he launched his "ConnectED" plan last year.

Back then, administration officials expected that the FCC would have to go through a lengthy rule-making process to free up $2 billion.

Right now, that money is in a fund already dedicated to building capacity for high-speed Internet.

But the FCC recently decided it could disburse the money more quickly.

This will speed up the funding of high-speed broadband projects without having to organize a vote.

The accelerated schedule comes without a single vote of Congress, Obama pointed out Tuesday, and "without adding a dime" to the debt the United States has.

But he also warned lawmakers that he was about to ask them to pitch in.

He said he would ask Congress to "give teachers using cutting-edge technology the training they deserve" so that the technology the government is investing in can be used to its fullest.

The challenge showed Obama using his new second-term strategy.

The president noted in his State of the Union speech that he would announce a plan for his administration and take action.

Then, he would urge Congress to make more sweeping changes.

In this case, he's also rallying business leaders who have invested in these projects to bring their own voices to the call for congressional action.

"I'm going to ask every business leader to join us in this effort," Obama said, "to give every young person every shot at success."

