President Barack Obama has belted out lyrics to Al Green's "Let's Stay Together," led a church congregation through "Amazing Grace," and tweeted his Spotify music playlist.

In short, the president has shown that he's a pretty soulful guy.

The president and his wife, Michelle, also have prominently showcased such R&amp;B and soul talent as Patti LaBelle and B.B.

King during state dinners and music history events.

These artists have even been invited to sing during the annual Easter Egg Roll.

The latest installment of the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) television series "In Performance at the White House" celebrated the history of American music.

It included performances by Queen Latifah, Smokey Robinson, Usher, Trombone Shorty and Esperanza Spalding, among others.

The program is set to air on PBS stations Jan. 8.

Spalding landed on the first lady's Spotify music playlist.

Stevie Wonder and Nina Simone are included on her husband's.

Spalding, the Grammy Award-winning jazz singer and bassist, said the variety of musicians who have performed at the White House conveys a message of inclusion at what the Obamas have long called the "People's House."

"It seems like there is a theme of wanting to really support artists who are working hard — not just in their craft — but communicating about the issues of our time," said Spalding.

She is an advocate of human rights issues at the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, which has held enemy militants from the war in Afghanistan since 2002.

Very few have been charged with a crime or appeared in court.

Spalding said the Obamas believe that "just because you're not famous, doesn't mean you're not important.

Everybody that is committed to their art" is an important part of American music.

Spalding has trained student musicians at a White House workshop.

Dalton Delan is an executive producer for "In Performance at the White House."

He said WETA, the PBS station that produces the series, largely selects artists based on the show's theme, and the Obama administration approves the list.

"Sure, I can suggest a show, but the administration has to feel like coming and attending the show," Delan said.

He also consulted with White House social secretary Deesha Dyer on the best hip-hop artists, and she suggested female rap pioneer MC Lyte.

The Obamas' musical tastes are reflected in White House entertainment over the years.

"Queen of hip hop and soul" Mary J. Blige, R&amp;B crooner John Legend and jazz great Herbie Hancock have all entertained dignitaries at Obama state dinners.

Pop superstar Beyonce, a favorite of both the president and first lady, is a mainstay at presidential events.

She sang at an inaugural ball in 2009 and a state dinner for the Mexican president in 2010, and performed the national anthem at Obama's second inauguration ceremony in 2013.

"Queen of Soul" Aretha Franklin has also appeared at several presidential events, including performing "My Country 'Tis of Thee" at Obama's first inauguration ceremony in 2009.

Earlier this year, Franklin performed at a White House concert celebrating gospel music.

She also put in a surprise appearance at the Justice Department to help bid farewell to Obama's good friend, then-Attorney General Eric Holder.

Desiree Rogers, the Obamas' first social secretary, said a combination of factors go into choosing entertainment for White House functions.

These include the first lady's input, the president's favorites and suggestions from White House staff members.

"It starts with whatever the event is," said Rogers, who planned events at the White House.

For state dinners, Rogers said the White House considers the interests of the country being honored.

She said a main goal is to always keep in mind the tastes of the president and first lady "to ensure that it is someone they might enjoy.

The Obamas also enjoy showcasing diverse American talent."

Lea Berman, who was a social secretary for President George W. Bush, said each administration chooses entertainers differently.

"Sometimes the Bushes would have suggestions of people they wanted to invite to perform," Berman said.

Other times, "I would come up with a few names for Mrs. Bush to consider for an event and she would choose one."

Berman said many times it is simply a matter of availability.

"Scheduling conflicts weeded out a number of prospects because big entertainers are so heavily booked months in advance," she said.

