President Barack Obama made his first visit to the Everglades for Earth Day on Wednesday.

He warned the country about climate change.

The Earth is heating up, scientists have said.

This comes from pollution created by humans, they said.

Climate change is also called global warming.

During his speech, Obama said climate change is putting the Everglades in danger.

Before speaking, the president and park rangers walked the Anhinga Trail.

It is the national park's most popular tourist stop.

They passed baby alligators and a pair of black vultures.

The birds are famous for eating the rubber off visitors' cars and trucks.

Obama said there is no better place to spend Earth Day than the Everglades.

His decision to speak in Florida had another purpose.

Voters will elect the next president in 18 months.

Some of the candidates for president do not think climate change is caused by humans.

However, many scientists say it is.

"Climate change can no longer be denied," Obama said.

He also said that climate change cannot be ignored.

Obama seemed to be talking about Florida Governor Rick Scott.

Recently, the Republican governor ordered state workers not to use the term "climate change."

Scott later said he never told them that.

He also turned down an invitation to join Obama in the Everglades.

Obama also went to Florida to speak about what he has done for the environment.

His government has limited the amount of pollution.

Obama's decision to speak about climate change could make a difference in the presidential campaign.

It could make Republican candidates talk about it, some say.

Senator Marco Rubio of Florida is running for president.

He is a Republican.

The Republicans are a political party.

They disagree with Obama, who is a Democrat.

Rubio and other Republicans have said they don't think that man-made pollution causes climate change.

Josh Earnest is Obama's spokesman.

He said Obama only wants to start a countrywide discussion about climate change.

He said the Republicans who deny climate change are hurting the American people who elected them.

On Tuesday, Florid Governor Rick Scott said the federal government should pay the money it owes to save the Everglades.

He said the federal government still owes $58 million.

Florida is spending $1.9 billion to save the Everglades.

Obama's visit comes at an important time for the Everglades.

This week, scientists said they found even bigger changes in nature caused by climate change.

They said the temperature and the sea level are rising faster than they thought.

The ocean is also becoming even saltier.

Climate change is putting the Everglades at the risk of disappearing.

Mangrove forests protect the Everglades against storms and floods.

As climate change becomes worse, the mangroves could disappear.

Studies also predicted that the soil will become more salty.

As this happens, ocean water will flood the Everglades.

They will shrink.

The Everglades are already half their original size.

This is especially dangerous because most of Florida's freshwater comes from the Everglades.

Evelyn Gaiser studies climate change at Florida International University.

She was invited to meet with Obama after his speech.

For a long time, many people refused to admit that climate change was happening.

Gaiser said that more people are recognizing its danger.

The changes in the Everglades have made people more aware.

She said the Everglades could be used as an example to help raise awareness in other areas around the world.

