With his presidency coming to a close, Barack Obama urged Americans Tuesday night to rekindle their belief in the promise of change that first carried him to the White House.

He declared that the country must not allow fear and division from an election year to risk the progress being made on security and the economy.

"All the talk of America's economic decline is political hot air," Obama said in his final State of the Union address, referring to some of the presidential candidates' speeches.

"So is all the rhetoric you hear about our enemies getting stronger and America getting weaker."

He said, "The United States of America is the most powerful nation on Earth.

Period.

It's not even close."

The president addressed lawmakers and a prime-time television audience.

In his speech, he hoped to both shape his legacy and influence the outcome of the 2016 election.

He defended his achievements as president and implicitly urged the public to elect another Democratic president to build on it.

However, he also acknowledged the anxieties of Americans who feel shut out of a changing economy or fear a terror attack.

Obama did not directly call out Republicans.

Though he sharply struck back at rivals who had challenged his ability to better the country's economy and national security.

In his most direct swipe at the Republican candidates running to succeed him, Obama warned against "voices urging us to fall back into tribes, to scapegoat fellow citizens who don't look like us or pray like us or vote like we do or share the same background."

His words were unexpectedly echoed by Republican South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley.

She was selected to give the Republican response to Obama's address.

Haley emphasized how the heated campaign rhetoric about immigrants and minorities from Republican Party front-runner Donald Trump in particular has unnerved some Republican leaders.

She called on Americans to resist the temptation "to follow the siren call of the angriest voices."

"No one who is willing to work hard, abide by our laws and love our traditions should ever feel unwelcome," Haley said in her written remarks.

These were released before she spoke to the media about Obama's speech.

Focused on his own legacy, Obama ticked off a chronology of his domestic and foreign policy actions in office.

He discussed how he helped lead the economy back from the brink of depression during the 2007 financial crisis.

He also mentioned the aggressive action he took on climate change and how he put an end to the Cold War freeze with Cuba.

The trade embargo with Cuba had been in place since the Kennedy administration in 1961.

He proudly spoke of his landmark nuclear deal with Iran, in which he got Iran to agree to not develop nuclear power to make weapons.

However, he made no mention of the 10 American sailors picked up by Iran Tuesday.

The Pentagon said the sailors had drifted into Iranian waters after encountering mechanical problems and would be returned safely and promptly.

Tackling one of the most vexing foreign policy challenges of his presidency, Obama vowed a robust campaign to "take out" the Islamic State group, but chastised Republicans for "over-the-top claims" about the extremist group's power.

"Masses of fighters on the back of pickup trucks and twisted souls plotting in apartments or garages pose an enormous danger and must be stopped," he said.

"But they do not threaten our national security."

The president's words were unlikely to satisfy Republicans, as well as some Democrats, who say he underestimates the Islamic State's power and is leaving the U.S. vulnerable to attacks at home.

Obama was frank about one of his biggest regrets.

He said he failed to ease the persistently deep divisions between Democrats and Republicans.

"The rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better," he admitted.

"There's no doubt a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt might have better bridged the divide, and I guarantee I'll keep trying to be better so long as I hold this office."

He specifically called for ending the gerrymandering of some congressional districts which swing elections in the direction of a particular political party.

He also urged steps to make voting easier and to lessen the influence of money in politics.

Knowing that he cannot get many laws passed in his last year in office, Obama avoided the traditional list of policy proposals.

He did reiterate his call for working with Republicans on criminal justice reform and the prison system.

He also vowed to keep pushing for action on heated political issues such as curbing gun violence and fixing the nation's fractured immigration laws.

Yet Obama was eager to look beyond his own presidency.

He cast the actions he has taken as a springboard for future economic progress and national security.

His optimism was meant to draw a contrast with what the White House sees as doom-and-gloom scenarios often heard in speeches by Republican candidates.

Republicans were largely dismissive of the president's address.

House Speaker Paul Ryan, assuming the speaker's traditional seat behind the president for the first time, said Obama's lofty, but cliché remarks and "nostalgic rhetoric may make for nice soundbites, but they don't explain how to" solve problems.

