In 2014, there were two well-known cases of African-American men killed by police.

Eric Garner was in New York City.

A police officer grabbed him around the neck and he died afterward.

Michael Brown was in Ferguson, Missouri.

A police officer shot him even though he did not have a gun or knife.

Garner also did not have a weapon.

The deaths of Garner and Brown caused anger across the United States.

Many people came together to protest.

President Barack Obama decided to get a group of experts together.

The experts studied the issue of the relationship between African-Americans and police officers.

They then made suggestions on how to make improvements.

This week, the experts listed their ideas.

Police departments need to build trust, Obama said.

They are often not trusted and even seen as dangerous in some black and Latino neighborhoods.

The police must make real changes in their policies, he said.

The experts said one thing that could help improve the system would be outside investigations of police killings.

Today, if an officer shoots someone, there is an investigation.

Other police officers in their department will sometimes be asked to investigate.

Many people see this as unfair.

Because the police officers are co-workers, people say they might stick up for one another.

There is "deep frustration in many communities of color," Obama said.

These communities want "fair and just law enforcement," the president added.

The frustration was made clear after the deaths of Garner and Brown.

The experts think the people would trust the investigations more if things changed.

When a police officer shoots someone, it should be investigated by people outside of the police station.

"The moment is now for us to make these changes," Obama said.

He was at the White House, meeting with the experts on the task force.

They spent three months working on the recommendations.

Obama said that the killings were a tragedy, but also an opportunity.

Relations must improve between communities and police, he said.

The task force held seven public hearings across the country.

They listened to more than 100 people speak.

The panel also met with the leaders of groups representing blacks, Hispanics, Asians and others.

In the end, the task force made 63 recommendations.

The task force called for police to improve in three areas.

They want them to get better at training officers.

They also want them to keep better records and share the information.

Lastly, they want police to have a better relationship with their local communities.

More training could help officers be more fair.

It could help them deal with stressful situations, Obama said.

He admitted that police would not like one of the recommendations.

Right now, if a police officer shoots someone, there is an investigation.

Other police officers will look at what happened.

They will talk to the officer and witnesses.

Then, the police officers will decide whether the officer should have shot the person.

Some people find this unfair.

They think police officers might stick up for their co-workers.

The experts recommended that when there is a police shooting, it should still be looked into.

Police officers should just not be involved.

The experts said it should be an outside group that does the investigation.

An organization representing police officers disagreed with Obama's task force.

Outside investigations may send the wrong message, Bill Johnson said.

He leads the National Association of Police Organizations.

"I think it sends a message that your local police can't be trusted," Johnson said.

This would create more distrust between communities and their police, he said.

The task force also asked police to keep better records.

When there is a shooting, local police choose to keep records, or written accounts.

Still, there is no main place to find all the records.

There is no reason for us to not have these records, Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey said.

He helped lead the president's task force.

Ramsey was surprised to learn that there were no good records kept.

The task force also looked at police in immigrant communities.

Some immigrants might be afraid to call the police for help.

Some of them are in the United States illegally.

They may be afraid of getting in trouble if they call the police.

The group of experts recommended that local police should not deal with immigration enforcement.

This way, immigrants would be more likely to ask the police for help.

Laurie Robinson teaches at George Mason University.

She was part of the task force.

Robinson told reporters that it will take time for police to build better relations with the communities they cover.

"It takes time.

It takes relationship-building.

It doesn't happen overnight," she said.

