What do the minimum wage, preschool and gun laws have in common?

They are all things President Barack Obama wants to expand.

The president announced these goals in his State of the Union speech on Tuesday.

He then spent the rest of the week on the road and in cyberspace trying to get support for his ideas.

Jobs were a main theme of the president's speech to Congress.

The [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage) is the lowest amount an employer can pay a worker.

Obama wants to raise it from $7.25 an hour to $9.

He also wants to spend more on job training and create more high-tech factory hubs.

The next day he flew to North Carolina to visit an auto parts factory.

American factories have been closing in the past few decades.

Companies can save money by making their products overseas.

The president said by focusing on high-tech factories, the U.S. can win back factory jobs that pay a good, living wage.

"We don't give up.

We get up.

We innovate.

We adapt.

We learn new skills.

We keep going," Obama said to the factory workers.

On Wednesday, Obama flew to Georgia, where he visited a preschool class.

He gave high-fives and fist bumps to the class of 4-year-olds.

The president urged Congress in his State of the Union speech to make preschool available to all children.

"Study after study shows that the earlier a child begins learning, the better he or she does down the road," Obama said.

"We are not doing enough to give all of our kids that chance."

Obama's critics say the preschool plan will be too costly.

They say there's no proof that preschool has a long-term effect on academic success.

The State of the Union is a yearly speech that the president must deliver to Congress.

Presidents usually invite special guests who represent some of the issues mentioned in the speech.

This year, the president and Mrs. Obama invited the parents of Hadiya Pendleton.

Hadiya was a 15-year-old who was shot to death in Chicago.

She had just performed at the president's inauguration last month.

Obama made an emotional plea to Congress for action on gun control.

Sitting in the chamber was Gabrielle Giffords.

She's the former Arizona congresswoman who suffered brain damage when she was shot in the head.

Many in the audience wore green ribbons in honor of the 26 teachers and students killed at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.

The president talked more about gun control on Thursday in a "fireside hangout" on Google.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt used to make informal radio broadcasts called "fireside chats."

Obama's fireside hangout included many questions from different kinds of people One hangout guest asked if the president wants to ban handguns.

Obama replied that he didn't want to ban them.

He only wants to ban certain guns that should only be used by military.

He said he just wants stricter rules for buying handguns.

The same guest asked a question about the minimum wage.

She worried that prices will go up if companies have to pay their workers more.

She asked if she would still be able to afford things, such as coffee from Starbucks.

Obama pointed out that companies are making more money than ever.

He said that better wages could actually help businesses.

He recalled that Henry Ford raised his workers' salaries so that they could afford their own Ford vehicles.

"Nobody's going to be getting rich on $9 an hour," Obama said.

"They're still going to be struggling.

But it could make the difference between whether they can afford to buy groceries or whether they are going to a food bank."

The president answered a few personal questions from the hangout guests.

One woman asked if his daughters want careers in engineering or science.

He replied that Sasha and Malia enjoy math and science classes.

However, he said they are still young and haven't decided yet what they want to be.

Another hangout guest introduced his pregnant wife.

They asked the president if they should name their baby "Alice" or "Eleanor."

Obama declined to answer.

But he had a message for their unborn baby: "Don't forget to be awesome," he said.

