President Barack Obama announced Thursday he would place new restrictions on the targeting of terrorists with missiles fired from drones.

The unmanned aircraft have been a central piece of his counterterrorism strategy.

Their use, however, has been criticized by Congress and international allies because of civilian deaths.

The president said he would continue ordering lethal [drone](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) strikes to stop potential terror attacks because they are preferable to traditional bombing or sending out large numbers of troops.

But a new rule book would hold U.S. authorities to a tougher standard when deciding whom to kill, where, and under what circumstances, White House officials said.

Obama made the announcement in a speech that takes stock of America's long battle with al-Qaida, which was behind the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks on U.S. soil.

Under the new policy, strikes will only be authorized against militants who pose a continuing threat or who are about to launch an attack, aides said.

The previous policy allowed drone strikes against anyone who was "a significant threat."

"There must be a near certainty that no civilians will be killed or injured" before any strike is undertaken, a senior White House official said.

He was speaking under ground rules that did not allow him to be named.

Strikes against foreign militants will be conducted under the same standard as those against U.S. citizens who have joined forces with al-Qaida, the official said.

On Wednesday, the White House said four U.S. citizens have been killed in drone attacks since 2009, including a 16-year-old who was the son of a terrorist suspect.

"To say a military tactic is legal, or even effective, is not to say it is wise or moral in every instance," Obama said.

He made his address at the National Defense University.

The result would be a reduction in the frequent, secret drone strikes in Pakistan and Yemen that have occurred during Obama's time in office, aides said.

At the same time, the president reserved the right to order secret, deadly action anywhere the administration finds a threat from al-Qaida.

Obama didn't spell out exactly why he was pulling back on drones.

He inherited the program from President George W. Bush and then dramatically expanded it.

His administration has faced skepticism from Congress, which has held a series of hearings on targeted killing.

None of America's major allies has fully embraced the U.S. legal theory of why the strikes are justified.

The change was made because the core group of al-Qaida leaders in Pakistan is all but defeated and the war in Afghanistan is winding down, aides said.

That means there is less reason to hit massed groups in Pakistan.

The tactic is known as "signature strikes," where the CIA fired missiles at groups of suspected militants whose identities were unknown.

Obama addressed the issue indirectly.

"In the Afghan war theater, we must support our troops until the transition is complete at the end of 2014," he said.

"That means we will continue to take strikes against high-value al-Qaida targets, but also against forces that are massing to support attacks on coalition forces.

However, by the end of 2014, we will no longer have the same need for force protection, and the progress we have made against core al-Qaida will reduce the need for unmanned strikes."

Many of the drone strikes that the CIA and the military have launched have been in Yemen.

A new pro-American government is making progress against the al-Qaida fighters.

U.S. officials said that is making U.S. drone strikes less needed.

