From many corners of the United States — Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Mississippi — recent years have brought encouraging news about the rise in obesity among American children: Several years of a campaign to get kids to eat better and exercise more has paid off.

Child [obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) rates have appeared to stabilize.

And they might even reverse.

But a study published this week suggests that among adolescents, the hopeful signs are limited to those from better-educated, more well-off families.

Among teenagers from poorer, less well-educated families, obesity has continued to rise.

Nationally, rates of obesity among adolescents ages 12 to 19 did not rise over several years.

From 2003-2004 to 2009-2010 rates were unchanged.

But during that time, obesity rates among adolescents whose parents have high-school educations at most rose from about 20 percent to 25 percent.

At the same time, the obesity rates for teenage children of parents with college degrees or advanced degrees fell from 14 percent to about 7 percent.

The overall trend in youth obesity had been heading downward.

But that hid "a significant and growing" gap between youth from richer and those from poorer backgrounds, the authors of the latest research wrote.

That gap was not seen in younger children — those from ages 2 to 10, the researchers said.

But as children neared adulthood, the differences became increasingly apparent.

Variations in obesity rates between rich and poor are not new.

And, they are only one of many health gaps that make poor patients sicker and more likely to die prematurely than richer ones.

But the authors of the new report suggest that the public health message on obesity has not spread "evenly across the population."

If true, this difference could hold back efforts to stem a rise in obesity-related diseases in the years ahead.

Researchers from Harvard University surveyed youth about their eating and exercise patterns.

They found that physical activity may be the cause of different rates in obesity between rich and poor.

In 2003, 87 percent of adolescents with parents who had college degrees said that they had exercised or played a sport for at least 20 minutes continuously sometime in the last seven days.

By 2011, 90 percent said they had done so.

In contrast, 80 percent of adolescent children with parents who did not go beyond high school said in 2003 that they had exercised or played a sport for at least 20 minutes in the previous week.

By 2011, the numbers of those adolescents who had done so was still just 80 percent.

They were then asked whether they had done at least 10 minutes of continuous physical activity in the last month.

Of adolescents with college-educated parents, 95 percent said yes.

But among teens with parents with high school educations or less, only 82 percent of teens said they had done that much.

Kids from every type of background have gotten the message that they should reduce their intake of calories.

And, less advantaged kids took in fewer calories to begin with.

From 1998 to 2010, the teenage children of parents with college degrees reduced their average calorie intake from 2,487 calories per day to 2,150.

In the same period, less advantaged adolescents went from averaging 2,271 calories per day down to 2,105.

Genetics, metabolism, cultural and environmental factors all influence weight.

But, the foundation lies in a simple calculation: If we consume more calories than we expend in energy through physical activity, we will gain weight.

Both the richer and poorer adolescents took in roughly the same amount of calories.

But in the poorer group of adolescents, almost 1 in 5 is completely inactive.

For them, obesity is simply more likely when average calorie intake is about the same.

Childhood obesity leads to future obesity among adults.

Public health experts want to prevent this.

But, to do so they'll have to figure out why less advantaged kids don't get as much exercise, the authors of the latest study say.

Lack of recreation centers, playgrounds, and streets and sidewalks that encourage walking, biking and playing are important, they wrote.

But, they added, "this is not the whole story."

The same researchers found that among children with parents who are well-off, participation in high school sports has increased.

But among their peers from poorer, less well-educated families, such participation has declined.

