It is already widely understood that obesity — the condition of being extremely overweight — poses serious health risks, including heart disease and diabetes.

Researchers have now identified a new problem associated with childhood obesity: failure to finish high school.

A new study from Sweden finds that teens who received medical treatment for obesity were far less likely to graduate from high school than their slimmer peers.

The gap in the graduation rate was startling: 56 percent of the obese students finished all 12 years of schooling, compared with 76 percent of their classmates.

"The differences are much larger than we predicted," the authors of the study said.

They presented their results this week at the European Congress on Obesity, which met in the Czech Republic.

The research team, from the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, conducted their study by tapping into a national registry of people who were treated for childhood obesity.

They selected 1,061 adults who were at least 20 years old, giving them enough time to have finished upper secondary school, the Swedish equivalent of high school.

People were excluded if they had an intellectual disability.

The scientists next formed a non-obese group with whom comparisons could be made.

The researchers randomly selected 7,780 people who were similar to the obesity patients in terms of age, gender and where they lived.

Then, using information from Sweden's national education registry, they checked to see how many people in each group had reached certain milestones in their schooling.

The researchers found that almost everyone in both groups had finished secondary school, the Swedish version of junior high, but after that the two groups diverged quickly.

About 24 percent of the obese teens did not enroll in upper secondary school.

These high school years are optional in Sweden.

However, students may enroll free of charge and most teens do attend, according to the Swedish government.

Indeed, only 12 percent of teens in the non-obese comparison group chose not to enroll in high school, according to the study.

The drop-out rate was also higher for obese students.

Nearly 19 percent of the people in this group started high school but did not finish, compared with 12 percent of students in the comparison group.

The end result was that just 56 percent of the obese group had graduated from upper secondary school.

By comparison, the non-obese group had a 76 percent graduation rate.

According to the study, the differences between the groups did not seem to depend on factors like ethnicity, region in which they lived, or family income level.

The researchers looked for other factors that might explain the lower graduation rate among obese teens.

They found that students who were not Swedish were less likely than Swedish citizens to complete upper secondary school.

However, that was true only in the larger comparison group, not in the smaller group of people with a history of obesity.

They also noticed that in both groups, women were more likely than men to finish high school.

The study's authors said they hoped their findings will lead to "an action plan" that might help obese teens at risk of dropping out.

