Being overweight is a serious problem.

Many people are too fat.

Someone is called obese when they are very overweight.

Obesity is harmful to health.

It can lead to diseases and heart problems.

More than one-third of adult Americans are obese.

There are ways to avoid it.

One way is to watch what you eat.

Another is to get plenty of exercise.

Now scientists have learned more about an important gene that can make people fat.

Genes make up your DNA.

They tell the body how to grow and work.

Scientists now know more about the FTO gene.

Scientists knew it was tied to obesity but did not know how.

New studies show that the FTO gene works differently in some people.

Sometimes the FTO gene makes the body handle energy from food incorrectly.

It stores it in the body as fat.

Normally it gets used up during the day.

Melina Claussnitzer is a scientist.

She ran the study.

Claussnitzer once believed there were just two reasons people became fat.

One reason was eating too much.

The other was not exercising enough.

The new study changed her mind.

Now she thinks genes play a part, too.

Scientists can now start working on new ways to help lower obesity.

The new findings are exciting.

It will be a long time before any new genetic ways to lose weight are found, though.

Someday scientists may make new medicines.

More study is needed in order to make safe medicine.

Eating right and getting plenty of exercise will still be important.

The flawed FTO gene does not explain why everyone becomes overweight.

The gene was found in almost half of the Europeans tested.

But it was found in only a very small number of black people tested.

Having the bad gene does not mean a person will become obese for sure.

It may just make it more likely.

Genes come in pairs.

Some people in the study had two copies of the bad gene.

One copy came from their mom.

The other came from their dad.

They weighed an average of 7 pounds more than those without two copies.

Some were even heavier than that.

Many people worldwide are obese.

The new study might help lower the number of obese people.

Dr. Sam Klein is a scientist.

He is an expert in obesity.

He called the work "an amazing study."

