An obese person is someone who is extremely overweight.

Scientists have long known that obesity is bad for your health.

Now, Swedish researchers have discovered another problem: obesity seems to make teens less likely to finish high school.

The new study compared obese and non-obese students in Sweden.

It found that obese teens are much less likely to graduate from high school.

The difference is startling.

Only 56 percent of the obese students finished all 12 years of schooling.

To compare, 76 percent of their slimmer classmates did.

"The differences are much larger than we predicted," the authors of the study said.

The research team examined people who had been treated for obesity by a doctor.

They selected 1,061 adults who were at least 20 years old, making them old enough to have finished high school.

The researchers also needed a non-obese group to be able to compare.

They randomly selected 7,780 people who were similar to the obesity patients in terms of age and where they lived.

Then, they checked to see how far the people in each group had gone in their schooling.

Almost everyone in both groups finished junior high — but after that, the two groups were very different.

In Sweden, students who have finished junior high do not have to continue on to high school.

But most choose to do so.

Only 12 percent of the non-obese group did not  continue their education.

By comparison, 24 percent of the obese group chose not to enter high school.

The drop-out rate was also higher for obese students.

Nearly 19 percent of the people in this group started high school but did not finish.

But only 12 percent of people in the non-obese group did not graduate.

Overall, just 56 percent of the obese group went through all 12 years of schooling.

By comparison, the non-obese group had a 76 percent high school graduation rate.

The difference in the two groups' graduation rates did not seem to be caused by anything other than obesity.

For example, it did not seem to have anything to do with where the students were from, or how wealthy their parents were.

The researchers did find that in both the obese and non-obese groups, women were more likely than men to finish high school.

The study's authors said they hoped their findings would lead to "an action plan."

Something must be done to help obese teens at risk of dropping out, they said.

