For years, American children were gaining weight.

It showed no signs of stopping.

Many of them were becoming obese.

Being [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) can harm a person's health.

It is a national problem.

Yet, there has been some good news.

The number of obese children seems to have stopped going up over the past few years.

And it might even go down.

A program was started to get kids to eat better and exercise more.

It has been going on for several years.

It has been successful.

But a new study says that not all kids are doing better.

Young people from poorer families are still becoming obese.

The parents of those kids also have less education.

But teens from families with more money and better education have not become as obese.

Young people whose parents only went to high school have become more obese.

About 1 in 4 of them are now.

But, teens whose parents finished college have become less obese.

Only about 1 in 14 of them are now.

Poor kids have been more obese than richer kids for a long time.

It's a serious problem.

Poor people get sicker than richer ones.

And they are more likely to die early.

But the new report says that warnings about the dangers of weight gain have not reached everyone.

This could make it harder to lower the number of children who are obese.

And it could be a problem in the years ahead.

It could lead to a rise in diseases that come from being obese.

Scientists from Harvard University surveyed youth about their eating.

And they asked them how often they exercise.

They found that exercise may be the key to what makes a person obese.

The scientists surveyed young people with parents who finished college.

They asked how many had exercised for at least 20 minutes in the last seven days.

In 2011, 9 out of 10 of them said they had done so.

They also surveyed kids with parents who did not go beyond high school.

They asked them the same question about exercising in the past week.

Only 8 out of 10 said they had done so.

Many things affect weight.

We get our body types from our parents.

And some people's bodies burn food faster.

Different cultures eat different foods.

But, there is one big reason for weight.

If we take in more calories than we burn off energy through exercise, we gain weight.

Everything that we eat or drink has a certain amount of calories.

Only water has no calories.

Kids from every type of background have lowered the number of calories they get in a day.

And kids from poorer families took in fewer calories to begin with.

As of 2010, teenagers of parents who went to college took in 2,150 calories a day.

Poorer kids had 2,105 calories a day.

So, poor and well-off kids eat and drink about the same amount of calories.

But in the poorer group of kids, almost 1 in 5 are not exercising at all.

They are more likely to become obese.

Being obese as a child leads to being obese as an adult.

Health experts want to prevent this.

But, they will have to figure out why poorer kids do not get as much exercise, the study said.

One problem is that they may not have recreation centers, playgrounds and sidewalks where they live.

They are important in keeping active.

They encourage walking, biking and playing.

But, this is not the whole story.

The same scientists also found that children of richer parents are doing more high school sports.

But kids from poorer families with less education are playing fewer sports.

