These are good times in Wyoming.

The thanks goes to the oil business.

There are good jobs in the Wyoming oil fields.

Most people have jobs if they want them.

But some people worry that Wyoming depends too much on oil.

The oil business failed before.

It could fail again.

Then people could lose their jobs.

Many teenagers around here skip college or drop out of high school.

They go to work in the oil fields.

The money is good there.

But the teenagers don't have a plan if things go bad.

Tyrel Wellmaker is one of them.

He has a high school diploma.

He left the Army for an oil job.

He didn't need many skills.

And the job paid better than jobs for college graduates.

He worked in the oil fields for years.

He bought his own house and drove a cool pickup truck.

But he got tired of the danger.

On one job he shared a trailer with other workers.

The toilet in the trailer froze on a winter day in 2008.

Wellmaker just walked away.

He went broke and lost his house.

He couldn't afford his pickup.

He moved back in with his father.

He regrets not going to college.

Now he is 31.

He feels he made the biggest mistake of his life.

But who could blame him?

College is the way to go for most high school graduates.

Not in Wyoming.

College graduates get paid better all around the country.

But it's different in Wyoming.

A high school graduate can get a good salary.

The energy business is big in Wyoming.

Most of the state's money comes from coal, gas and uranium.

Uranium is used for nuclear fuel.

You have to go after those jobs while you can, said Mark Perry.

He's an economist at the University of Michigan.

He studies the energy business.

He thinks the oil boom will last for a long time.

"Young people should grab some of this oil money.

They can always go back to school," he said.

Some people say the oil money has hurt.

It has kept away other jobs.

There will be a bust after the boom, said Sissy Goodwin.

She teaches about power technology.

Politicians have to find other kinds of jobs, she said.

Jobs for workers without skills are easy to get.

Those for college graduates are not.

People need a high school education for most of the jobs in Wyoming.

They only need a college degree for a few of the jobs.

It's hard to train students for other jobs, said Jim Rose.

He's an education official.

If they can't find work, they will leave the state, he said.

Jonathan Odlin is training for a new job.

He was in the military, and went to work in the Wyoming oil fields.

He had a high school diploma, and the pay was good.

But he didn't like the hours.

Odlin, 30, will soon earn a college degree.

He works to support five kids.

The oil fields were easy money, he said.

But they are not the place to be.

