Valerie Naylor admires the scenery stretched out in front of her: colorful rocky hills, rustling trees, and the twisting Little Missouri River shimmering below.

It's a beautiful and peaceful place, the Theodore Roosevelt National Park in North Dakota.

But Naylor, the park's superintendent, is worried.

"So much of what you're looking at is outside the park, and it's so vulnerable," she said.

The park was named after President Theodore Roosevelt, who hunted buffalo in that area as a young man from New York.

Later, he lived there as a rancher.

Naylor wonders whether she can protect the park from oil drilling that's going on all around it.

She is on a mission to preserve the park's natural sounds, fresh air and breathtaking views.

She's fighting against a huge industry — large oil and gas companies.

Today, North Dakota has more than 11,000 active oil wells.

They drill for the precious energy resource, but cause harm to the natural beauty.

About 60,000 more oil wells could be built, with drilling continuing for at least 20 years.

There's a lot of oil in the ground, and it has created an oil boom — many companies in the state are making a lot of money drilling oil and a lot of people are getting rich.

Oil companies in North Dakota are now pumping a million barrels of oil a day.

Almost every week it seems there's a new project planned near the 70,000-acre park, Naylor said.

"There's so many things going on so quickly.

It might be a pipeline, power line, oil well,  or new road … any number of things," Naylor said.

She estimated that she and her staff have tried to get changes on more than 20 planned projects since the boom began.

They often have success.

Naylor drives her hybrid SUV up a scenic road.

She points to a fence that marks the boundary of the park.

A few years ago, a company wanted to build an oil pump, storage tanks and other infrastructure right along the fence.

Naylor wrote letters to the company, asking it to change the project.

Eventually, after months of paperwork and negotiating, the company agreed to move the project 2 miles away.

Oil companies are more flexible now thanks to new drilling techniques.

Using horizontal drilling, companies can move oil pumps further away from the park, but still get the underground oil.

The oil industry always tries to keep an open dialogue with neighbors, a spokesman said.

One company announced it was canceling plans for a new oil well near the park's border, saying  it wanted to preserve the natural beauty of North Dakota public lands.

To Naylor, the park is a perfect example of what a national park should be: wildlife, scenery and historical value.

Naylor first fell in love with the park more than 40 years ago, when she visited with her parents as a teenager from Oregon.

She vowed to come back, and she did.

She spent years in the park, volunteering, doing research, and working as a park ranger.

She became the park's superintendent 11 years ago.

Naylor and others want to protect not only scenic natural views, but also the park's solitude.

They want the sound of blowing wind and singing birds, not the hum of traffic.

The scent of sagebrush, not the stink of chemicals.

The darkness of the night sky, not the glow of gas flares.

Deb Hornfeldt and Debbie Virnig stopped at the park during a road trip across the Western United States.

They visit the national parks to find serenity — peace and quiet.

Hornfeldt, a retired teacher, said spending time in nature helps her relax and feel less stressed.

"It's really important to have places like this.

People crave this."

she said.

More oil drilling and traffic would ruin the beauty, she said.

"Natural spaces are getting smaller and smaller," Virnig added, in sign language.

The oil boom has brought traffic, dust, noise and construction to North Dakota.

Oil company workers now visit the park to get away from it all.

Preserving a wild area is more important than ever, Naylor knows.

"I love this park," Naylor said.

"I will continue to always protect it."

