Valerie Naylor first saw this national park in North Dakota more than 40 years ago, when she was a teenager.

She was visiting from Oregon with her parents.

Naylor fell in love with the park immediately and vowed that she would come back.

When she did, she spent years here, volunteering, doing research and working as a park ranger.

Now she is superintendent, in charge of the whole park, which covers 70,000 acres in North Dakota.

People come to Theodore Roosevelt National Park for the natural sounds, fresh air and breathtaking views.

Naylor wants to keep it that way.

The park is named after Theodore Roosevelt, U.S. president from 1901 to 1909.

Roosevelt was a war hero, boxer, cowboy and hunter.

He was also famous for his conservation efforts and as president, he worked to protect natural areas.

He visited North Dakota in the 1880s to hunt buffalo.

He also lived in the area as a rancher for a time.

Naylor is standing at Oxbow Overlook, looking out over stony hills, rustling trees, and the twisting river shimmering below.

The park is "a very special place," she said.

But it's in danger.

"It's so vulnerable."

The lands around Theodore Roosevelt National Park are rich with oil.

North Dakota is in the middle of an oil boom — companies drilling oil in the state are making a lot of money.

The state government is making money too.

Many people are becoming rich.

Today, North Dakota has more than 11,000 oil wells.

And 60,000 more could be built.

The drilling will continue for at least 20 years.

Oil companies now pump 1 million barrels of oil a day in North Dakota.

It is Naylor's job to make sure the oil drilling doesn't hurt her park.

Many projects have been coming closer.

"There's so many things going on so quickly.

It might be a pipeline, power line, oil well, or new road," she said.

Naylor drives her SUV through a beautiful area.

She points to a fence that marks the border of the park.

A company wanted to build an oil pump and storage tanks near the fence.

Naylor wrote a letter to the company, asking to move the project.

Eventually, after months of paperwork and negotiation, the company agreed to move the pump further away.

"It was very complex and a lot of work," Naylor said.

Protecting the park takes a lot of hard work.

Naylor and her co-workers have tried to change more than 20 planned projects, sending letters and talking with the companies.

We are not against oil drilling, she says, but it's important that we take care of the park.

Naylor and others want to protect the park's views and its wildlife and peacefulness.

They want the sound of blowing wind and singing birds, not the noise of traffic.

The darkness of the night sky, not the fires of oil drilling.

Deb Hornfeldt and Debbie Virnig of Minnesota stopped at the park as a part of road trip they were taking in a large RV.

They visit national parks for serenity — peace and quiet.

Hornfeldt, a retired teacher, said spending time in nature helps her relax and feel less stressed.

"It's really important to have places like this.

People crave this."

she said.

More oil drilling and traffic would ruin the beauty, she said.

"Natural spaces are getting smaller and smaller," Virnig added, in sign language.

The oil boom has brought traffic, dust, noise and construction to North Dakota.

Oil company workers now visit the park to get away from it all for some peace and quiet.

Preserving a wild area is more important than ever, Naylor knows.

"I love this park," Naylor said.

"I will continue to always protect it."

