The price of oil has fallen by nearly half in just six months.

The drop has been surprising.

Anyone who buys oil or gas is happy.

Car and truck drivers, airlines, and shipping companies are all cheering.

Oil companies are not very happy.

They are losing money.

Experts are confused.

They are trying to understand changes in the economy.

An economy is made up of all the things a country makes and sells.

Economists are not sure if oil's drop in price is good or bad.

A barrel of oil now costs $58.

Last summer it was $107.

So what's going on?

There is too much oil and too few people who want to buy it.

Oil prices had been high for years.

Companies that drill for oil noticed.

They figured they could make extra money.

So they searched the world for more oil.

They found it.

Since 2008, U.S. oil companies have been selling much more oil.

They now sell 3.5 million more barrels of oil each day.

There is a group of 12 of the world's biggest oil-producing countries.

Most are in the Middle East.

They work together to decide how much oil they will sell.

A few years ago, fighting started in parts of the Middle East and Africa.

Some countries there could not put out as much oil.

So other countries pumped more oil.

But now the oil group plans to keep pumping oil steadily.

Also, other countries are still selling more oil.

More oil is being pumped than the world needs.

It is making global prices lower.

Global demand is expected to grow next year.

But not much.

The United States buys more oil than any other country.

Its economy is strong.

China, Japan and Western Europe are the next biggest buyers of oil.

Their economies appear to be weakening.

Oil demand falls when economies weaken.

Even in the United States demand is not increasing.

The U.S. government thinks people will buy less gas next year.

People are buying cars that use less gas.

Car drivers have many reasons to be happy about low oil prices.

Gasoline is the cheapest it has been since 2009.

Cheaper gas this year meant about an extra $100 a month for each U.S. family.

That is extra money for holiday presents.

"Any time gas prices go down, that is a good thing," said Randy Daniels.

He was shopping at a mall in Atlanta, Georgia.

"An extra 20 or 30 bucks in my pocket goes far."

Falling fuel prices give people extra money to spend.

Then people shop more.

The extra shopping helps the economy.

But economists are concerned.

Oil's price plunge could mean the global economy is really struggling.

A weak global economy could hurt the U.S. economy.

People in other countries might buy fewer things made in the United States.

If U.S. companies cannot export as many products, they will hire fewer workers.

People could lose jobs and money.

All those problems could be worse than the benefits of cheaper fuel.

Oil companies, oil-producing states, and oil-exporting countries are hurt by cheap oil.

Oil companies make less money when oil is cheap.

Experts say oil companies may fire thousands of workers.

States such as Alaska, North Dakota, Oklahoma and Texas rely on money from oil companies.

They get money to let oil companies drill on their land.

Now they will get less money.

They could have less money to pay for services people need.

Countries that sell a lot of oil such as Iran, Iraq, Russia and Venezuela rely on money from the oil.

Those countries own oil companies.

They use the money to pay for their governments.

At the moment, many are struggling.

One study found that every $1 drop in the price of oil costs Venezuela $770 million a year.

If oil stays at these prices, Venezuela could lose $36 billion.

