mile-wide tornado ripped across the Oklahoma City area Monday afternoon with winds whipping up to 200 miles per hour.

Neighborhoods were flattened into fields of rubble leaving residents frantically searching for loved ones.

At least 24 people were killed, many of them children.

The twister's path of destruction stretched for 20 miles.

It cut mainly through Moore, a city of 56,000 people just south of the Oklahoma state capital.

The tornado will go down in state history as the most deadly.

It hammered two elementary schools and ripped the second floor off Moore's hospital.

Rescue crews swarmed into the wreckage at Plaza Towers Elementary School.

There were 75 students and staff in the building at the time the storm tore through the area.

News helicopters and other aircraft were banned from flying over the ruins of the school, CNN reported.

Rescuers feared engine noise would make it hard to  hear cries for help.

They raced against the setting sun to search the area while they still could.

The other school rocked by the tornado was Briarwood Elementary School in Oklahoma City.

Reuters reported that the twister hurled cars into the front of the building.

Oklahoma is no stranger to tornadoes.

But even lifelong residents expressed disbelief at the size and power of Monday's storm and the damage it caused.

Some compared it to the cluster of tornadoes that struck Moore in May 1999, with winds of 345 miles per hour, the fastest ever recorded on Earth.

Forty-eight were killed.

"It was just like the movie 'Twister'," Lando Hite told a reporter from television station KFOR.

"There were horses and stuff flying around everywhere," Hite said, standing shirtless and covered in mud amid the debris.

The tornado began at 3 p.m., pounding the area for 40 minutes.

The timing could not have been worse; family members were separated between home, school and work.

Roads that were already littered with debris got congested with people scrambling to find their loved ones.

CNN reporters described the aftermath in Moore as "chaotic."

The National Weather Service issued a tornado warning 16 minutes before the twister struck.

Roads were jammed as motorists tried to flee the area.

At 3:01 p.m. the National Weather Service posted on Facebook:  "TORNADO EMERGENCY FOR THE (Oklahoma City) METRO AREA.

Large violent deadly tornado moving toward Moore!

Take cover RIGHT NOW DO NOT WAIT!!"

At 3:03 it wrote on Twitter: "This is as serious as it gets for SW OKC and Moore.

Please seek shelter now!"

In southwest Oklahoma City, the overpowering winds flicked cars upside down and dropped them onto the roofs of smashed houses.

A CNN reporter said people who survived the storm risked their lives climbing through the unsteady wreckage looking for belongings.

Police warned that fallen power lines raised the risk of fires.

The National Weather Service said there was a threat of more storms.

Hail as big as tennis balls fell on the region.

The hazardous weather extended as far as parts of Kansas, Arkansas, Missouri and Texas.

Tornados are rated on the Fujita scale of 1 to 5 with F5 being the worst.

Monday's storm was rated an F5 because it caused death and injuries.

Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin called out the National Guard to help in the rescue and recovery.

She  declared a state of emergency in 21 counties.

"We are looking under every single piece of debris" for the missing, Fallin said.

"Our hearts are broken for the parents that are wondering about the state of their children that had been in the schools that have been hit today," Fallin said.

"I know that there are families wondering where their loved ones are."

President Barack Obama called Fallin and told her the people of Oklahoma were in his and the first lady's prayers.

