huge tornado whipped through Oklahoma Monday.

The 200-mile-per hour winds sucked up whole neighborhoods.

Frantic residents searched in the rubble for missing loved ones.

At least 24 people were killed.

Many of the victims were children.

The twister's path stretched for 20 miles.

It cut through Moore, a city south of the state capital.

It is one of the deadliest tornadoes in Oklahoma history.

It may also be the most heartbreaking.

The tornado destroyed two elementary schools, both with students inside.

Rescue crews swarmed into the ruins at Plaza Towers Elementary School.

There were 75 students and staff in the building when the storm struck.

Helicopters were banned from flying over the school, CNN reported.

Rescuers feared engine noise would make it hard to hear cries for help.

They raced against the setting sun to search the area while they could still see.

Briarwood Elementary School in Oklahoma City was also hit by the tornado.

News reports said the twister shot cars through the front of the building.

Oklahoma often has tornadoes.

But even lifelong residents were shocked by Monday's storm.

Some compared it to the tornado that struck Moore in May 1999.

It had winds of 318 miles per hour, the fastest ever recorded on Earth.

Forty-eight people died.

"It was just like the movie 'Twister'," said Lando Hite.

"There were horses and stuff flying around everywhere," he told a reporter from television station KFOR.

He had no shirt and his body was covered in mud.

The tornado began at 3 p.m. and lasted for 40 minutes.

The timing was very bad.

Family members were separated between home, school and work.

Roads got jammed with people rushing to find their loved ones.

The National Weather Service put out a tornado warning 16 minutes before the twister touched down.

Roads were packed as motorists tried to flee.

At 3:01 p.m. the National Weather Service posted on Facebook:  "TORNADO EMERGENCY FOR THE (Oklahoma City) METRO AREA.

Large violent deadly tornado moving toward Moore!

Take cover RIGHT NOW DO NOT WAIT!!"

At 3:03 it wrote on Twitter: "This is as serious as it gets for (Southwest Oklahoma City) and Moore.

Please seek shelter now!"

In southwest Oklahoma City, the winds flipped cars and dropped them onto roofs.

Police warned that there was risk of fire.

Power lines were down.

The National Weather Service said more storms were likely.

Hail as big as tennis balls fell on the region.

The wild weather extended as far as parts of Kansas, Arkansas, Missouri and Texas.

Tornados are measured on the Fujita scale from 1 to 5, with F5 being the worst.

Monday's storm was rated an F5 because it caused death and injuries.

Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin called out the National Guard to help.

She declared a state of emergency in 21 counties.

"We are looking under every single piece of debris" for the missing, Fallin said.

"Our hearts are broken for the parents that are wondering about the state of their children that had been in the schools that have been hit today," Fallin said.

"I know that there are families wondering where their loved ones are."

President Barack Obama called Fallin after the storm.

He told her the people of Oklahoma were in his and the first lady's prayers.

