Sometime soon, pieces of a very important skeleton will be reburied.

The bones are the remains of a young boy who lived in what is now Montana about 12,600 years ago.

The bits of the young boy's skeleton are special: They are the only human remains linked to a group of people called the Clovis.

The mysterious group were ancestors of many [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) living today.

The bones were discovered in Western Montana by a construction worker in 1968.

When they were found, the bones were covered in red ochre.

Scientists believe the powdered mineral was used during a funeral ceremony.

Along with them were 125 tools made from stone and horn.

Scientists have already sequenced the genome of the boy — that is, they have studied the genes found in his bones.

They believe he was between 1 and 1½ years old when he died.

Their findings shed new light on the first human settlers of North America.

Most scientists believe that the Clovis people's ancestors came from Asia.

They got here, it is thought, over an ancient land bridge.

Some scientists, however, support another theory: They believe the ancestors of the Clovis came from southwestern Europe.

The new study shows that idea is probably wrong, scientists said.

"The ancestors of this boy originated from Asia.

The study does not support the idea that the first Americans originated from Europe," said study co-author Michael Waters.

Waters said the boy's remains were genetically related to most modern Native Americans — especially those living in Central and South America.

This suggests that most of the original population of the Americas came in a single migration, Waters said.

The American continent was most likely first settled "around 15,000 years ago," at the close of the last ice age.

The Clovis people came around 2,000 years later.

The study's leader, Eske Willerslev, met with a number of Native American tribes in Montana.

He said scientists and Native American groups haven't always gotten along well.

So he wasn't sure what to expect at first.

"They showed a lot of interest in the study," Willerslev said.

"But all of them said that now is the time for the skeleton to go back into the ground."

He added, "This was a heart blow.

Being a scientist, reburying probably the most important skeleton in the history of the Americas, it's hard."

But Willerslev said it was a sacrifice that science had to make.

"We need to respect that they feel very strongly about this," he said.

The Clovis people are known for their unusual stone spear points.

These have a slit cut into them, so they can be attached to the shaft of a spear or dart.

Waters said the Clovis died out about 12,600 years ago.

This was around the same time the boy was buried.

Some of the tools buried with the boy were made of elk antlers.

Antlers, as the large horns of male elk and other deer are called, were a precious material then.

The tools dated to the beginnings of the Clovis people, about 13,000 years ago.

The 400-year difference in age, Waters said, suggested the antler tools were important objects that had been kept for generations.

"They were something special," he said.

Study co-author Shane Doyle is a member of the Crow tribe.

He acted as the go-between for scientists and Native American tribes in Montana during the study.

Doyle said that the child's remains would be reburied this spring or summer.

He also thanked the scientists for involving Native American tribes.

"This discovery basically confirms what tribes have really never doubted," Doyle said.

"We've been here since" ancient times.

All the "artifacts, objects in the ground" are from "our direct ancestors."

