At the request of several Native American tribes, an ancient human skeleton will soon be reburied in a formal ceremony.

The bones are the remains of an infant who lived in what is now Montana about 12,600 years ago.

Scientists have already completed a sequencing of the boy's genome.

The fragments of the young boy's skeleton are the sole human remains directly associated with the short-lived Clovis culture.

The bones were accidentally discovered in Western Montana by a construction worker in 1968.

The fragments, as well as 125 stone and antler tools, were covered in red ochre.

Scientists believe the powdered mineral was probably used during a burial ceremony.

Scientists sequenced the genome of the boy, who was between 1 and 1½ years old when he died.

Their findings, published Wednesday in Nature, shed new light on the earliest human colonies of North America.

It had generally been believed that the Clovis people's ancestors had come from Asia, via an ancient land bridge.

However, a competing proposal held that they were actually descended from people who had migrated from southwestern Europe.

This theory is known as the Solutrean hypothesis.

The new research argued strongly against that idea, scientists said.

"The ancestors of this boy originated from Asia.

The study does not support the idea that the first Americans originated from Europe, as proposed by the Solutrean hypothesis," said study co-author Michael Waters.

Waters said the boy's remains were genetically related to most modern Native Americans, especially those living in Central and South America.

"This indicates that a single migration of humans introduced the majority of the founding population of the Americas ... at the close of the last ice age," Waters said.

"These genetic findings" support the idea that "the American continent was first explored and settled around 15,000 years ago, with Clovis emerging 2,000 years later."

While conducting research, study co-author Eske Willerslev met with a number of [Native American tribes](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) in Montana.

He said scientists and Native American groups haven't always gotten along well.

So he wasn't sure what to expect at first.

"They showed a lot of interest in the study, but all of them said that now is the time for the skeleton to go back into the ground," Willerslev said.

"This was a heart blow, because being a scientist, reburying probably the most important skeleton in the history of the Americas, it's hard."

But Willerslev said it was a sacrifice that science had to make.

"I realized that if scientists and Native Americans want to pursue their past together, there needs to be compromises on both sides.

Therefore, we need to respect that they feel very strongly about this issue," he said.

The Clovis culture is so named because its first remnants were found in 1932 in Clovis, N.M. To archaeologists, the culture is known by the distinctive stone spear points it left behind.

The points feature a groove that allows them to be attached to the shaft of a spear or dart.

Waters said the Clovis culture ended about 12,600 years ago, or around the same time the boy was buried.

He said some of the tools buried with the boy were made of elk antlers, then a precious material.

They dated to the beginning of the culture about 13,000 years ago.

The 400-year difference in age, Waters said, suggested the antler tools were important, possibly sacred objects that had been kept for generations.

"They were something special," he said.

Study co-author Shane Doyle is a member of the Crow tribe.

He acted as the go-between for researchers and local Native Americans during the study.

At a news briefing, Doyle told reporters the child's remains would be reburied this spring or summer.

He also thanked the researchers for involving Native American tribes.

"I feel like this discovery basically confirms what tribes have really never doubted," Doyle said.

"That we've been here since time immemorial, and that all the artifacts, objects in the ground are remnants of our direct ancestors."

