On Wednesday, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina said something that upset both athletes and Olympic officials: He suggested that the United States should perhaps not go to the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia.

According to Graham, Russia has been behaving so badly that the United States might want to protest by not going to the games.

That kind of protest is known as a boycott.

"I love the Olympics, but I hate what the Russian government is doing throughout the world," Graham told NBC News.

Russia has done a few things recently that the U.S. government is unhappy about.

It has been supporting Syrian president Bashar al-Assad.

Assad is battling rebels who are attempting to remove him.

The U.S. government would like to see him gone.

Another thing is that former National Security Agency worker Edward Snowden has been allowed to stay in Russia.

He recently spoke to the press about the way the NSA has been spying on phone calls and computer messages in the U.S. and overseas.

The U.S. government wants to arrest Snowden, but Russia has refused to hand him over.

Graham isn't necessarily calling for a boycott.

But he does want people to consider the idea.

Just the mention of a boycott caused the U.S. Olympic Committee to declare that its members "strongly oppose" the idea.

In its statement, the committee referred to the Olympic boycott that happened in 1980.

That year, the United States and 64 other nations refused to send athletes to Moscow.

At the time, tensions were very high between the United States and Russia, which was then called the Soviet Union.

The two superpowers were still in the middle of what is known as the Cold War.

This was not really a war, since the United States and the Soviet Union were not actually fighting.

But there was a lot of competition and mistrust between the two countries.

The boycott of the 1980 Olympic Games did not help solve any of the U.S.'s problems with Russia, said U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman Patrick Sandusky.

But it did rob "hundreds of American athletes ... of the opportunity of a lifetime."

These were men and women who had worked very hard for the chance to represent the Unites States at the Olympic Games.

Back in 1980 one of those athletes was swimmer Ron Neugent.

He had taken a year off from the University of Kansas to focus on his training.

He lost his big chance, however, when President Jimmy Carter declared that the United States wouldn't send a team to Moscow.

The boycott was meant as a protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

"I'm an American.

I understand that our country has to do some things" to take a stand, Neugent said on Wednesday.

"But I am also a human being."

Athletes, he said, are only at their highest level for a short time.

They have a brief opportunity to take part in the Olympic Games.

If they miss one chance, they probably won't get another.

Despite training hard for the 1984 games in Los Angeles, Neugent didn't manage to qualify.

He lost his chance to compete for his country.

Renaldo Nehemiah found himself in the same boat as Neugent.

He was the world-record holder in the 110-meter hurdles, but had to stay home in 1980.

After that, he was never able to reach the games.

"Punishing athletes because the government can't resolve its issues isn't right," he said in an email.

"Sports have nothing to do with politics."

Politicians in Washington haven't shown strong support for Graham's suggestion.

And the White House has refused to comment on the possibility of a boycott.

Robert Edelman, a professor of Russian history and the history of sport, pointed out that the 1980 boycott didn't change anything.

Indeed, the Soviet Union remained in Afghanistan until 1989.

Edelman agrees that the United States has some major problems with Russia.

But, he said, things are much better than they used to be.

The U.S. relationship with Russia is nothing like it was during the Cold War.

And Russia doesn't act anything like it did back then.

A 2014 boycott, Edelman said, would be a terrible idea.

The Olympic Committee makes the final decision on whether to send athletes to the Olympics.

