The old-fashioned International Olympic Committee (IOC) has embraced some new winter sports favored by young people.

The change has been good for both the Olympics and extreme sports like slopestyle.

This marriage of new and old sports could be seen at a media event last week.

Sage Kotsenburg, the gold-medal-winning American snowboard dude in sweatsuit and knit cap, was on the podium.

So was Christophe Dubi.

The finely dressed Swiss man is the IOC's director of sports.

Snowboarders and freestyle skiers get an international showcase in the Olympics being held in Sochi, Russia.

Meanwhile, the new sports have added youthful energy to Games that were growing stale.

Millions of new TV viewers have tuned in.

"The Olympics are the highest level of competition you can get," said Gus Kenworthy, a silver medalist in slopestyle skiing.

"Our sport is young and cool and has a following all its own.

It's breathing new life into the Olympics."

More people watched Shaun White win the half-pipe than anything else NBC showed in the 2010 Games in Vancouver, Canada.

And so far in 2014, the same is true at the Sochi Games.

Twenty-four million Americans watched White finish fourth Wednesday.

The youth movement couldn't have arrived at a better time.

Figure skating has long been the Winter Olympics' biggest event and the sport that drove its TV ratings.

But fewer and fewer people have been watching figure skating.

The reasons include the sport's scoring system and its often overly formal tone.

The IOC resisted any major changes for decades.

Sports such as snowboarding weren't even on its radar.

"Snowboarding was looked at as the rebel sport," said White.

"It wasn't fit to be on the mountain.

We were outcasts."

But things changed between 1992 and 2010.

The IOC added short-track speedskating and freestyle versions of skiing and snowboarding.

At Sochi there will be 15 days with either freestyle skiing or snowboarding.

Figure skating will only have 11 days.

"There definitely was a lot of skepticism at first," said Luke Bodensteiner.

He is an executive vice president of the U.S.

Ski and Snowboard Association and an early supporter of the new sports.

"People always have concerns that by adding new sports you'll drain resources and participants from the existing ones."

Bodensteiner gave much of the credit for the IOC's change to Dubi.

As the organization's director of sports, Dubi pushed it in a new direction.

Dubi did say he wasn't trying to hurt or get rid of any existing sports.

"We need to preserve our history.

It's very important," he said.

At the same time, he said, we have to remain current and make sure that we capture a new audience as well.

No sport better shows off the new Games than slopestyle.

It has by far been the most discussed, and, for Americans at least, the most successful of the 12 first-time sports here.

"I think the world needed to see slopestyle," said Kotsenburg, who won the snowboarding event.

"Snowboarding is different from figure skating or gymnastics.

This is what the kids are doing nowadays."

The international skiing community finally took notice a little over five years ago.

It saw slopestyle's growth and potential.

Skaters increasingly are bound by a scoring system that demands they perform a fixed set of moves.

Slopestylers are free to experiment.

Figure skating's atmosphere often resembles that of classical music's.

But a slopestyle event includes blaring music and lots of video screens.

NBC's Olympics chief, Jim Bell, said the athletes were as significant as the events in the new sports' appeal.

"They're not some robotic athlete," Bell said.

"They've got personality.

They've got spark."

When Kotsenburg won his gold medal, the audience at the 10 a.m. event overflowed Rosa Khutor Extreme Park.

Dubi and several other IOC officials were in the crowd.

"We really had goose bumps," Dubi said of watching Kotsenburg soar.

"I don't know how it was for you in the media, but for us, we thought it was the ultimate experience."

