The dogs are having their day in Sochi.

Packs of mutts roam the downtown streets of the city center and the Adler district.

Scores of them have shown up in the new mountain villages the Russian government has built for the 2014 Winter Olympics.

The Sochi Games have drawn scrutiny over security, weather, gay rights and even funny-looking toilets.

But perhaps the most unexpected story surfacing here this month is the pooch problem.

While free-roaming dogs are a global issue, it has been spotlighted in Sochi because of reports that Olympic organizers hired contractors to kill at least 2,000 animals.

That grim news helped fuel interest in protecting the animals, who hang around populated areas begging for food.

Most of the dogs are friendly instead of the teeth-baring wild animals that often run in packs — which explains why a number of visiting athletes are among those trying to help.

"It makes me sad seeing dogs on the streets," said Brita Sigourney, of Carmel, Calif., who competes  in the new extreme sport of ski halfpipe.

Sigourney, 24, found two young dogs near the athletes village in the Caucasus Mountains, and well, it was love at first sight.

She returned to the spot a few days later to check on her new friends.

Sigourney found one of the dogs.

"The workers around said the other disappeared," she lamented.

Sigourney wants to bring more than a medal back from the Sochi Games.

"I wish I could bring this puppy home," Sigourney said.

Many share those sentiments.

Silver medalist freeskier Gus Kenworthy plans to take five dogs home that he picked up on the streets.

"I've been around animals all my life," said Kenworthy, of Telluride, Colo. "It's hard to watch."

Amanda Bird, U.S. bobsled and skeleton press officer, also plans to bring home a pooch.

Those bringing back dogs are required to get two pieces of paper to do so: an international health certificate and proof of rabies vaccination.

Her husband already has picked out a name: Sochi.

Kelly O'Meara of Humane Society International said most dogs in Russia end up homeless because they are abandoned.

"Dogs are brought into homes as puppies, but then abandoned once they become adults," she said.

The street dog population generally increases when more humans move into an area.

People bring  a ready-made food supply.

In the past seven years, Sochi has experienced huge growth.

Thousands of workers descended on the once-quaint town, and brought dogs with them to guard the construction sites.

But they departed without taking the dogs with them, according to local activists.

The situation made Sochi residents such as Dina Filippova, 28, act well before the games opened Feb. 6.

A part-time lawyer, Filippova quit a management job to lead a campaign to save street dogs.

"We have a lot of volunteers who rescue dogs and keep them in different places," she said.

Filippova described the work as continually improvising.

For example, dogs are driven out of Sochi under the cover of night to get them to safe places where they can find good homes.

Filippova estimates that she has saved about 500 dogs over the past few years.

She is keeping a handful in her apartment and lodging about two dozen more in temporary homes.

The city opened a municipal shelter in the past month, but Filippova does not believe the politicians.

"They were founded only because of the Olympics — to have something to show foreign journalists," she said.

"And it is not like they have saved a lot of animals already."

Nadezhda Mayboroda, 39, opened a private shelter called PovoDog.

She said she has about 20 dogs in residence but is trying to expand.

She has been working for the past five years to get officials to build a permanent city-run shelter.

"Still, nobody wants to help," Mayboroda said.

Bird, the bobsled press officer, plans to visit PovoDog on Monday to pick out which one she wants.

"I didn't come to Sochi with the intent of adopting a dog," she said.

"But I couldn't ignore the presence of the stray dogs."

Bird dreams of someday owning enough land to create an animal sanctuary.

She doesn't know if she will get a puppy home to Tennessee.

Her flight doesn't allow dogs, so Bird is hoping someone will bring the animal home for her.

Mayboroda, of the dog shelter, made it clear that strays are an international problem and not something found only in subtropical Sochi.

But the mild climate along the Black Sea allows the dogs to live on the streets without many problems.

"Food is everywhere," she said.

A friendly hound found Sunday hanging outside the door of a cafe in the Olympic Park probably would have agreed.

The short-haired dog with sorrowful eyes approached shyly in hopes of scoring a bit of food.

It didn't bark, not when hoping for a bite.

