Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., upset both athletes and Olympic officials on Wednesday when he suggested that the United States should consider boycotting — that is, pulling out of in protest — the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia.

"I love the Olympics, but I hate what the Russian government is doing throughout the world," Graham told NBC News.

Kevin Bishop, Graham's communications director, said the senator was referring to a number of things.

Such as Russia's political and military support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Assad, who is opposed by the United States, is currently battling rebels attempting to overthrow him.

And Russia is giving temporary asylum to former National Security Agency (NSA) employee Edward Snowden.

He recently leaked details about the way the NSA has been secretly monitoring phone calls and computer messages in the U.S. and overseas.

Snowden is being sought by the U.S. government.

Bishop emphasized that Graham wasn't specifically calling for a boycott, but wanted to raise the idea.

Bishop did not respond to a request for an interview with Graham.

The mere suggestion of a boycott was enough for the U.S. Olympic Committee to release a statement that said members "strongly oppose" the idea.

Comparisons were drawn with the 1980 Olympic boycott, in which the United States and 64 other nations refused to send athletes to Moscow.

At the time, tensions were very high between the United States and the Soviet Union (as Russia was then known).

The two superpowers and their allies were still caught up in the Cold War — so-called because the United States and the Soviet Union were competing with each other, but not actually fighting.

"Our boycott of the 1980 Olympic Games did not contribute to a successful resolution of the underlying conflict," said Patrick Sandusky, U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman.

"It did, however, deprive hundreds of American athletes, all of whom had completely dedicated themselves to representing our nation at the Olympic Games, of the opportunity of a lifetime."

The committee makes the final decision on whether to send athletes to the Olympics.

Back in 1980 one of those athletes was Ron Neugent, a member of the U.S. Olympic swimming team.

Neugent, now an orthodontist in Wichita, Kan., had taken a year off from the University of Kansas to focus on his training.

He lost out on his chance, however, when President Jimmy Carter declared that the United States would not send a team to Moscow, to protest the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

"I'm an American.

I understand that our country has to do some things for leverage around the world," Neugent said in an interview Wednesday.

"But I am also a human being, and as an athlete, you have a very short window to try and take part in the Olympic Games."

Despite training for the 1984 games in Los Angeles, Neugent couldn't qualify, and he lost his chance to compete for his country.

As it happened, the Soviet Union and its allies boycotted the Olympics that year, as a protest against the 1980 boycott.

Renaldo Nehemiah found himself in a situation similar to Neugent's.

The world-record holder in the 110-meter hurdles, he stayed home with the U.S. Olympic track and field team in 1980.

He was never able to reach the games after that.

"Punishing athletes because the government can't resolve their issues isn't right," he said in an email.

"Sports have nothing to do with politics."

Politicians in Washington haven't shown strong support for Graham's suggestion.

House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, as well as Sens.

Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and John McCain, R-Ariz., told reporters Wednesday they disagreed with Graham.

During the daily White House news briefing, press secretary Jay Carney repeatedly declined to comment on the possibility of a boycott.

Sochi was a topic last Friday during a telephone conversation between President Barack Obama and President Vladimir Putin of Russia.

However, the press release summarizing the call mentioned only that both countries were cooperating on security for the games.

Robert Edelman, a professor of Russian history and the history of sport at the University of California, San Diego, pointed out that the 1980 boycott failed to sway Soviet foreign policy.

Indeed, the Soviet Union remained in Afghanistan until 1989.

"Jimmy Carter and his administration were very, very naive in the way that they understood [how] international sports works," he said Wednesday.

"We know that when the Soviets were making the decision to move in [to Afghanistan], the question of whether the Olympics would be boycotted or not was simply not discussed."

And while the United States may currently have some substantial disagreements with Russia over foreign policy, he said, their relationship and Russia's conduct are nothing like they were during the Cold War.

A 2014 boycott would make Carter's decision seem wise by comparison, Edelman said.

"Certainly the tendency of Putin since his re-election has been — I guess you could call it regressive and more nationalistic," he said.

"But the idea ... that it is equivalent either to what the Soviet government was like, or especially what [dictator Joseph] Stalin was like, is absurd."

