Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., upset both athletes and Olympic officials on Wednesday when he suggested that the United States should consider not going to the 2014 Winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia.

According to Graham, Russia has been behaving so badly that the United States might want to boycott the games -- that is, refuse to go as a protest against Russia.

"I love the Olympics, but I hate what the Russian government is doing throughout the world," Graham told NBC News.

Kevin Bishop, Graham's communications director, said the senator was referring to Russia's political and military support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Assad, who is opposed by the United States, is currently battling rebels attempting to overthrow him.

Also, former National Security Agency (NSA) employee Edward Snowden has been allowed to stay in Russia.

He recently leaked details about the way the NSA has been secretly monitoring phone calls and computer messages in the U.S. and abroad.

Snowden is being sought by the U.S. government, but Russia has refused to hand him over.

Bishop said that Graham wasn't necessarily calling for a boycott, but wanted to raise the idea.

Bishop did not respond to a request for an interview with Graham.

Just the suggestion of a boycott was enough for the U.S. Olympic Committee to release a statement that said members "strongly oppose" the idea.

In its statement, the committee referred to the Olympic boycott that occurred in 1980.

During that year's games, the United States and 64 other nations refused to send athletes to Moscow.

At the time, tensions were very high between the United States and the Soviet Union (as Russia was then known).

The two superpowers and their allies were still in the midst of what is called the Cold War.

This was not a war in the normal sense, since the United States and the Soviet Union were not actually fighting each other.

There was, however, a lot of competition and mistrust between the two countries.

The boycott of the 1980 Olympic Games did not help solve any of the U.S.'s problems with Russia, said Patrick Sandusky, U.S. Olympic Committee spokesman.

It did, however, "deprive hundreds of American athletes ... of the opportunity of a lifetime."

And these were men and women who had "completely dedicated themselves to representing our nation at the Olympic Games."

The committee makes the final decision on whether to send athletes to the Olympics.

Back in 1980 Ron Neugent was a member of the U.S. Olympic swimming team.

Neugent, now an orthodontist in Wichita, Kan., had taken a year off from the University of Kansas to focus on his training.

He lost out on his chance, however, when President Jimmy Carter declared that the United States wouldn't send a team to Moscow.

Carter intended the boycott as a protest against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.

"I'm an American.

I understand that our country has to do some things" to strengthen its position around the world, Neugent said in an interview Wednesday.

"But I am also a human being."

Athletes, he said, are only at their peak for a short time.

They have a brief opportunity to take part in the Olympic Games.

If they miss one chance, they probably won't get another.

Despite training hard for the 1984 games in Los Angeles, Neugent didn't manage to qualify.

He lost his chance to compete for his country.

As it happened, athletes from the Soviet Union and its allies weren't at that Olympics either.

They boycotted the games that year, as a protest against the 1980 boycott.

Renaldo Nehemiah found himself in a situation similar to Neugent's.

The world-record holder in the 110-meter hurdles, he stayed home with the U.S. Olympic track and field team in 1980.

He was never able to reach the games after that.

"Punishing athletes because the government can't resolve their issues isn't right," he said in an email.

"Sports have nothing to do with politics."

Politicians in Washington haven't shown strong support for Graham's suggestion.

House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, as well as Sens.

Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., and John McCain, R-Ariz., disagreed with it.

President Barack Obama and President Vladimir Putin of Russia did talk about Sochi during a recent phone conversation.

However, the White House said they talked only about cooperating on security for the games.

The White House has refused to comment on the possibility of a boycott.

Robert Edelman, a professor of Russian history and the history of sport, pointed out that the 1980 boycott did not affect Soviet foreign policy.

Indeed, the USSR remained in Afghanistan until 1989.

"Jimmy Carter and his administration were very, very naive ... [about the way] international sports works," he said Wednesday.

When the Soviets were deciding to move into Afghanistan, they weren't at all concerned about whether the Olympics would be boycotted.

Edelman admits that the United States has some major disagreements with Russia over foreign policy.

But, he said, things are much better than they used to be.

The U.S. relationship with Russia is nothing like it was during the Cold War.

And Russia's behavior is nothing like it was then.

The idea that Russia today is the same as "what the Soviet government was like, or especially what [dictator Joseph] Stalin was like, is absurd."

A 2014 boycott, Edelman said, would make Carter's decision seem wise by comparison.

