More than 1 million migrants came to Europe this year.

The huge number set a record.

The migrants left their home countries to escape war and other terrible problems.

They hope to find a safe place to live in Europe.

The International Organization for Migration (IOM) is a group that includes many countries.

The IOM keeps track of the number of migrants moving around the world.

As of Monday, 1,005,504 people entered Europe this year, the IOM said.

About 250,000 came last year.

Almost all of them came by sea.

More than 3,500 people drowned.

The real number of migrants may be higher.

It is hard to count all of them.

So many have come in such a short time.

About half of the migrants were Syrians, the IOM said.

Other groups were Afghans and Iraqis. There has been a war in Syria for four years.

Many Syrians have been killed.

Many others have escaped to other countries.

Many migrants traveled to Turkey first.

It is a country near Syria.

Then the migrants came to Europe through Greece.

From Greece, the migrants moved across the European continent.

Greece saw 820,000 people pass through this year.  Another 150,000 migrants came into Italy through boat across the Mediterranean Sea from North Africa.

Smaller numbers traveled by land.

The migrants went to Greece and Bulgaria.

The two countries are on Turkey's borders.

Some crossed into Europe from other places.

A few thousand people rode by bicycle from Russia to Norway.

William Lacy Swing is the head of the IOM. Swing said there is no way to stop migrants from coming.

People must be allowed to come if they want. He said European governments should make migration safer.

European governments do not agree about what to do with the migrants.

There are too many people.

They argue about how best to care for them.

Many migrants are escaping war and unfair treatment.

These people will likely stay in Europe.

Other people came to find work.

They could be sent back home.

Winter has made their trips more dangerous.

The number of migrants has slowed down.

Yet people are still showing up in Greece.

On Monday alone, more than 4,100 people arrived on the Greek islands.

