Krista Hooten knew something had to be done when she saw "terror" in her daughter Kelsey's eyes.

After all, all they were doing was a bit of back-to-school shopping.

There was a reason for Kelsey's fear.

The year before, in sixth grade, she had been [bullied](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=bullying).

It started with other girls calling her ugly and spreading rumors about her.

But it turned physical when the bullies pulled her hair on the bus and shoved her to the ground.

"It changed her personality," Krista Hooten said.

"It was a horrible, horrible year."

Hooten and her husband decided it was time to make a change.

They pulled Kelsey from public school and enrolled her in an online school called the Ohio Virtual Academy.

Bullying in school is a big problem.

One-third of all U.S. children are targeted each year, according to the White House.

That works out to 13 million students each year who get bullied.

And those students are more likely to do badly in school, to use drugs or drink, and to get sick.

In some cases, victims of bullying have even killed themselves.

Krista Hooten said her daughter did not tell her just how much she was being bullied.

This was true even when the attacks became physical.

The teenager acted "like she was dealing with it and it wasn't that big a deal."

She added, "All I knew at that point was she didn't want to go" to school.

It was "to the point where (when) she would leave in the morning, she cried all the way to the bus stop."

Hooten talked to her daughter's teachers and school leaders.

But their only suggestion was that Kelsey should "find another group of friends."

Kelsey is now 16 and in 10th grade.

She said she has been able to escape bullying since she started attending the Ohio Virtual Academy.

The academy was created in 2006 and now has more than 12,600 students across the state.

While it may be good at protecting students from bullying, so far it hasn't been that good at educating them.

The school was given an "F" on the latest state report card.

Not enough students at the school passed tests.

Less than half of students at the school finish in four years.

Bullying has always been a problem, of course.

But it's even more of a problem today now that people spend so much time online.

"Because of cyberbullying, students can't escape it," said bullying expert Susan Davies.

"It's not something that's just happening at school.

They're being targeted in their home when they're not even around other kids.

That has become really difficult to address at the school level."

It's unclear what and how much schools should do, Davies says.

Cyberbullying does happen at the Ohio Virtual Academy.

But, according to principal Kristin Stewart, the school has zero tolerance for bullying.

It has kicked out or suspended students in the past, though not often.

The academy trains its teachers to look for signs of bullying.

Stewart said she thinks bullying is caught sooner than usual at the school.

This is "because the teachers are online with students."

Sometimes it takes a while before students who have been bullied can trust other students again, Stewart said.

But once they do, "we have blogs and Facebook where kids can go online and meet each other.

They can approach getting back to school safely because they're in their homes and they're feeling safe.

They can move at their own pace."

Students also choose the school for reasons other than bullying.

Hooten's two other daughters also attend the Ohio Virtual Academy.

Lexie, 14, started so that she could have more time for her 20-hour-a-week commitment to dancing.

Hannah, 11, started because she was missing many days of traditional school due to her asthma.

Next year Kelsey will begin taking college courses.

Her mother said the change in her personality was almost immediate after she left public school.

"She was just happier again," she said.

"You just really underestimate" the effect bullying can have.

"Even though she's beautiful," the bullying got to her.

"It's amazing what peers can do when they're telling you the opposite" of what's true.

