Lolita the Puget Sound orca, who has been held for decades at Miami's Seaquarium, is about to gain the protection of the federal Endangered Species Act.

The change is expected to lead to a lawsuit from advocates seeking the whale's release.

On Wednesday, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) announced its decision to list Lolita as a Puget Sound orca, despite her having been taken to Miami more than 40 years ago.

The orcas of Puget Sound are already considered to be endangered under the federal act.

Whale activists, who petitioned for the reclassification, have long campaigned for Lolita's return to Puget Sound.

They hope the listing will provide a stronger legal case to release Lolita than did a previous lawsuit.

The earlier challenge centered on alleged violations of the federal Animal Welfare Act.

"This gives leverage under a much stronger law," said Howard Garrett of the Orca Network.

The group hopes a San Juan Island cove off Washington state will one day serve as the site for Lolita to re-enter the wild.

NOAA Fisheries officials said their decision does not address whether Lolita should be released from the Seaquarium.

"This is a listing decision," NOAA official Will Stelle said.

"It is not a decision to free Lolita."

Aquarium officials have repeatedly said they have no intention of releasing the orca.

"Lolita has been part of the Miami Seaquarium family for 44 years," said Andrew Hertz, Seaquarium's  general manager.

"Lolita is healthy and thriving in her home where she shares" her living space "with Pacific white-sided dolphins.

There is no scientific evidence that ... Lolita could survive in a sea pen or the open waters of the Pacific Northwest, and we are not willing to treat her life as an experiment."

Orcas, also known as killer whales, are found in many of the world's oceans.

The so-called southern resident population, which spends several months each year in Puget Sound, is the only group in the United States listed under the Endangered Species Act.

Between 1965 and 1975, captures by marine parks reduced the southern resident population, NOAA says.

Among those captures was a roundup in Penn Cove in which seven whales were seized, including Lolita.

The southern resident population now consists of fewer than 80 orcas.

Possible causes for the decline are reduced prey, pollutants that could cause reproductive problems and oil spills, according to NOAA Fisheries.

Under the Endangered Species Act, it is illegal to harm or mistreat a protected orca.

NOAA officials said on Wednesday that holding an animal captive is not, in and of itself, mistreatment.

Orca activists are expected to argue in their lawsuit that Lolita's cramped conditions are a form of mistreatment.

There is "rising public scorn for the whole idea of performing orcas," said Garrett, who hopes Seaquarium will decide to release Lolita without a court order.

NOAA officials still have concerns about releasing captive whales, however.

Any plan to move or release Lolita would require thorough scientific review, the agency said in a statement.

Among the agency's concerns are the possibility of disease transmission, the ability of a newly released orca to find food and behavior patterns from captivity that could have an impact on wild whales.

NOAA said previous attempts to release captive orcas and dolphins have often been unsuccessful and some have ended in death.

Garrett said the plan for Lolita calls for her to be taken to a netted area of the cove, which could be enlarged later if she seemed to be doing well.

She would be accompanied by familiar trainers who would "reassure her every bit of the way," he said.

The controversy over releasing captive whales has been heightened by the experience of Keiko, a captive orca that starred in the 1993 movie "Free Willy."

The film is about a boy who pushed for the release of a whale.

In 1998, Keiko was brought back to his native waters off Iceland to begin training for an attempt to reintroduce him to life in the ocean.

He was released into Icelandic waters with other wild whales in 2002 and died in a Norwegian fjord in 2003.

Garrett, who visited Keiko in Iceland in 1999, said he was impressed by the reintroduction effort, and that there was plenty of evidence that Keiko was able to catch fish on his own.

"The naysayers predicted that as soon as he got into the (Icelandic) waters he would die, and wild orcas would kill him," Garrett said.

"He proved that 180-degrees wrong — he loved it."

Mark Simmons, who took part in the Keiko-release effort, has a different view.

He says Keiko never was able to catch fish on his own, and that he continued to seek out human contact at every opportunity.

Simmons wrote a book called "Killing Keiko," which accuses the release effort of leading to a long, slow death for the orca, which he says lacked food and then succumbed to an infection.

"It's not really the fact that Keiko died, but how he died," Garrett said.

