In this remote and rugged country, a band of gunmen and self-proclaimed defenders of the U.S. Constitution are making their latest and boldest stand.

In another generation they were called Sagebrush Rebels.

They also bristled at federal control of much of this once-wild land and sought to reclaim it.

But the long-running debate over federal control of public land has come to a new standoff in the rolling ranch lands of southeastern Oregon.

Beginning about a month ago, Ammon Bundy, a rancher from Nevada, and others arrived in Burns.

They brandished rifles and handguns and preached from pickup beds against the federal government owning land.

After a peaceful protest of more than 100 people, a group of at least 15 men, some of them armed, broke off and occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.

They blocked its entryway and declared themselves its rightful owners.

Through their ranch Facebook page, the Bundys called for "all freedom-loving people" to help occupy the wildlife refuge.

Bundled against freezing temperatures, the protesters remained there Sunday night in one of the most direct provocations yet of the federal government.

So far, state and federal authorities have taken a low-key approach.

On Monday, they established a command post to organize a law enforcement response to the standoff.

Activists at the refuge spent much of Sunday behind their makeshift barrier — a pickup and an American flag — eating donated chili, holding a news conference and looking down at the refuge from an occupied observation tower.

"We will not fire unless fired upon, but we will stand and defend the Constitution," said one of the activists, Jon Ritzheimer, in a Facebook video.

The Constitution does not specifically state that the federal government can own land, and the protesters do not think that it has that right.

Harney County Sheriff David M. Ward has warned residents to avoid the refuge.  "These men came to Harney County claiming to be part of militia groups supporting local ranchers," Ward said in a statement.

"In reality these men had alternative motives, to attempt to overthrow the county and federal government in hopes to spark a movement across the United States."

Some of the protesters have compared the standoff to others that led to the deaths of activists and federal agents.

"Yes, there are some people that are armed," Ritzheimer said.

"We need to defend our rights.

That's what the Second Amendment is there for, people."

Democratic Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon said the occupation was being monitored closely by state, federal and local authorities.

"The FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) is on this every minute," Wyden said.

"But based on comments from what we've heard in the community and what's been reported, we may be in just the early stages of this."

Oregon has yet to fully recover from the decline of the timber industry and dwindling federal dollars to replace lost timber income.

"There's enormous frustration about the economy and a very powerful sense in rural communities that nobody listens to them, that they don't have any power, that their voices don't matter," Wyden said.

"But the next step isn't to be led by some outsiders into doing something that doesn't help anybody."

Those leading the occupation say they are at the head of a national movement to resist the government's ownership of vast stretches of land in the West.

The occupation began Saturday after the rally near Burns.

More than 150 people had gathered in support of two locals who are facing additional jail time for arson.

The two men, Dwight Hammond and his son Steve Hammond, said they the set fires to reduce the growth of invasive plants and also to protect their property from wildfires.

They were convicted three years ago and served time.

But a judge recently ruled their terms were too short under federal law and ordered them back to prison for about four years each.

The two men reported to prison Monday in Los Angeles, but the judge's decision has  has sparked controversy throughout the West.

Conservatives see the decision as a deeply unjust punishment.

After the protest Saturday, the small, armed group took over the wildlife refuge, which was closed and empty.

"The people are finally getting some good use out of a federal facility," read a post by the Bundy Ranch on its Facebook page.

In 2014, Ammon Bundy's father, Cliven Bundy, led a weekslong armed standoff against paying $1 million in federal grazing fees at his ranch in Nevada.

Numerous Western conservatives have called for the return of federal lands to state and local government.

The movement has waxed and waned since the so-called Sagebrush Rebellion of the 1980s.

It centered on ranchers' rights and the money that could be made from timber harvesting, mining and ranching if only the federal government didn't forbid them on public lands.

The movement has picked up steam in recent years, led by Utah legislator Ken Ivory.

He heads a national organization called the American Lands Council that tries to persuade county and state governments to pursue the ownership of federal land.

A watchdog group has accused him of fraud in three states for his use of taxpayer dollars to pursue his agenda.

The Malheur National Wildlife Refuge, created in 1908 by President Theodore Roosevelt, presents challenges to the ranching families in the area.

They say they are increasingly hemmed in by the federal preserve.

The protest quickly overwhelmed the small Harney County Sheriff's Office, which asked the public to stop calling on Saturday because residents were having trouble reaching emergency dispatchers.

"A collective effort from multiple agencies is currently working on a solution," Ward said in a statement.

"For the time being, please stay away from that area."

