A group of gunmen took over a national wildlife preservation over the weekend.

They are angry that the American government owns millions of acres of land.

They say this is against the law.

About a month ago, Ammon Bundy and other protesters arrived in Burns, Oregon.

Bundy's family owns a ranch in Nevada.

The protesters carried rifles and handguns and said that the federal government should not own land.

On Saturday, a group of about 100 people held a peaceful protest.

Afterward, Bundy and at least 15 men drove off and occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge nearby.

They blocked its entryway and declared themselves its rightful owners.

Through their Facebook page, the Bundy family called for "all freedom-loving people" to help occupy the refuge.

They said they are at the head of a national movement to resist the government owning land in the West.

Bundy and other protesters said the Constitution does not specifically allow the government to own land.

Protesters spent much of Sunday behind a pickup and an American flag.

They ate donated chili and held a news conference.

Some of them looked down at the refuge from an observation tower.

"We will not fire unless fired upon, but we will stand and defend the Constitution," said one of the activists, Jon Ritzheimer.

He spoke in a Facebook video posted from the refuge.

Bundled up against the cold, the protesters remained at the refuge Sunday and Monday nights.

So far, state and national officials are watching the protesters.

As of Tuesday, they had not taken any action.

Harney County Sheriff David M. Ward has warned people in the area to avoid the refuge.

He warned that the group stated that they just wanted to support local people who owned cattle ranches.

Ranching families have had arguments with the government over the refuge.

In fact, Ward said, the protesters want to overthrow the American government.

There have been other standoffs against the government.

Sometimes, people were killed during gunbattles.

The protesters warned that they might fight if pushed.

"Yes, there are some people that are armed," Ritzheimer said.

"We need to defend our rights.

That's what the Second Amendment is there for, people."

The Constitution's Second Amendment says that people can own guns.

Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon said the standoff might continue for a long time.

He said that Oregonians who live in rural areas are frustrated.

They feel "that nobody listens to them, that they don't have any power, that their voices don't matter," Wyden said.

"But the next step isn't to be led by some outsiders into doing something that doesn't help anybody."

The standoff began Saturday after the rally, which showed support for two local ranchers.

Dwight Hammond and his son Steve Hammond had been found guilty of setting fires.

The two men said they set fires on their land to reduce the growth of unwanted plants and also to protect their property from wildfires.

The Hammonds were sentenced to prison.

Recently a judge decided they did not serve enough time under federal law and ordered them back to prison for about four years each.

The two men reported to prison Monday in Los Angeles.

The judge's decision has  upset people throughout the West, who see it as a deeply unfair punishment.

Over the years, some people in the West have said that lands owned by the federal government should be returned to state and local governments.

The movement has grown and shrunk since another standoff in the 1980s called the Sagebrush Rebellion.

Protesters wanted state and local governments to have more control over national lands.

The federal government does not allow logging, mining and ranching on public lands, and the protesters thought that people should be allowed to make money from these activities.

