An American teenager is sick with the bubonic plague.

Bubonic plague is a terrible illness.

It has been around for more than 1,000 years.

The plague killed about 50 million Europeans during the 1300s.

Since then, the disease has never been completely wiped out.

The teenage girl is from Oregon.

Doctors believe she got the plague after being bitten by a flea.

Fleas are small insects that feed on the blood of animals and birds.

They sometimes carry and pass on diseases when they bite humans.

The girl was bitten in October.

It happened during a hunting trip.

The teenager is still in a hospital.

She is slowly getting better.

So far no one else has gotten the disease.

"Many people think of the plague as a disease of the past," said Oregon doctor Emilio DeBess.

They are wrong, he said.

The disease is still around.

It is very rare for people to catch the plague.

Today the plague is mostly found in wild animals.

People do still need to be careful, DeBess said.

They should not get too close to squirrels, chipmunks, rats or other wild animals.

These animals can carry fleas.

People should also keep their pets away from these animals.

The bubonic plague is spread through flea bites.

It can also enter a person's blood through a cut.

The disease is not that common.

There have only been eight cases in Oregon in the last 20 years.

There are usually about seven cases a year across the United States.

Most are in western states.

People with the plague could die if they do not get help quickly.

If people get medicine fast enough they are usually fine.

The medicines are called antibiotics.

Only 1 in 10 people die of the plague after they are given antibiotics.

There have been three huge outbreaks of bubonic plague in the world.

The first was the Justinian Plague.

It began in 541 A.D.

The Justinian Plague killed more than 25 million people.

The Black Death was next.

It started in 1334 in China.

From there the plague spread to Europe.

The disease killed 50 million people.

Six out of every 10 Europeans died.

The Modern Plague was the last big outbreak.

It began in China during the 1860s.

The disease reached Hong Kong by 1894.

Then rats on ships spread it around the world.

The animals had fleas all over their bodies.

