A band of gunmen and self-proclaimed defenders of the U.S. Constitution took over a national wildlife preserve over the weekend.

For many years, a debate over federal control of public land has been simmering.

Beginning about a month ago, Ammon Bundy, a rancher from Nevada, and others arrived in Burns.

They waved rifles and handguns around and preached from their pickups against the federal government owning land.  On Saturday, after a peaceful protest of more than 100 people, a group of at least 15 men broke off and occupied the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge.

They blocked its entryway and declared themselves its rightful owners.

Through their ranch Facebook page, the Bundys called for "all freedom-loving people" to help occupy the wildlife refuge.  The leaders of the occupation say they are at the front of a national movement to resist the government's ownership of land — amounting to millions of acres — in the West.

Bundy and others say this is against the Constitution because it does not specifically say the national government can own land.

In 2014, Bundy's father, Cliven Bundy, led a weekslong armed standoff at his ranch in Nevada.

He did not want to pay the government $1 million to graze his cattle on federal land.

Bundled against freezing temperatures, the protesters remained at the refuge Sunday night and Monday in a direct challenge to the federal government.

So far, state and federal authorities are watching the activists but have not taken action.

Activists spent much of Sunday behind their makeshift barrier — a pickup and an American flag.

They ate donated chili, held a news conference and kept watch from an observation tower.

"We will not fire unless fired upon, but we will stand and defend the Constitution," said one of the activists, Jon Ritzheimer.

He spoke in a Facebook video posted from the refuge.  Harney County Sheriff David M. Ward has warned residents to avoid the refuge.

"These men came to Harney County claiming to be part of militia groups supporting local ranchers," Ward said in a statement.

In reality, their goal was "to attempt to overthrow the county and federal government in hopes to spark a movement across the United States."

There have been other standoffs against the government, which led to the deaths of activists and federal agents.

"Yes, there are some people that are armed," Ritzheimer said.

"We need to defend our rights.

That's what the Second Amendment is there for, people."

The Constitution's Second Amendment gives people the right to carry guns.

Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon said that state, federal and local authorities were paying close attention to the standoff.

However, he said it might continue for a long time.

Wyden said that Oregonians are very frustrated about the economy.

There's a "very powerful sense in rural communities that nobody listens to them, that they don't have any power, that their voices don't matter," he said.

"But the next step isn't to be led by some outsiders into doing something that doesn't help anybody."

The standoff began Saturday after the rally near Burns.

More than 150 people gathered in support of two local men.

The two ranchers, Dwight Hammond and his son Steve Hammond, were convicted three years ago of arson.

They said they set fires to reduce the growth of invasive plants and also to protect their property from wildfires.

The Hammonds served time in prison, but a judge recently ruled that they did not serve enough time under federal law and ordered them back to prison for about four years each.

The two men reported to prison Monday in Los Angeles.

The judge's decision has  has sparked controversy throughout the West and is widely seen by conservatives as a deeply unjust punishment.

Conservatives are traditional, and some do not like government control.

After the protest Saturday, the small, armed group took over the wildlife refuge, which was closed and empty.

Over the years, many Western conservatives have called for the return of federal lands to state and local government.

The movement has grown and shrunk since the so-called Sagebrush Rebellion of the 1980s.

The rebellion centered on ranchers' rights and the fact that the federal government does not allow logging, mining and ranching on public lands.

The Malheur National Wildlife Refuge was created in 1908 by President Theodore Roosevelt.

Ranching families in the area have come into conflict with the government about the refuge.

The protest quickly overwhelmed the small Harney County Sheriff's Office.

It asked the public to stop calling on Saturday because residents were having trouble reaching emergency services.

