The American government owns millions of acres of land.

Most of this land is in the West.

Some people think this is against the law.

Last weekend, a group took over a national wildlife park in Oregon.

Some of the protesters have guns and rifles.

They said they would fight the government but would not fire first.

So far, government officials are watching the protesters.

Officials have not taken any action.

About a month ago, Ammon Bundy and other protesters arrived in Burns, Oregon.

Bundy's family owns a cattle ranch in Nevada.

The protesters waved rifles and handguns around.

They also told people that the government should not own any land at all.

On Saturday, a group of about 100 held a protest.

It was peaceful.

Afterward, Bundy and a group of at least 15 men drove off.

The protesters took over the Malheur National Wildlife Refuge nearby.

They blocked the entry.

Then they said that they owned the park.

The Bundy family posted about it on Facebook.

The Bundys called for people to come and help them guard the wildlife park.

Protesters spent much of Sunday behind a pickup truck and an American flag.

Jon Ritzheimer was one of the protesters.

He posted a video on Facebook from the wildlife park.

He said they would not attack the government.

Yet, he said, the protesters would fight to defend their rights.

Ron Wyden is an Oregon lawmaker.

He said the people of Oregon are frustrated.

They feel that no one listens to them.

Yet, Wyden doesn't agree with what the protesters are doing.

Taking over the refuge does not help anyone, he said.

The rally on Saturday had a different purpose.

People wanted to show support for two men. Dwight Hammond and his son Steve Hammond have a ranch in the area.

A while ago, they set fires on their land.

They were sent to prison for this.

Recently, a judge said they should be in prison for longer.

He ordered them back to prison.

The two men went back to prison Monday in Los Angeles.

Many people were upset about this.

They thought it was not fair.

