It seems Oreos are as habit-forming as cocaine — for rats, anyhow.

At least that's what a new study has found.

The study was run by science professor Joseph Schroeder and his students.

It used rats to test foods with a lot of fat and sugar in them, to see if the foods might be making people addicted.

In other words, would it be really hard for people to stop eating those foods?

The results?

Rats seemed to like cookies as much as cocaine.

The study shows that foods with a lot of fat and sugar do the same thing to the brain that drugs do, Schroeder said.

That may explain why some people can't stop eating them, even when "they know they are bad for them."

The study was thought up by college student Jamie Honohan.

Honohan wondered why so many poor people are [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) — that is, very overweight.

She wanted to test the idea that high-fat, high-sugar foods are as addictive as drugs.

There was a reason Oreos were chosen, Schroeder said.

The researchers wanted something that was tasty for humans as well as rats.

That way the study would say something about "a problem facing humans."

Honohan said she also wanted to use something common in grocery stores.

Plus, she noted, rats really like Oreos.

The researchers set up two little rooms for the rats.

Then, they tried several different experiments.

In one experiment, rats were given Oreo cookies in one space and rice cakes in the other.

It was clear that the rats preferred the Oreos, she said.

They split the cookies apart and gobbled up the cream.

Then, they went on to eat all the cookies.

Not all the rice cakes got eaten.

After this, the food was removed.

The rats were given the choice of where to spend time.

They spent far more time in the room where the Oreos had been, than where the rice cakes had been.

The researchers did the same experiment with drugs.

Rats were given a shot of cocaine in one room.

And in the other room, they were injected with salt water.

Then the shots were stopped.

The rats were given the choice of which room to spend time in.

They liked the room where the drugs had been better.

What did the researchers observe?

The rats spent as many hours in the Oreos room as they did in the drug room.

Then the researchers looked at what was going on in the rats' brains.

They wanted to figure out which the rats enjoyed more — eating cookies or being given drugs.

So they measured how active neurons were in the part of the rats' brain that feels pleasure.

Neurons are nerve cells that carry "messages" in the brain.

Rats and humans both have neurons.

It turned out that the cookies activated many more neurons than the drugs did.

In other words, the rats got more pleasure out of Oreos than cocaine.

This suggests that "high-fat, high-sugar foods are addictive," Schroeder said.

Honohan hopes people will learn something from the study.

Maybe they will understand how hard it is to quit eating foods with a lot of fat and sugar.

Honohan said that in some ways, junk foods may be "more dangerous to society than drugs."

This is because "you don't have to go (into) a dark alley to buy them.

You go into any grocery store or bodega."

And they are cheap.

The cost makes them attractive to poor people.

As for Oreos, Honohan is done with them.

She used to eat them before the study.

"Now I can't even look at them," she said.

