When Dariel Alvarez escaped from his native country, Cuba, it was hard not to fear the worst.

His boat ran out of fuel, and he didn't eat for days.

"The first thought was, 'Wow, I went through so much just to die on the edge,'" Alvarez, 25, recalled recently in Spanish.

"I was scared to come so far and fall short."

Two years later, Alvarez is one of the brightest prospects for the Baltimore Orioles.

He now plays at the highest level of minor league baseball, Triple-A.

He is just one step away from his goal of playing in the major leagues.

His journey from Cuba in 2012 to the outfield of the Norfolk Tides was not an easy one.

It is against the law for Cubans to leave their country without permission.

Alvarez had to sneak out.

If he got caught leaving the island, it would mean going to prison.

Alvarez was willing to risk it, to help his family and follow this dreams.

Alvarez left his house in the middle of the night.

Along with eight others, he traveled through thick forest to a remote beach.

They hid in the bushes, whispering prayers.

When their boat arrived, they faced a two-day trip to an unknown destination in Mexico.

They had an unexpected and dangerous refueling stop in the middle of the Gulf of Mexico.

His boat radioed another boat for gasoline.

After stockpiling enough for the rest of the journey, they continued west.

At about 1 a.m., Alvarez estimates, he arrived in his new country.

Alvarez left Cuba understanding that, if stopped in international water, he would be suspended from playing baseball in Cuba.

He left realizing he might never see his family again.

Alvarez escaped from Cuba without saying goodbye to several friends.

The United States requires Cuban athletes to get a special permit, called an unblocking license, to work for an American company.

Alvarez went more than year without playing baseball while he waited for his unblocking license.

He couldn't go back to Cuba while he waited, he would be arrested.

Alvarez said the Cuban government won't allow him back into the country until 2021.

He says he wishes the time would pass faster so he could hug his mom.

When his grandmother died, he couldn't do anything but call home.

He considers other Cuban defectors, all who have similar experiences, his brothers.

He has spoken to many of them on different Major League teams, such as Los Angeles Dodgers' Yasiel Puig and the Chicago White Sox's Jose Abreu.

He looks up to them for succeeding and for representing Cuba.

"They're examples to follow," Alvarez said.

"They're Cuban, they came here, they triumphed.

That's what we all want.

Come here, succeed, and leave our names in this country representing Cuba."

This year, Alvarez has come closer to his goal of joining his friends in the major leagues.

In late June, the outfielder received an invitation to the All-Star Futures Game in Minneapolis.

Many current All-Stars once played in the Futures Game.

Four days after the Futures Game, the Orioles promoted Alvarez to Norfolk.

Brian Graham, a Baltimore Orioles official, said Alvarez's skills combine raw power with speed and good instincts.

The Orioles could see evidence of his strength and bat control from his time in the minor leagues.

Defensively, he covers a lot of ground in the outfield and uses his cannon of a right arm to catch opposing baserunners.

Orioles manager Buck Showalter believes Triple-A pitchers will challenge Alvarez.

Some adjustments will be necessary at the plate.

Showalter still has high hopes for Alvarez and thinks he could play in the major leagues.

"We think he has the best arm of everyone" with the Orioles, Showalter said.

Alvarez's future was not always that bright.

Along with his difficulty in getting the right to try out for teams, scouts did not view Alvarez as a must-have player.

He signed with the Orioles for $800,000 in 2013.

That was a smaller bonus than some of the other Cuban stars of Major League Baseball received.

The money was still an improvement from baseball in Cuba, where Alvarez said he made just $12 a month.

"[The money] surprised me a little," he said about his deal with the Orioles, "but not that much, because there have been others who have made more, and I support them.

Honestly, I would have taken whatever they would have offered me, because I wanted to play baseball."

Alvarez met his girlfriend, Patricia Canedo, in the U.S., and they're expecting a baby boy in September.

Canedo, who Alvarez said immigrated from Cuba legally, is working toward becoming an American citizen.

Once that happens, the Cuban government might permit Alvarez's family to visit.

Alvarez hopes to introduce his mother to her American-born grandson someday.

"The only thing left to make me the happiest man in the world is to have my family by my side," he said.

