Almost four years after the MV-22 Osprey arrived in Afghanistan with a reputation as dangerous and hard to repair, the U.S. Marine Corps finally has had an opportunity to test the hybrid aircraft in real warfare.

The reviews are surprisingly positive.

"This is an ugly duckling that turned into a swan," said Richard Whittle, the author of  _"The Dream Machine: The Untold History of the Notorious V-22 Osprey.

"_  It is still probably more expensive than it should be, and more expensive to operate.

But "it now has probably the best safety record of any rotorcraft that the military flies."

The odd aircraft, which takes off and lands like a helicopter but rotates its engines forward to fly like an airplane, got off to a slow and troubled start.

The development took more than two decades and went wildly over budget.

Osprey crashes claimed 30 lives.

The military used it in Iraq's Anbar province from 2007 to 2009 where it mainly transported people and cargo since combat was winding down.

The Government Accountability Office, an agency that keeps an eye on Washington's spending, criticized the Osprey as wasteful.

In Afghanistan, however, the Marines have been able to use it more widely.

They have been flying it for everything including hundreds of attacks.

It has carried loads of Marines into or out of landing zones, often under intense fire.

It is twice as fast as the helicopter it replaces and has much wider range.

It can carry more cargo and more than twice as many troops.

The Marines are learning how to keep it flying in a harsh environment.

Whittle once had doubts about the Osprey, but he has become a fan.

"The Osprey has proven itself in Afghanistan in a way it did not in Iraq," he said.

"Partly that was because it didn't get the chance in Iraq."

He added that the military is usually very cautious with new equipment.

But if it can help in the fighting, the military will be quick to use it, Whittle explained.

The MV-22 Ospreys here now are dusty, stained and smudged from hot exhaust, and at least five have returned to base with bullet holes, including –twice¬– the one flown by Lt. Col. Douglas C. Sanders, the commander of the Marine unit that is flying the Osprey in Afghanistan.

The Osprey's many back-up systems work well, said Maj. Matthew McSorley, a pilot for the squadron.

McSorley was hit by a different kind of fire while flying a mission on Valentine's Day: a massive bolt of lightning.

"It was one of those days where the airplane itself just totally wins over your heart," he said.

"It bounced right back, and I flew it all the way back, and within a week I was flying the same plane again."

Among the recent missions the squadron has flown was one in which the Osprey showed its strengths.

A Marine with a head wound at a distant base needed to be moved for quick treatment.

The crew dashed for the Osprey and zoomed some 40 miles.

They picked up the wounded man and flew another 75 miles or so to the massive coalition base in Kandahar.

This all took less than one hour from the moment they got the call.

A conventional helicopter would have been hard-pressed to do the same, even without the 40-mile run from Bastion, Sanders said.

A more typical use is taking advantage of the aircraft's speed and range to come around behind a target for an assault, coming in from an unexpected direction.

This evades the Taliban's crude air-warning system, which often is a line of watchers with cellphones.

That capability has made it a favored platform for special operations strikes here, Marines said.

The current version of the Osprey also is far safer than earlier ones.

It is now among the safest rotary-wing aircraft in the military.

The rate for Class A flight mishaps - those that involve death or permanent disability and/or more than $2 million in damage - is 1.48 per 100,000 hours of flying time since the aircraft was declared operational in 2007, according to Marine Corps spokesman Capt.

Richard Ulsh.

That is slightly worse than the rate for the CH-46 medium-lift helicopter.

But Whittle said it compared well, pointing out that in the last decade, the military has lost about 420 helicopters and more than 600 people in them, while the Osprey has had three fatal crashes since 2001, killing six.

Even if it is safer, the Osprey is still expensive.

They cost $122.5 million each, according to Sen. John McCain, a longtime critic of the Osprey.

It also is not cheap to maintain, particularly in harsh operating environments such as the extremely dusty south of Afghanistan.

In a speech in December 2011, McCain said Osprey engines had been lasting just more than 200 hours each, well below the 500 to 600 hours the Marines had expected.

That, McCain said, more than doubled the cost per hour of flight, compared with about $4,600 for the CH-46.

Osprey defenders say the aircraft is worth the additional cost considering all it can do.

They note that it can carry 24 passengers, versus 10 for the CH-46, and it flies twice as fast.

Plus it can perform missions helicopters cannot.

