In Canada, a gunman shot and killed a soldier on Wednesday.

The soldier was guarding a memorial to the Canadian soldiers who died in wars.

Stephen Harper is Canada's highest government official.

His job as prime minister is similar to the president of the United States.

He told his country that Canada will not be frightened by this shooting.

The gunman was 32-year-old Michael Zehaf-Bibeau.

He had been arrested for several other crimes before.

Harper said the gunman was inspired by the group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) that is fighting in the Middle East.

ISIL has called for revenge against Canada and other countries because they joined the United States to fight against it in Iraq and Syria.

Harper promised to keep Canada safe.

He said the Canadian government will continue to work with the U.S. and other countries to fight ISIL.

According to people who saw the attack, the gunman carried a rifle.

He was also dressed in black with a scarf covering half of his face.

The gunman shot and killed the soldier guarding the war memorial.

He then went to the government building nearby.

There, he fired many more shots.

Inside the building, people protected themselves by hiding and blocking doors with chairs.

Some people ran away.

Police were outside and did not allow others to come near the building.

Government officials said a guard inside the building stopped the shooting by killing the gunman.

The guard is 58-year-old Kevin Vickers.

At least three people were hurt in the attack.

The building is where Canada's laws are made.

Tony Zobl told the Canadian news group that he saw the Canadian soldier get shot.

Zobl was looking down from his fourth-floor window directly above the memorial.

He said he saw the soldier fall to the ground.

Then the gunman raised his arms in celebration.

The Canadian TV station had a video clip of the gunman going to his car after he shot the soldier.

The car was later found down the street.

Government official Tony Clement wrote about the shooting on the Internet website called Twitter.

He wrote that around 30 shots were heard in the government building.

Another official wrote on Twitter that he was hiding in an office.

He was waiting for police to come.

John McKay works for the government.

He said that he heard 10 shots.

They sounded like "pop, pop, pop," he said.

McKay said police then came rushing down the halls and brought people toward the back of the building.

Before this attack, Canada was already on alert.

Another deadly attack had happened only two days earlier.

A man killed one soldier and injured another with his car.

He was shot to death by police.

The man was already being watched by police who thought he was dangerous.

They did not allow him to leave Canada recently.

After the shootings, officials canceled two events in Toronto.

They were honoring a teenager from Pakistan named Malala Yousafzai who won the Nobel Peace Prize.

In 2012, she was shot in the head by a dangerous group in Pakistan because she supported education for girls.

The government was also going to make her an honorary citizen of Canada.

