Musicians who play the music for Hollywood movies are angry at the movie studios they record for.

Fewer jobs are available nowadays.

To save money, Hollywood is having music recorded by musicians in other countries.

They can pay musicians in other countries less money for the same work.

Los Angeles musicians are fighting back.

They're protesting.

At a small park in Santa Monica, a group of LA musicians gathered.

All wore dark blue and orange T-shirts.

Written on the shirts were the words "Listen Up!"

Soon, a series of speakers had the crowd fired up.

They called on the Lionsgate movie studio to "stop sending musicians' jobs overseas."

"Do the right thing," violinist Neil Samples said.

"Bring the music home."

What LA musicians do, he added, is very important.

It has a lot to do with the "success of any film that's produced here."

Lionsgate is not the only studio attracting protests.

Not long ago there were rallies against Marvel Studios.

LA musicians accused Marvel of doing the same thing Lionsgate is doing.

Marvel hired musicians in London to play the music for American movies.

Among those movies were "The Avengers" and "Iron Man 3."

Those films were shot in the United States.

Therefore, protestors said, they should have used American musicians.

This time, Lionsgate is being singled out.

Musicians here say the studio is hiring musicians from other countries.

The foreign musicians are playing music for movies filmed in the United States.

Protestors mention such Lionsgate releases as "The Hunger Games" and "The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn."

In both cases, the music was recorded in London.

Another example is the recently released "Draft Day."

The Kevin Costner movie about the NFL draft was filmed in Ohio.

The music, however, was recorded in Macedonia.

"'Draft Day' — what could be more American than that?"

said violinist Rafael Rishik.

Lionsgate says it is only doing what is necessary.

It claims it must use foreign musicians to avoid going broke.

Rishik says that's hard to believe.

Over the years, Hollywood has given LA musicians a lot of work.

One movie alone can use more than 100 players.

For that reason, Hollywood has long attracted some of the world's top musicians.

All that has been changing, however.

More and more films are shot overseas.

As a result, the number of jobs for LA musicians is half what it was five years ago.

LA musicians are having a tougher time making a living.

Many may soon start looking for work elsewhere.

That would be a pity, some feel.

"One of the fantastic things about being a musician in LA is that you're surrounded by" great players, said violinist Marc Sazer.

"We have the stars from the whole world" here.

"That's going to disappear."

Much of the work has gone to Britain.

However, orchestras in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Macedonia also are attracting more Hollywood business.

"Every orchestra in the world would love to be doing Hollywood movies," said musician John Acosta.

They've been trying very hard to get the work, he added.

There's one big reason for the shift to Europe: It costs less to record music there.

Pay for musicians is much lower there than it is here.

For example, musicians in Macedonia get paid only $10 to $15 an hour.

In Los Angeles, musicians receive $75 an hour.

"Everyone is looking to save money," Acosta admitted.

"Composers want to save as much money as they can."

