At a small community park in Santa Monica, a group of Los Angeles-area musicians gathered around a flatbed truck.

All wore dark blue and orange T-shirts emblazoned with the slogan "Listen Up!"

Soon, union leaders, a minister and a local city councilman had the crowd fired up.

"Make no mistake, music that we produce" is critical to the "artistic and financial success of any film that's produced here," said Neil Samples, a violinist.

"We say to Lionsgate: Abandon the low road, stop offshoring jobs, do the right thing and bring the music home."

After his speech, Samples and the others drove a few blocks to the headquarters of Lionsgate, the studio behind the hit "Hunger Games" movies.

Upon arriving, they delivered four boxes filled with copies of a petition.

Signed by 12,000 supporters, the petition urges Lionsgate to "stop sending musicians' jobs overseas."

The unrest this month is the latest sign of disharmony between local musicians and their employers.

The American Federation of Musicians has previously organized rallies against Marvel Studios.

They accused Marvel of hiring London musicians to work on such movies as "The Avengers" and "Iron Man 3" even though those films were shot in the United States.

This time the union has singled out Lionsgate.

It says the studio is hiring foreign musicians to play music on movies that were filmed in the United States.

What's more, they say, this is happening despite the fact that these movies are partly funded by taxpayers, via government programs that support the movie industry.

It has cited such Lionsgate releases as "The Hunger Games" and "The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn," which were scored in London, and the recently released "Draft Day."

The Kevin Costner movie about the NFL draft was filmed in Ohio, where the production received tax benefits, but was scored in Macedonia.

"'Draft Day' — what could be more American than that?"

said Rafael Rishik, a violinist with the New Hollywood String Quartet.

"To say with a straight face that the only way we could do this without going broke is to score this in Macedonia — it's hard for us to swallow."

A spokesman for Santa Monica-based Lionsgate declined to comment.

Producers and studio executives have long complained that California does not do enough to keep the movie business close to home.

The state's tax credit, for example, excludes large-budget studio films.

Musicians and other entertainment unions are backing legislation that would expand the credit.

The unrest comes at a time of growing anxiety in the local music industry.

For many years, film and television work have been a key source of income for hundreds of local musicians.

A large movie can employ more than 100 musicians.

For that reason, Hollywood has long been a major draw for some of the world's top musicians.

But as more work in film and TV production has moved overseas, local musicians are having a tougher time making a living.

On any given day, about 2,000 members of AFM Local 47 will work on a film or TV show.

But their earnings have fallen substantially in recent years.

In 2007, union members collectively made $30 million in wages.

Now, they earn about $15 million a year.

If the trend continues, LA's cultural community could suffer as musicians leave to work elsewhere.

"One of the fantastic things about being a musician in LA is that you're surrounded by just an astonishing level of players," said violinist Marc Sazer.

"We have the stars from the whole world gathered in the LA musical community.

As more work goes off to London, Bratislava and Prague, that's going to disappear, and the whole region will be impoverished."

The American Federation of Musicians might be facing an uphill battle.

Musicians traditionally could count on film work being done in LA even when a movie was filmed elsewhere, because of the high level of talent here.

But more production is leaving the state as studios take advantage of tax benefits that aren't available in California.

The number of movie-scoring jobs has declined at least 50 percent in the last five years, according to the union.

Much of the business has gone to Britain, which has long been a big draw for composers because of its fine musicians.

Orchestras in the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Macedonia also are attracting more Hollywood business.

"Every orchestra in the world would love to be doing Hollywood movies," said union official John Acosta.

"They've been very aggressive in trying to market themselves."

There's also growing pressure from studios to save money by hiring lower-cost musicians in Europe.

Hourly rates there are a fraction of what they are locally.

For example, musicians in Macedonia might get paid only $10 to $15 an hour and not receive any contributions to health and pension plans.

By comparison, musicians in LA receive $75 an hour, plus benefits.

"There's been a downward pressure on music fees, and everyone is looking to save money," Acosta acknowledged.

"Composers want to save as much money as they can upfront."

To be sure, several other large Hollywood studios also do scoring work overseas.

But unlike other studios, Lionsgate does not have an agreement with the union that would require it to score music in the United States if it shoots the movie or TV show here.

"They are highly profitable, and they can afford to meet the industry standards," he said.

