A large earthquake hit southwestern Pakistan on Tuesday.

By Wednesday, authorities said nearly 300 people were dead.

Disaster teams prepared for more deaths.

Rescue workers raced to reach isolated mountain villages.

Local television images from Baluchistan showed the extent of the disaster.

The earthquake left vast fields of mud, bricks, broken furniture, battered household items and traditional string beds.

Most houses in the region are poorly constructed of simple materials.

In one video, a dazed man pawed through the rubble.

He tried to collect a few modest possessions from his destroyed home.

The epicenter of the magnitude 7.7 earthquake was 40 miles northeast of Awaran.

It struck at around 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday.

Earthquakes start underground.

The epicenter is the point on the earth's surface directly above the center of the earthquake.

The magnitude is a measure of how strong the earthquake is on a 1-10 scale.

A magnitude 8 earthquake is 10 times stronger than one measuring magnitude 7.

Damage reports trickled in slowly.

It was initially difficult to get a full picture of the damage.

This often happens when natural disasters hit areas that are hard to get to.

A state of emergency was declared Tuesday in Baluchistan's Awaran district.

Awaran was among the worst-hit areas.

Baluchistan is Pakistan's largest but least-populated area.

It has about 13 million people.

By Wednesday afternoon,  216 people were confirmed dead in Awaran.

Approximately 400 people were injured, according to a government official.

An official in the neighboring Kech district said its latest death total was 43.

News reports placed the number of known deaths across Pakistan at more than 285.

This included 20 bodies found Wednesday afternoon in an Awaran seminary.

Telephone lines and hospitals have been overwhelmed.

By some accounts, 90 percent of Awaran's housing was destroyed.

Thousands of people were forced to spend Tuesday night in the open.

Smaller earthquakes, called tremors, were felt as far away as Karachi, Pakistan's largest city.

People in the Indian capital of New Delhi also felt tremors.

New Delhi is several hundred miles to the east.

Muhammad Akbar, 27, was reached by telephone in Dandar in Kech district.

He said a first jolt Tuesday wasn't so big, but a second one destroyed virtually every building in the village, including his eight-room mud house.

It killed his cousin and many others.

"Right now, as I talk to you, I'm sitting on a rock beside the ruins," the teacher said.

No government rescue workers had arrived yet, he said.

"It's really hot, and we don't have any shelter.

My three children were terrified, although they've now taken to playing in the debris.

Our whole life is under the rubble."

The Pakistani army said it had sent more than 1,000 soldiers and Frontier Corps troops to search for people who were still alive.

Six of its helicopters airlifted the injured out of the affected area.

They also bring food and other supplies in.

The Baluchistan government said it was sending 1,000 tents and 500 food bags.

It would also deliver medicine and a dozen ambulances to Awaran.

But steep terrain and the lack of paved roads continued to prevent rescue missions from getting where they needed to go.

Gwadar is a port city located about 200 miles southwest of Awaran in the Arabian Sea.

It saw one of the more unusual results of the earthquake: the near-spontaneous formation of an island a few hundred yards off the coast.

Seismologists suspect that it's a "mud volcano" that will not last.

These form when a jet of sand and muck gushes to the surface under pressure after an earthquake.

First guesses were that the island was about 30 feet high and 100 feet long.

"If it is just mud, it's possible it will disappear soon," said Zahid Raf of Pakistan's National Seismic Monitoring Center.

"In 1945, two mud islands emerged in the same area, and they later disappeared.

If there's a rock beneath it, or it appeared because of the movement of a big rock, then it may stay."

The area around Awaran has significant seismic activity.

Three plates of the earth's crust meet there: the Eurasia, Arabia and India plates.

The India plate moves north into the Eurasia plate by about 1.5 inches a year.

It has created the world's tallest mountains — the Himalayan, Karakoram, Pamir and Hindu Kush ranges, capped by Mt.

Everest.

Pakistan suffered the worst earthquake in its history in 2005.

It killed more than 74,000 people.

