Mohammed Ayub teaches children in Pakistan.

He holds his classes outside in an open field.

Anyone can come to his classes.

Ayub worked for years on the school.

It started with a promise to his dying father.

Ayub said he would make sure his brothers and sisters got an education.

The promise eventually led Ayub to spend his life teaching poor people.

Ayub has taught for 30 years.

Ayub said thousands of people have gone to his school.

He is 57.

He said he will keep teaching until he dies.

Now he is getting a prize.

Ayub came to Islamabad in 1976.

His father was dead.

Ayub wanted to find a job so he could take care of his seven brothers and sisters.

He eventually found a job.

He worked hard to learn new skills like first aid and firefighting.

After time, Ayub became a regular firefighter.

He always sent money home to his brothers and sisters.

One day in 1985, he saw a boy.

The boy was about 12 years old.

He was cleaning tables at a restaurant.

It gave Ayub an idea.

Ayub said the boy reminded him of his younger brother.

He decided to teach the boy.

It was how the plan to have a school started, Ayub said.

Ayub convinced other boys to study with him.

They studied in the middle of the market.

The shopkeepers did not like it.

They thought he was taking up too much space.

The shopkeepers made him leave.

Ayub moved the school many times.

Then he found an open field near the city's market.

Ayub was not trained to be a teacher.

Still, he taught students math.

Ayub also taught the language Urdu and some English.

When he started, most of the students were children who lived in the streets or worked during the day.

They did not go to regular school.

Now there are about 170 students.

Most go to schools run by the government.

They come to Ayub's classes afterward for extra help.

Over the years, others have helped Ayub teach.

They include a retired school principal, a doctor and a fireman.

Several older students also teach the younger ones.

Irfan Siddiqi works for Pakistan's prime minister.

He was impressed by how much the students cared about Ayub.

He suggested that Ayub receive a special award.

It is called the "Pride of Performance" award.

