A large earthquake hit southwestern Pakistan on Tuesday.

Officials said they counted nearly 300 people dead by Wednesday.

Local television showed the level of the disaster.

The earthquake left vast fields of mud, bricks, and broken furniture.

It battered household items and traditional string beds.

Most houses in the region are poorly constructed.

They are made of simple materials.

One video showed a dazed man digging through the rubble.

He tried to collect a few modest possessions from his destroyed home.

The epicenter of the earthquake was 40 miles northeast of Awaran.

Earthquakes start underground.

The epicenter is on the earth's surface.

It is directly above the center of the earthquake.

This earthquake had a magnitude of 7.7.

The magnitude shows how strong the earthquake is on a 1-10 scale.

A magnitude 8 earthquake is 10 times stronger than one measuring magnitude 7.

Damage reports came in slowly.

At first it was hard to get a full picture of the damage.

This often happens when natural disasters hit places that are hard to get to.

A state of emergency was declared Tuesday in Baluchistan's Awaran district.

Awaran was among the worst-hit areas.

Baluchistan is Pakistan's largest but least-populated area.

About 13 million people live there.

By Wednesday afternoon, officials said they knew that 216 people were dead for sure in Awaran.

About 400 people were injured.

An official in the neighboring Kech district said its latest death total was 43.

News reports placed the number of known deaths across Pakistan at more than 285.

This included 20 bodies found Wednesday afternoon in a religious training school.

Ninety percent of Awaran's homes were destroyed.

Thousands of people were forced to spend Tuesday night in the open.

Smaller earthquakes were felt as far away as the Indian capital of New Delhi.

They are called tremors.

New Delhi is several hundred miles to the east.

Muhammad Akbar, 27, said a first jolt Tuesday wasn't so big.

But a second one destroyed almost every building in the village, including his eight-room mud house.

It killed his cousin and many others.

"Right now, as I talk to you, I'm sitting on a rock beside the ruins," the teacher said.

He said that no government rescue workers have arrived yet in the community.

"It's really hot, and we don't have any shelter.

My three children were terrified, although they've now taken to playing in the debris.

Our whole life is under the rubble."

The Pakistani army said it had sent more than 1,000 soldiers to search for people who were still alive.

Six helicopters flew injured people out of the area.

They also flew in food and other supplies.

The local government said it was sending 1,000 tents and 500 food bags.

It would also deliver medicine and a dozen ambulances to Awaran.

But there is steep terrain and a lack of paved roads.

It was stopping rescue missions from getting where they needed to go.

Gwadar is a port city located about 200 miles southwest of Awaran in the Arabian Sea.

It saw one of the more unusual results of the earthquake.

A new island was formed, a few hundred yards off the coast.

Earthquake scientists think that it's a "mud volcano" that will not stay for long.

These form when a jet of sand and muck gushes to the surface after an earthquake.

People guessed at first that the island was about 30 feet high and 100 feet long.

"If it is just mud, it's possible it will disappear soon," said Zahid Rafi of Pakistan's earthquake center.

"In 1945, two mud islands emerged in the same area, and they later disappeared."

The area around Awaran sees a lot of earthquakes.

Three plates of the earth's crust meet there: the Eurasia, Arabia and India plates.

The India plate moves north into the Eurasia plate by about 1.5 inches a year.

It has created the world's tallest mountains — the Himalayan, Karakoram, Pamir and Hindu Kush ranges.

They are capped by Mt.

Everest.

Pakistan suffered the worst earthquake in its history in 2005.

It killed more than 74,000 people.

