One hundred years ago, on Aug. 15, 1914, the Panama Canal officially opened.

The first vessel to pass through was named the SS Ancon, which steamed from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific side.

The debut was quieter than intended.

The canal's opening was overshadowed by the eruption of World War I in Europe, where 16 million men were rushing into the fight, and thousands of soldiers had already died in early battles in Belgium and France.

The idea for the Panama Canal was first discussed in the 1500s.

At the time, ships traveling between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans had to travel all the way around the tip of South America.

Allowing ships to cut through the American continents would save time, and in international commerce, time is money.

The French, fresh from their success in opening the Suez Canal in Egypt in 1869, started work on the Panama Canal in 1881.

But the canal in Central America proved much more difficult than the one in the arid Egyptian climate.

The humidity, heat and muddy soil made digging difficult and more than 20,000 men died due to tropical diseases and accidents.

The United States bought the French machinery.

In 1904, it took over work on the canal after helping Panama to declare independence from Colombia.

The Americans brought in a new army of workers, the latest steam-powered machinery, and a focused effort to keep workers healthy.

The U.S.-led project battled through the mud, digging deep and constructing gigantic concrete locks to raise and lower ships.

The locks, using a system of gates and varying water levels, allow ships to move between different levels, either uphill or downhill.

The United States expected many benefits from the canal.

Some of them were explained by a U.S. official in a 1912 article in Scientific American: "The great investment of capital has been made for the purpose of shortening ocean routes, first of all to enable the commerce between the Atlantic and Pacific to be handled more economically, and second, to add to the military power and prestige of the United States."

A century later, the canal is still crucial to international trade and still benefits U.S. military power, even though the U.S. no longer owns the canal.

More than 900,000 ships have used the canal since it opened and almost 5 percent of world trade passes through it today.

The history of the canal is still being written.

Cargo ships are increasing in size and some are now bigger than the "Panamax" sizes that fit in the locks.

The Panama Canal authority is building a third set of locks, set for completion in 2015.

Since the beginning, the Panama Canal has had competition, with governments and engineers considering many alternatives to it.

Even before 1914, people were considering a canal in Nicaragua or a railroad that would carry ships over land through Panama.

Today, one of those plans has been resurrected.

The government of Nicaragua has joined with Hong Kong group HKND to build a canal in Nicaragua that would compete with the Panama Canal.

It is projected to cost $40 billion.

It's not clear if this new canal will really be built, but at least one major shipping company thinks it's a good idea.

The Maersk Line, which owns 20 of the largest cargo ships afloat, with some too big to fit through the Panama Canal, said the new canal "makes good sense."

