This month marks the 100th anniversary of the Panama Canal.

The waterway is a shortcut which saves ships thousands of miles.

It opened on Aug. 15, 1914, when a ship called the SS Ancon steamed through from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean.

The canal took 30 years to build.

Still, its opening was overshadowed by World War I, which had just begun.

Millions of men were being sent to the war.

Thousands had already died in the early fighting.

The idea for a canal through Panama was first discussed in the 1500s.

Ships traveling between the Pacific and Atlantic oceans had to travel all the way around South America at the time.

The Panama Canal would allow ships to cut straight through the middle of the American continents, saving shipping companies time and money.

The French were the first to start on the canal, in 1881.

They had completed the Suez Canal in Egypt in 1869.

The Panama Canal turned out to be much more difficult, however.

Humidity, heat and muddy soil made digging difficult.

More than 20,000 men died due to tropical diseases and accidents.

In 1904, the United States took over work on the canal.

The U.S. bought the French machinery and helped Panama to declare independence from Colombia.

The Americans put in a huge effort to finish the project.

They brought in a new army of workers, the latest technology, and a plan to keep the workers healthy.

The U.S.-led project battled the muddy soil to dig deep and build huge concrete locks to raise and lower ships.

The locks use gates to raise and lower water levels, allowing ships to move uphill or downhill as they pass through the canal.

In 1912, Scientific American wrote an article about the canal.

In it, a U.S. official pointed out the benefits expected from the canal.

He said trading would take less time between the Atlantic and Pacific, saving money.

He added that it would make the United States a greater military power.

One hundred years later, international shipping still depends on the canal.

And it still benefits U.S. military power even though the United States no longer owns it.

The history of the canal is still being written.

Some cargo ships are now too big to fit through the canal, so it's being expanded.

More locks are set to be completed in 2015.

Even before it was built, people were suggesting alternatives to the Panama Canal.

Ideas included a canal through Nicaragua or a railroad that could carry ships by land through Panama.

Today, one of those plans has returned.

The government of Nicaragua has joined with a Hong Kong company to build a canal in Nicaragua that would compete with the Panama Canal.

It is expected to cost $40 billion.

It's not clear if this new canal will really be built.

Still, at least one major shipping company thinks it's a good idea.

The Maersk Line, which owns the largest cargo ships afloat, said the new canal "makes good sense."

