Deep in the forest of Southern Florida, reporters and photographers watched as a panther in a crate was lowered to the ground.

The panther crept out of the crate, looked around, and then dashed off down a dirt road.

He disappeared into the forest.

After 18 months of raising the orphaned cat, wildlife officials were setting him free.

It was a heartwarming scene that was reported in newspapers and on TV.

Nine months later, though, the panther was dead of a lung illness.

It is a common fate for male panthers rescued and released by state wildlife workers.

Panthers are also known as cougars or mountain lions.

They live in the forests, prairies and wetlands of Florida.

These big cats are carnivores that hunt deer, wild pigs, birds and even alligators.

Experts say there are only between 100 and 160 living in the wild.

With so few wild panthers out there, the species is in extreme danger.

"Every panther life is important because you're dealing with one of the most [endangered species](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species) in the United States," said Jennifer Hecker, director of a Florida conservation group.

She added that a disaster like a fire or hurricane could kill many or all of the remaining big cats.

One major problem for the Florida panthers is a shrinking habitat.

Housing developments, shopping centers, rock mines and oil drilling are all pushing the cats into a smaller and smaller space.

In a limited space, the panthers face more dangers.

Last year 15 were killed by vehicles and three were killed by other panthers.

That is why Florida wildlife officials are working so hard to rescue orphaned animals, raise them, and release them back into the wild.

But panthers released into the wild have a hard time of it, especially the males.

Of the males released since 1987, three were killed by other panthers, one by a vehicle, two by disease, and two died of unknown causes.

Another could not be found after his tracking collar stopped working.

The females released during that time have done much better.

Many of them have survived and produced many panther kittens.

Many panthers have died after being released.

But experts say the program is still important, and that it's not just a feel-good waste of money.

It's hard and costly work to rescue these animals.

Injured panthers need medical care.

Orphaned cats are taken to the White Oak Conservation Center.

There, they will grow up with little human contact and learn to hunt on their own.

But many people who live or hunt in these parts are against a program that adds more panthers to a small space.

They say there are many more panthers than people think.

They also argue that panthers who have no space are coming into populated areas.

Last week, the wildlife officials captured and relocated a young male found near a local beach.

"There's no place for them to go," said Shirley Harner of Boca Raton, Fla. She owns land with her husband near the panther habitat.

"They're running out of food, and they're getting desperate.

That's why they found one on the beach, that's why pets are being eaten.

It's cruel to the cats, and it's dangerous to people," she said.

Although there have been no documented attacks on people by Florida panthers, the species has been responsible for human deaths in western states.

Still, officials hope to keep releasing panthers into the wild.

A few younger males defend themselves successfully.

Others head north, traveling almost 200 miles, looking for space of their own.

But every panther that survives helps the overall population to become stronger, biologists say.

Even the panther that died after nine months can be considered a success, panther biologist Mark Lotz said.

The cat was a skilled hunter.

It killed a coyote on his first night in the wild and hunted enough prey after that to survive.

Officials discovered him sick and near death.

He had scars on his face.

This was evidence that he had survived fights with other panthers.

"He had been in a fight and survived," Lotz said.

"He was 'man enough' to stand up to other panthers and walk away."

