A panther in a cage was put on the ground in the middle of the forest.

Reporters and photographers watched.

The big cat crept out of the cage.

He looked around, and then ran off down a dirt road.

The panther disappeared into the forest.

Wildlife workers were setting him free.

They had raised the orphan cat for 18 months.

The heartwarming moment was shown in newspapers and on TV.

Nine months later, the panther was dead.

Rescued male panthers often die after their release.

Panthers are also called cougars or mountain lions.

They live in the forests, prairies and wetlands of Florida.

These big cats are carnivores.

They eat deer, wild pigs, birds and even alligators.

[They are very endangered.

](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered%20species) Experts believe there are between 100 and 160 panthers living in the wild.

"Every panther life is important," said Jennifer Hecker.

She runs a Florida wildlife group.

"You're dealing with one of the most endangered species in the United States," she said.

A disaster like a fire or hurricane could nearly wipe them all out, she added.

One huge problem for the Florida panthers is space.

Their living area is shrinking.

New houses and shopping centers are pushing the cats into a smaller and smaller area.

As their space shrinks, the panthers face more dangers.

Last year 15 were killed by cars and trucks.

Three were killed by other panthers.

That is why Florida wildlife workers are trying so hard to rescue the orphans.

Their goal is to raise them and put them back in the wild.

But panthers sent back into the wild have a hard time, especially the males.

Most have died.

Some were killed by other panthers.

One was hit by a car.

Others got sick and died.

The females have done much better.

Many of them have survived and given birth to kittens.

Many panthers have died after being released.

But experts say the program is important.

They don't think it's a waste of money.

It costs a lot to rescue the cats.

Injured panthers need medical care.

Orphan cats are taken to the White Oak Conservation Center.

There, they will grow up without spending much time near humans.

They must learn to hunt on their own.

Many people who live or hunt in this area don't like the program.

They don't want more panthers.

They say there are many more panthers in the wild than people think.

They also point out that panthers who have no space are coming into towns.

"There's no place for them to go," said Shirley Harner of Boca Raton, Fla. She owns land near the panther's area.

"They're running out of food," Harner said.

"That's why pets are being eaten.

It's cruel to the cats, and it's dangerous to people," she said.

Still, wildlife workers hope to keep sending panthers into the wild.

A few younger males have managed to defend themselves.

Others head north away from danger.

They are looking for space of their own.

Even the panther that died after nine months can be seen as a survivor, Mark Lotz said.

Lotz is a scientist who studies panthers.

The cat was a skilled hunter.

It killed a coyote on his first night in the wild.

It hunted enough prey after that to live.

Wildlife workers found him sick and near death.

He had scars on his face.

It showed he had survived fights with other panthers.

"He had been in a fight and survived," Lotz said.

"He was 'man enough' to stand up to other panthers and walk away."

