You start with a little girl, dropped in a Russian orphanage.

She is afflicted with a spinal condition that has paralyzed her below the belly button.

She's cared for, yes, but as she scoots down the halls on her hands, no one seeing her can imagine much of a future for her.

How do you get from there to a 24-year-old woman nicknamed "The Beast?"

To a fearsomely muscled athlete who believes her body can do anything her mind dreams up?

Tatyana McFadden was once that little girl — but she certainly has come a long way.

Adopted by an American woman years ago, she now lives in Clarkville, Md., and is a champion athlete.

Starting Friday, she'll compete in at least three events at the Winter Paralympics, held this year in Sochi, Russia.

She has already conquered the Summer Paralympics and wheelchair marathons.

But this is a brand-new arena for her.

She'll be taking on the best in the world after just 50 days training on snow.

And she'll do so in the very country where she was born, and where her future once looked so unpromising.

She'll perform in front of her birth mother and the head of her former orphanage.

In 2011, McFadden made her first return visit to St. Petersburg's Orphanage 13.

Staffers there who remembered the little girl from years ago were astounded by her transformation.

"They were absolutely amazed — from scrawny to how strong I've become," McFadden says.

"It amazed them, because they've never seen someone with a disability become so successful and so independent."

"Very few women in the world are as fit as she is," says her track coach, Adam Bleakney.

"Or can generate the power that she does, no matter what the sport."

In 2013, McFadden became the first person to win four major marathons in the same year: in Boston, London, Chicago and New York.

And those victories were sandwiched around a world championship performance in which she won every race between 100 and 5,000 meters.

Even as her remarkable 2013 unfolded, McFadden had her eye on the next hurdle — winter sports.

McFadden had hatched her plan to try cross-country skiing, known as sit skiing in the Paralympics.

McFadden seems to thrive on attempting feats that sound impossible to most.

"What can I do next?"

she says, describing her approach to sports.

"I think that's the fun part."

McFadden brought up the cross-country idea with coaches from the U.S. Paralympic team, and they agreed she'd be perfect for the sport because of her upper-body power and cardiovascular endurance.

But the shift from champion marathoner to Olympics-ready skier wasn't instant, McFadden says.

Her strength made her competitive, but some skiing motions are hard for her because of how paralyzed she is below the waist.

On snow McFadden isn't yet the powerful force she is on the track or a marathon course.

A top-10 finish would be a good result for her, and she is most likely to do well in the shorter-distance events.

"She is still very new in the sport," her winter coach John Farra says.

"But I would not count her out in any event she enters.

They don't make them much tougher than this one."

McFadden is of course focusing on Sochi as an athletic competition.

But there's little question the games will have extra meaning for her because of her Russian background.

Back in 2011, Tatyana also met with her birth mother, Nina Polivikova.

Some describe McFadden as having been "abandoned" in the orphanage, but she doesn't see things that way.

Polivikova, she says, was young and couldn't afford to care for a baby with spina bifida.

"My birth mom, she had to do the hardest part," Tatyana says.

"Just to give me life and then put me in the orphanage, because I was extremely sick."

She added, "Going back and showing her the person I've become was almost a way of saying thank you to her.

I wanted her to know, 'It's not your fault.

You did what you could.

You did the best that you could at that time and moment.'"

She has remained in touch with Polivikova since their meeting, and looks forward to racing in front of her and various cousins in Sochi.

"That's the first time they get to physically see me compete," McFadden says.

"For me, that's going to be fulfilling.

I'm sure I'll never forget being able to see them at the starting line or being there when I cross."

