ICAGO – On their first day of training, one mother after another paused in the classroom doorway.

They were unsure where to sit or whether signing up for this highly regarded parent program was a good idea after all.

Trainer Monica Soto-Espinoza knew they were wondering what they could offer the school.

Six years ago, she was just like many of them — a mother with limited English skills who had come to the United States as a teenager and never finished high school.

Now 35 years old and fluent in English, Soto-Espinoza told them she figured out how she could help.

And they would too, just like many others have in a parent-school partnership created by a Chicago community group, the Logan Square Neighborhood Association.

It's considered one of the strongest such partnerships in the nation.

A lot of research backs the notion that parents play an important role in the academic success of their children and their children's schools.

Certainly, too much parent involvement can cause problems, as happens in some high-income schools.

But many other schools struggle to build ties with parents of students.

That is especially true in neighborhoods where teachers and students do not share a language, a culture or a ZIP code.

Despite good intentions, many schools end up in what University of Washington professor Ann Ishimaru calls a toxic cycle.

Teachers organize events, and conclude the parents just do not care if they don't show up.

In its 18-year history, the Logan Square Neighborhood Association has brought in 1,800 parents.

The parents have spent two hours a day, five days a week in their children's schools.

The program operates in 65 Illinois schools, including 14 run by the association, while the rest are run by community groups.

In the Logan Square schools, principals and teachers credit the parents with helping many students improve in math and reading.

They also believe parents contribute in harder-to-measure but equally important areas such as student motivation.

Soo Hong, a professor at Wellesley College, said students "are quite moved and inspired by having their parents being involved in the school."

And, she said, it makes them more accountable, adding, "Students know if they start messing up in the classroom ... sure, maybe it's not their mother who's there, but it's their aunt's neighbor or somebody they know."

The neighborhood association has helped start a teacher-training program, too, with 23 people having graduated thus far.

One of them, Ebelia Mucino, started working for the Logan Square program in schools about 15 years ago.

She finds great joy in teaching kindergartners to read.

Mucino had come to the U.S. from Mexico as a teenager and saw herself as "just" a stay-at-home mom, with nothing to offer teachers.

But she found that she had a knack for helping students, and when the teacher had to leave the class briefly, he would encourage her, "You know what to do."

Mucion realized she could go into education, and that, she said, opened windows for her — "a million windows."

The parent education program began in 1995 at Funston Elementary in a longtime immigrant neighborhood.

It's in an area where most students are from Latino families with little money.

Before the program started, a few Funston parents would show up to help each day, but the principal wanted to attract others.

She wanted to reach those who dropped off their kids each morning, and never ventured inside.

So, she turned to the neighborhood association.

From the beginning, the program was designed as a partnership.

The hope was that teachers would learn as much from parents as parents would gain from watching and talking with teachers.

The neighborhood association strives to work cooperatively with principals, knowing the program won't work unless they support it.

Teachers were at first as hesitant, worrying that parents would cause trouble or add a lot of work.

But many soon saw how much help parents could offer — giving more time and encouragement to students than teachers could do on their own.

One recent morning at Avondale-Logandale School, Pete Rodriguez, a dad with a deep but gentle voice, sat at the back of a first-grade classroom.

He gave extra attention to four boys, who jumped up from his table at nearly every distraction.

As other students worked independently and teacher Jessica Dye sat with another small group, Rodriguez patiently worked to keep the four focused on the task at hand: a sentence about a grandma, her grandson and a teddy bear.

A new study this fall will provide more information on the impact of the parent program.

In two schools, researchers plan to look at students the parents are assigned to help, observing their tests scores and how they behave in class.

From time to time, critics question whether the parents should be paid to help out.

The neighborhood association defends the practice, saying the pay is small given the time parents put in, while still sending an important message to parents about their value.

Scholars, digging into different ways to improve education, believe programs like Logan Square's will prove to be the most effective.

That's because parents are often overlooked in efforts to improve the nation's schools.

Ishimaru said the conversation often neglects "the folks who have the most at stake and sometimes the most expertise on their own children."

