ICAGO – Parents play an important part in how their children do in school.

But many schools struggle to get parents involved.

It is really hard in places where teachers and children come from different countries.

One program in Illinois lets parents spend time in schools every day.

But, the program trains them first.

On their first day of training, may parents were scared.

They were not even sure if signing up for the program was a good idea after all.

Trainer Monica Soto-Espinoza knew what they were wondering: if they had anything to offer their children's schools.

She was once just like many of them, a mother who had come to the United States as a teenager, spoke little English and never finished school.

Now 35 years old and fluent in English, Soto-Espinoza said she was able to help.

They would help too, like a lot of parents through a program in Chicago.

The program has been around for 18 years.

It has put 1,800 parents into their children's schools.

They are there for two hours a day, and five days a week.

The program operates in 65 Illinois schools.

The heads of the schools and teachers say the parents have helped children do better in math.

They are doing better in reading too.

Soo Hong is a teacher at Wellesley College.

She said the children are helped by "having their parents being involved in the school."

She said it also makes them more responsible for how they act.

Someone will know if they do something wrong in class.

Their parents might not be there.

But, it could be "their aunt's neighbor or somebody they know," who is in the class.

The program teaches parents how to help teachers.

One of them is Ebelia Mucino.

She started working in schools about 15 years ago.

She enjoys teaching kindergartners to read.

Mucino came to the United States from Mexico as a teenager.

She saw herself as just a stay-at-home mom.

She did not think she had anything to offer teachers.

But she found that she had a knack for helping children.

When the teacher had to leave the class briefly, he would tell her, "You know what to do."

The parent-teacher program began in 1995 at Funston Elementary.

Most schoolchildren there are from poorer Latino families.

Before the program started, a few Funston parents would show up to help each day.

But the head of the school wanted to reach the parents who never went into the school.

She turned to a group of people who live by the school.

And they started the program.

From the beginning, the hope was that teachers would learn from parents.

And parents would learn from watching and talking with teachers.

Teachers were hesitant at first.

They worried that having parents in class would cause problems or add a lot of work.

But many soon saw how much help parents could offer.

The parents could give more time and encouragement to children than the teachers could on their own.

One morning at school, Pete Rodriguez sat at the back of a first-grade classroom.

He is a dad.

He was helping four boys, who jumped up a lot.

They were distracted easily.

Other children worked on their own.

The class teacher sat with another small group.

Rodriguez patiently worked to keep the four focused on their work: a sentence about a grandma, her grandson and a teddy bear.

Some experts think programs like Logan Square's will help.

They say parents are often overlooked in trying to make the nation's schools better.

Experts say parents are important.

They want the schools to be better for their children.

And who knows more about the children than their parents?

