When he was 3, Mohammad Abdelhamid said he wanted to be a basketball player.

His mother took his dream seriously.

She raised him to be an athlete.

Mohammad now goes to Fort Lee High School where he plays soccer, basketball and baseball on his school teams.

He also plays on another soccer team that travels all over the area.

On a Sunday afternoon, his mother, Azza Abdelziz, watched him play in a basketball tournament.

She cheered him on.

Abdelziz deserved as much applause as her son.

She has given up a lot to help her son live his dream.

Other parents have too.

They spend time and money so their children can play sports.

Getting her son to and from practices and games takes up a lot of her time.

Over the past 10 years, Abdelziz has spent less time with family members.

She has stayed with her job as a school bus driver instead of finding a different job.

The work hours as a bus driver are good.

They let her take her son to and from practices and games.

Jocelyn Picache is the mother of another Fort Lee basketball player.

She said her family spent more than $100,000 taking her eldest daughter around the country for gymnastics.

Her daughter, a talented gymnast, might have been good enough for the U.S. Olympic team.

When she was about 13, she hurt her back and had to give up gymnastics.

With the money she spent on her daughters' gymnastics, Picache said she could have bought a house.

Picache and other parents were not angry, though.

They were full of pride in their children.

Howard Breindel's son also plays high school basketball.

He said helping your children is what parenting is all about.

"You have kids so you can support them through these years," he said.

Also, he said young athletes learn important lessons.

They learn about self-control, teamwork, respect and sportsmanship.

That point was made over and over by parents watching the tournament.

Sports will help their kids succeed in school and in life, they said.

Then there is the dream of playing basketball in college.

Kevin Goodson is another father of a high school basketball player.

He said that everyone on his son's team wanted to play basketball in college.

Their chances are not great.

According to the National Collegiate Athletic Association, only about 3 out of every 100 boys who play high school basketball will play on a college team.

Just 3 out of 10,000 high school players will play professional basketball.

That is fine, Breindel said, because there is so much else to do in life.

His son, for example, will not play basketball in college.

Instead, he will study how to make movies.

Abdelziz and Picache live on different floors of the same apartment building.

They see each other most often at their sons' games.

"All these kids are like my kids," Abdelziz said as she cheered alongside Picache.

She said she especially enjoyed traveling to games in different cities.

All the players and family members go out to dinner together and stay at the same hotel.

For Picache, attending the games helps her relax after a long day of work.

"Once I go to the game, it takes the pressure off," she said.

"I forget about everything."

