Last Friday, gunmen launched several attacks in Paris.

It is the largest city in France.

They hurt and killed hundreds of people.

Around the world, schools wonder what to say to children.

They do not know if they should talk about the attacks at all.

Many schools held moments of silence.

Teachers and students were quiet for a minute or so.

This honored the people in Paris.

Some schools talked about the attacks.

Teachers of younger children often did not talk about it at all.

They wanted to protect the children from knowing what happened.

Sindy Garcia is a teacher at George Washington Carver Middle School.

It is in Miami, Florida.

Garcia began her class with a moment of silence.

Then she showed a video.

It taught her students about the attacks.

After, her students wanted to know more about the Islamic State.

It is a violent group.

It said its fighters did the attacking.

Students also wanted to know why they attacked France.

In Paris, children went to school on Monday as usual.

In one school, a teacher told a class of 7-year-olds to sit close together on the floor.

She explained there were attackers.

Then she said there were more and more police to protect people.

Donna Quan is an education official in Toronto, Canada.

Adults should get children to talk to them, Quan said.

The kids should talk about their worries and feelings, she said.

Quan is head of education in Toronto.

It is normal for children to want to understand, she said.

Parents should not talk about the attacks with children under 6, experts say.

But older children can discuss the attacks.

They should watch the news with the family.

Then, the family should talk about it, said Doctor Steven Berkowitz.

He is an expert on children and teens.

In the United States, each school decides what to say to students.

In other countries, it might be different.

For instance, a government official may decide.

Stefania Giannini is in the country of Italy.

She is in charge of education there.

She said she does not want kids to dislike people from other countries.

The gunmen came from families from the Middle East and North Africa.

Kids might even be afraid of people from other countries.

Teachers must help students to not think that way.

Today, it is more important than ever, she said.

