Nearly 200 nations adopted the first global pact to fight climate change on Saturday.

The agreement calls on the world to collectively cut and then eliminate the greenhouse gas pollution that is causing potentially catastrophic global warming.

However, it imposes no punishments on countries that do not meet their goals.

The "Paris agreement" aims to keep global temperatures from rising another degree Celsius (1.8 degrees Fahrenheit) between now and 2100.

That target was a key demand of poor countries ravaged by rising sea levels and other effects of climate change.

Loud applause erupted in the conference hall after the agreement was finalized.

Some delegates wept and others embraced.

"It's a victory for all of the planet and for future generations," U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said, adding that the pact will "prevent the worst, most devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening."

Brazilian Environment Minister Izabella Teixeira added: "Today, we've proven that it's possible for every country to come together, hand in hand, to do its part to fight climate change."

In the pact, the countries pledge to eventually limit the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by human activity to the level that trees, soil and oceans can absorb naturally.

The goal is to reach that level at some point between 2050 and 2100.

In practical terms, achieving that goal means the world would have to stop emitting greenhouse gases — most of which come from the burning of oil, coal and gas for energy — altogether in the next half-century.

That is because the less we pollute, the less pollution nature absorbs.

Achieving such a reduction in emissions would involve a complete transformation of how people get energy.

Many environmental activists worry that despite the pledges, countries are not ready to make such profound, costly changes.

The deal is the first pact to ask all countries to join the fight against global warming.

Previous talks required only wealthy nations to reduce their emissions.

"History will remember this day," U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon said.

"The Paris agreement on climate change is a monumental success for the planet and its people."

President Barack Obama said the climate agreement offers "the best chance to save the one planet we have."

The deal commits countries to keeping the rise in global temperatures by the year 2100 "well below" 2 degrees Celsius (3.6 degrees Fahrenheit), compared with pre-industrial times.

It says countries will "endeavor to limit" them even more, to 1.5 degrees Celsius.

The world has already warmed by about 1 degree Celsius since pre-industrial times.

Scientist Ben Strauss, a sea level researcher, said limiting warming to 1.5 degrees instead of 2 degrees would make a significant difference.

It could potentially cut in half the projected 280 million people whose houses will eventually be submerged by rising seas.

More than 180 countries have already presented plans to limit greenhouse gas emissions — a breakthrough in itself after years of stalemate.

However, those pledges are not enough to achieve the goals in the accord, meaning countries will need to cut much more to meet the goal.

"We've agreed to what we ought to be doing, but no one yet has agreed to go do it," said Dennis Clare, a negotiator for the Federated States of Micronesia.

"It's a whole lot of pomp, given the circumstances."

The agreement sets a goal of getting global greenhouse gas emissions to start falling "as soon as possible."

They have been generally rising since the industrial revolution.

Thousands of protesters demonstrated across Paris, saying the accord is too weak to save the planet.

People held hands beneath the Eiffel Tower and stretched a 1.2-mile-long banner from the Arc de Triomphe to the business district La Defense.

Kumi Naidoo of Greenpeace said the accord is a good start but is not enough.

"Today the human race has joined in a common cause, but it's what happens after this conference that really matters," he said.

"This deal alone won't dig us out of the hole we're in, but it makes the sides less steep."

The accord does represent a breakthrough in climate negotiations.

The United Nations has been working for more than two decades to persuade governments to work together to reduce the man-made emissions that scientists say are warming the planet.

Some scientists who had criticized earlier drafts as unrealistic praised the final pact.

They hailed it for including language that essentially means the world will have to all but stop polluting with greenhouse gases by 2070 to reach the 2-degree goal, or by 2050 to reach the 1.5-degree goal.

That is because when emissions fall, nature compensates by absorbing less carbon dioxide — and can even release old pollution once there is less of it in the air, said scientist Michael Oppenheimer.

Forests, oceans and soil currently absorb about half the world's man-made carbon dioxide emissions.

"It means that in the end, you have to phase out carbon dioxide," said climate scientist John Schellnhuber.

In addition to cuts in emissions, the goal could be reached in part by increasing how much carbon dioxide is sucked out of the air by planting forests or with futuristic technology, Oppenheimer said.

Such technology would be expensive, however, he added.

French President Francois Hollande welcomed the world to a "low carbon age," saying France is ready to cut emissions even further and increase aid to poor countries that are affected.

He challenged all nations to do more.

"The 12th of December, 2015, will remain a great date for the planet," Hollande declared.

"In Paris, there have been many revolutions over the centuries.

Today it is the most beautiful and the most peaceful revolution that has just been accomplished — a revolution for climate change."

