A young man runs full-speed down the sidewalk.

He jumps clear over a bench and keeps running.

He comes to a wall.

He jumps at it, grabbing the top with his hands.

In a second, he is up and over the wall, running again.

This young man isn't being chased by police.

He is doing parkour, a sport that is becoming more popular around the world.

People who do parkour are called "traceurs."

Traceurs run and jump through the city.

They bounce off walls, jump over fences, hop off roofs.

Their goal is to get from Point A to Point B as quickly as possible.

Nick Faircloth is 23 years old.

He first discovered parkour when he was 16.

At the time, he was not very active.

"I didn't do a whole lot," he remembers.

One day, Faircloth was in the woods behind a relative's house.

He began to run and jump among the boulders and fallen trees.

Soon after, he saw a video on the Internet that caught his attention.

It was French teenagers doing the same moves he did.

The only difference was they were doing them in the city.

Faircloth was hooked.

Doing parkour made him feel like a superhero.

Today he teaches at a gym where people learn parkour.

"Parkour is about training hard to enjoy the freedom of play," he says.

Parkour started as a French military training program in Vietnam in the 1950s.

In the 1990s, French teens took parkour and changed it for city life.

Soon, towns around Paris were filled with young people running and jumping through the streets.

For awhile, the sport stayed there.

Then videos and YouTube allowed the sport to go global.

Now there is a worldwide community of traceurs.

In North Carolina, young traceurs practice at a gym called Enso Movement.

On a recent Tuesday evening, teacher Alan Tran led a parkour class for young people.

The gym is full of obstacles the students can jump over, climb on, or crawl through.

Tran guides the traceurs over platforms and walls.

He reminds them to use good form and to stay safe.

"Let's work on nice and quiet jumps," he tells his students.

Tran reminds them that landing flat-footed is loud.

It can also be painful.

Cheland Sportsman, age 10, practices parkour.

He loves it.

Cheland goes to parkour classes twice a week.

"He'd go every day if he could," says his dad, Don.

Faircloth says it's no surprise that young people want to do parkour.

"Kids want to be active," he says.

"Sometimes they don't have options.

If you're not into team sports, your options are limited."

Parkour is like how kids have been playing for thousands of years, Faircloth says.

There is parkour, and there are other similar sports.

The differences: Parkour — It is about moving from Point A to Point B in a safe and speedy way.

That means going over obstacles — fences, walls, benches — whenever safely possible.

Freerunning — Like parkour, freerunning involves running in the city.

But freerunning is more about performing.

It is related to gymnastics, martial arts and dance.

Tricking — It is about doing tricks like kicks, spins and turns.

Tricking's moves are similar to break dancing.

