Parkour is a sport that treats the world like an obstacle course.

Parkour was created in France in the 1980s.

It combines martial arts and gymnastics.

It also mixes rock climbing and other sports.

People who do parkour use park benches, trees, handrails and buildings as tools.

They climb over them or dive under them.

It used to be that only a select few knew of the sport.

Now, it is becoming more and more popular.

People who just want a good workout do Parkour.

Jessamyn Hodge is 32 years old and is from South Boston.

She works with computers during the day.

She just took her first Parkour class.

It was at a high school gym in a suburban Massachusetts town.

She was hoping to learn the kind of extreme moves she'd already seen on YouTube.

She wanted to climb walls and jump over fences.

"It's like dancing at high speed," she said.

"It reminds me of being a kid again, like monkeying around on anything and everything ..." Some of the sport's riskiest moves have become famous.

They are featured in movies and video games.

Beginners who want to learn fast can take classes.

Classes include a warm-up and drills.

The students learn safety and they play games.

The teachers also show students how to strengthen their form.

Coaches set up metal bars and boxes in the gym.

They teach students how to walk on or jump over balance beams.

Students lift, leap or weave their way through whatever else is in their path.

Both newcomers and advanced learners train together.

Those with more experience are given more difficult training.

Blake Evitt is a Parkour teacher.

He says many of the new students he sees view Parkour as a useful way to get fit.

But Parkour offers more than flashy stunts.

It's a way for people to test the limits of their bodies and brains.

"It's almost a way of life," said Evitt.

He leads the U.S. branch of Parkour Generations.

Julio Sepulveda is a researcher.

He takes classes in a Boston suburb.

He says Parkour is for everyone.

Learners don't need fancy, expensive gear for it.

They can simply walk to a nearby park and use whatever is there to practice.

"And it's really all about your flow.

The flow of your movements and your mind, which is really cool," Sepulveda said after catching his breath.

"So it's a nice connection between your mind and your body."

