These young people are into video games, comics, superheroes.

They don't spend all day at the computer, though.

Like superheroes, they fly through the city, bouncing off walls, hurdling fences, and even jumping off roofs.

They are doing parkour, an activity that involves moving through the city as quickly as possible, athletically avoiding obstacles along the way.

They are called "traceurs."

"Parkour is essentially training yourself to move more efficiently from Point A to Point B effectively, safely and with speed," says 23-year-old Nick Faircloth of Raleigh, who discovered parkour when he was 16.

"It's about training hard to enjoy the freedom of play."

The origins of parkour are murky: it seems to have begun with French military training in Vietnam in the 1950s.

In the 1990s, a group of French teens revived parkour and adapted it for city life.

Soon, the Paris suburbs of Evry, Sarcellas, Lisses and others were filled with youths bouncing about public plazas, moving around town with a gymnastic grace and agility not typically seen on the street.

Before smartphone cameras and YouTube, the sport stayed mainly local.

Now, there's a global parkour community, with YouTube as the hub.

The community tends to be young and geeky, traceurs say.

"It's the sport of nerds," says Don Sportsman, whose 10-year-old son Cheland loves parkour.

Cheland started attending parkour classes at Enso Movement in Raleigh when the gym opened in April.

He goes to classes about twice a week, but "he'd go every day if he could," his dad says.

Parkour isn't Cheland's only quirky hobby — he's also into ventriloquism.

He first got interested in puppetry, then dummies, and started working on his ventriloquist skills.

On a recent Tuesday evening, parkour instructor Alan Tran led a class of 10- to 16-year-olds in a training session that lasted an hour and 15 minutes, beginning with 20 minutes of warm-up.

Tran guided the traceurs through and over plywood platforms, walls and other obstacles in the gym, stressing the importance of technique and safety.

"Let's work on nice and quiet jumps," he advised, reminding his pupils that a flat-footed landing is a loud and potentially painful landing.

Enso Movement offers some instruction during the day, but most classes are in the evening, typically three or four per night, each with five to 13 students.

Most are middle school to college age, though one of the adult classes has a student who "is in his late 30s, he might even be 40."

In France, classes for seniors are common.

Faircloth, who is an owner of the Enso gym, said he was a typical, not active person when he stumbled onto parkour.

"I was sedentary, didn't do a whole lot," he recalls.

One day he found himself in the wooded backyard of a relative's house and began to jump and climb through obstacles he found among the boulders and fallen trees.

Shortly after, he was surfing the Internet and discovered French kids doing the same moves in an urban environment.

For him, the moves were as close to being a superhero as a mortal could come — he was hooked.

Faircloth's discovery of parkour came at the same time the sport was beginning to spread in North Carolina.

Strong parkour communities developed at North Carolina State University and at UNC-Charlotte.

Soon there were two statewide parkour jams where traceurs could gather.

Practicing parkour in the gym is like daily practice for team sports: getting better so you can enjoy the activity more.

For parkour practitioners, it's usually the weekends when they are able to get out into the city, putting their new skills to use, moving from Point A to Point B efficiently, safely and quickly.

Faircloth says it's no surprise that young people want to do parkour.

"Kids want to be active," he says.

"It's not that kids don't want to play, it's just that sometimes they don't have options.

If you're not into team sports, your options are limited."

Parkour is like how kids have been playing for thousands of years, he says, only now, they have training.

There's parkour, and there are other similar sports.

The distinctions: Parkour — As Faircloth notes, parkour is about moving efficiently from Point A to Point B in a safe and speedy manner.

That means going over obstacles — fences, walls, benches — whenever safely possible.

Freerunning — Described by Enso Movement as an "expressive" performance "with roots in parkour and branches in gymnastics, martial arts, dance and more."

It's similar to parkour, though the goal isn't necessarily to get from A to B in as straight a line as possible.

Tricking — There is no dealing with obstacles in tricking, which, according to Faircloth, is more about "complex acrobatic moves, kicking, spins, turns," break-dancing and similar moves.

