The sport Parkour treats the world like one big obstacle course.

People jump around on everyday objects.

They use benches and buildings, or anything they can get their hands on, to push themselves forward.

It used to be that only insiders knew of the sport.

Now, it is becoming more and more popular.

It's becoming the go-to sport for people who just want a good workout.

Jessamyn Hodge is 32 years old and from South Boston.

She works with computers during the day but she recently took her first Parkour class at a high school gym in suburban Brookline.

She was hoping to learn the kind of extreme moves she'd already seen on YouTube.

She wanted to climb walls and jump over fences.

"It's like dancing at high speed," she said.

"It reminds me of being a kid again, like monkeying around on anything and everything, clambering about, generally having fun while getting around."

Parkour was developed in France in the 1980s.

It mixes parts of martial arts, gymnastics, rock climbing and other sports.

Participants use things like park benches, trees, handrails, and buildings as tools.

They hop over them or under them to nimbly push themselves forward.

Some of the sport's craziest moves have become famous.

They are featured in movies, video games and commercials.

Beginners who want to learn fast can take classes like those offered by London-Based Parkour Generations.

It's a business with branches in California, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin.

It also offers classes in several countries including Thailand, Singapore and Brazil.

Classes include a warm-up and drills to learn the basics of safety and games.

The teachers also show students how to strengthen their form.

At the Brookline class, coaches set up metal bars and boxes in the gym.

They teach students how to walk on or jump over balance beams and lift, leap or weave their way through whatever else is in their path.

Both newcomers and advanced learners train together.

Those with more experience are given more difficult training.

Blake Evitt is a Parkour teacher.

He says many of the new students he sees view Parkour as a functional way to get fit.

But Parkour offers more than flashy stunts.

It's a way for people to test their physical and mental limits.

"It's almost a way of life," said Evitt.

He leads the U.S. branch of Parkour Generations.

Julio Sepulveda is a researcher who takes classes in a Boston suburb.

He said Parkour is for everyone because learners don't need fancy, expensive gear for it.

They can simply walk to a nearby park and use whatever is there to practice.

"And it's really all about your flow.

The flow of your movements and your mind, which is really cool," Sepulveda said after catching his breath.

"So it's a nice connection between your mind and your body."

