Passengers waiting to board the Dumbo the Flying Elephant ride at Walt Disney World used to stand in long lines that snaked along the sun-baked pavement.

Now, riders are ushered into an air-conditioned tent where kids can play on slides, a climbing tower, and a toy fire engine.

Parents wait for the buzz of a pager telling them it's time to ride the attraction.

"It's so much better this way," Russ Spence of Richmond, Va., said as he relaxed in the tent.

He was waiting to take his 3-year-old grandson on the ride.

As theme park lines get longer, parks like Disney World in Florida are investing big money to make wait time less boring, more comfortable, and seemingly shorter.

The efforts make good business sense.

Long lines are one of the biggest gripes of visitors at theme park.

"If you reduce the wait, whether real or perceived, it is critical," said Jim MacPhee, senior vice president at Walt Disney World Parks.

The company aims to inject more fun into the ride lines.

In the last year, the idea has caught on.

Interactive lines have opened up at Florida and Southern California theme parks including Disneyland, Universal Studios Hollywood and Six Flags Magic Mountain.

Videos, interactive games and animatronic characters are there to entertain waiting riders.

At some parks, jugglers and other entertainers are dispatched where lines are extra long.

Attendance for the top 20 major theme parks in North America grew 7 percent from 2007 to 2012, according to estimates by Aecom, an engineering and consulting firm in Los Angeles.

Because of the growing crowds, theme park insiders say, the average visitor has time for only nine or 10 rides per day.

That means a lot of time spent standing in lines.

One of the first efforts to address long lines came in 1999.

Disney parks introduced the Fastpass.

It let visitors return to a ride at a scheduled time to get on a shorter line.

Six Flags now offers its guests the Flash Pass.

These passes are free.

At most theme parks, visitors can pay extra money for passes to shorter lines.

For everyone else, the lines are still long.

But in some cases, they are more entertaining.

Disney World in Orlando has been adding games and other distractions to the lines for several years.

More elaborate entertainment was added in the last two years as new rides were installed or old attractions got renovated.

"When the opportunity presents itself, we will add an interactive queue (line)," MacPhee said.

In the line for the Haunted Mansion, guests can touch gravestones that play music or squirt water.

In the line for the Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh, visitors use their hands to write on a wall of simulated dripping honey.

They can also play music on plastic pumpkins and watermelons.

The distractions were vital on a recent summer day.

The waiting time for the Winnie the Pooh ride was more than an hour.

Kelly Ferreri travels from Pennsylvania to Disney World every year with her family.

She watched her children, ages 1, 3 and 6, play with the pumpkins and honey wall as she waited.

"It's definitely beneficial," she said of the games.

"It keeps kids entertained for all the time that they would be standing in line.

It's beautiful."

At Universal Studios Hollywood, riders of the new Transformers: The Ride-3D line up in an area resembling a military compound.

They watch videos that explain their mission.

They must keep the powerful "AllSpark" from falling into the hands of the evil Decepticons.

Larry Kurzweil is the president of Universal Studios Hollywood.

"Guest satisfaction is very important to us," he said.

"We want to entertain our guests from the moment they enter the ride queue."

Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia recently installed a 16-by-9-foot screen over the queuing area of the newest ride, Full Throttle.

Visitors see a 25-minute video of extreme sports, such as bungee jumping and mountain biking.

This summer, Six Flags Entertainment Corp. also launched an interactive game similar to Whac-A-Mole.

Visitors play it on television screens, using their cellphones as controllers.

The game is available at all 16 Six Flags parks.

David McKillips is the senior vice president for corporate alliances at Six Flags.

He says the games make for a better overall experience.

Visitors to the Toy Story Midway Mania ride at Disney's California Adventure Park are entertained by an animatronic Mr.

Potato Head.

He sings and tells jokes to the crowd.

The voice was recorded by gruff comedian Don Rickles.

"I'm going to guess your weight," Mr.

Potato Head tells guests.

"I'd say you wait about 15, 20, 25 minutes, tops!"

