National and state parks will be open for business this summer, but it won't be business as usual.

Washington is sending less money to parks.

States will be contributing fewer dollars as well.

The result won't be pretty.

Trash cans may overflow.

Lines will be long at park entrances.

Children will miss out on campfire talks.

More than 741 million people visit state parks each year.

Many had to cut staff and shorten hours back in 2008-2009.

At that time, money was tight across the country.

In states that are still struggling, those cuts have not been undone.

To make matters worse, even more cuts went into effect March 1.

These cuts took away $150 million from the National Park Service.

The lost money will affect 401 national parks and monuments.

The Park Service has put hiring on hold.

It will leave 900 jobs unfilled.

In a normal summer, the Park Service hires an extra 10,000 people to handle the larger crowds.

But this year, it will cut that number by 1,000.

Fewer workers means less frequent mowing.

It may also mean bike paths covered in sand, messy restrooms and fewer tours.

State parks have been tightening their belts for several years.

However, some are in better shape than others.

In some states, donations have helped.

California was able to keep open all of its state beaches, reserves and parks.

Donors raised more than $3 million.

Even with the donations, California's state parks must cut down on upkeep such as repairs and mowing.

It must also reduce park hours.

Five hundred fewer rangers, scientists and other workers will be on the job, said Roy Stearns, a state parks spokesman.

In Washington state's parks, there will be shorter hours and fewer guided tours, said Virginia Painter.

She works for the parks commission.

Painter added that some park upkeep will be delayed.

A new entrance fee has brought in only about half of the money that was expected.

The park system has had to make other cuts to make do with less money.

National parks will face tough times too.

At Grand Canyon National Park, the visitor center will open an hour later and close an hour earlier.

Lines at the gates will be longer since there will be fewer workers.

"We have said for a long time we'll continue to do more with less.

We're beyond that.

We're going to do less with less," park spokeswoman Maureen Oltrogge said.

A study showed that national parks bring in billions of dollars to their nearby communities.

Park tourism creates 162,400 local jobs, the same study found Yellowstone National Park officials announced they would wait an extra two weeks to open two snowy park entrances earlier this year.

However, local businesses came to the rescue.

The towns of Cody and Jackson take in $334 million a year from Yellowstone visitors.

The towns figured the two-week closure would mean no visitors spending money in the hotels and restaurants.

The communities would lose as much as $4 million.

So people and businesses raised $175,000.

They paid for snowplowing themselves and got the roads open on time.

After the snowplow savings, Yellowstone was still short $1.75 million.

It met the gap by cutting jobs.

Visitors at the huge park probably won't notice, said spokesman Dan Hottle.

Yosemite National Park is leaving about 20 jobs unfilled, said park spokesman Scott Gediman.

Visitor centers will close an hour earlier, at 5 p.m.

There will be no rangers in Mariposa Grove leading visitors around the giant sequoia trees.

The Fourth of July will be quieter on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. A concert at the Washington Monument will be canceled.

The mountains of litter will take longer to collect since the park cannot afford overtime for the cleanup crew.

At Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia, a $1.2 million cut means that six buildings will be closed.

Visitors will not be able to see where Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.

The Liberty Bell and Independence Hall are canceling evening visitor hours.

The Gulf Islands National Seashore in Florida and Mississippi must deal with a $359,000 cut.

It plans to shut three visitor centers a few days each week.

Even some restrooms must close.

Most trash cans are history.

Visitors will be told to pack and take out their own garbage.

