President Barack Obama on Monday called on Americans to stand up against religious hatred, as he offered his support to the families of those killed in an apparent hate crime.

On Sunday, three people were killed at two Jewish community centers in the Kansas City area.

"Nobody should have to worry about their security when gathering with their fellow believers," Obama told religious leaders at the White House for the annual Easter prayer breakfast.

"No one should ever have to fear for their safety when they go to pray.

And as a government, we're going to provide whatever assistance is needed to support the investigation."

Obama noted that he had a connection to two of the victims.

A teenager and his grandfather were shot in a parking lot behind the Jewish Community Center of Greater Kansas City.

Both were Christian.

They attended the United Methodist Church of the Resurrection, Obama said.

That church's pastor, Rev.

Adam Hamilton, delivered the sermon at the prayer service at the National Cathedral marking Obama's second inauguration and attended last year's prayer breakfast at the White House.

Hamilton broke the news to his church members at the Palm Sunday service, the president said.

Obama noted that the killings happened as Jews were preparing to celebrate Passover, the holiday that marks the freedom of the Jewish people from slavery in Egypt 3,300 years ago.

The killings also came as Christians were observing Palm Sunday, which celebrates the arrival of Jesus in Jerusalem.

That the killings happened at the time of these religious celebrations "makes this tragedy all the more painful," Obama said.

Police have arrested Frazier Glenn Miller, 73, in connection with the shooting.

Civil rights supporters say Miller has ties to the Ku Klux Klan, a hate group that promotes white supremacy.

Miller has a long history of promoting hate against Jews, among others.

Police say they do not believe that the shooter knew his three victims.

Obama called on the religious leaders to "keep coming together across faiths to combat the ignorance and intolerance, including anti-Semitism."

Anti-Semitism is prejudice against Jews, which Obama said "can lead to hatred and to violence."

"This Easter week, of course, we recognize that there's a lot of pain and a lot of sin and a lot of tragedy in this world," he said.

"But we're also overwhelmed by the grace of an awesome God."

He continued, "We're all children of God, we're all made in his image, all worthy of his love and dignity, and we see what happens around the world when this kind of religious-based or -tinged violence can rear its ugly head.

It's got no place in our society."

Obama mentioned his recent trip to Vatican City, the center for the Catholic faith located in Rome, Italy.

There he met for the first time with Pope Francis, the leader of the Catholic Church.

Obama, who is not Catholic, has said he is inspired by the pope and praised his focus on inequality and inclusion in the church.

The president urged the religious leaders to mind the message coming out of Rome.

The [pope](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope) tells people to see the "dignity in each human being," Obama said.

But Obama said it's also his deeds that people should follow.

The pope is known for "hugging the homeless man or washing the feet of somebody who, normally, ordinary folks would just pass by on the street."

Obama said the pope reminds us that we "no matter what our station, have an obligation to live righteously and that we all have an obligation to live humbly."

That, Obama said, is the example that religion teaches us to follow.

