There were once more than 3 billion passenger pigeons in the world, but in 1914, there was just one.

Her name was Martha, and she lived alone in a cage in the Cincinnati Zoo.

Her mate George had died four years before.

Martha was the last, lonely bird of a species that liked to be social.

When Martha died, it was the end of a species.

Passenger pigeons had gone extinct.

Martha's stuffed body is now on display at the famous Smithsonian Natural History Museum.

Perhaps it's not all over, though: What if the passenger pigeon could be brought back?

After all, long-dead animals still contain DNA, which is a set of instructions on how to form a particular type of animal.

DNA forms into packets called genes.

Each gene is matched with a certain trait, or feature — everything from red hair in people to powerful wings in birds.

If enough genes can be recovered and recreated, maybe a long-gone species could be brought back to life.

That's the idea behind something called de-extinction.

It works like this: Take DNA collected from extinct animals, like Martha.

Figure out which genes matter and combine them with the genes of a closely related species that still exists.

Then, take the combined genes and place them in the egg of one those still-living relatives.

If all goes well, a copy of the long-lost Martha could hatch, and, one day, flocks of passenger pigeons could be flying the skies.

Ben Novak is hoping to become a pioneer of de-extinction by bringing back the passenger pigeon.

Novak is collecting DNA from stuffed passenger pigeons and studying the genes of the closely related band-tailed pigeon.

So far, 32 passenger pigeon samples have had their genomes sequenced.

"Genome" is simply the word for the complete set of genes found in an individual animal.

"Sequencing" means figuring out the order, or sequence, of the genome's parts.

The samples Novak is studying will also help him begin to figure out something else: how the bird lived in the wild.

Understanding that will help him decide if a restored passenger pigeon would do well in today's woods.

What Novak has learned so far is encouraging: nothing is telling him to "turn back now and not bring back the passenger pigeon."

If the de-extinction works, one remaining challenge would be to teach the new birds how to be passenger pigeons.

Doing that could be even more challenging than the genetic work itself.

The new birds would be part band-tailed pigeon, and would have no passenger pigeon parents to teach them what to do.

To understand the difficulty, look at similar efforts — raising California condors with puppets, or teaching cranes to migrate by using ultralight airplanes.

Still, if everything goes well, Martha may no longer be the last of her kind.

Birds that carry the genes of the passenger pigeon could be flapping around by 2020.

The project may be too difficult, however.

Scientists have been trying for 30 years to bring back the quagga — an extinct species of zebra, but have not been successful.

Researchers were able to bring back a bucardo — a goat species that was extinct — but the baby goat only lived for seven minutes.

They were not able to repeat the experiment.

Nevertheless, some are now considering other uses for the science used in de-extinction, saying the same methods could be used to preserve animals and plants currently in danger of dying out.

There are advantages, however, to working with an animal that is already extinct.

For one thing, you're not racing the clock, desperately trying to stop a species from disappearing.

After all, Martha died 100 years ago, so her kind has long been gone.

If they succeed, the world gets a new kind of bird, Novak says.

"If we fail, we learn things that are valuable and the world isn't left with another extinct species."

