Emily Whitehead walked through the hallways of the U.S. Capitol building.

She was accompanied by her mother, father and a bright purple stuffed animal.

They are all are on a mission.

Their goal is to make lawmakers aware of the important studies being done at children's hospitals across the county.

It's important for the Whiteheads.

[Last year Emily's life was saved in one of those hospitals](http://www.newsela.com/articles/virus-cure/levels/640).

They want politicians to know that doctors are making life-saving discoveries at children's hospitals across the country.

In the spring of 2012, Emily was close to death.

She was just 6 years old.

Emily was suffering from leukemia, a form of cancer.

Emily's parents were desperate to save their only child.

So they decided to send her for an experimental treatment.

The treatment meant removing millions of Emily's T-cells.

A T-cell is a type of white blood cell.

The body needs T-cells for its immune system.

The immune system keeps the body from getting sick.

After doctors removed Emily's T-cells, they started to infect them.

They treated them with a disabled form of the HIV virus.

HIV causes AIDS, which is a deadly disease.

The virus doctors injected into Emily was not the normal HIV virus.

Scientists and doctors had made changes to it.

The virus could no longer cause disease.

Instead, it now had the power to attack cancer cells.

The virus targeted Emily's cancer cells.

The virus won.

The experiment saved Emily's life.

She recently celebrated one year of being cancer-free.

The treatment that saved Emily's life was expensive to invent.

Scientists could not have done it if they didn't get money from the government.

The National Institute of Health (NIH) gives money to pay for medical research.

That research improves health and saves lives.

It was NIH money that allowed scientists to work on Emily's treatment.

But earlier this year, government money dried up.

Lawmakers made cuts to all kinds of government programs.

That means that the NIH will no longer be able to give as much money to hospitals for scientific work.

Peter Grollman is worried.

He works at the hospital where Emily was treated.

Less government money could mean less experimental therapies and research.

And that could hurt patients, he said.

The number of specialists in children's hospitals across the country has dropped, he added.

The NIH can no longer spend as much money on research at children's hospitals.

They will have to cut their spending by $1.5 billion this year.

Grollman says that is "gutting the program."

The Whitehead family met with lawmakers about this.

Representative Joe Pitts and Senator Bob Casey would like to help the Whiteheads.

They want to pass a bill that will send more money to children's hospitals around the country.

Emily's father, Tom, was happy about his visit to D.C.

He felt that lawmakers supported his family's cause.

He added that many of the lawmakers have been following Emily's progress and were impressed.

"(Casey's) a really big advocate of (NIH) funding," Tom Whitehead said.

Giving more money to the NIH is also important to Rep. Glenn Thompson.

He cares about what NIH cuts mean for medical research.

He worries about how hospitals will keep their staff well trained without the extra money.

Emily gave Thompson two "children's champions."

Similar to a baseball card, they include her picture and information about her treatment and personality.

She autographed them both.

One card he shared with Reprentative Jack Kingston, a member of a committee that oversees how government money is spent on health.

The other he keeps on his desk.

