Senator Rand Paul, the maverick first-term senator, on Tuesday formally announced a bid for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.

Paul rode a wave of disgruntlement with Washington, D.C., politics that allowed him to go from being a Kentucky eye doctor to congressman in 2010.

"We have come to take our country back!"

Paul told a crowd at his official campaign launch in Louisville, echoing language he used during his 2010 Senate run.

"We have come to take our country back from the special interests that use Washington as their personal piggy bank, the special interests that are more concerned with their personal welfare than the general welfare."

Standing on a stage flanked by American flags, Paul emphasized a message of inclusion and diversity.

His speech was in step with his strategic aim to attract voters who typically do not think to vote Republican.

"The message of liberty, opportunity and justice is for all Americans, whether you wear a suit, a uniform or overalls, whether you're white or black, rich or poor," Paul said.

"Many Americans, though, are being left behind.

The reward of work seems beyond their grasp.

Under the watch of both parties — the poor seem to get poorer and the rich get richer."

Paul's announcement makes him the second major Republican candidate to officially jump into the 2016 race, after Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.

A fiercely independent conservative, Paul has drawn notice since he first entered Congress, clashing with GOP leadership and proposing his own overhaul of the federal budget, the annual plan for how the government spends money.

In 2013, he spoke on the floor of Congress for nearly 13 hours — a filibuster — to prevent a vote on the nomination of John O. Brennan to head the CIA.

Paul was concerned that drones could possibly drop bombs on American citizens.

The speech catapulted him to stardom among younger Republican voters who have craved a new voice.

Paul frequently knocked the Republican Party throughout his remarks Tuesday, accusing his own party of being part of the problem.

At the same he called for new, smaller-government policies to spur economic growth.

He blames too much spending by the government with hurting the economy and creating debt when the government has to borrow money for its programs.

"It seems to me that both parties and the entire political system are to blame," he said.

"Big government and debt doubled under a Republican administration.

And it's now tripling under Barack Obama's watch."

An ophthalmologist who still performs free eye surgeries, Paul did not hold elected office until ascending to the Senate in 2010.

Yet he has been steeped in politics for his entire life as the son of one of America's most famous libertarian politicians, Ron Paul.

He helped his father's Senate campaigns and his two campaigns for the GOP presidential nomination.

On the campaign trail, the Kentucky senator is expected to continue his familiar pitch: that the Republican Party needs to reach voters who have traditionally shunned it.

"White, black, brown, rich, poor, with tattoos and without tattoos, with earrings and without earrings," Paul told a room packed full of young conservative people in February.

"We need to take our message where it's not been before."

On Capitol Hill, Paul has been known for his unlikely alliances with Democrats.

He has co-authored bills on reforming the criminal justice system with Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, and legalizing medical marijuana with Booker and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, another Democrat.

Rand has also been trying to make inroads with black voters by pushing for more economic investment in Detroit.

"There is still significant segregation in our society," Paul said last month at Bowie State University, a traditionally black university in Maryland.

Paul has also repeatedly sparred with some of his GOP colleagues, including both Senator John McCain of Arizona and likely challenger Senator Marco Rubio of Florida over foreign policy and other issues.

But as he has approached his presidential run, Paul has been mending fences with many Republican colleagues.

Paul has been looking to broaden his appeal outside of Washington as well, with some of his more notable libertarian stances becoming more traditionally conservative.

He has been meeting with evangelical pastors to woo the faith community; last month, he told a group of pastors that a moral crisis is leading people to believe that same-sex marriage is acceptable.

On foreign policy, his view that the United States should not intervene in foreign conflicts has shifted.

Paul now frequently acknowledges the necessity for a strong national military and the threat of terrorism in the Middle East, in particular the Islamic State group, also known as ISIL or ISIS.

Still, he continues to court conservatives who became war weary during George W. Bush's presidency, knowing they are critical to his national support.

Paul has also been tirelessly reaching out to young people.

For the last year and a half he has been speaking at colleges and universities around the country.

According to a Washington Post/ABC News poll, Paul runs three times as well among voters younger than 50 than over 50.

And he is staking a claim to tech during the 2016 cycle, opening offices in Silicon Valley and using platforms like Snapchat to win over younger voters who may not respond to traditional political ads.

Paul is also trying to tap into the vast well of tech money, holding meetings with big-pocketed potential donors in California and other tech hubs.

The senator lives in Bowling Green, Kentucky, with his wife, Kelley.

They have three sons.

He attended Baylor University, then Duke Medical School.

Paul will publish two books this year: "Taking A Stand" and "Our Presidents and Their Prayers."

"It's time for a new way, a new set of ideas, a new leader," Paul said in February.

"Above all, it's time for a new president."

