Senator Rand Paul has announced that he will seek to become the 2016 Republican candidate for president.

If he wins, he will run in the general election against Democrats and members of other political parties to become president.

Paul is still in his first term in Congress, where he has been known as a rebel.

Paul rode a wave of anger with Washington, D.C., politics to jump from being a Kentucky eye doctor to senator in 2010.

"We have come to take our country back!"

Paul told a crowd at his campaign launch in Louisville.

He said that companies and other "special interests" have influenced Washington to get money for causes they support, and used the government as "their personal piggy bank."

Standing on a stage flanked by American flags, Paul emphasized a message of diversity.

He spoke of the need for all Americans to be included in the American dream.

His speech aimed to attract people who typically do not vote for Republicans.

"The message of liberty, opportunity and justice is for all Americans, whether you wear a suit, a uniform or overalls, whether you're white or black, rich or poor," Paul said.

"Many Americans, though, are being left behind."

Finding jobs has become more difficult, he said.

"Under the watch of both parties — the poor seem to get poorer and the rich get richer."

Paul is the second major Republican candidate to jump into the 2016 race.

Senator Ted Cruz of Texas announced his plans to run in March.

Paul has drawn notice since he first entered Congress.

He has clashed with leaders in the Republican Party, and proposed his own plan to fix government spending.

In 2013, he spoke on the floor of Congress for almost 13 hours straight in a filibuster — that is a way of preventing a vote on a law.

He had opposed President Obama's use of unmanned drone planes.

He was concerned with the possibility that they could drop bombs on U.S. citizens.

The filibuster made him a star among younger Republicans who craved a new voice.

Paul frequently knocked the Republican Party throughout his announcement.

He accused his own party of being part of the problem.

At the same time, he called for the government to spend less money.

Instead, he would like people to have more money to spend.

When the government taxes people less, they have more money to keep.

He believes that when people have more money to spend, it creates jobs.

He also spoke out against government debt.

When the government spends more money than it has, it borrows money to pay for programs.

The borrowed money is a debt that must get paid back.

"Both parties and the entire political system are to blame," he said.

"Big government and debt doubled under a Republican administration.

And it's now tripling under Barack Obama's watch."

Paul still works as an ophthalmologist, or eye doctor.

Even now, he performs free eye surgeries.

Paul did not hold elected office until running for the Senate in 2010.

Yet he has been involved in politics for his entire life.

He is the son of one of America's most famous politicians, Ron Paul.

On Capitol Hill, Paul has been known for working with Democrats.

He pushed for laws to fix the criminal justice system with Senator Cory Booker, a Democrat from New Jersey.

Paul has also been trying to appeal to black voters by pushing to get money to help Detroit, a city with many black residents.

Paul has been looking to broaden his appeal outside of Washington as well.

He has been meeting with evangelical pastors to win the votes of the Christian community.

On foreign policy, his view that the United States should not get involved in international conflicts has shifted.

Paul now supports a strong U.S. military.

He has spoken more of the threat of terrorism in the Middle East, in particular the Islamic State group, also known as ISIL or ISIS.

Paul has also been tirelessly reaching out to young people.

For the last year and a half, he has been speaking at colleges and universities around the country.

According to a Washington Post/ABC News poll, Paul runs three times as well among voters younger than 50 than over 50.

He is also reaching out to the technology companies, opening an office in Silicon Valley, California.

He is using platforms like Snapchat to win over younger voters who may not respond to traditional political ads.

Paul is also trying to get donations from tech-industry millionaires.

"It's time for a new way, a new set of ideas, a new leader," Paul said in February.

"Above all, it's time for a new president."

