A global watchdog group trying to destroy Syria's stockpiles of chemical weapons won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday for its efforts.

The Norwegian Nobel Committee gave its prestigious prize to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).

The Committee did so to turn the spotlight both on Syria's devastating civil war and on a weapon that has horrified nations since World War I.

The reaction in Syria was notably divided.

A senior Syrian rebel said the award will divert the world's attention from "the real cause of the war."

On the other side, a lawmaker from Syria's ruling party declared the Nobel to be a vindication of President Bashar Assad's government.

The OPCW was formed in 1997 to enforce the Chemical Weapons Convention, which was the first international treaty to outlaw an entire class of weapons.

Based in The Hague, the OPCW has mostly worked out of the limelight until this year.

After claims of chemical weapons attacks in Syria were made, the U.N. called upon its expertise to help investigate.

Syria will officially join the OPCW as its 190th member state on Monday.

OPCW inspectors are already on a risky U.N.-backed mission based in Damascus.

They're seeking to verify and destroy the Assad government's arsenal of poison gas and nerve agents.

"Events in Syria have been a tragic reminder that there remains much work still to be done," OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu told reporters in The Hague.

He said the $1.2 million prize money would be used to eliminate chemical weapons.

By giving the peace award to an international organization, the Nobel committee highlighted the Syrian civil war, without siding with any of the groups involved.

Now in its third year, the fighting has killed more than 100,000 people.

The war has devastated many cities and towns and forced millions of Syrians to flee their homes and country.

U.N. war crimes investigators have accused both Assad's government and the rebels of wrongdoing.

However, they say abuses by the regime are greater than those of the rebels.

Louay Safi, a senior figure in Syria's opposition, said the Nobel award came too early.

"If this prize is seen as if the chemical weapons inspections in Syria will help foster peace in Syria and in the region, it's a wrong perception," Safi told The Associated Press by phone from Qatar.

He said that demolishing the regime's chemical weapons will not bring peace to Syria.

"Many more people are dying because Assad's troops are killing them with all types of conventional weapons," he said.

Fayez Sayegh, a lawmaker and member of Assad's political party, told the AP the award underscores "the credibility" of the Damascus government.

He said Syria is "giving an example to countries that have chemical and nuclear weapons."

After an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack that killed hundreds in Syria, Assad faced the prospect that the U.S. would launch a devastating strike against his military.

To avert that, he admitted to his chemical weapons stockpile and his government quickly signed on to the Chemical Weapons Convention.

This allowed OPCW inspectors to enter the country.

The first OPCW inspection team arrived in Syria last week.

They have already begun to oversee the first stages of the destruction of Assad's chemical weapons.

The United Nations and the United States praised the Nobel decision.

Seven nations have already declared stockpiles of chemical weapons and have or are destroying them.

The United States, Albania, India, Iraq, Libya, Russia and a country identified by the OPCW only as "a state party" but widely believed to be South Korea, have admitted to having chemical weapons.

However, the Nobel committee noted that some countries have not observed the deadline of April 2012 for destroying their chemical weapons.

That applies especially to the U.S. and Russia, Nobel committee chairman Thorbjoern Jagland said.

"They have huge stockpiles of chemical weapons," he told the AP.

"What is important is that they do as much as they can and as fast as they can."

The struggle to control chemical weapons began in earnest after World War I.

Chemical agents used in the war, such as mustard gas, killed more than 100,000 people and injured a million more.

The 1925 Geneva Convention prohibited the use of chemical weapons.

But, their production or storage wasn't outlawed until the Chemical Weapons Convention came into force in 1997.

"During World War II, chemical means were employed in Hitler's mass exterminations," the prize committee said.

"Chemical weapons have subsequently been put to use on numerous occasions by both states and terrorists."

According to the OPCW, 57,740 metric tons, or 81.1 percent, of the world's declared stockpile of chemical agents have been verifiably destroyed.

Albania, India and "a third country" — believed to be South Korea — have completed the destruction of their declared stockpiles.

An OPCW report this year said the United States had destroyed about 90 percent of its stockpile of the weapons.

Russia had destroyed 70 percent of its own and Libya 51 percent.

Nations not belonging to the OPCW include North Korea, Angola, Egypt and South Sudan.

Israel and Myanmar have signed but not ratified the convention.

The OPCW did not figure prominently in this year's Nobel speculation.

The hunch was that the winner would be Malala Yousafzai, the 16-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the head by the Taliban last October for advocating education for girls.

The European Union won the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize.

It was given for the Union's work uniting a continent ravaged by two world wars and divided by the Cold War.

Established by Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel, the Nobel Prizes have been handed out since 1901.

They are also given in medicine, physics, chemistry, economics and literature.

