The OPCW has one job: to get rid of the world's chemical weapons.

It has been busy lately.

Its inspectors have been sent to Syria to destroy poison gas and other chemical weapons.

On Friday it won a famous award its work.

The Nobel Committee gave its Peace Prize to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.

The Peace Prize is one of the most famous awards in the world.

Giving the prize to the OPCW does two things: First, it will make people pay attention to the bloody civil war in Syria.

Second, it makes more people aware of poison gases.

The weapons have been used for nearly a century.

They are feared because they cause such terrible suffering.

Opinions about the prize varied in Syria.

A Syrian rebel said the award will move the world's attention away from "the real cause of the war."

The rebels are fighting the government.

On the other side, a lawmaker from Syria's government said it would help the Syrian President Bashar Assad.

It shows he is setting an example by getting rid of the weapons.

The OPCW was formed in 1997.

At that time, countries around the world decided to outlaw chemical weapons.

Never before had an entire type of weapon been banned.

The OPCW has not been well known until this year.

Then, there was talk of poison gas attacks in Syria.

The United Nations asked the OPCW to look into it.

Syria is joining the OPCW on Monday.

It will be the 190th country to become a member.

"Events in Syria have been a tragic reminder that there remains much work still to be done," Ahmet Uzumcu said.

He runs the OPCW.

The award comes with $1.2 million in prize money.

Uzumcu said it would be used to get rid of chemical weapons.

The war in Syria is now in its third year.

The fighting has killed more than 100,000 people.

Many cities and towns have been devastated.

Millions of Syrians have had to flee their homes and country.

U.N. war crimes investigators have accused both Assad's government and the rebels of wrongdoing.

But, they say the government has been worse.

A chemical weapons attack in August killed hundreds in Syria.

The U.S. then threatened to attack the Syrian military.

To prevent that, Assad admitted to having poison gases.

His government quickly signed on to the Chemical Weapons Convention.

This allowed OPCW inspectors to enter the country.

The first OPCW team arrived in Syria last week.

They are there to make sure all of Assad's chemical weapons are destroyed.

The United Nations and the United States praised the Nobel award.

Some countries still have some poison gases.

The United States and Russia have destroyed much of their supply.

However, they both missed the deadline of April 2012 for getting rid of all of them.

In World War I, chemical weapons killed more than 100,000 people.

Not many people expected the OPCW would win the Nobel.

Many thought the winner would be Malala Yousafzai.

She's the 16-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the head last October for trying to get education for girls.

The Nobel Prize was started by Swedish businessman Alfred Nobel.

They have been handed out since 1901.

Besides the Peace Prize, they are also given out in the sciences and literature.

