An organization trying to rid the world of chemical weapons won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday.

The group won the award for its attempts to destroy Syria's stockpiles of the poisonous weapons.

The Norwegian Nobel Committee gave its prestigious prize to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).

Awarding it the Peace Prize achieved two goals at once for the Nobel Commitee: It was a way to turn the spotlight on Syria's bloody civil war.

It also brings attention to a weapon that has horrified nations since World War I.

Opinions about the award in Syria varied widely.

A senior Syrian rebel said the award will move the world's attention away from "the real cause of the war."

On the other side, a lawmaker from Syria's ruling party said the Nobel would give support to President Bashar Assad's government.

The OPCW was formed in 1997 to enforce the Chemical Weapons Convention.

It was the first international treaty to outlaw an entire class of weapons.

Based in the Netherlands, the OPCW hasn't been well known until this year.

After allegations of chemical weapons attacks in Syria., the U.N. called upon its experts to help investigate.

Friday's award came just before Syria becomes OPCW's 190th member state on Monday.

OPCW inspectors are already on a mission in Syria to eliminate chemical weapons, supported by the U.N. "Events in Syria have been a tragic reminder that there remains much work still to be done," OPCW Director-General Ahmet Uzumcu said.

He said the $1.2 million prize money would be used to get rid of chemical weapons.

By giving the peace award to an international organization, the Nobel committee highlighted the Syrian civil war.

And it did so without siding with any of the groups involved.

Now in its third year, the fighting has killed more than 100,000 people.

The war has devastated many cities and towns and forced millions of Syrians to flee their homes and country.

U.N. war crimes investigators have accused both Assad's government and the rebels of wrongdoing.

However, they say the abuses of the government are greater than those of the rebels.

Louay Safi, a senior figure in Syria's opposition, said the Nobel award came too early.

He said that demolishing the government's chemical weapons alone won't bring peace to Syria.

"Many more people are dying because Assad's troops are killing them with all types of conventional weapons," Safi told The Associated Press.

Conventional weapons include guns and bombs.

Fayez Sayegh, a lawmaker and member of Assad's ruling Baath party, told the AP the award underscores "the credibility" of the Damascus government.

He said Syria is "giving an example to countries that have chemical and nuclear weapons."

After an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack that killed hundreds in Syria, Assad came under great pressure.

The threat of U.S. strikes against his military loomed.

To prevent them, he admitted his chemical weapons stockpile and his government quickly signed up to the Chemical Weapons Convention.

This allowed OPCW inspectors to enter the country.

The first OPCW inspection team arrived in Syria last week.

Another came this week.

They have already begun to oversee the first stages of the destruction of Assad's chemical weapons.

The United Nations and the United States praised the Nobel decision.

Seven nations have already declared stockpiles of chemical weapons.

They've either destroyed them or are doing so.

The United States, Albania, India, Iraq, Libya, Russia and a country identified by the OPCW only as "a state party" but widely believed to be South Korea have admitted to having chemical weapons.

However, some countries have not observed the deadline of April 2012 for destroying their chemical weapons.

That applies especially to the U.S. and Russia, Nobel committee chairman Thorbjoern Jagland said.

"They have huge stockpiles of chemical weapons," he told the AP.

"What is important is that they do as much as they can and as fast as they can."

The struggle to control chemical weapons really began after World War I.

Chemical agents used in the war, such as mustard gas, killed more than 100,000 people.

A million more were injured.

The 1925 Geneva Convention banned the use of chemical weapons.

But, their production or storage wasn't outlawed until the Chemical Weapons Convention came into force in 1997.

"During World War II, chemical means were employed in Hitler's mass exterminations," the prize committee said.

"Chemical weapons have subsequently been put to use on numerous occasions."

According to the OPCW, 57,740 metric tons of the world's declared stockpile of chemical agents have been verifiably destroyed.

That amounts to 81 percent of known agents.

Albania, India and "a third country" — believed to be South Korea — have completed the destruction of their declared stockpiles.

An OPCW report this year said the United States had destroyed about 90 percent of its stockpile.

Russia had destroyed 70 percent of its own.

Libya has destroyed 51 percent of its stockpile.

Nations not belonging to the OPCW include North Korea, Angola, Egypt and South Sudan.

Israel and Myanmar have signed but not ratified the convention.

The OPCW was not considered a front-runner for the award.

The hunch was that the winner would be Malala Yousafzai.

She's the 16-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the head by the Taliban last October for supporting girls' education.

The European Union won the 2012 Nobel Peace Prize.

It was given for the Union's work uniting a continent ravaged by two world wars and divided by the Cold War.

The Nobel Prize was established by Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel.

The have been handed out since 1901.

Besides the peace prize, they are also given in medicine, physics, chemistry, economics and literature.

