A group trying to rid the world of chemical weapons won the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday.

It was given the award for its efforts to destroy Syria's supply of poison gas and other chemical weapons.

The prize was awarded to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW).

The Nobel Committee wanted to use the prize to achieve two goals at once: The first was to make people aware of Syria's bloody civil war.

The second was to raise awareness about the long, deadly history of chemical weapons.

Opinions about the prize were divided in Syria.

A Syrian rebel, who is against the government, was not pleased.

He said the award will move the world's attention away from "the real cause of the war."

On the other side, a lawmaker from Syria's government said the Nobel prize helps President Bashar Assad.

The OPCW was formed in 1997 to carry out the Chemical Weapons Convention.

The Chemical Weapons Converntion was an agreement made by countries around the world.

It was the first time an entire kind of weapon was outlawed.

The OPCW wasn't well known until this year.

It stepped into the spotlight after  the U.N. asked the group to go to Syria.

It wanted the OPCW to investigate claims of a poison gas attack.

Friday's award came just before Syria joins the OPCW on Monday.

It will be the 190th country to become a member.

OPCW inspectors are already on a disarmament mission in Syria, supported by the U.N.

They're seeking to destroy the government's poison gas and nerve agents.

"Events in Syria have been a tragic reminder that there remains much work still to be done," Ahmet Uzumcu said.

He heads the OPCW.

The award comes with $1.2 million in prize money.

Uzumcu said it would be used to get rid of chemical weapons.

The Syrian civil war is now in its third year.

The fighting has killed more than 100,000 people.

Many cities and towns have been devastated and millions of Syrians have had to flee their homes and country.

U.N. war crimes investigators have accused both Assad's government and the rebels of wrongdoing.

However, they say the government's actions have been worse.

Louay Safi, a senior figure against the government, said the Nobel award came too early.

He said that demolishing the chemical weapons won't bring peace to Syria.

"Many more people are dying because Assad's troops are killing them with all types of conventional weapons," Safi said.

Conventional weapons include guns and bombs.

Fayez Sayegh is a lawmaker in Assad's government.

He said the award helps the government.

He said Syria is "giving an example to countries that have chemical and nuclear weapons."

After an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack killed hundreds in Syria, Assad faced possible U.S. strikes against his military.

To prevent that, he admitted Syria had chemical weapons.

His government quickly signed on to the Chemical Weapons Convention.

This allowed OPCW inspectors to enter the country.

The first OPCW team arrived in Syria last week.

They have already begun to destroy Assad's chemical weapons.

In World War I chemical weapons killed more than 100,000 people.

The use of chemical weapons was banned in 1925.

But, making or storing them wasn't outlawed until the Chemical Weapons Convention in 1997.

According to the OPCW, 57,740 metric tons of chemical agents have been destroyed in the world.

That amounts to four-fifths of what's known to have been made.

But some countries still have some chemical weapons, including the United States and Russia.

The OPCW reported that the United States had destroyed about nine-tenths of its stockpile.

Russia had destroyed seven-tenths of its own.

However, they both missed the deadline of April 2012 for getting rid of all of them.

It wasn't expected that OPCW would win this year's Nobel.

Some thought the winner would be Malala Yousafzai.

She's the 16-year-old Pakistani girl who was shot in the head last October.

She was targeted for her work to help girls get an education.

The Nobel Prize was started by Swedish businessman Alfred Nobel.

The have been handed out since 1901.

Besides the Peace Prize, they are also given out in the sciences and literature.

