Last month, two pelicans arrived at SeaWorld's rescue center in Orlando, Florida.

They were brought in just one day apart.

Pierre and Claire, as the team called them, were both hurt, confused and lonely.

Then they spotted each other.

"They got very excited," said Sherry Branch,  better known as "The Bird Lady."

Branch is in charge of caring for birds at SeaWorld in Florida.

"They immediately waddled towards one another," Branch said.

She thinks each one felt comforted by seeing another of its own kind.

American white pelicans are rare in the world of Florida bird rescue.

The team at the rescue center at SeaWorld had not seen a white pelican in 10 years, maybe longer.

Brown pelicans are much more common than whites.

They are the ones that annoy fishermen.

They swoop in and steal the fish they catch.

Pierre, perhaps a year old, had been found in a lake.

"Its wing appeared to be broken, but he could swim OK," said Ed Straight.

He runs the Wildlife Education and Rehabilitation Center.

The rescue center is on Anna Maria Island in Florida.

Probably, Pierre had become tangled in fishing line in the lake.

The pelican broke his wing trying to free himself, Straight said.

Straight and his wife drove the pelican to SeaWorld's rescue center.

That was on March 7.

A day later, two officers were patrolling a river in a boat.

They saw a small, struggling white pelican in the water.

They pulled the pelican into the boat and saw it was badly hurt, said Heidi Cogburn.

She works for the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission.

Claire, it turned out, was at least 3 years old and had been shot.

No one knows how it happened.

Claire was likely hurt several weeks ago.

If she had been out much longer, she probably would have died.

Lara Croft is a veterinarian at SeaWorld.

Croft said Claire was hurt so badly she had to remove part of the pelican's wing.

Claire will never be able to fly, but she is able to walk.

Meanwhile, Pierre is starting to heal.

Since his rescue, he has been able to move around much better.

Pierre stays close by Claire's side.

"They're always right next to each other," Croft says.

"They walk together.

They swim together.

They rest together."

For now, they share a fenced-in yard with plants and shade and their own pond.

Claire hides behind Pierre, scurrying to the far end of the yard when humans come near.

Pierre protects her.

The vet hopes that Pierre can be released into the wild.

Claire cannot fly and would not live very long if she were set free.

Croft said the two pelicans have become very close.

She said it would be sad to separate them.

"But obviously, if he is able to fly, we want him to have as natural a life as possible," Croft said.

Claire would not be lonely for long.

SeaWorld's Pelican Point has many brown pelicans.

Yet, a pair of American white pelicans live there, as well.

Both of them are males.

"There are two handsome men out there just waiting for her," Branch says.

"She'll have a good life."

