Here in the United States, countless pencils are discarded, wasted, unused.

They roll around classroom floors, lie forgotten in drawers and backpacks and sit wedged between car seats.

Yet elsewhere in the world, one pencil is a rare and treasured thing.

Kyle VanDerVelden, a 16-year-old junior at Wayne Hills High School, was so bothered by that inequality that he set out to do something about it.

"I just decided there was definitely something that I could do," he said.

Klye's idea began as a modest plan to collect and donate stray pencils.

It has since mushroomed into a campaign that has pulled in thousands of writing tools — some used but most new — from local schools, businesses and churches.

With the help of Kim Oppenheimer, who runs the organization Right-to-Write, Kyle's pencils have reached people in impoverished areas of Ethiopia, Panama and Haiti, and other far-flung countries.

At a local elementary school this month, Kyle moved boxes crammed with pens, pencils, crayons, markers and mechanical pencils with his mom's help.

The month-long pencil drive yielded an impressive haul: 3,790 writing tools.

"Children giving to children is really valuable," Oppenheimer said, praising Kyle's ability to appeal to fellow teenagers, and to motivate students in lower grades to be part of the project.

The idea behind her one-person organization is simple: People learn about her mission from her website, then mail in or hand-deliver pencils to her.

She packs them, fitting around 200 pencils in sealed bags, then hands the packages to travelers heading for developing countries, who carry them in their suitcases.

When they arrive at destinations off the beaten track, often on humanitarian trips, the travelers themselves deliver the bags of pencils.

Oppenheimer said she has managed to send pencils to schools, hospitals and orphanages in Mexico, Brazil, Liberia, Namibia, India and Vietnam.

Kyle, a soft-spoken athlete who hopes to become an architect, said the idea to help came around this time last year, as he left volleyball practice and noticed school janitors sweeping up discarded pencils.

Later that summer, the rapid spread of the deadly Ebola virus put a spotlight on hardships faced in West Africa, where the outbreak was centered.

"There was a desperate need for any kind of help," he said, "and that's what made me think, 'Wow, not only do these people need vaccines and help, but they need something to start a foundation with … they need to learn.'"

He researched organizations where he could be a volunteer and discovered Right-to-Write, run by Oppenheimer, a special-education teacher who has traveled extensively.

"It's a simple idea, and works so easily," Oppenheimer said.

"When any traveler is going overseas, for the most part, you can fit that bag into your suitcase, like a hardcover book."

She said she came up with the idea when volunteering with a medical mission to Peru in 2005.

She had taken a suitcase of clothing to donate, but soon realized that people wanted her pen.

"Even the nurses wanted my pen as I walked around the hallway," Oppenheimer said.

"I figured if I hadn't realized there was such a need, that many other people hadn't as well," she said.

The group began three years after her Peru trip, and to date, she has collected more than 80,000 pencils.

Kyle reached out last summer and "was super interested and energetic," Oppenheimer said.

Since he started his drives, the donations have been pouring in from local businesses, churches and schools.

At schools, he speaks to students during assembly and tells them students just like them need pencils.

The recent elementary school drive that netted more than 3,700 writing implements was the biggest to date.

Throughout February, students dropped pencils and markers into shoe boxes outside classrooms and the cafeteria.

Kyle took them home and said he planned to pack them in the sealed bags and bring them to Oppenheimer so she could coordinate their delivery.

As for the elementary students, the act of giving has made them think about how hard life can be in other countries.

It led them to reflect on the reality that an everyday item like a pencil that we might see as expendable can be so needed by other children around the world.

Christopher Bacchioni, a fifth-grader, said he donated "to help people in need."

He can imagine children "being happy because they can write now, that they don't have just one pencil to use all year," he said.

"They can have a few."

