Here in the United States, people throw away a lot of pencils.

Many are never used.

They lie forgotten in drawers and backpacks.

Some roll around classroom floors.

Things are very different in many parts of the world.

In some poor countries a pencil is a rare and treasured thing.

Kyle VanDerVelden is a 16-year-old junior at Wayne Hills High School.

One day in school, he noticed janitors sweeping up lost pencils.

He was very bothered that pencils are wasted here when people in other countries need them badly.

He knew kids in some parts of the world are very poor.

Many have not spent much time in school.

He decided he wanted to get pencils and pens to those kids.

Having something to write with would help them to learn.

Kyle set out to find a way to help.

"I just decided there was definitely something that I could do," he said.

Kyle asked around about groups he could volunteer with.

He found Kim Oppenheimer.

She runs the group Right-to-Write.

Her group sends pens and pencils to people around the world.

He decided he could collect unused pencils and pens.

Then, he would work with Oppenheimer to send them where they are most needed.

The idea behind Oppenheimer's group is simple.

People give her pencils.

She packs about 200 pencils into a bag and seals it.

Then she gives the bags to travelers heading to poor countries.

The travelers deliver the bags of pencils to the people who need them.

Oppenheimer has helped Kyle send pencils to many people in other countries.

So far he has gathered thousands from schools, businesses and churches.

Some are used, but most are new.

Earlier this month, Kyle went to an elementary school near him to pick up pencils and pens.

He left with boxes and boxes.

They were crammed with pens, pencils, crayons and magic markers.

He collected 3,790 writing tools in just one month.

His pencils have reached kids in countries like Ethiopia, Panama and Haiti.

It "works so easily," Oppenheimer said.

If someone is traveling overseas she gives them a bag of pencils.

"You can fit that bag into your suitcase," she said.

Oppenheimer came up with the idea when she traveled to Peru in 2005.

She had taken clothing to give away.

However, she saw that people really wanted her pen.

"Even the nurses wanted my pen," Oppenheimer said.

Oppenheimer began her group three years after her Peru trip.

So far, she has collected more than 80,000 pencils.

Kyle contacted the group last summer.

He was "super interested" in helping, Oppenheimer said.

The teen collects pencils from businesses, churches and schools.

Kyle visits schools and tells kids that students just like them need pencils.

The kids who gave pencils learned a lot.

They learned that even something like a pencil can be precious for some people.

Christopher Bacchioni is a fifth-grader at the school.

He said he gave pencils to "help people in need."

He can imagine children "being happy because they can write now."

They "don't have just one pencil to use all year," he said.

"They can have a few."

