Humans usually turn to robots when they need help getting to places that are hard to reach, like the moon or Mars.

Now, scientists have built a robot to explore a new territory: colonies of adorable penguins.

A team of scientists has designed a robot, or rover, that looks like a fluffy baby penguin.

Because it is disguised, the machine can get up close to real birds without disturbing them.

Humans face many challenges when they want to study living animals in the wild.

It is often better to let robots do the work.

Animals often become stressed or scared when a human gets close.

Their hearts may start racing and beating very fast.

These reactions are dangerous for the birds, and it means that scientists have a difficult time studying the animals.

A stressed penguin might even have a challenging time having babies after the humans leave.

Scientists have a hard time collecting information about penguins when the animals act in these ways.

However, to gather the information that scientists need, humans have to get very close to the birds.

Sometimes, humans gets within 2 feet of penguins in their own surroundings.

So the robot becomes a very useful tool for researchers.

Researchers brought the robot to Antarctica.

They are using it with king penguins.

They want to learn how penguins react to humans and to the robot.

When a human gets close to one of the birds, the animal's heart rate increases.

It gets more scared around a human than it does when the rover approaches.

The penguin also takes longer to calm down after it is approached by a human.

When a king penguin feels threatened, it will move away from the thing that scares it.

A penguin will scoot much farther away when it sees a human than when it sees a robot.

When a human gets close, a king penguin will move away five times as far than it does with a rover.

Scientists used the robot with emperor penguins in another part of Antarctica.

They found that these birds were even more interested in the rover.

Researchers studied 158 different emperor penguins using the rover.

About half of the birds did not even notice the robot at all.

The rest of the penguins were either scared of the robot or moved closer to check it out.

Then scientists used a friendlier robot with the emperor penguins.

This robot was dressed up like a fuzzy baby penguin on wheels.

The adorable spying penguin was a hit with the live birds.

All of the adult and baby emperor penguins got very close when it approached.

Some penguins even tried to talk to the disguised "baby" rover.

Researchers have used a robot with other animals in the wild.

On a recent day, they introduced elephant seals to a rover.

The seals did not seem to notice when the rover came close to their heads or tails.

The seals not noticing was a good sign because elephant seals usually do not like it when when someone or something approaches its backside.

It is exciting to think about the different ways robots can help us to learn more about how and where animals live.

Maybe rovers in the future might be able to follow around swimming and flying creatures too.

