Former Texas Governor Rick Perry announced his second run for president Thursday.

The Republican pledged to "end an era of failed leadership" and hoped his campaign for the 2016 election will go better than his last one.

Perry made his announcement inside a hot and steamy hangar at an airfield outside Dallas.

He was in the company of other veterans and a cargo plane like the one he flew for the Air Force in the 1970s.

Perry had been the longest-serving governor in Texas history when he left office in January.

Perry vowed to help the country become more economically successful by getting businesses to hire people.

During Perry's last seven years in office, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs.

"I have been tested," Perry said.

"I have led the most successful state in America."

Reaching out to voters from the tea party, who want lower taxes and a smaller government, he said, "Our rights come from God, not from government."

In this presidential race, Perry is an underdog who has been visiting states for months.

He has been trying to convince voters he deserves another chance.

The first time Perry ran for president was in 2012.

He led in opinion polls, but lost ground because of a series of blunders.

During a debate on television, he sheepishly uttered "oops" after he forgot the name of a federal agency he vowed to close if he was elected president.

Perry raised a tremendous amount of money in 2012.

He might have more trouble raising money now because of two felony indictments he is facing in Austin.

He was indicted, or charged, for abuse of power and coercion.

The Democratic head of a prosecutors department in Texas was arrested for drunk driving.

She ignored Perry's calls to resign.

In response, the case against him claims, he cut the amount of the money the department received.

Perry says the case against him is purely political, but he has been unable to get a judge to drop the charges.

Eventually, he may have to stop campaigning to appear in court.

In his speech, Perry harshly criticized the Obama administration for Iraq's decline after U.S. combat troops left in 2011.

He also blamed the president for what he sees as a flawed deal being negotiated with Iran to prevent it from getting nuclear weapons.

He also said it is the president's fault that so many people cross the Mexican border illegally.

"A lot of candidates will say the right things," Perry said.

"We need a president who has done the right things."

Texas' hot job growth was fueled by an oil-and-gas boom.

However, Perry said he helped it as well by keeping taxes low and limiting how much money people can gain from lawsuits.

He believes both actions encourage businesses to set up in Texas and hire people.

Perry also gave out millions in state money, hoping to lure top companies to Texas to create jobs.

Sometimes, though, he had few new jobs to show for all the effort.

Perry is playing up his military experience in a Republican field that has few veterans.

His announcement featured many well-known veterans, including Marcus Luttrell, a longtime Perry friend and the only survivor of a four-man team attacked in Afghanistan.

Luttrell's story was featured in the 2013 film "Lone Survivor."

Perry's announcement was somewhat overshadowed Thursday by information that Jeb Bush also will run, bringing the number of Republican candidates to 11.

Bush, the son and brother of presidents, is considered to have a good chance at becoming the Republican candidate in the general election.

One rival candidate, fellow Texan Ted Cruz, welcomed Perry to the race as "a friend and patriot."

Perry, though, indirectly took shots at senators such as Cruz and Marco Rubio of Florida, and others in the race with little or no experience at running a government.

"Leadership is not a speech on the Senate floor," he said.

From Texas, Perry soon plans to head back to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.

He has already been active in these states, which vote before other states in the election season.

He's hoping his on-the-ground campaign proves more long-lasting this time.

"He's kind of been freed up to be Rick Perry again," said Brendan Steinhauser, who advises candidates in Texas.

"That's going to give him a lot of freedom to do what he does best, which is talk to voters one-on-one, shake hands."

Perry, he said, "shouldn't feel the need to start out trying to be larger than life."

