Rick Perry announced he will run for president of the United States.

Perry was the governor of Texas until January.

This is the second time he is running for president.

In 2012, Republicans did not choose him to be their candidate.

Perry said he hopes the next election will go better for him.

Perry declared his plans on Thursday at an airfield near Dallas.

He was joined on stage by a group of former soldiers.

Nearby was a cargo plane like the one he flew for the Air Force in the 1970s.

Perry will try to get the Republican nomination.

If he does, he will run in 2016 against a Democrat.

The Democrats must choose someone new, because President Barack Obama has already served two terms.

Perry said the country is being led badly.

He promised to help the country get richer.

During Perry's last seven years in office, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs.

"I have been tested," Perry said.

"I have led the most successful state in America."

Perry made a statement that would please some voters.

They formed a group called the tea party.

They want the government to stay out of their lives more and tax them less.

People pay taxes to the government to help pay for roads, schools, police, parks and other things.

"Our rights come from God, not from government," Perry said.

The first time Perry ran for president was in 2012.

For a while he was the leading candidate.

This time, Perry is not one of the most popular candidates.

He has been visiting states to convince voters he deserves another chance.

Perry raised a lot of money for his campaign in 2012.

However, he may have trouble this time.

He faces two criminal charges in Texas.

He may go to court.

He is accused of using his power as governor for his own reasons.

He became mad at a Texas worker.

Government lawyers said he tried to punish her.

She works in a department in Texas' government.

Lawyers say he gave her department less money in revenge, which is against the law.

Perry says the case against him is unfair.

So far, he cannot get a judge to agree.

In his speech at the airfield, Perry blamed Obama for many problems.

"A lot of candidates will say the right things," Perry said.

"We need a president who has done the right things."

There are many new jobs in Texas.

Oil and gas companies there made a lot of money and hired many more people.

Perry said he should get some credit too.

He said he kept taxes low.

Perry also spent millions of dollars of Texas' money to bring companies there.

Perry spoke a lot about his military experience.

Few of the other Republican candidates have served in the military.

Perry hopes that Republican voters will think it is important.

Perry's announcement might have gotten more attention.

However, on Thursday, it was reported that Jeb Bush has also decided to run.

His father and brother were presidents.

Now, there are 11 Republican candidates.

Bush is considered to have a good chance of winning.

From Texas, Perry plans to go to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.

He has already visited these states to get support from voters.

He hopes the support lasts longer this time than last election.

Brendan Steinhauser helps candidates in Texas.

He said that Perry does best when he is himself.

He talks to voters one-on-one and shakes their hands.

In this race, Steinhauser said Perry should take it slow.

