Former Texas Governor Rick Perry announced Thursday that he will again run for president.

First, he will run in primaries for the Republican nomination.

If chosen, he will try to win the White House in 2016.

The Democrats must also choose a candidate, since President Barack Obama has already served two terms.

During Perry's announcement, he expressed hope that this campaign will go better than his last one.

In 2012, he did not get the Republican nomination.

Perry declared his plans inside a hot airplane hangar at an airfield outside Dallas.

He was joined on stage by a group of former soldiers.

Also in the hangar was a cargo plane like the one Perry flew for the Air Force in the 1970s.

Perry had been the longest-serving governor in Texas history when he left office in January.

Perry promised to "end an era of failed leadership."

He was speaking of President Obama.

Perry promised to help the country to become richer.

During Perry's last seven years in office, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs.

"I have been tested," Perry said.

"I have led the most successful state in America."

Some people belong to a group called the tea party.

Those voters want lower taxes, and want the government to stay out of their lives more.

Speaking to those voters, Perry said, "Our rights come from God, not from government."

In the 2012 race, Perry started off well.

Then he fell behind other candidates after making several embarrassing mistakes.

At one point, he forgot the name of a government department he promised to close if elected president.

When he realized this, he said "oops" on television.

This time, Perry is an underdog who has been visiting states to convince voters he deserves another chance.

Perry raised a lot of money for his campaign in 2012.

However, he may have trouble this time because he faces two criminal charges in Texas.

He may have to go to court.

He is accused of using his power as governor for the wrong reasons.

He became mad at a Texas worker.

She worked in a Texas government department.

Lawyers say Perry gave the department that she worked in less money because he was angry at her, which is against the law.

Perry says the case against him is unfair, but he cannot get a judge to agree.

In his speech in the airfield, Perry said that violence in Iraq is Obama's fault.

He also blamed the president because Mexicans cross the U.S. border without permission.

"A lot of candidates will say the right things," Perry said.

"We need a president who has done the right things."

Texas added so many jobs because oil and gas companies made a lot of money and hired more people.

Perry said he deserved some of the credit for that.

He said he helped by keeping taxes low.

He said he prevented too many rules on business.

Perry also gave out millions of dollars in state money, hoping to bring companies to Texas.

Sometimes, though, he had few new jobs to show for all the effort.

Perry is emphasizing his military experience.

Few of the other Republican candidates have served in the military.

Perry hopes that Republican voters will think that is important.

On Thursday, Perry's announcement did not get all the attention he may have hoped.

It was reported that Jeb Bush will also run for the Republican nomination.

Bush's father and brother were both presidents.

Now, there are 11 Republican candidates.

Bush is considered to have a good chance.

One rival candidate, fellow Texan Ted Cruz, welcomed Perry to the race.

Cruz, a senator, called Perry "a friend and patriot."

From Texas, Perry plans to head back to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.

He has already visited these states trying to get support from voters.

Perry is hoping his support from voters lasts longer in this race than last time.

Brendan Steinhauser gives advice to candidates in Texas.

He said that Perry does best when he acts like himself and talks to voters one-on-one and shakes their hands.

In this race, Steinhauser said Perry should take it slow.

