Former Texas Governor Rick Perry announced his second run for the Republican presidential nomination Thursday.

Perry pledged to "end an era of failed leadership" and hoped his campaign for the 2016 election will go better than his last one.

The longest-serving governor in Texas history when he left office in January, Perry made his announcement inside a steamy hangar at an airfield outside Dallas.

He was in the company of fellow veterans and a cargo plane like the one he flew for the Air Force in the 1970s.

Perry vowed to help the country increase the slow pace of economic recovery, by helping businesses to create jobs.

During Perry's last seven years in office, Texas created 1.5 million new jobs.

"I have been tested," Perry said.

"I have led the most successful state in America."

In a nod to the tea party, a conservative group that wants a smaller government and to lower taxes, he said, "Our rights come from God, not from government."

In 2012, Perry announced late, made a powerful showing in the opinion polls but wilted amid a series of blunders.

He is still trying to live down the "oops" he uttered during a debate after he forgot the name of a federal agency he vowed to close if elected president.

This time, Perry is an underdog who has been visiting early voting states for months.

He was hoping to convince voters he deserves another chance.

Perry raised a tremendous amount of money in the 2012 race.

However, his fundraising efforts could be hurt this time by two felony indictments he's facing in Austin.

A grand jury indicted, or charged, him on abuse of power and coercion.

The Democratic head of the unit of prosecutors fighting public corruption in Texas ignored Perry's calls to resign after her arrest for drunken driving.

In response, he publicly threatened state funding for the unit, and then prevented the funding by vetoing it.

Perry says the case against him is purely political and goes against the state constitution, but he has been unable to get it dismissed by a judge.

Eventually, he may have to pause campaigning to appear in court.

In his speech, Perry harshly criticized the Obama administration for Iraq's decline after U.S. combat troops left in 2011.

He also blamed the president for what he sees as a flawed nuclear deal being negotiated with Iran.

Additionally, he says Obama is to blame for a border with Mexico that is not secure and allows illegal immigrants to cross over.

"A lot of candidates will say the right things," Perry said.

"We need a president who has done the right things."

Texas' white-hot job growth was fueled by an oil-and-gas boom.

However, Perry said he also helped it by making the state more friendly to businesses.

He claimed he kept taxes low, minimized regulations on business and limited how much money people can gain from lawsuits.

Perry also distributed millions of dollars in state funds, hoping to lure top companies to Texas, although he sometimes had few new jobs to show for it.

Perry is playing up his military experience in a Republican field that has few veterans.

His announcement featured many well-known veterans, including Marcus Luttrell, a longtime Perry friend and the only survivor of a four-man team attacked in Afghanistan.

Luttrell's story was featured in the 2013 film "Lone Survivor."

Perry's launch was somewhat overshadowed Thursday by confirmation that Jeb Bush also will run, bringing the Republican presidential field to 11.

Bush, the son and brother of presidents, is considered to have a good chance at the nomination.

One rival, fellow Texan Ted Cruz, welcomed Perry to the race as "a friend and patriot."

Perry, though, indirectly took shots at senators such as Cruz and Marco Rubio of Florida, and others in the race with little or no experience at running a government.

"Leadership is not a speech on the Senate floor," he said.

From Texas, Perry soon plans to head back to Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina.

He has already been active in these states, which hold primary votes early in the election season.

If he wins the primaries, he would become the Republican candidate in the general election.

He's hoping the on-the-ground campaign proves more long-lasting this election.

"He's kind of been freed up to be Rick Perry again," said Brendan Steinhauser, who advises candidates in Texas and is a member of the conservative group FreedomWorks.

"That's going to give him a lot of freedom to do what he does best, which is talk to voters one-on-one, shake hands."

Perry, he said, "shouldn't feel the need to start out trying to be larger than life."

