The coral reefs along the United Arab Emirates (UAE) coast are not known for their diversity.

Other reefs have many different types of plants and animals.

But they are special in their own way.

Scientists think they might hold clues that could help other reefs survive.

The Earth has been heating up.

As the climate has changed, reefs have become damaged.

Coral reefs in most climates can only handle temperatures as high as 29 degrees Celsius (84 degrees Fahrenheit).

If the water gets warmer than that, the corals will release the algae living in their tissue.

This process is called "bleaching" because it turns the corals white.

More importantly, it increases the chance they will develop diseases and die.

Corals and the algae that live in them need each other to remain healthy.

Yet reefs in the Persian Gulf are used to much warmer water.

Corals in this area can handle water temperatures as high as 36 degrees C (97 degrees F).

Marine biologist John Burt says that is a good sign.

He believes the Persian Gulf reefs could help corals in other areas.

He hopes we can use what we learn from the Persian Gulf to prepare other reefs for warmer temperatures.

Coral reefs have been in danger for many years.

Human actions such as pollution, overfishing and construction along coastlines have all damaged reefs.

As a result, some reefs are only half the size they once were.

Still, most scientists say climate change is the biggest threat.

Warming waters lead to major bleaching events.

Ocean water is also becoming more acidic.

It is caused by oceans absorbing carbon dioxide from the atmosphere.

Scientists blame climate change for this too.

Acidic water makes it harder for corals to get calcium.

They need calcium for their shells to grow.

Coral and the algae that live in them are adapting as their surrounding water gets warmer.

Their genes are adjusting.

Unfortunately, these genetic changes are not happening as fast as the Earth is warming.

Scientists say new research is changing the way people look at the corals' future.

They have shown that coral reefs can bounce back from bleaching events faster than previously thought.

"It's not all doom and gloom for corals," marine biologist Andrew Baker says.

He adds that they can respond to bleaching in several different ways and "very quickly, within a few years."

Baker's work motivated Burt to spend three years studying reefs in the Persian Gulf.

He and his peers discovered a new type of algae that can handle warmer water.

Their research suggests that it only grows in that area.

The researchers say the algae probably got better at dealing with the heat over time.

They think it adapted to the gulf's harsh conditions.

The real question is how that happened.

Researchers are not sure whether it was evolution or if the algae was brought in from outside the region by currents.

Another big question is how much the gulf algae might be able to help corals in other regions — or even hurt them.

Baker does not know whether corals can keep getting better at surviving the heat.

If not, he hopes they can at least provide a short-term solution, by moving some of the algae to coral reefs that are in danger.

Many scientists doubt that any one thing could fix such a big problem.

They also have a hard time believing that something from the Persian Gulf could provide a solution for reefs in other areas.

They say it is just too different from other regions.

Some experts think researchers would be better off looking for answers in regions with milder climates.

They have suggested the Mozambique Channel between Tanzania and Madagascar.

The coral there has bounced back from extreme bleaching events.

These comments have not discouraged the Persian Gulf researchers.

They know that finding a solution will be challenging.

They know that their experiments will involve risks that could hurt the coral reefs more than they help them.

They still want to keep looking for ways to use the Persian Gulf algae to help corals in other regions.

Madeleine van Oppen is with the Australian Institute of Marine Science.

She explained that "people (used to) say, 'Oh God, that will never work.'

People still have those concerns, but they can see that it's important to develop the tools and to (see) what is actually possible."

