After 20 years, Richard Huff is retiring as director of the Irving Arts Center, a museum in Texas.

Before he leaves, he wants to put on one last exhibit that people will remember.

Huff has struck gold, it seems.

"Peruvian Gold: Ancient Treasures Unearthed" will arrive in Texas next weekend after spending five months at the National Geographic Museum in Washington, where it was very popular.

When most people think of the South American country of Peru and its history, they think of the Inca culture and its most famous city — Machu Picchu.

The Inca Empire existed from the 1200s to the late 1500s.

This exhibit, though, covers a lesser-known time in Peruvian history.

Huff said he was eager to show off Peru's Sican culture, which thrived on the country's northern coast from 750 to 1375.

"Peruvian Gold" includes gold ceremonial masks and headdresses, fabrics, pottery and jewelry.

The highlight of the exhibit is "El Tocado," which means "the headdress" in Spanish.

The large ceremonial headdress made of gold dates from about the year 1000.

El Tocado "is one of the great treasures of Peru," said Kathryn Keane, vice president of National Geographic Exhibitions.

The city of Irving has a large Latino community, which is a major reason Huff wanted to bring this exhibit to his museum.

Latinos make up more than 40 percent of its population.

"When we think of Hispanic art, the image is of folk art," he said.

"What we're trying to do is establish that there is a fine art tradition equal to Europe's.

Most people don't know that."

The National Geographic Museum in Washington has a longstanding relationship with Peru.

It took advantage of its connections to gather the artifacts for this exhibit.

National Geographic was there when Machu Picchu, the Incan city high in the Andes mountains, was discovered (or re-discovered) by American explorer Hiram Bingham III in 1911.

"When people think of Peru, they think of Incas," said Keane.

"There are all these other pre-Columbian cultures" which existed before Christopher Columbus arrived in the New World in 1492.

Visitors to the exhibit can "walk into the pages of National Geographic," Keane said.

People can get a feel for ancient Peruvian society, where gold played a large role, she added.

The exhibit's time in Washington was highly popular and successful.

"It was a blockbuster for sure," Keane said.

The organizers of this exhibit don't just want to display artifacts.

They want to highlight the connection between the artifacts on display and the archaeology that unearthed them.

National Geographic has paid for more than 180 grants that allow archaeologists to dig in Peru.

The group continues to be fascinated by the history of the region and the stories behind the objects.

"Archaeology is the key which gives us the understanding of all these objects," said National Geographic archaeologist Fredrik Hiebert.

The Irving Arts Center hopes to explain these artifacts to a new generation.

More than 8,000 middle school and high school students are signed up to view the exhibit for free.

Irving, population 229,000, is located between two large cities — Fort Worth and Dallas.

Huff wanted to bring a major museum exhibit to Irving.

"I'm trapped between two dragons," Huff said, referring to the museums in Fort Worth and Dallas.

"The trick is to get there ahead of them and get the contract."

At a conference where museum exhibitions are bought and sold, Huff managed to get "Peruvian Gold" for $500,000.

Keane, of National Geographic, was happy to see the exhibit go to the Dallas-Fort Worth area, saying the area is "extremely important to us."

"There are world-class museums and an incredible appreciation for cultures that you don't see everywhere," she said.

Some people receive a gold watch when they retire.

For Huff, the Peruvian exhibit is his chance to give a gift of gold to the public.

"This is a once in a lifetime opportunity," he said, "and I just couldn't pass it up."

