Gold from Peru is coming to Texas.

A museum in Texas is putting on a new show: "Peruvian Gold: Ancient Treasures Unearthed."

At the "Peruvian Gold" exhibit, visitors can see 100 items from Sican culture.

These historical objects include masks, pottery, jewelry and other items.

Peru is a country in South America.

Many people have heard of Machu Picchu, a city high in Peru's Andes Mountains.

Machu Picchu was a major city of the Incan Empire.

The Incas ruled much of South America from the 1200s to the 1500s.

This exhibit isn't about the Incas, though.

It's about a culture that less people know about: the Sicans.

The Sicans lived on Peru's northern coast from 750 to 1375.

Gold was very important to them.

They used it for religious ceremonies and many other things.

The most impressive item in the show is a golden headdress from the year 1000.

Headdresses are sometimes worn for special ceremonies.

The one in the exhibit is called "El Tocado," which means "the headdress" in Spanish.

This headdress "is one of the great treasures of Peru," said Kathryn Keane of National Geographic, the group that organized the exhibit.

National Geographic has a long history with Peru.

The group has paid for many archaeologists to do research there.

The archaeologists try to uncover very old objects and use them to see what life was like in the past.

In 1911, National Geographic helped American Hiram Bingham III explore Peru.

He discovered the ancient city of Machu Picchu during the trip.

Richard Huff runs the museum that's hosting the Peruvian gold exhibit.

He will retire from his job soon.

This exhibit is his last chance to impress museum guests.

"This is a once in a lifetime opportunity," he said, "and I just couldn't pass it up."

The museum is in Irving.

Many Spanish-speaking people live there.

That's one reason Huff wants to show off this art from South America.

Many people know about fine art from Europe, he said.

Not as many know that there was fine art in South America as well.

National Geographic magazine is famous for its beautiful pictures that show different cultures and natural landscapes.

Visiting this exhibit is like walking into the pages of the magazine, Keane said.

The Irving Arts Center hopes to explain Sican culture to young people.

More than 8,000 middle school and high school students are signed up to view the exhibit for free.

Before coming to Texas, the "Peruvian Gold" exhibit showed in Washington for five months.

It was highly popular there.

