For the modern champion golfer, statistical analysis — number crunching — is just as important as choosing the right club.

Every move on the golf course is recorded, measured, and studied.

The goal, of course, is to improve a player's game.

More numbers became available after ShotLink, a computer-based system for gathering and storing information on golf games, was conceived in 1999.

Since then, volunteers equipped with lasers have been measuring shots, from booming drives to tap-in birdies.

For a typical event, about 350 volunteers are needed.

Now, some players have begun relying on a person in their inner circle to crunch those numbers — that is, to mine them for patterns and useful information.

Among such players are Jason Day, Zach Johnson and Brandt Snedeker However, that doesn't mean the players listen to what the numbers say and adjust their practice routines accordingly.

"Some people don't like to know what their weaknesses are," said Colin Swatton, Day's coach and caddie.

Swatton has been analyzing Day's stats since 2007.

He doesn't rely on ShotLink because as hardworking as the volunteers are, he said they're not always accurate.

So Swatton himself notes the details and distances of all Day's shots.

"Every round we analyze it," Swatton said, "and then we break it down per hole, per course."

Day said before every tournament, Swatton hands him a piece of paper that tells him what he has to do to win the event.

It summarizes what the winner has done over the years — how many eagles, birdies, bogeys and double bogeys he had, along with averages on the par-3s, par-4s and par-5s.

"Sometimes it can be information overload," Day said — but it's still worth it to him.

"I need to stay ahead of the curve, make sure that I've got that extra step over the next person," he said.

"Whatever I can do to help me win, that's legal, obviously, I'll do."

Snedeker has been using statistics for five years and believes that's why he had his top two years in 2012 and 2013.

He ran up four victories and 16 top-10s over those two years.

Snedeker gave a dramatic example of how the analysis helped him.

Previously, he wasn't getting at all close to the hole when shooting from 125 to 150 yards, Snedeker said.

After studying the analysis of his performance, he realized he had been selecting a less-than-ideal club.

"Little stuff like that you can catch if you're paying attention to it."

Tim Clark also credits statistics for a turnaround in his game.

"I looked at my stats a few weeks ago to see where my game was sort of wrong, and I was about 180th or something on putts from 10 to 15 feet," he said.

"I knew I was struggling, but it was interesting to suddenly see it in writing."

He added, "It was something I started to work on a little bit — I putted better at the John Deere, finishing fifth."

Sweden's Peter Hanson is even more of a devotee than Clark and has "a professor in putting" to crunch his numbers.

However, he primarily uses them to make his practice time more efficient.

"I spent way too many hours on things that didn't have as much of an effect on the game as I thought," Hanson said.

He believes number-crunching in golf is the wave of the future.

It certainly helped him: It showed him he had been concentrating his practices on the wrong club — the wedge — when he should have been focusing on 6- and 7-irons.

"I spent hours and hours working on my wedge game," Hanson said.

"Then in the end you see between 30 and 80 yards you hit 3 and 4 percent of the shots.

All those hours, you can spend those hitting 6- and 7-irons, which is really the key."

Day said that at the end of the year, he sits down for a meeting with Swatton and the other members of his team.

Swatton lays out what Day needs to improve on in the next 12 months.

He also presents Day with a practice plan to "maintain the strengths and improve the weaknesses."

Johnson does the same thing in what he calls a "team summit."

"Those magnify and pinpoint aspects that we can really attack in my game," he said.

Justin Rose recently won the Quicken Loans National and Scottish Open back to back.

He doesn't focus as deeply on statistics as Day and Johnson.

"The ShotLink stuff is so in-depth now," Rose said.

It shows "my putting from 6 feet, 7 feet, 8 feet, 9 feet, 10 feet.

I might be 30th from 6 and 7 feet, and 180th from 8 feet and 60th from 10 feet.

You can't really then go out and practice 8-footers because that's what you're 180th at.

How you interpret stats I think is very, very important — but I don't get that in-depth and detailed on it."

Still, Swatton is convinced that more and more golfers will recognize the value of statistical analysis.

"I think people will get more into it," Swatton said.

