For the modern champion golfer, statistical analysis — number crunching — is just as important as choosing the right club.

Every move on the golf course is recorded, measured, and studied.

The goal, of course, is to improve a player's game.

Much of the information — the raw numbers — is stored in a computer-based system called ShotLink.

Volunteers equipped with lasers gather that information during tournaments.

Since 1999, they have been measuring shots, from drives to tap-in birdies.

For most events, about 350 volunteers are needed.

Now some players have begun relying on a person close to them to crunch those numbers: that is, to look for patterns and useful information.

Among such players are Jason Day, Zach Johnson and Brandt Snedeker However, that doesn't mean the players always listen to what the numbers say.

"Some people don't like to know what their weaknesses are," said Colin Swatton, Day's coach.

Swatton has been analyzing Day's stats since 2007.

He doesn't rely on ShotLink because as hardworking as the volunteers are, he said they do make mistakes.

So Swatton himself notes the details and distances of all Day's shots.

"Every round we analyze it," Swatton said.

"Then we break it down per hole, per course."

Day said that before every tournament, Swatton hands him a piece of paper.

On it is a rundown of what he has to do to win the event.

Day said he wants to make sure that "I've got that extra step" over the other players.

"Whatever I can do to help me win," he added, "obviously, I'll do."

Snedeker has been using statistics for five years.

He's certain that's why he had his top two years in 2012 and 2013.

Snedeker gave an example of how the analysis helped him.

Previously he wasn't getting at all close to the hole when shooting from 125 to 150 yards, Snedeker said.

After studying the analysis of his shooting, he realized he had been selecting a less-than-ideal club.

"Little stuff like that you can catch if you're paying attention to it."

Tim Clark also credits statistics for a turnaround in his game.

"I looked at my stats a few weeks ago to see where my game was sort of wrong," he said.

Clark discovered he "was about 180th or something" on putts tapped in from 10 to 15 feet.

"I knew I was struggling, but it was interesting to suddenly see it in writing."

He added, "It was something I started to work on a little bit.

I putted better at the John Deere, finishing fifth."

Sweden's Peter Hanson is even more of a fan of statistical analysis than Clark.

He has "a professor in putting" to crunch his numbers for him.

Hanson mostly uses the information to make his practice time more useful.

"I spent way too many hours on things that didn't have as much of an effect on the game as I thought," Hanson said.

Hanson thinks number-crunching in golf is the wave of the future.

It certainly helped him: It showed him he had been concentrating his practices on the wrong club — the wedge — when he should have been focusing on 6- and 7-irons.

"I spent hours and hours working on my wedge game," Hanson said.

"Then in the end you see between 30 and 80 yards you hit 3 and 4 percent of the shots.

All those hours, you can spend those hitting 6- and 7-irons, which is really the key."

Swatton is convinced that more and more players will be using statistical analysis.

"I think people will get more into it," Swatton said.

