SHINGTON - New information keeps leaking on how the United States has spied on friendly nations.

It may have even monitored phone calls made by Germany's leader.

The White House on Monday said that there needs to be new limits on how the U.S. gathers secret information.

A top senator also announced that spying on U.S. allies would stop.

President Barack Obama has been under pressure ever since the leaks first revealed how much spying the United States is doing.

Obama appeared in a television interview Monday.

However, he would not discuss anything about how the National Security Agency (NSA) monitored phone calls.

He also would not talk about whether the spy agency tapped the telephones of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and 34 other world leaders.

Obama is facing criticism as details come out about how the U.S. gathered information and tracked calls in France, Spain, Germany, Italy, Mexico and Brazil.

The details come from top-secret documents.

Edward Snowden leaked those documents to reporters.

Snowden used to work for the NSA.

Ties with some of the U.S.'s closest allies are being hurt because of what Snowden has leaked.

There is also anger in the U.S. about the NSA's collection of information about millions of Americans' calls and emails.

The spying was part of an effort to find out about terror plots.

"Obama must feel very uneasy and embarrassed right now," said Hans Christian Stroebel.

He is a member of Germany's Parliament.

White House officials continued avoiding questions about details of the spying.

They would not discuss when those operations began or who approved them.

There were complaints that Congress has not been informed, either.

Congress has the responsibility of overseeing the U.S. spy agencies.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein heads the Senate Intelligence Committee.

She said it would conduct "a major review into all intelligence collection programs."

Feinstein said that Obama did not know that Merkel's calls were being collected since 2002.

"That is a big problem," Feinstein added in a statement.

"The White House has informed me that collection on our allies will not continue, which I support.

But as far as I'm concerned, Congress needs to know exactly what our intelligence community is doing."

Feinstein said it was clear that some spying was going on for years without her committee being told about it.

So Congress needs to have more and stronger ability to watch over the spies, she said.

She said this about the NSA gathering information on leaders of countries that work with the U.S.: "I am totally opposed."

The White House denied that it hasn't discussed the issue with Feinstein.

"We consult regularly with Chairman Feinstein," said Caitlin Hayden.

She is a spokeswoman for the National Security Council.

The latest news is about Spain.

Two Spanish newspapers reported on a document leaked by Snowden.

They said it showed that the NSA collected locations and phone numbers of 60 million telephone calls.

The calls were made in Spain between December 2012 and early January.

The spy agency did not record the content of those calls.

The Spanish newspaper reports followed a story in the French newspaper Le Monde.

It reported that the NSA collected information about more than 70 million phone calls made in France.

Those calls were also made between December and January.

A similar report came out in Italy.

Spanish officials summoned the U.S.

Ambassador to discuss the matter.

The Ambassador lives in Spain and represents the U.S. After the meeting he made a statement.

He said that the United States needs to balance protecting citizens and preserving privacy.

White House spokesman Jay Carney also talked about the matter.

As technology improves, there are more ways to gather information, Carney said.

That also means there needs to be more limits.

"We need to make sure that we're collecting intelligence in a way that advances our security needs and that we don't just do it because we can," he said.

