SHINGTON -  The White House on Monday said that there is a need for new limits on U.S. intelligence gathering.

At the same time, a top senator announced that the spying on U.S. allies would stop.

These announcements came after it was revealed that the United States collected information about phone calls made by tens of millions of Europeans.

In a television interview, President Barack Obama declined to discuss anything about how the National Security Agency (NSA) monitored phone calls.

Nor would he talk about whether the NSA tapped the telephones of German Chancellor Angela Merkel and 34 other world leaders.

Obama is being battered by the news of data gathering and phone monitoring in France, Spain, Germany, Italy, Mexico and Brazil.

The information comes from top-secret documents.

Former NSA worker Edward Snowden leaked those documents to reporters.

Ties with some of the closest U.S. allies are being hurt.

Meanwhile, there is an outcry in the U.S. over the NSA's collection of information about millions of Americans' calls and emails.

The spying was part of an effort to find out about terror plots.

"Obama must feel very uneasy and embarrassed right now," said Hans Christian Stroebel.

He is a member of the German Parliament's intelligence committee.

White House officials continued avoiding questions about details of the operations.

They would not discuss when the operations began or who approved them.

There were complaints that the administration has been keeping Congress in the dark as well.

Congress has the responsibility of overseeing the U.S. spy agencies.

Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., heads the Senate Intelligence Committee.

She said it would conduct "a major review into all intelligence collection programs."

She said that Obama did not know that Merkel's communications were being collected since 2002.

"That is a big problem," she added in a statement.

"The White House has informed me that collection on our allies will not continue, which I support.

But as far as I'm concerned, Congress needs to know exactly what our intelligence community is doing."

Feinstein said it was clear that some spying was going on for more than a decade without her committee being told about it.

"Therefore our oversight needs to be strengthened and increased," she said.

"With respect to NSA collection of intelligence on leaders of U.S. allies ... let me state unequivocally: I am totally opposed," she said.

The White House denied that it hasn't discussed the issue with Feinstein.

"We consult regularly with Chairman Feinstein," said Caitlin Hayden.

She is a spokeswoman for the National Security Council.

Two Spanish newspapers reported that a document leaked by Snowden showed that the NSA collected locations and phone numbers of 60 million telephone calls.

The calls were made in Spain between December 2012 and early January.

The spy agency did not record the content of those calls.

The Spanish newspaper reports followed an article by the French newspaper Le Monde.

It reported that the NSA collected information about more than 70 million phone calls made in France.

Those calls were made between December 2012 and January.

The website Cryptome reported that the NSA monitored 46 million phone calls in Italy.

The calls were likewise monitored between December and January.

U.S.

Ambassador to Spain James Costas was summoned by Spanish officials to discuss the revelations.

He later issued a statement.

He said that the United States needs to balance the role the programs play in protecting security with concerns about privacy.

This past summer, Obama ordered a review of U.S. spying operations.

White House spokesman Jay Carney said the review is aimed at ensuring that "we are properly accounting for both the security of our citizens and our allies and the privacy concerns shared by Americans and citizens around the world."

Technology is getting much better.

That means there are more ways to gather information, Carney said.

That also means there needs to be more limits.

"We need to make sure that we're collecting intelligence in a way that advances our security needs and that we don't just do it because we can," he said.

