For trainer Eric Lay, it's more important whether student athletes can do a decent pushup than throw a fastball.

Can they do leg lunges without swinging their arms, wobbling or falling to one side?

Are they able to touch their toes?

Pull up to their chin?

Can they move back and forth?

In a nutshell, trainers like Lay want to know whether these kids really know how to properly and safely move.

Then they want to see if the kids can add strength to those movements.

It's all part of a growing push among trainers to get schools, parents, coaches and kids back to basics with physical fitness.

Instead of focusing on organized youth sports, they want kids to acquire proper movement skills early on.

If it sounds like a throwback to gym class, it is.

The movements first emphasized in gym — skipping, lunging, twisting, jumping, stopping and starting — are the building blocks of high-performing athletes.

They are also important for activities that encourage lifelong fitness, said Larry Meadors.

He is a former national high school strength and conditioning coach with the National Association of Strength and Fitness.

But "for some ungodly reason we've skipped teaching fundamental movement," Meadors said.

"We all learned the alphabet," he said.

"And as we learned the alphabet we learned how to put two letters (together) and then three and then four to form words.

And pretty soon we had a word, a sentence, a paragraph, a chapter, a book.

And you should apply the same things for athletics."

Youth athletics has become a huge business.

There are many well-meaning but poorly trained coaches.

In an age where kids have lots of opportunities to play sports outside of school, good movement is not always something Lay sees.

That particularly is the case with specialized year-round, single sports, like soccer or baseball.

In fact, often he'll see kids who are stronger on one side of their body than the other.

That comes from years of kicking with one leg in soccer or pitching and throwing on a softball or baseball team.

Those physical fitness problems can lead to injuries.

That's because the kids do the same movements over and over again, and coaches have no time to learn proper exercises to teach their players.

"Parents want their kids to be physically active, and sports is an option.

So a lot of people think, if my kid is in a sport, that takes care of it," Lay said.

He is the head trainer at a school in St. Louis.

"Sport skills are great, but there has to also be some training in fundamental movements."

Meadors runs a conditioning program in a Minnesota school district.

He said he's seen a large decline in movement skills in kids.

Meadors said he has 11th and 12th grade students with the same movement problems as 6-year-olds.

Some of the reasons for this are less physical education in schools and a more inactive lifestyle.

Yet kids also face problems in competitive sports, he said.

In sports, they learn a limited set of movements important to the sport.

But they may lack other critical movement skills to help them succeed.

Sports has become very big for very young children.

There is increased competition, nearly unlimited opportunities to play and pressure to compete in a single sport, year-round.

It has led to a rapid increase in injuries even before middle school.

More than 3.5 million kids age 14 and younger are treated each year for sports injuries.

The numbers are increasing.

In about half the cases, the injuries are often linked to children specializing in one sport and playing it year-round.

More than half of all youth sports injuries can be prevented.

Sports injuries are the result of overall low strength, according to Meadors.

Many kids simply don't know how to correctly slow down and stop when running.

Others can't land a jump properly.

These essentially are tied to poor training and not knowing how to move properly.

Few U.S. kids are getting formal physical fitness training.

Only 3.8 percent of elementary schools provide daily gym classes.

Likewise, only 7.9 percent of middle schools and 2.1 percent of high schools have gym each day.

These facts come from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Meadors said movement problems and injuries get in the way of lifelong fitness.

Teen female athletes who were injured in high school were more likely to have weight problems later in life.

About 70 percent of youth athletes drop out of sports by high school because they are burned out.

Diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease and being [overweight](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) can be the result of a lack of exercise.

Schools, parents, coaches and kids need to understand the connection between movement, lifelong health and athletic performance, he said.

"When we get to the point of 3.5 million kids injured in a given year — that's the fourth leading health risk by the World Health Organization.

There's something wrong about that," Meadors said.

