Professor James Gates delivers his big ideas in simple but memorable terms.

For example, this is what the Maryland state school board member says about setting lax standards for schoolchildren in science classes: It's like teaching them to dunk a basketball on a 9-foot-high hoop, when kids the next town over play with one 10 feet high.

Without diversity of thought among scientists working together, you get nothing but classical music, the physicist argues.

"When you let different people create different music, you get things like rock 'n' roll, jazz," Gates said.

"I have a particular kind of individualized viewpoint about the way mathematics I do should work."

His research at the University of Maryland, College Park focuses on translating that complex math into something digestible for other scientists and the rest of us.

Much of his work seeks to replace messy equations with a relatively simple set of pictures and diagrams that can help reveal characteristics of theoretical subatomic particles.

It is both his groundbreaking ideas in the field of particle physics known as supersymmetry and his ability to explain them better than anyone else that have gotten Gates so much attention.

Last year, he received a National Medal of Science from the National Science Foundation, and last month, the Harvard Foundation bestowed on him the title of Scientist of the Year.

He sits on both the state school board and the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology.

Gates enjoys about as much celebrity as a theoretical physicist can have.

In a popular video by the PBS show "Nova," he attempts to explain string theory in 30 seconds.

As he continues his own exploration of science, he is also making efforts to ensure young scientists are ready to pick up where he leaves off.

"Most scientists, we get busy with our own work.

Not many take the time to spread it at a level that is accessible to the general public," said Professor Jogesh Pati, who led the effort to recruit Gates to College Park in the 1980s.

"Jim has great strength in doing it.

Beautifully, he does it."

Gates' work is devoted to simplifying the complex, and to making scientific insights comprehensible to the general population.

His specialty, supersymmetric string theory, seeks to mesh the two major branches of physics, Einstein's theory of relativity and quantum mechanics, into a single set of rules governing the universe.

The former takes in the vastness of space and time to explain gravity; the latter focuses on the rules guiding atomic and subatomic phenomena.

The 63-year-old's interest in the physics of things was sparked by a science fiction movie he saw as a small boy and a book on space travel his father brought home.

Before delving into a career in physics, he nearly became an astronaut.

Eventually, he settled on the field of supersymmetry.

Any scientist needs to tread into new territory to make an impact, but Gates stands out for his ability to lead others along his path, those who work with him say.

"He sees things in a geometric way, which, in a broad sense, is a way that allows you to visualize things and makes things more understandable," said physicist Martin Rocek.

One of Gates' first important papers was "Superfield supergravity" in 1979, a collaboration with physicist Warren Siegel.

Rocek recalled that Siegel had some provocative and original ideas in papers he had published on his own, "but nobody understood them at all."

When Gates joined Siegel on the 1979 paper, he clarified the ideas so much that the work has been cited hundreds of times since.

As the ideas caught on in the physics community, Pati and others took notice.

After meeting Gates at the International Centre for Theoretical Physics in Italy one summer, Pati began pushing to lure Gates from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he was then teaching, to Maryland.

"I realized there was a lot of potential in that field.

It was still not in a fully developed state," Pati said.

"I actually pleaded with the department that we should hire him, and they agreed."

Since joining the faculty in College Park in 1984, Gates has taught classes nearly every semester.

He first learned of his fondness for teaching while tutoring members of MIT's Black Student Union at a time many black students still didn't feel comfortable asking teachers for help, Gates said.

"To me that was really exciting, to get that light to turn on in their eyes," Gates said.

Students who have listened to his lectures said Gates' style is illuminating, thanks to his ability to explain broader connections and the bigger picture.

Gates' responsibility extends far beyond his own students, however.

In 2009, Gov.

Martin O'Malley chose him to help schoolchildren statewide.

"Maryland is, as far as I can tell, the only state in the country that has a theoretical physicist on its board of education," Gates said.

Gates' powers of explanation also have helped him bring science to general audiences, and have made him something of a media celebrity.

As part of a "Nova" series called "The Secret Life of Scientists and Engineers," he lays out in half a minute the idea behind string theory — or most of it.

"I tried," he says at the end.

In another Nova episode, he lays out a lofty standard for success — that "I will, by the end of my career, have done something of value for our species."

Science, he said, is the foundation for the technology that improves our lives, and could ultimately save us from [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) or other perils.

