For Eric Lay, a good pushup is more important than a great fastball.

He wants to know, can kids do a pushup without wobbling?

Are they able to touch their toes?

Pull up to their chin?

Can they move back and forth?

Trainers, like Lay, want kids to move correctly and safely.

It's all part of a growing push to get schools, parents, coaches and kids back to basics.

Youth sports, like soccer or baseball, are fine.

But trainers want kids to concentrate more on simple exercises.

If it sounds like gym class, it is.

The simple movements — skipping, twisting, jumping, stopping and starting — are the building blocks of high-performing athletes.

They also encourage lifelong fitness, said Larry Meadors.

He is a former national high school strength coach.

But for some reason, people are forgetting how to do these movements correctly, Meadors said.

"We all learned the alphabet," he said.

"And as we learned the alphabet we learned how to put two letters (together) and then three and then four to form words.

And pretty soon we had a word, a sentence, a paragraph, a chapter, a book.

And you should apply the same things for athletics."

Youth athletics has become a huge business.

There are many well-meaning, but poorly trained coaches.

Their teams play a lot of games and they are under pressure to win.

Many coaches don't have time to do much beyond a few skill drills with their teams.

Lay does not always see proper movement, especially from kids who play one sport year-round, like soccer or baseball.

Often he'll see kids using one arm or leg more than the other.

That comes from things like kicking with one leg in soccer.

This also can lead to injuries, because the kids do the same movements over and over again.

"Parents want their kids to be physically active," Lay said.

"So a lot of people think, if my kid is in a sport, that takes care of it."

Lay is the head coach at a school in St. Louis.

Sport skills are great, he said.

But kids also have to know how to move properly.

Meadors runs a training program in Minnesota.

He said he's seen kids' movement skills get a lot worse.

He knows 16- and 17-year-olds with the same movement problems as 6-year-olds.

Part of it is due to fewer gym class in schools.

[People also are less active.

](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity)  Yet there are also problems in youth sports, he said.

Kids learn skills for a sport.

But they don't usually learn other skills that will help them play better.

Sports has become very big for very young children.

There is increased competition, nearly unlimited opportunities to play and pressure to compete in a single sport, year-round.

It has led to a rapid increase in injuries even before middle school.

Many kids simply don't know how to slow down and stop when running.

Others can't land a jump properly.

These are tied to poor training and not knowing how to move properly.

Nationwide, few kids are getting regular fitness training.

Very few schools provide daily gym classes.

Movement, lifelong health and being good in sports are connected.

More than 3.5 million kids under 15 are treated each year for sports injuries.

The numbers are increasing.

"There's something wrong about that," Meadors said.

