In a small office in Glendale, California, Ron Henderson was writing out equations.

Henderson is a physicist — a scientist who studies matter, energy, force and motion.

The equations were Isaac Newton's Three Laws of Motion.

Newton's laws, Henderson explained, are behind a computer program he has developed.

The program will soon help a group of artists with a difficult task: making realistic-looking three-dimensional bubbles.

Henderson could easily have been preparing a lesson at Caltech, where he once taught.

Instead, he was at DreamWorks Animation, where he now works.

Animated films — movie-length cartoons — used to be drawn entirely by hand.

Now artists produce them on a computer.

Artists working on the upcoming movie "Home" have a challenging job: They have to produce a lot of pictures of three-dimensional soap bubbles.

The bubbles are inhabited by tiny aliens called the Boov.

Henderson's computer program will make those bubbles look realistic.

"What we're doing here is creating tools for artists," Henderson said.

"I think it's going to be a success."

Before introducing his new tool, Henderson first had the artists study drawings and photos of soap bubbles.

Last year, he invited a fellow physicist, Alejandro Garcia, to give a talk.

The talk was titled "Bubble Science."

"He did cool things that we're not doing, like what happens when you make a soap bubble out of hydrogen and set it on fire?"

Henderson said, chuckling.

The bubble made a loud boom and burst into a fireball.

Henderson, 47, is one of a growing number of scientists who now work in the movie business.

Artists at DreamWorks, Pixar and other animation companies increasingly rely on people like Henderson.

The scientists help them produce realistic-looking water, fire, dust and so on.

"The physics behind what's happening in these movies is incredibly complicated," said computer scientist Paul Debevec.

"You need real scientists to understand what's going on."

DreamWorks has one of the largest groups of scientists, around 120 in all.

Nearly a dozen of them once worked at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.

DreamWorks has even hired biologists.

Biologists study living organisms like humans, plants and animals.

They are there to advise artists how to correctly draw such things as the branches of a tree.

Henderson finds working at DreamWorks very fulfilling.

"Science can be a very lonely activity," he said.

"I wanted to have the experience of working with people and being able to see the results of what I did."

Henderson first became interested in working in computer animation after seeing the movie "Shrek."

The film made him very curious: He wanted to know how it was possible to achieve what he saw.

"What astonished me was how much detail and motion there was in every frame, the motion of the trees, the grass," he said.

"I didn't think it was possible."

Now Henderson is working on animated movies himself.

Each has its own tricky effect: for example, the frost in "Rise of the Guardians," the cannon fire in "Kung Fu Panda 2" or the ice-breathing dragon in "How to Train Your Dragon 2."

His latest challenge was creating those bubbles in "Home."

They serve not only as homes, but also as spaceships for the aliens.

Making a picture of a bubble on a flat surface isn't too hard.

Wrapping that picture around a floating soccer-ball-like shape is a much trickier problem.

To solve that problem, Henderson drew on his knowledge of how bubbles behave.

What he came up with is based on a computer program used for studying weather patterns.

The fact that few moviegoers will appreciate his achievement doesn't bother Henderson.

The work is its own reward.

Henderson enjoys "doing something where you can clearly see the results of your work."

Figuring out new ways to help artists is a thrill for him, he said.

"That's what keeps me coming here every day."

