Professor James Gates has big ideas.

He also has a talent for expressing those ideas simply, but dramatically.

For example, this is what he says about making kids' science classes easier: It's like teaching them to dunk a basketball on a 9-foot-high hoop.

The problem is that the kids the next town over play with one 10 feet high.

Gates is a physicist — that is, he is a scientist who studies matter and energy.

He has colorful opinions not only about science teaching, but about his fellow scientists as well.

If scientists all think the same way, he says, you get nothing but classical music.

"When you let different people create different music, you get things like rock 'n' roll, jazz."

Gates teaches at the University of Maryland, College Park.

In his own work, he tries to turn complicated math into something more easily understandable.

In place of messy equations, Gates expresses complicated ideas with pictures.

Gates has been getting a lot of attention recently.

Part of this attention has been for his groundbreaking work in physics.

At the same time, he has been praised widely for his ability to explain complicated ideas better than anyone else.

Last year, Gates received a National Medal of Science from the National Science Foundation.

Last month, the Harvard Foundation named him Scientist of the Year.

He sits on the President's Council of Advisers on Science and Technology.

Gates is about as famous as a theoretical physicist can get.

In one popular video, he attempts to explain a complicated theory, called string theory, in 30 seconds.

These days, Gates is continuing his own work in physics.

At the same time, he is also making efforts to ensure young scientists can pick up where he leaves off.

"Most scientists, we get busy with our own work.

Not many take the time to spread it at a level that is" understandable for "the general public," said Professor Jogesh Pati.

"Jim has great strength in doing it.

Beautifully, he does it."

Gates' work is devoted to simplifying the complicated.

The 63-year-old's interest in physics was originally sparked by two things: a science fiction movie he saw as a small boy and a book on space travel his father brought home.

Before choosing to be a physicist, he nearly became an astronaut.

To make an important contribution, all scientists need to blaze a new path.

Gates, however, stands out for his ability to lead others along his path.

One of Gates' first important papers was "Superfield supergravity," published in 1979.

He worked on the paper with a fellow physicist, Warren Siegel.

Physicist Martin Rocek recalled that Siegel had some very original ideas before working with Gates.

However, "nobody understood them at all."

When Gates joined Siegel on the 1979 paper, he made those ideas much clearer.

Since then, the work has been used by others hundreds of times.

Gates came to College Park in 1984.

He has taught classes nearly every semester since.

Gates first learned of his fondness for teaching while he was still at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, one of the best schools for science and math in the country.

At that school, he tutored members of the Black Student Union.

Back then, many black students didn't feel comfortable asking teachers for help, Gates said.

"To me that was really exciting, to get that light to turn on in their eyes," Gates said.

Students who have taken Gates' classes say they are eye-opening.

This is thanks to his ability to explain the bigger picture.

These days, Gates has much more than his own students to think about.

In 2009, Gov.

Martin O'Malley chose him to help schoolchildren statewide.

He is partly responsible for deciding what Maryland public school science classes should teach.

Gates' powers of explanation have been put to other uses as well: They have helped him bring science to general audiences.

For example, he appeared on a "Nova" TV series called "The Secret Life of Scientists and Engineers."

On the show, he lays out in half a minute the idea behind string theory — or most of it.

"I tried," he says at the end.

In another Nova program, he laid out his goal for himself: Before he retires, he hopes to have done something of real value for people everywhere.

Science, Gates said, is responsible for the technology that improves our lives.

Ultimately, it is what may save us from [global warming](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) and other dangers.

