Texas physicist and art sleuth has figured out down to the exact minute when the Impressionism art movement was born.

By his calculations, it began Nov. 13, 1872, right around 7:35 a.m. local time.

That's the moment Claude Monet put brush to canvas to paint a hazy sunrise seen from his hotel room in Le Havre, France, according to Donald Olson.

He is a physicist at Texas State University, San Marcos.

Monet called the now famous work "Impression, Soleil Levant" (Impression, Sunrise).

Its title was later lent to the art movement of Impressionism — which is marked by a highly personal representation of ordinary scenes, executed with quick brush strokes in vivid hues.

They were especially interested in light and how objects look at different times of day.

Art historians have debated where and when Monet's work was painted.

Many have mistrusted the abbreviated date "72" that the artist brushed beside his name.

Others even insisted the skies streaked with orange show a sunset, rather than a sunrise.

Olson pored over hundreds of photographs and scores of historical maps of Le Havre, a port city on the Normandy coast.

He eventually determined the precise room that matched the artist's southeast-facing view.

Olson calls himself a "celestial sleuth."

EBay's French site proved to be a boon.

Scores of historical photos have been posted there, Olson said.

Those pictures helped him find the structures depicted in Monet's "Le Grand Quai," another piece painted from a balcony of the Hotel de L'Amiraute.

A bit of geometry and trigonometry led him to the precise position Monet likely occupied when painting.

Olson next calculated the sun's height from the horizon and its angle, which determined the time of year and time of day depicted in the painting.

He settled on late fall or early winter, at 7:30-8:30 a.m. local time.

(Greenwich Mean Time had not been adopted as a worldwide standard, but France's local times were within a minute of current measures, Olson said.

France has since changed the time zone of Le Havre to GMT plus 1 hour).

Fellow Texas State physicist Ed Piner offered the next breakthrough, Olson said.

The tall, multiple-masted ships painted by Monet could only have been in the distant outer harbor if the tides were high.

"That suggests you're looking at a high tide, near a rising sun in a certain azimuth," an arc on the horizon, Olson said.

But that only narrowed the possibilities to 19 dates, ranging from November 1872 to January 1873.

Much to Olson's surprise, a large source of 19th century daily weather observations in Le Havre harbor went online recently.

He matched the sky and weather conditions to six dates in that period, then narrowed them to two days when the observer noted easterly morning winds.

Smoke in Monet's painting drifts slightly from east to west.

On Nov. 15, 1872, at 7:35 a.m., the weather observer noted light winds from the southeast with mist, fog and calm seas.

"All of the times I was considering were between 7:30 and 8:30 a.m.," Olson said.

"So, on exactly the time of day I want to know about, we have a guy looking at the water and looking at the sky.

The guy was out there every day at 8 in the morning."

A weather report on Jan. 25, 1873, also matched conditions and other data.

However, Monet experts opted for the November date, since Monet dated his painting "72."

This was far from Olson's first bout of applying science to art.

He and his research team have linked the neon orange sky of Edvard Munch's "The Scream" with drifting gas and dust clouds from the 1883 Krakatoa volcanic eruption.

They also dated a Monet painting of a sunset near the cliffs on the Normandy coast as well as works by Vincent Van Gogh.

Olson also calculated the place where photographer Ansel Adams snapped his shutter to capture his famous autumn moon from Glacier Point in Yosemite National Park in California.

Olson organized a re-enactment of the shot in 2005.

Olson had puzzled over the sunrise over Le Havre for 15 or more years, putting it aside for other projects.

After publication in February of his work on another Monet painting, French curators urged Olson to re-examine his Le Havre sunrise picture.

They were planning an exhibition around it and wanted to know when it was painted.

The museum published a "biography" of the Monet work, co-written by Olson to go along with the exhibit.

It opens Sept. 18 at the Musee Marmottan Monet in Paris, France, and runs through Jan. 18, 2015.

