scientist has used math to figure out the moment the Impressionism art movement was born.

It began Nov. 13, 1872, right around 7:35 a.m. local time, he says.

Impressionism was a movement where artists used quick brush strokes and vivid colors.

They were supposed to capture the "impression" of what they were painting.

They didn't care if it looked realistic.

They were very interested in light and how objects looked at different times of the day.

Many people say that the first Impressionist painting was done by Claude Monet, a French artist.

He painted a hazy sunrise.

He called it "Impression, Soleil Levant."

The title is French and means "Impression, Sunrise."

Donald Olson studied the painting to find out when the Impressionism movement began.

Olson is a scientist at Texas State University, San Marcos.

He is also an art detective.

Art experts have argued where and when Monet's work was painted.

Others even say the orange skies show a sunset, rather than a sunrise.

Olson looked at hundreds of photos and maps of Le Havre, France.

Monet painted the picture from the balcony of his LeHavre hotel.

The city is a port (it has a harbor) in France.

Olson eventually figured out the exact room that matched the artist's view.

EBay's French site was very helpful.

Many historical photos have been posted there, Olson said.

Those pictures helped him find the buildings shown in another painting.

It is called Monet's "Le Grand Quai."

A bit of math led him to the closest position where Monet likely painted it.

Olson next figured out the sun's height from the horizon and its angle.

That information determined the time of year and time of day in the painting.

Olson determined it was painted in the late fall or early winter, at 7:30-8:30 a.m. Another Texas State scientist offered the next breakthrough, Olson said.

His name is Ed Piner.

In the painting's background are tall ships.

Piner figured they could only have been in the distant outer harbor if the tides were high and the water was deep.

"That suggests you're looking at a high tide, near a rising sun," Olson said.

Piner's breakthrough narrowed the possible dates to 19 days.

They ranged from November 1872 to January 1873.

Much to Olson's surprise, 19th century weather records of Le Havre harbor were put online recently.

These gave him his next clue.

Olson matched the sky and weather conditions to six of the dates.

Only two dates had winds blowing from the east.

Smoke in Monet's painting drifts from east to west.

On Nov. 15, 1872, at 7:35 a.m., the weather observer noted light winds from the southeast.

He described mist, fog and calm seas.

"All of the times I was considering were between 7:30 and 8:30 a.m.," Olson said.

"So, on exactly the time of day I want to know about, we have a guy looking at the water and looking at the sky.

The guy was out there every day at 8 in the morning."

A weather report on Jan. 25, 1873, also matched.

However, Monet experts chose the November date.

The artist had put the number "72" in the painting.

This was not the first time Olson combined science and art.

He and his research team examined another famous Impressionist's painting.

The piece was Edvard Munch's "The Scream."

They thought the painting's intense orange sky was from the Krakatoa volcano.

The volcano is in Indonesia.

It erupted in 1883.

For about a year afterward, the ash and gases from the eruption caused brightly colored sunsets.

Olson also discovered where photographer Ansel Adams took a picture of the moon from California's Yosemite National Park.

Olson had puzzled over Monet's sunrise for at least 15 years.

In February, he published his research on the other Monet painting.

French museum officials asked Olson to take another look at Monet's sunrise picture.

They were planning an exhibit of the painting.

They wanted to know when it was painted.

The museum published a book about the Monet work to go along with its exhibit, which will open Sept. 18.

The exhibit will be at the Musee Marmottan Monet in Paris, France.

