The piano industry is picking up, after years of decline.

Bob Frazier knows this and last August, he opened a second piano store.

Many people called the move crazy and told him the piano industry was dying.

Kids are not interested in pianos anymore, they said; houses are too small for pianos and electronic keyboards are taking over.

He wanted to prove them all wrong.

Frazier is the fast-talking, chipper sales manager of Heavenly Pianos in Arlington Heights, Illinois.

He and the store's owners have expanded to the nearby town of Winnetka.

Nearly a year later, the new store is running smoothly.

The store has sold a lot of pianos and the industry is on an upswing, Frazier said.

Many families know the value and benefits of music, he added, so the piano will survive and thrive.

Pianos have seen a comeback as the economy improves and more people buy homes.

An economy's health is tied to the amount of business activity in a country and whether jobs are lost or created.

Sales of pianos went up 4.3 percent last year, after falling three years in a row.

Piano sales go up when home sales go up, said Larry Morton.

He is president of Hal Leonard, a publisher of sheet music.

Buying a piano is like buying furniture, he said.

It is part of the experience of having a house.

Piano sales hit their lowest point in 2009, during the economic recession that saw the stock market take a dive and businesses suffer.

As a result, people lost jobs and homes — and stopped buying as many pianos.

Sales of pianos have not recovered to where they were before the recession, but piano dealers and tuners are encouraged.

The recession caused sales to drop, but there is still value in the industry, Frazier said.

The piano industry is not dying, just changing, said Dennis Saphir.

He's the former owner of Kurt Saphir Pianos, but he recently switched to selling online.

He said there is an excess of used and digital pianos flooding the market, and that has cut into new piano sales.

Digital pianos sold much better than traditional, acoustic pianos last year.

Sites like eBay and Craigslist have made buying the instruments cheap and easy.

Nearly 1,000 used pianos of all kinds are listed for sale on Craigslist Chicago.

Saphir closed his last showroom in April in favor of an online marketplace.

He's the seventh-generation owner of the family business, which started in Vienna, Austria, in the early 1800s.

Saphir fought to keep the business going after the 2008 economic recession and gradually cut back from five showrooms to none.

The website of the "New Kurt Saphir Pianos" boasts of taking the worry out of buying a used piano.

Saphir does appraisals, evaluations, tunings and repairs; he also lists pianos other people are selling.

Customers can shop for pianos from the comfort of home; there are now 22 pianos for sale on the site.

Just because fewer pianos sell doesn't mean people are not interested in music, Saphir said.

Parents are still signing up their children for lessons, and adults still buy sheet music to play.

The industry has to figure out a place for the piano in people's homes.

Today's parents feel they have to introduce their children to music, but they don't really want to deal with buying a new piano, he said.

Music teacher Holly Kennedy, who lives in the Chicago area, said more of her clients want to learn piano than any other instrument.

She has been teaching for 16 years to students from age 4 to 60.

There has been a new growth in interest in the piano, especially among adults, said Kennedy.

Many people played piano as children.

Now that they have time and money, they want to take it up as a hobby, she said.

Thomas Zoells grew up in Switzerland and developed an obsession with the piano in childhood.

He has never grown out of it and is known as one of Chicago's most passionate piano advocates.

He opened his shop, PianoForte, and began selling expensive pianos in 2004.

He struggled for years to make money because he started at a very bad time for the economy, just before the recession hit in 2008.

He opened with only four pianos and a desk in one room, then discovered he needed a better plan.

Ten years later, he has a shop with three floors dedicated to the piano, where music of all kinds plays.

Zoells sells pianos with price tags as high as $100,000.

Business has been steady and rebounded in the last three months, he said.

He has faith that people will keep falling in love with the piano.

"There's a lot of reasons to be negative," Zoells said.

"But we do this because we think we can somehow turn the ship around.

I think we already are."

