After years of decline, the piano industry might be on the upswing.

In August, Bob Frazier's company made a move that many people called crazy: It opened a second piano store.

The industry is dying, he was told.

Kids don't have the time or the interest.

Shops are folding.

Houses are too small.

Electronic keyboards are taking over.

He was bent on proving them wrong.

Frazier, the fast-talking, ever-chipper sales manager, along with owners Mark Stanielun and Dan Kastenmeier expanded Heavenly Pianos from Arlington Heights, Illinois, to Winnetka's Hubbard Woods Business District.

Nearly a year later, he said, the new store is running smoothly.

"There's enough families that know the value and benefits of music," Frazier said.

"We have actually sold a lot of pianos.

The industry is on an upswing.

I have no doubt at all that the piano will survive and thrive."

As the housing and stock markets have improved, pianos have experienced a revival.

The industry grew 4.3 percent and sold more than 37,200 new acoustic pianos last year in the United States, reversing a three-year trend of atrophy, according to the April 2015 Music Trades report.

The best year for new piano sales in the U.S. was 1909, when more than 364,500 were sold.

In 2005, that number was 95,000, dropping to 33,000 at the height of the recession in 2009, the report said.

More disposable income has made the uptick in sales possible.

Larry Morton, president of Hal Leonard Corp., an educational music print publisher, noted that the sale of new pianos is directly tied to real estate.

As housing becomes available and affordable, new homeowners are more likely to buy big-ticket items.

"The sales of new acoustic pianos, particularly grand pianos, have always been driven by people buying new homes," he said.

"It's part of the experience of having a house, not unlike buying furniture, in some ways."

Though sales are still well below pre-recession levels, local dealers and tuners find the growth encouraging.

"If you perceive the glass as half empty, then that's what it will be," Frazier said.

"The 2008 recession caused a dip in sales, but it wasn't a free fall.

There is still value in this."

The piano industry is not dying, just changing, said Dennis Saphir, former owner of Kurt Saphir Pianos, who recently switched to an online model.

He pointed to the glut of used and digital pianos flooding the market, which has cannibalized new piano sales.

"The business climate has certainly changed," Saphir said.

"There was a time when you could make a market strategy and basically see it through for an entire year.

You can't do that anymore."

Digital piano sales inched up 3.7 percent last year, with 135,257 units sold — nearly 100,000 more than acoustic pianos, according to the Music Trades report.

The use of eBay and Craigslist has also made buying the instruments cheap and easy, forcing traditional piano stores to switch strategies.

Nearly a thousand used pianos are listed for sale on Craigslist Chicago, ranging from an upright piano dating from the 1930s for free to a Yamaha baby grand listed for $10,999.

Saphir shuttered his last showroom in April in favor of an online marketplace.

The seventh generation owner of the family business — which started in Vienna, Austria, in the early 1800s — struggled to keep the business afloat after the 2008 economic recession.

Five showrooms were gradually pared down to none.

The website of the "New Kurt Saphir Piano" boasts of taking the worry out of buying a used piano.

Saphir does appraisals, evaluations, tunings and repairs, as well as being a middleman and listing instruments other people are selling on his website.

Customers can peruse the pianos — there are currently 22 on the site — from the comfort of their own home.

"The industry is faced with figuring out where music lies in homes and getting that right," Saphir said.

"There is a tendency for today's generation to feel obligated to introduce their kids to music, but parents don't necessarily want the commitment of a new piano."

The decrease in sales in past years does not correlate with waning interest, Saphir said.

If anything, public interest in the instrument has grown.

Parents enroll their youngsters in lessons, while adults pick up sheet music to fulfill long-held dreams of playing.

Morton said sales of Hal Leonard's level one instruction books have increased consistently from 3 to 8 percent each year over the past five years.

The publishing company serves 7,500 music stores across the nation.

"There's this dichotomy: How can instructional materials go up while piano sales are going down?"

Morton said from Milwaukee, where the company is headquartered.

"The demand is still there, but people are using different kinds of pianos: more used and digital, less brand-new.

But the outlook is definitely getting brighter for everyone."

Music instructor Holly Kennedy, 45, who lives in the Chicago area, said more of her clients want to learn piano than any other instrument.

She has been teaching piano to students, ranging in age from 4 to 60, for 16 years.

"There seems to have been a resurgence in interest," she said.

"Especially with adults.

More people wish they had played piano as a child, and they're finally coming at it from the other end.

They have more time and money to put into the hobby."

Thomas Zoells, who grew up in Switzerland, developed an obsession with the piano in childhood and has never grown out of it.

He is widely regarded as one of Chicago's most passionate piano advocates.

He opened his shop, PianoForte, in a room of the Fine Arts Building and began selling high-end pianos in 2004, shortly before the economic recession.

He struggled for years to turn a profit.

"I started in the business at the worst possible time," he said, laughing at the impossibility of it.

"I was rather naive.

I literally opened up a business with four pianos and a desk in the back of the room.

I learned I needed a better plan."

More than 10 years later, PianoForte is now an 11,700-square-foot, three-floor space.

The building has been fashioned as a "kind of shrine" to the piano, albeit one designed to rumble continuously with sounds of classical jazz, blues, boogie and just about anything else 88 keys can express.

On the first-floor showroom, Zoells sells Faziolis, imported from Italy with a hefty price tag of $100,000.

The for-profit business underwrites the not-for-profit PianoForte Foundation, which presents concerts, broadcasts, lectures, film screenings and funds scholarships.

Business has been steady, Zoells said.

"The interest is pretty high," he said.

"There has been a rebound in the last few months in the piano industry, and we have been staying busy.

There's a very physical experience in playing piano and making music.

This is a center for people who are interested in all things piano."

Zoells said he has faith that people will continue falling in love with the piano.

"There's a lot of reasons to be negative," Zoells said.

"But we do this because we think we can somehow turn the ship around.

I think we already are."

