People are buying pianos again.

Sales had gone down for years, but they are coming back.

Bob Frazier wanted to open a second piano store, but people told him it was a crazy idea.

The economy was not doing well.

An economy is made up of all the things a country makes and sells.

People also told him the piano business was dying.

Youngsters are not interested in playing piano, they said.

They told him electronic keyboards are more popular than traditional, acoustic pianos.

And they said houses today are too small for pianos.

Frazier wanted to prove them wrong.

He opened the store anyway.

A year later, the piano business is picking up, Frazier said.

Many families know the benefits of music, so the piano will survive and thrive, he said.

Piano sales had gone down for the last three years.

Now they are going up.

It's because the economy is getting better and more people are buying houses.

Piano sales and house sales go together, said Larry Morton.

He is president of a company that sells music books.

People buy pianos for their houses like they buy other furniture, he said.

Piano sales went down after the economy fell into a recession in 2008.

In a recession, businesses lose money and many people are unemployed.

Many families lost their homes in the recession.

Sales are not back to where they were before the recession.

But sales people and those who  tune pianos are hopeful.

Piano sales are changing, said Dennis Saphir.

He used to own his own piano store.

He said there are too many used pianos and electronic keyboards on sale.

That cuts into sales of new pianos.

Saphir closed his last store in April and switched to selling pianos online.

His family has sold pianos since the 1800s.

He tried to keep it going, but he had to close his five shops one by one.

His website says it takes the worry out of buying a used piano.

Saphir checks out, tunes and repairs them.

He also lists pianos other people are selling.

People are still interested in music, Saphir said.

Parents still sign up their children for lessons.

Adults still buy sheet music to play, too.

Parents want their children to learn music, Saphir said — they just do not want to buy a new piano.

Holly Kennedy said more of her students want to learn piano than any other instrument.

She has been a music teacher in Chicago for 16 years.

Her students' ages run from age 4 to 60.

Kennedy says many adults studied piano as children.

Then they stopped.

Now, they want to learn again as a hobby.

Thomas Zoells fell in love with the piano as a kid.

He has never grown out of it.

Zoells opened his piano shop in 2004.

He opened at a bad time, just before the recession started.

He fought for years to make money.

The store opened in one room with four pianos.

Today, it has three floors.

Business has been getting better in the last three months, Zoells said.

He thinks people will keep falling in love with the piano.

He said it looks like things are already getting better.

