Lots of kids do not like eating certain foods.

It is a problem many parents have to deal with.

There has not been a lot of research focused on picky eating.

For a long time, people thought all picky eating habits were the same.

Now a new study says different kids might have different reasons for being picky eaters.

Eating habits can be brought on by different kinds of behaviors.

Knowing which type of picky eater a child is may help parents learn ways to change the behavior.

Scientists decided to study a large group of kids.

They were between 2 and 4 years old.

Half of them were choosy about what they liked to eat.

The other half were not picky.

The parents fed the family special meals designed by the scientists.

They observed and recorded their children's behavior around mealtimes.

Kids who were not picky ate more and did not make a fuss about eating.

Picky kids acted differently before and during meals.

Some of them refused to even come to the table.

Others seemed suspicious of certain foods.

A few kids even cringed and gagged.

Sharon M. Donovan is a professor at the University of Illinois.

She led the group that was working on the study.

Her team talked to parents after observing their children.

They saw four different types of behavior that could be called picky eating.

Not everyone likes to eat the same food.

For some kids, a food like broccoli tastes more bitter than it does to another child.

It is impossible to change that.

There are always going to be foods some children just do not like eating.

Some children do not want to eat certain food for other reasons.

It may not have anything to do with how something tastes.

It may have to do with something else entirely.

A child may be upset because mealtime takes place at the same time she is playing a game.

So she gets angry and refuses to eat.

Lots of children are picky eaters.

Donovan says that up to half of all kids under age 2 do not like eating some foods.

Parents can play a big part in making sure this behavior does not go on too long.

The scientists might not know how to treat each kind of picky eater.

But it does not mean their study is not useful.

The scientists think it will help parents to recognize that kids may be unhappy at mealtime, but it will probably go away.

The scientists say parents should not push their kids to change their behavior every time they sit down for dinner, because picky eating stops for most kids by the time they are age 5.

More studies are needed before picky eating is fully understood.

For now experts have some advice to help parents feed their kids.

For a child who does not like mixed foods, explain to him or her what each type of food is on the plate the first time it is served.

Accept that all children have their own tastes but serve foods they don't like along with their favorites.

Don't force your child to eat something new but encourage him or her to take a taste.

Most of all, keep trying, Donovan says.

Children may need to be served a food they do not like 10 times before they accept it.

Parents often give up before then.

Some picky eaters might not like food because of the way it feels or how it smells.

They might describe it as yucky or slimy.

Other kids try to avoid new or mixed foods.

Some kids do not want their foods to touch one another.

There are even some kids who will not eat anything at all because they are angry about something else.

