The Secret Service is supposed to protect the president, his family and visiting foreign leaders.

The agency's leader left her job on Wednesday.

President Barack Obama was no longer confident in her work abilities.

Julia A. Pierson was named the head of the Secret Service just 18 months ago.

She was the first woman to lead the agency.

Pierson decided to quit her Secret Service job after two serious events.

Both could have put the president's life in danger.

In both cases, the Secret Service performed their duties poorly.

The more serious event occurred on Sept. 19.

On that day, an ex-U.S. Army soldier named Omar Gonzalez ran into the White House with a knife in his pocket.

Gonzalez climbed over the north fence of the White House at 7:19 p.m.

He sprinted across the lawn without anyone trying to stop him.

Then he went into the White House and through two doors.

Gonzalez knocked over an agent stationed past the second door.

He then wrestled with guards who chased him into the East Room.

He was finally stopped outside the Green Room.

Obama had left the White House only moments before Gonzalez showed up.

The other event occurred on Sept. 16.

A man with a gun rode in an elevator with Obama.

He was not supposed to be carrying a weapon near the president.

The Secret Service should have taken the gun from him.

The gun was discovered only after the man began acting oddly.

It later turned out he had been arrested many times.

He actually had been arrested for attacking people.

The man may not have planned to harm Obama.

He worked as guard elsewhere, and was allowed to carry a gun.

It was still a serious mistake to let him get near the president with a weapon.

On Tuesday, Congress called Pierson in to explain how things had gone so wrong.

Her answers did not make anyone feel better.

Soon, there were calls for her to quit.

Obama quickly agreed she should leave the job.

Pierson said it was difficult for her to quit.

Still, she said, leaving was "the noble thing to do."

The Secret Service had serious problems even before Pierson became its leader.

In fact, she was named to lead the agency because of earlier problems.

For example, in 2011, a man was able to shoot at the White House.

In 2009, an uninvited couple attended a fancy dinner there.

But what happened on Sept. 19 was worse.

Pierson was unable to explain the Secret Service's failures that day.

She could give no good reason why Gonzalez was not stopped before he entered the White House.

She also could not explain why Secret Service agents had lied.

For more than a week, they did not admit how far Gonzalez had gone into the White House.

At first, the agency also said Gonzalez was unarmed.

In fact, he had a knife in his pocket.

Investigators also found many bullets in Gonzalez's car.

The vehicle was parked near the White House.

After his arrest, Gonzalez told agents that he was worried that the Earth was in danger.

He said he needed to get the information to the president.

Gonzalez is being charged with entering an off-limits building while carrying a deadly weapon.

He could spend as many as 16 years in prison if he is convicted.

