The Secret Service is in charge of protecting the president, his family and visiting foreign leaders.

Julia A. Pierson, its director, resigned on Wednesday.

President Barack Obama had lost confidence in her abilities.

Pierson stepped down following two mishandled incidents.

Both could have put the president's life in danger, and in both cases the Secret Service performed poorly.

The more serious was a Sept. 19 incident in which a U.S. Army veteran ran into the White House with a knife in his pocket.

Pierson was named director just 18 months ago.

A 30-year veteran of the Secret Service, she was the first woman to head the elite force.

Pierson's repeated stumbles during a congressional hearing this Tuesday led to growing calls for her resignation.

Obama quickly agreed.

"Over the last several days, we've seen recent and accumulating reports raising questions about the performance of the agency," White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.

"The president concluded that new leadership of that agency was required."

The other possible threat to the president occurred on Sept. 16.

A private security guard armed with a pistol rode in an elevator with Obama while he was visiting Atlanta.

The incident violated agency rules over who can carry a weapon near the president.

The gun was discovered only after agents noticed the guard was acting oddly.

Officials said they subsequently discovered the guard had a criminal record, and had been arrested for assault many times.

Following Pierson's resignation, Joseph Clancy was appointed acting director of the Secret Service.

Clancy headed the Secret Service's presidential protective unit before retiring in 2011.

Alejandro Mayorkas has been appointed to conduct the Secret Service's own investigation of the Gonzalez incident.

In addition, a panel of outside experts will be put together to recommend improvements to Secret Service operations.

The House of Representatives Judiciary Committee will also hold hearings into the Secret Service next month.

Pierson said it was painful to quit while the Secret Service was "reeling."

Leaving, Pierson said, was "the noble thing to do."

She had decided to resign after meeting with Johnson.

The two agreed "we were at the point where it was going to be hard for the department and president to have confidence in the Secret Service leadership if I didn't step down."

Several senior Democrats joined Republicans in saying the next director should come from outside the agency.

To bring about needed reforms, Democratic Congressman Bernie Thompson said, "the Secret Service needs a seasoned law enforcement professional."

It should be someone "who is not a product of the Secret Service."

Pierson's departure won't end congressional scrutiny of the agency, several lawmakers said.

The Secret Service had serious problems even before Pierson became director, said Republican Congressman Darrell Issa.

"Her resignation certainly does not resolve them."

Pierson had been appointed in the wake of a 2012 incident in which a dozen agents allegedly hired prostitutes in Colombia while preparing for a presidential trip.

Two other agency failures also led to her appointment.

The first was a 2011 shooting attack on the White House to which agents failed to respond.

The second was a 2009 incident in which an uninvited couple attended a state dinner at the White House.

The latest uninvited visitor was Omar Gonzalez, 42.

According to court papers, Gonzalez climbed over the north fence of the White House at 7:19 p.m.

He sprinted across the lawn without anyone attempting to stop him, then opened a glass door and a wooden door in the North Portico.

He then allegedly knocked over an agent inside the door and wrestled with guards who chased him into the East Room.

He was finally subdued outside the Green Room.

Obama had taken off in Marine One, the presidential helicopter, moments earlier.

During her questioning by Congress on Tuesday, Pierson struggled to explain what had happened on Sept. 19.

She could give no good reason why agents failed to stop Gonzalez before he entered the White House.

She also had trouble explaining why the agency did not admit for more than a week that Gonzalez had forced his way deep inside before he was tackled.

Lawmakers from both parties criticized her and the agency for giving misleading or inaccurate information about the incident.

Her support quickly evaporated.

Secret Service officials initially said Gonzalez was unarmed.

In fact, he carried a black folding knife in his pocket, the agency later admitted.

Investigators also found hundreds of rounds of ammunition for shotguns, pistols and rifles in his car.

The vehicle was parked near the White House.

After his arrest, Gonzalez told agents that "he was concerned the atmosphere was collapsed" and that he needed to get the information to Obama.

Gonzalez faces a federal charge of entering a restricted building while carrying a deadly weapon, along with other charges connected to the ammunition in his car.

If convicted, he could face 16 years in prison.

