The Secret Service is supposed to protect the president, his family and visiting foreign leaders.

Its leader resigned on Wednesday following a series of agency failures.

President Barack Obama had lost confidence in her ability.

Julia A. Pierson was named head of the Secret Service just 18 months ago and was the first woman to lead the elite force.

Pierson stepped down following two serious events.

Both could have put the president's life in danger, and in both cases, the Secret Service performed poorly.

The more serious event occurred on Sept. 19 when an ex-soldier named Omar Gonzalez ran into the White House armed with a knife in his pocket.

At 7:19 p.m. that day, Gonzalez climbed over the north fence of the White House.

He sprinted across the lawn without anyone trying to stop him.

Then he went through two doors and got into the White House.

Gonzalez knocked over an agent stationed just past the second door.

He then wrestled with guards who chased him into the East Room.

He was finally stopped outside the Green Room.

Obama had taken off in his helicopter only moments earlier.

The other event that led to Pierson's resignation occurred on Sept. 16.

A man armed with a pistol rode in an elevator with Obama.

He was not supposed to be carrying a weapon near the president.

The Secret Service should have taken his gun from him before he was allowed to get near the president.

The gun was discovered only after the man began acting oddly.

It later turned out he had been arrested many times, including for attacking people.

The man may not have planned to attack Obama.

He worked as guard elsewhere, and was allowed to carry a gun for his job.

Still, it was a serious mistake to let him get near the president with the gun still on him.

On Tuesday, Pierson was called to speak to Congress and explain what had happened.

Her answers did not satisfy her questioners, or anyone else.

Soon, there were more people urging her to resign, and Obama quickly agreed she had to go.

Pierson said it was hard for her to quit at such a difficult time for the Secret Service.

Still, she said, leaving was "the noble thing to do."

The Secret Service had serious problems even before Pierson became its leader.

In fact, she was named as its director because of earlier problems.

For example, in 2011 a man was able to shoot at the White House.

In 2009, an uninvited couple went to a fancy state dinner at the White House.

Still, what took place on Sept. 19 was worse than what had happened before.

During her questioning by Congress, Pierson struggled to explain the agency's failures.

She could give no good reason why agents did not stop Gonzalez before he entered the White House.

She also had trouble explaining why Secret Service agents had not told the truth at first.

For more than a week, they did not admit that Gonzalez had forced his way deep inside the White House.

The Secret Service also at first said Gonzalez was unarmed.

In fact, he carried a black folding knife in his pocket.

Investigators also found hundreds of rounds of ammunition for shotguns, pistols and rifles in Gonzalez's car.

The vehicle was parked near the White House.

After his arrest, Gonzalez told agents that he was worried about the future of Earth.

He said he needed to get the information to Obama.

Gonzalez is being charged with entering an off-limits building while carrying a deadly weapon.

If he is found guilty, he could spend up to 16 years in prison.

