The pig farmer was not happy.

The man stood in front of barns holding more than 500 pigs.

He said he's been losing money.

The price of pork keeps falling.

But the costs of feed and other supplies are going up.

Some of his pigs started dying early this year.

There were temperature swings and rains.

He had no choice but to throw them out.

Before, farmers in the area would have sold them to dealers.

The dealers bought dead pigs, even ones with diseases.

The dealers sold them again for people to eat.

This was illegal.

So late last year, the government began cracking down.

"We had no place to put them.

We can't sell them anymore.

If we do we will be punished," said Wang, 43.

"So there's nothing we could do but dump them secretly."

The results were sickening.

More than 14,000 dead pigs were found floating in the Huangpu River in March.

The pigs were rotting in the water.

The Huangpu River is a major source of drinking water for Shanghai.

Twenty million people live in Shanghai.

Last week, a group of tall, slim models could be seen before a fashion show in Shanghai.

But upriver it was different.

That's where the pig farming communities outside Shanghai are.

The challenges that come with China's fast growth are harder to ignore there.

Donghui is a village near Shanghai.

Farmers there said they needed more money and information.

Locals say the decision to sell dead pigs to shady dealers was easy.

They knew it could mean dangerous meat making its way to the dinner table.

But they took the risk anyway.

They are always worried about going broke.

China has had problems with food safety.

The arrest of illegal meat dealers was one effort to stop the problem.

But soon another problem formed.

Farmers without many options were left with a lot of dead pigs.

Zhulin is another village farther from Shanghai.

State media has named it a trouble spot for pig deaths.

One farmer there complained, "When there's disease we don't understand what's going on, and they (officials) don't tell us which vaccines to use."

The man had pulled up on a black scooter in front of a small livestock dumping station.

The station was an open-air space with a slanted roof.

It was slapped together by the government, according to the farmer.

But it was built only after public anger about the dead pigs.

When pigs began showing up in the river, the public questioned the official explanations.

China's chief veterinarian said, "Water in the Huangpu River, where a great number of dead pigs were found, meets national standards for drinking water."

One blogger wrote, "I suggest the leaders fill a bowl with that water, and finish it."

Many people agreed.

China's government-controlled press tried to pass the blame.

Pan Huimin is a former dead-pig trader from Zhulin.

He was interviewed on state television.

Pan said that all of the dead pigs showing up were "100 percent" linked to the pressure on him and other traders.

But it wasn't clear how Pan could know.

He had been in jail before the floating pigs came to light.

In Zhulin, Pan's relatives had a reason for why he'd gotten mixed up in that line of work.

His wife, Hang Yaqin, lifted her T-shirt.

She unwrapped a bandage and pointed to a tube.

She said she'd gotten a kidney transplant in December 2010.

Hang said the new organ didn't cure her.

Lots of expensive medicine followed.

The family had to borrow lots of money.

There was simply nothing else to do, she said.

"We just didn't have the money," said Hang, 45.

"If we had the money, who would ever get into this sort of business?"

