At Chicago's main animal shelter, a pit bull mix wags his tail and licks a visitor's hand through iron bars, eager to find a friend.

In the next cage, a pit bull snarls and bares his teeth at passing strangers.

Across the aisle, another pit bull barks continuously.

Pit bulls make up 40 percent of the dogs that come into Chicago Animal Care and Control -- and about two-thirds of the dogs that get euthanized, or put to sleep, if they can't be adopted.

They are flooding local shelters.

Animal advocates are trying desperate measures to address the problem.

The problem is simple, advocates say.

People keep breeding pit bulls for money, and owners can't or won't handle them, so they end up as one of the most commonly abused, neglected and euthanized pets.

Pit bulls have been both glorified and victimized by their reputation.

They're not a breed but a general term for a group of dogs including American pit bull terriers, American Staffordshire terriers, Staffordshire bull terriers and various mixes.

They're known for their powerful builds, and large, broad heads and jaws.

Some love them for their sweetness and loyalty, but others fear them after much-publicized vicious attacks.

Their growing numbers at shelters have run counter to what otherwise has been a great success in animal care in recent decades.

The number of impounded and euthanized pets has declined, due primarily to sterilizations and adoptions.

In Chicago, the number of animals put down each year dropped by more than half from 2006 through last year, to about 8,000.

The number of pit bulls impounded, however, went steadily up from 2010 to 2012.

The number of pit bulls being euthanized has also been increasing.

The dogs' fate ultimately depends on how they are treated by humans — but just what to do is a point of controversy.

For those looking to own a pet, pit bulls are seemingly everywhere.

They're for sale on eBay for up to $1,000 each, at pet stores, in parking lots and even on ice, during breaks at Chicago Wolves hockey games.

On a typical day recently, Chicago's animal control website showed 41 dogs up for adoption.

Twenty-eight of them were pit bulls.

Part of the reason for the rising tide of pit bulls is their increase in popularity.

But pit bulls appear to end up in shelters far out of proportion to their numbers.

No pit bull breed was among the top 50 most popular breeds listed by the American Kennel Club last year.

In Chicago, pit bull mixes account by far for the most reported dog bites, leading some owners to give up the dogs.

In other cases, owners say they lost their home or lost a job and can't afford them.

The most common reason owners give for giving up dogs is that landlords didn't allow them, according to the American Humane Association.

Pit bulls are not welcome in many apartments or under some insurance policies.

Sgt.

Mark George, head of the Chicago police animal crimes unit, said dogfighting is not as much of a problem as it was in 2007, when NFL star Michael Vick was sentenced to prison for it.

But it still goes on.

Some people get the dogs for protection in crime-ridden neighborhoods, he said, while gangbangers often own pit bulls as a status symbol.

Investigators run into the dogs when they search for drugs or guns.

Susan Elliot runs the animal control department for a town in Illinois.

She says the breed is popular both with "thugs" who often mistreat them and with rescuers who fall in love with them.

About half the dogs the shelter gets are strays; others are surrendered by their owners.

"The problem is, people don't want them after they're a year old," Elliot said.

She said they're not as cute then, and people find that taking care of dogs is a lot of work.

They get lazy and they complain the dog has too much energy.

"They're wonderful dogs in the right hands," she said.

