Kids love pizza, but pizza doesn't love them back.

Instead, a new study shows, it's making them fat.

On days when children eat pizza, they take in an average of 408 calories more than when they eat their regular diet, the new study found.

Calories measure how much energy a food or drink provides.

If a person eats more calories than they use up, the extra energy is stored as fat.

Pizza-eating children also take in an extra 3 grams of fat and 134 additional milligrams of salt.

For teens, putting pizza on the day's menu adds 624 calories, 5 grams of fat and 484 milligrams of salt.

The study looked at the role pizza plays in the childhood obesity crisis.

Obesity is being overweight to the point that it can lead to health problems, like heart disease and diabetes.

The study looked at pizza because so many kids eat it.

On any day, 1 in 5 kids between the ages of 6 and 19 eat pizza.

That compares to about 1 in 10 Americans overall.

The only foods more popular with kids are desserts such as cakes, cookies and doughnuts.

Health researcher Lisa Powell and her coworkers used a national survey to figure out how pizza affects children's diets.

Participants in the survey listed all the foods and drinks they consumed in the previous 24 hours.

Overall, pizza makes up about 5 percent of children's daily calories and 7 percent of teens' daily calories.

But on days when young children eat pizza, it makes up a fifth of their calories that day, researchers found.

It makes up a quarter of teens' calories on pizza days.

The survey was conducted in 2009-2010.

Though the numbers are high, they were even worse in 2003 and 2004.

Both younger children and teens ate more pizza in 2003 and 2004 than they do now.

The biggest drop since 2003 and 2004 was in younger children who are white or African-American.

That decline brings them closer to the amount of pizza Latino children eat.

Kids also ate a small amount of pizza for breakfast or as snacks.

The snack pizza was particularly troubling to the researchers.

On days when children snacked on pizza, they ate 202 more calories over the course of the day compared with days when they didn't.

For teens, pizza snacks added 365 calories to the daily total.

Powell and her co-workers stopped short of declaring a war on pizza.

They did say, though, that its effect on kids' diet was similar to that of sugary drinks.

Doctors should talk to overweight children about pizza, they wrote.

