About 1,500 years ago, a disease called the Justinian Plague killed up to 50 million people from Asia to Africa to Europe.

Experts say the type of bacteria that caused the disease — a different strain from the one that caused the Black Death and later plague outbreaks — can no longer be found.

We will likely never see it again, said the authors of a recent study published in the medical journal Lancet Infectious Diseases.

But they say the missing strain of bacteria provides a lesson.

History shows that a strain of plague could jump from rodents to humans, kill millions for two centuries, and then mysteriously disappear.

New and equally deadly infectious agents could appear just as mysteriously, they wrote.

"Fortunately, we now have antibiotics that could effectively be used to treat plague," said study co-author Dave Wagner of Northern Arizona University.

That, he says, lessens the chances of another worldwide outbreak.

The symptoms that overtook victims of the Justinian Plague were similar to those of the Black Plague, which struck 800 years later and killed up to 200 million people.

But did the same strain of bacteria cause both diseases?

That's the question an international team of researchers set out to answer.

They first extracted DNA fragments from the teeth of two plague victims who were buried in Bavaria, Germany, around the time of the Justinian Plague outbreak.

Next, they reconstructed the genetic material of the germ that killed both victims.

Finally, they compared its genetic makeup with those of more than 100 strains of bacteria from the same family.

Those bacteria strains are currently found in animals and humans throughout the world.

The research team found the germ that caused the Justinian Plague is a member of the bacterial family Yersinia pestis.

The Black Plague sprang from Y. pestis 800 years later.

But the genetic fingerprint of the Black Plague is distinct from the Justinian Plague.

Researchers concluded it is highly unlikely that they are related.

It's also unlikely that one of the Justinian strains evolved into the strains that caused the Black Death.

Among the most distinct differences between the two: the strain's ability to spread, replicate and kill its hosts.

The Justinian Plague strain appeared to have been even deadlier to its victims than the Y. pestis strain that re-emerged during the Black Plague outbreak.

What became of that early strain of Y. pestis after it killed so many?

For now, the authors can only guess that either human populations evolved to become less affected by its deadly ways, or that climatic changes taking place at the time created a less friendly environment for the Justinian Plague germ.

There is evidence for the climate-change theory.

The Justinian Plague, the Black Plague, and even the plague that surged in the late 1800s and early 1900s followed periods of exceptional rainfall and ended periods of climatic stability.

