About 1,500 years ago, a disease called the Justinian Plague killed up to 50 million people from Asia to Africa to Europe.

Experts say the type, or strain, of bacteria that caused the disease can no longer be found.

It may be gone forever.

We will likely never see it again, say the authors of a new study on the missing strain.

The study was published in a medical journal.

Its authors say the missing strain teaches us a lesson.

A strain of plague could jump from rodents to humans.

That strain can kill millions of people, and then mysteriously disappear.

New and equally deadly strains could appear just as mysteriously, they wrote.

"Fortunately, we now have antibiotics that could effectively be used to treat plague," said study coauthor Dave Wagner.

He is a professor at Northern Arizona University.

An antibiotic is medicine that can kill tiny organisms that cause illness.

The effects victims experienced from the Justinian Plague were similar to those of victims of the Black Plague.

Also called the Black Death, the Black Plague occurred 800 years after the Justinian Plague and killed up to 200 million people.

Were both diseases caused by the same strain?

An international team of scientists set out to answer that question.

They took DNA from the teeth of two plague victims.

DNA is in the cells in our bodies and holds information about how we will look and how our bodies will work.

The victims were buried in Bavaria, Germany, around the time of the Justinian Plague outbreak.

The scientists first reconstructed the strain that killed both victims.

Then they compared it to more than 100 strains of bacteria from the same family.

These bacteria strains are currently found worldwide in animals and humans.

The scientists discovered that the strain responsible for the Justinian Plague is a member of the bacterial family Yersinia pestis.

The Black Plague sprang from that same family 800 years later.

Still, the strain that caused the Black Plague is distinctly different from the one that caused the Justinian Plague.

In fact, the strain of Y. pestis that caused the Justinian Plague was even deadlier than the one that caused the Black Plague.

The authors believe the strain of Y. pestis that caused the Justinian Plague is gone for good.

If it does still exist, scientists have yet to discover it.

What became of the strain after it killed so many?

For now, the study's authors can only guess.

Human populations may have built a resistance to it over time.

Climate changes that occurred at the time may have killed the strain.

There is evidence for the climate-change theory.

There was unusually heavy rainfall before the Justinian Plague, the Black Plague, and another one that took place in the late 1800s and early 1900s.

Climate changes marked those periods as well.

