About 1,500 years ago, a disease called the Justinian Plague killed up to 50 million people from Asia to Africa to Europe.

Experts say the type, or strain, of bacteria that caused the disease can no longer be found.

We will likely never see it again, say the authors of a new study on the missing strain.

The study was published in a medical journal called Lancet Infectious Diseases.

Its authors say the missing strain teaches us a lesson.

Plague can jump from rodents to humans.

A strain can kill millions of people, and then mysteriously disappear.

New and equally deadly strains could appear just as mysteriously, they wrote.

"Fortunately, we now have antibiotics that could effectively be used to treat plague," said study co-author Dave Wagner, a professor at Northern Arizona University.

That, he says, lessens the chances of another worldwide outbreak.

The symptoms that overtook victims of the Justinian Plague were similar to those of the Black Plague, which struck 800 years later and killed up to 200 million people.

Did the same strain cause both diseases?

That's the question an international team of researchers set out to answer.

They first extracted DNA fragments from the teeth of two plague victims who were buried in Bavaria, Germany, around the time of the Justinian Plague outbreak.

DNA is the material that holds information about how a person will look and how his or her body will work.

Next, they reconstructed the genetic material of the strain that killed both victims.

Finally, they compared it with more than 100 strains of bacteria from the same family.

Those bacteria strains are currently found worldwide in animals and humans.

What did the research team discover?

The strain that caused the Justinian Plague is a member of the bacterial family Yersinia pestis.

The Black Plague, also called the Black Death, sprang from the same family 800 years later.

But the genetic fingerprint of the Black Plague is different from the Justinian Plague.

Researchers concluded it is highly unlikely that they are related.

It is also unlikely that the Justinian strains evolved into the strains that caused the Black Death.

Among the most significant differences between the strains: their ability to spread, replicate and kill their hosts.

The Justinian Plague strains appeared to have been even deadlier than the Y. pestis strains that re-emerged during the Black Plague outbreak.

The authors believe the strain of Y. pestis that caused the Justinian Plague is gone for good.

If it does still exist, scientists have yet to discover it.

What became of the strain after it killed so many?

The study's authors can only guess.

Humans may have built a resistance to the strain.

Climate changes occurring at the time may have killed the strain.

There is evidence for the climate-change theory.

Both the Justinian Plague, the Black Plague, and a plague that occurred in the late 1800s and early 1900s followed periods of exceptional rainfall and ended periods of normal climate patterns.

