The final part of the search for missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 will be done by a little yellow submarine.

The flight disappeared while traveling between Malaysia and China in March.

Investigators looking for the vanished Boeing 777 have put away their locating tools.

They are about to call off searches on the ocean surface and instead take the search underwater.

The small robotic sub will be scanning the bottom of the ocean in an area bigger than the city of Los Angeles.

The submarine is known as a "Bluefin-21" underwater robotic vehicle.

Technicians on the Australian ship Ocean Shield were ready to send it into the Indian Ocean Monday afternoon.

They planned to send it 2.8 miles down to the seabed and use its side-scanning sonar to look for wreckage from the plane.

"It is time to go underwater," Australian Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston said, announcing the new stage of operations.

He is coordinating the search from Perth, Australia.

Unless the robot submarine gets lucky, the process could take a while.

The U.S. Navy said mapping the area where the plane most likely disappeared could take six weeks to two months.

The Navy lent the Bluefin-21 to the search team.

The 16-foot, 1,650-pound sub moves about as fast as a person walking.

It will be searching an area of about 600 square miles.

Houston said the first day's work would cover about 15 square miles.

"The whole key on these searches is you have to be methodical and persistent, and they can take quite a bit of time," said David Kelly.

He is president of Bluefin Robotics, the Massachusetts company that makes the vessel.

The Bluefin-21 works on a 24-hour cycle.

It takes two hours each way to get to the seafloor and back and can search for 16 hours.

Once it surfaces, it requires four hours to download the information it gathered and prepare the machine for its next dive.

It floats about 150 feet off the sea floor as it scans a half-mile of the seabed below.

The water it combs through is pitch black.

But the Bluefin-21 uses sonar to gather information that will make a high-resolution 3-D map.

If something promising is detected, the sonar can be swapped out for high-definition cameras.

When the cameras are being used, the sub hovers just 15 feet off the seafloor.

It takes a series of overlapping pictures that provide a compound image.

The depth at which the Bluefin-21 will work — 2.8 miles — is hard even for oceanographers to imagine.

Its depth is the same as the height of California's Mount Whitney, the tallest mountain in the contiguous 48 U.S. states.

While the robotic sub does its duties, search crews aboard the Ocean Shield and other vessels will have no idea whether it has found anything.

It tells scientists basic information such as depth and power remaining.

But Kelly said the connection is spotty and at a "low bandwidth."

"You give it a track and it goes," said Charitha Pattiaratchi, a professor of oceanography at the University of Western Australia.

"It doesn't transfer any (images) or anything while it's down there."

The decision to use the Bluefin-21 came on day 38 of the search for the plane.

It vanished March 8 with 239 people aboard flying from Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to China's capital Beijing.

Searchers 1,300 miles off the western coast of Australia had waited to send out the sub.

They were hoping to further narrow the search area based on signals sent by beacons on the plane's two black boxes.

On four occasions, a pinger locator towed by the Ocean Shield picked up signals.

Investigators strongly suspect they were from one or both of the black boxes.

But there have been no new signals in the last six days.

The batteries on those devices are only supposed to last 30 days.

It appears investigators have concluded they have run out.

The search for clues on the ocean surface has not been successful so far, either.

Houston said that it would probably be called off in the next two to three days.

The lookouts scanning the waters from the air and from ships would return home.

"The chances of any floating material being recovered" have fallen dramatically, Houston said.

"Australia and its partners (will have) to decide the way ahead later this week."

It's a "tough call to make," said Van Gurley, a retired U.S. Navy captain and senior manager at Metron Inc. Metron helped locate the wreckage of Air France Flight 447 after it crashed in the Atlantic Ocean in 2009.

"I'm of the opinion that if they haven't found surface debris field by now, they're not going to.

Then it becomes almost a political decision: At what point do you suspend that operation?

Given that you haven't found anything on the ocean bottom yet, and the families are eager for new information," Gurley said.

"It sounds like Angus Houston said some words to prepare everybody.

They're going to, in a couple days, shut down all the air and surface search operations," he added.

