Sea turtles eat many things in the wide open ocean.

There is a new research study that found that half of the sea turtles on the planet have swallowed plastic.

Another study says that most seabirds have also eaten plastic.

Qamar Schuyler, a scientist in Australia, led the research on turtles.

Her study says that about 13 million tons of plastic garbage is dumped into the oceans every year.

The east coast of North America has a lot of plastic in its ocean.

Schuyler used math and science in her study.

She used math to find how likely the turtles were to eat plastic.

Then she dissected, or opened up sea turtles that had died, to see if they had eaten plastic.

She also wanted to see how much they might have eaten.

Olive Ridley Turtles eat jellyfish and other floating animals in the water.

They had more plastic in their bodies than any other turtles.

These turtles are in danger.

They are considered to be "threatened" in most parts of the world.

Schuyler says we need to protect these creatures from more than just hunters.

We need to protect them from our garbage.

Schuyler says that swallowing plastic can kill turtles.

They can also die because of poisons that are used to make plastic.

Sometimes turtles are poisoned by the water around them because of all the plastic waste.

Eating plastic can also cause turtles to starve to death.

After they eat plastic they feel full, so they do not eat real food.

Schuyler says more and more plastic is being made, but we do not have a good way to get rid of it all.

She also worries about micro plastics.

These are tiny bits of plastic that can get into the ocean.

The little plastic beads can come in things like face wash. She says that unless we take action, the problem will only get worse.

Scientists say when there is less plastic in the water, less of it is eaten.

Schuyler says this gives her hope that we might be able to fix the problem.

She says people should avoid plastic items that are used only once.

These are things like grocery bags and plastic water bottles.

We should also stay away from micro beads.

These are in some soaps and other things we use on our skin.

Chris Wilcox is the scientist who studies seabirds.

He warns that the problem with plastic is getting worse.

"It is only a matter of time before we see the same problems in other species, and even in the fish we eat."

