Major League Baseball plans to eliminate home plate collisions, possibly as soon as next season but no later than 2015.

A collision occurs when a base runner runs into the opposing team's catcher at home plate.

New York Mets general manager Sandy Alderson made the announcement Wednesday at the winter meetings.

Alderson is the head of the league's rules committee.

The major factors driving the decision were player safety and concern over [concussions](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=concussions), injuries to the brain that can sometimes cause long-term damage.

"Ultimately, what we want to do is change the culture of acceptance that these plays are ordinary and routine and an accepted part of the game," Alderson said.

"The costs associated in terms of health and injury just no longer warrant the status quo."

In a sport long bound by tradition, a ban will be a major step.

MLB will also expand the use of instant replay by umpires next season in an effort to eliminate blown calls.

"What are they going to do next, you can't break up a double play?"

Pete Rose said in a telephone interview with The Associated Press.

"You're not allowed to pitch inside.

The hitters wear more armor than the Humvees in Afghanistan.

Now you're not allowed to be safe at home plate?

What's the game coming to?

Evidently, the guys making all these rules never played the game of baseball."

Rose, who was banned for life in 1989 following a gambling investigation, famously bowled over catcher Ray Fosse in the 1970 All-Star game.

Rose insists Fosse was blocking the plate without the ball, which is against the rules.

"Since 1869, baseball has been doing pretty well," Rose said.

"The only rules they ever changed was the mound (height) and the DH.

I thought baseball was doing pretty good.

Maybe I'm wrong about the attendance figures and the number of people going to ballgames."

DH refers to the designated hitter in an American League team's lineup who doesn't play a position in the field.

Alderson said the wording of the rules change will be presented to owners for approval at their meeting in Arizona next month.

"The exact language and how exactly the rule will be enforced is subject to final determination," he said.

"We're going to do a fairly extensive review of the types of plays that occur at home plate to determine which we're going to find acceptable and which are going to be prohibited."

Approval by the players' union is needed for the rules change to be effective for 2014.

If the players' union rejects the proposal, the start of the rule would be suspended for one year, but could be activated across the board after that, Alderson said.

The union declined comment while a review of the proposed change takes place.

Discussion to limit or ban collisions has gotten more serious since May 2011, when San Francisco Giant Buster Posey was injured by Florida Marlin Scott Cousins.

Posey, an All-Star catcher, sustained a broken bone in his lower left leg and three torn ligaments in his ankle, an injury that kept him out of the game for the rest of the season.

Posey returned to win the National League batting title and Most Valuable Player award in 2012, when he led the Giants to their second World Series title in three seasons.

"This is, I think, in response to a few issues that have arisen," Alderson said.

"One is just the general occurrence of injuries from these incidents at home plate that affect players, both runners and catchers.

And also kind of the general concern about concussions that exists not only in baseball but throughout professional sports and amateur sports today.

It's an emerging issue, and one that we in baseball have to address, as well as other sports."

The National Football League reached a settlement last summer in a concussion-related lawsuit by former players.

The NFL agreed to pay the players $765 million.

Last month, a group of hockey players sued the NHL.

Former catchers Joe Girardi, Bruce Bochy and Mike Matheny — all of them now managing in the majors — attended Wednesday's meeting.

"I don't think it's completely sparked by anything that's happened in baseball as much as what's happening outside of baseball and how it's impacting people and impacting the welfare of each sport," said Matheny, now managing the St. Louis Cardinals.

But not everyone is in favor banning the collisions.

"I lost time as a catcher being run over a couple different times, but I thought it was part of my job and I enjoyed the contact," said Girardi, the New York Yankees manager.

"Now I'm not so sure that everyone enjoys contact.

But I love football, so I liked it."

MLB intends to have varied levels of punishment.

"I think there will be two levels of enforcement," Alderson said.

"One will be with respect to whether the runner is declared safe or out based on conduct.

So, for example, intentionally running over the catcher might result in an out call.

So I think that the enforcement will be on the field as well as subsequent consequences in the form of fines and suspensions and the like."

But writing out the rules will likely be complicated.

"Does it include at every base or just home plate?"

Baltimore Orioles manager Buck Showalter asked.

"What's considered blocking the plate, and how do you define all of it?"

The NCAA instituted a rule on collisions for the 2011 college baseball season, saying "contact above the waist that was initiated by the base runner shall not be judged as an attempt to reach the base or plate."

The umpire can call the runner out and can eject the player if contact is determined to be malicious or flagrant.

