spacecraft just passed by Pluto.

The spacecraft, New Horizons, has now finished its hardest job.

It had to pass over Pluto as close as it could without being damaged.

It was on a trip to take pictures to send back to Earth.

The spacecraft did not have people on board.

It was controlled by scientists in Maryland.

They work with NASA, the U.S. space agency.

It almost did not leave Earth at all.

Sending a rocket into space costs a lot of money.

At first NASA did not have enough money.

Many people kept asking NASA to send a spacecraft to Pluto.

Finally NASA found the money.

For a long time, scientists did not know much about Pluto.

Once, they thought it was a planet.

Then they were not sure.

Now it is called a dwarf planet, because it is much smaller than planets.

In the 1990s scientists used a new kind of telescope.

Telescopes are used to look at things that are far away, like planets.

They were able to see some light and dark parts on Pluto.

It was all they could see.

The new spacecraft is helping scientists learn even more.

It sent pictures back to Earth.

The pictures show one side of Pluto.

The side faces away from its biggest moon.

The moon is called Charon.

There is a spot on the planet shaped like a heart.

Scientists believe it may be made of ice.

The two sides of the heart are different colors.

The colors may be different chemicals.

The spacecraft is not finished with its job.

It will send more pictures soon.

Scientists have learned other things about Pluto.

Pictures from the spacecraft show that Pluto is bigger than they thought.

There are five moons around Pluto too.

Pictures sent back to Earth show the differences between Pluto and its largest moon, Charon.

Now scientists see how different they really are.

This is only the start of the spacecraft's trip through space.

It still has to study the other side of Pluto.

Then it will search for rings around the planet.

In September, the spacecraft will send all its pictures of Pluto back to Earth.

Then it will keep going.

The spacecraft has enough power to travel around space for 20 more years.

