At first, the police shooting triggered a public outcry similar to the recent protests in Ferguson, Missouri.

In 2011, police in Rialto, California, shot and wounded a man who witnesses later protested was unarmed.

Outrage grew after cellphone video taken from a nearby balcony suggested that police had overreacted.

However, unlike in Ferguson, where it is still not clear why Officer Darren Wilson shot Michael Brown at least six times, a Rialto officer was wearing a small camera on his uniform.

The officer's camera revealed what was unseen from above: The suspect had bolted from his car and run into the street, waving a handgun in the air.

The footage allowed police to defend themselves against allegations of excessive force.

"We were very, very upset about how they reacted," Captain Randy De Anda said of protesters.

"We said, 'If you want transparency, here are the actual facts.'"

In an era of questionable officer-involved shootings, cop cameras are catching on around the nation.

Most likely, their use will grow as the furor over the Ferguson shooting continues.

The Justice Department is weighing whether to provide funding to more police departments to buy body-worn cameras, which are usually placed on an officer's lapel, shoulder or cap.

The Los Angeles Police Department is currently testing body cameras.

This week, New York announced plans to study the program as well.

Some local law enforcement agencies are resisting the campaign.

Others, however, say that there are potential benefits, as seen in the Rialto case.

"If the public has this type of technology with cellphones and iPads, why not all the better that we have this resource for our officers too?"

De Anda said.

In Salt Lake City, for instance, an officer shot and killed a 20-year-old man two days after Brown was slain Aug. 9 in Ferguson.

In Utah, however, the officer had turned on his body camera.

The video will probably play a key role in deciding whether the officer is disciplined, prosecuted or cleared.

In Rialto, complaints of police abuse plummeted after 120 officers were equipped with cameras in early 2012.

"Having a video record of events not only deters the use of excessive force, but it also helps dispute or demonstrate claims of police brutality," said Representative Adam B. Schiff, a California Democrat.

He is currently leading an effort to provide Justice Department grants for body cameras nationwide.

In Los Angeles, about 30 officers who patrol Skid Row have been testing various body camera models.

The goal is to eventually purchase about 500 cameras.

The plan originated with Steve Soboroff, president of the civilian commission that oversees the LAPD.

On his first day as a commissioner last year, he said the cameras were important and vowed to raise private funds to bypass tight budgets and red tape.

He has since raised more than $1 million.

Schiff said the cameras would more than pay for themselves because the videos would discourage false lawsuits against the police.

"The savings can be quite dramatic, through improved community relations" and a drop in lawsuits, he said.

Such may be the result in the Salt Lake City shooting.

"We're just waiting for the prosecutor to finish his investigation and then we'll release (the footage) as a public document," police Chief Chris Burbank said in a phone interview this week.

"You will see a young man being shot through the eyes of a police officer ...

These cameras are capturing good work by law enforcement.

If we're doing something wrong, it will capture that too.

But it is an advantage for all law enforcement — what the camera captures is a factual representation of what took place."

Burbank said it started with 15 cameras two years ago, an idea born from his work as vice president of the Major Cities Chiefs Association.

By the end of next month, about 440 officers will be equipped with them, he said.

Around the country, he added, about a dozen cities use cameras.

In Rialto, where 120 officers patrol 30 square miles and protect 105,000 residents, the number of police use-of-force events dropped 66 percent the first year cameras were worn.

In the second year, complaints against the police decreased 83.3 percent.

De Anda said they spent $100,000 on the cameras over the two years.

The money went not only to purchase the devices — each cost about $1,200 — but also to run an internal website to store the images.

"We have had a big success," De Anda said.

"Great success."

