As Republicans and Democrats battle over the government shutdown, the next fight is already coming.

The United States is close to the limit on how much debt it can raise to pay for its spending.

The government says that the limit will be reached around Oct. 17.

After that, the government could default, or not be able to pay its bills.

Congress gets to approve laws that require spending.

But later it says the government cannot borrow money to pay those bills.

Sounds like a strange system, right?

Well, thank the Founding Fathers.

Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution gives Congress the power to make laws.

It also gets the power to raise money.

But Article 2 says the president carries out the laws passed by Congress.

It also says he can run a government that is as big as Congress approved.

That is where the problem comes from.

Congress passes legislation to spend.

The president has to make sure those bills get paid.

Those two goals don't always match.

President Barack Obama complains that he is being asked to do things before the debt ceiling is lifted that other presidents have not.

That just isn't true.

D. Andrew Austin wrote a history about the debt limit.

His research shows that fights over putting a new cap on the nation's debt are hardly new.

The government has never defaulted, but at times the debt limit has caused problems, he said.

The Constitution set up fights between Congress and the president over spending and taxes.

Well, not fights exactly.

The Founding Fathers wanted a system of checks and balances, so that neither the president nor Congress could reign supreme.

Both sides are supposed to talk, and compromise.

But that hasn't been happening lately in Washington.

But the legal limit on just how much debt the federal government can borrow began almost 100 years ago.

That is when Congress said the Treasury could sell long-term Liberty Bonds.

Before then, Congress had sometimes let the Treasury Department issue bonds to raise money for special projects.

People buy bonds because the government promises to pay them back.

The people who bought the bonds also get extra money, called interest.

The long-term Liberty Bonds changed things.

They were authorized so that the federal government could spend less money to borrow as it paid for America's entry into World War I.

In 1919, the debt ceiling was about $43 billion, but at the close of the budget year debt actually stood at about $25.5 billion.

Congress did not want to borrow all that was approved.

Austin notes that at the start of World War II the U.S. debt ceiling was $45 billion.

The actual debt was $40.4 billion.

Then the costs of World War II hit.

The debt ceiling soared.

By 1945, it was set at $300 billion.

The debt ceiling actually fell, to $270 billion, after the war.

It stayed there until about 1954.

The Korean War was paid for through higher taxes, not more debt.

And between 1954 and 1962, the debt limit fell twice and increased seven times.

It didn't return to the World War II level again until March 1962.

From that point on, there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 accounting year.

The largest single increase was $984 billion in May 2003.

America was borrowing to pay for wars in Afghanistan and Iraq.

It was cutting taxes at the same time.

There was short break from linking politics with the debt ceiling in the 1980s and early 1990s.

Lawmkers were tired of passing spending increases and then voting against raising the debt ceiling.

It made voters think they were saying one thing and doing another.

The vote to allow more borrowing looked bad, too.

In 1979, the House said that any final vote on a budget automatically raised the debt ceiling.

The budget is the country's spending plan.

Both parties liked the rule.

They didn't need to take the politically costly vote to raise the debt ceiling.

But it did not last.

Senators changed the budget passed by the House.

So it had to come back to the House for another vote.

That was just like voting to raise the debt ceiling.

In 1995, Georgia Republican Newt Gingrich became House speaker.

He saw an opportunity to use the debt ceiling for political leverage.

Since then, the party that controlled the Congress has generally used the debt ceiling as a political tool.

In one example, Sen. Barack Obama spoke on the Senate floor on March 16, 2006, in opposition to raising the debt ceiling while George W. Bush was president.

"Increasing America's debt weakens us," Obama argued then.

That month, China held $635.4 billion in U.S. government debt.

By this past July, that number had doubled to nearly $1.28 trillion.

