As Republicans and Democrats battle over the government shutdown, the next fight is already coming.

The United States is close to the limit on how much debt it can raise to pay for its spending.

The government estimates that the limit will be reached on Oct. 17.

After that, the government could default, or not be able to pay its bills.

Congress gets to approve spending.

Then it later slams the door on new borrowing to pay the bills.

Sounds like a strange system, right?

Well, thank the Founding Fathers.

Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution gives Congress the exclusive powers to legislate and the power to raise money.

But Article 2 says the president carries out the laws passed by Congress.

It also says he can run the government at the levels authorized and funded by Congress.

That simple civics lesson is the root of the problem.

Congress passes legislation to spend.

The president has to make sure those bills get paid.

Those two objectives don't neatly line up.

President Barack Obama complains that past presidents haven't been subjected to the types of conditions being asked of him in exchange for lifting the debt ceiling.

That just isn't true.

"In the past, Congress has responded to make sure that the Treasury can still keep borrowing, but debt and budgets have always been contentious," said D. Andrew Austin.

He is an analyst in government finance for the Congressional Research Service.

He also wrote a brief but thorough history of the debt limit.

His research shows that fights over putting a new cap on the nation's debt are hardly new.

"While the debt limit has never caused the federal government to default on its obligations, it has at times caused great inconvenience and has added uncertainty," Austin wrote.

The Constitution created the backdrop for fights between Congress and the president over spending and taxes.

But the actual statutory limit on just how much debt the federal government can take on began almost 100 years ago.

That is when Congress said the Treasury could issue long-term Liberty Bonds.

Before then, Congress had from time to time given the Treasury Department authority to issue bonds to raise money for special projects.

People buy bonds because the government promises to pay back their money, plus interest.

The long-term Liberty Bonds changed things.

They were authorized so that the federal government could better hold down its borrowing costs as it paid for America's entry into World War I.

In 1919, the debt ceiling was about $43 billion, but at the close of the budget year debt actually stood at about $25.5 billion.

Congress was reluctant to borrow all that was authorized.

Several decades of congressionally mandated debt limits followed.

Austin's report notes that at the start of World War II the U.S. debt ceiling was $45 billion.

The actual debt was $40.4 billion.

Then the costs of World War II hit.

The debt ceiling soared.

By 1945, it was set at $300 billion.

The debt ceiling actually fell, to $270 billion, after the war.

It stayed there until about 1954.

The Korean War was paid for through higher taxes, not more debt.

And between 1954 and 1962, the debt limit fell twice and increased seven times.

It didn't return to the World War II level again until March 1962.

From that point on, there were 69 changes to the debt limit through the end of the 2007-2008 budget year.

The largest single increase was $984 billion in May 2003.

America was borrowing to pay for wars in Afghanistan and Iraq while cutting taxes at that time.

During the 1980s and early 1990s, there was brief break from linking politics with the U.S. debt ceiling.

Lawmakers had grown tired of passing spending increases and then voting against raising the debt ceiling for their big spending.

It made them appear hypocritical in front of the voters.

The vote to allow more borrowing never played well back home.

In 1979, Missouri Democrat Dick Gephardt won a ruling in the House.

It said that any final vote on a budget automatically raised the debt ceiling.

The so-called Gephardt Rule was welcomed by both major political parties because it eliminated the need to take that separate and politically costly vote to raise the debt ceiling.

But it did not last.

Senators changed the budget passed by the House.

So it had to come back to the House for another vote, which had the same effect as voting to raise the debt ceiling.

The Gephardt Rule ended when Republicans took back the House of Representatives in the 1994 election.

Georgia Republican Newt Gingrich became House speaker.

He saw an opportunity to use the debt ceiling for political leverage.

Since the end of the Gephardt Rule, whichever political party controlled the Congress has generally used the debt ceiling as a political tool.

Things returned to the 1970s practice of increasing spending but also voting against raising the debt ceiling.

In one example, Sen. Barack Obama spoke on the Senate floor on March 16, 2006, in opposition to raising the debt ceiling while George W. Bush was president.

"Increasing America's debt weakens us," Obama argued then.

That month, China held $635.4 billion in U.S. government debt.

By this past July, that number had doubled to nearly $1.28 trillion.

