Last year, a white policeman killed a black teenager in Ferguson, Missouri.

The teen's name was Michael Brown.

Nothing like that has happened in Rocky Mount, North Carolina.

People there want to make sure it never does.

Almost two weeks ago, police officers met with members of the community.

The police told them what to do if stopped by the police.

People also asked questions and heard the officers' point of view.

"We know what happened nationally could happen right here," said Archie Jones.

He works for Rocky Mount's government.

The city is more than half black.

Jones, who is black, helped arrange the program.

It was called "Know Your Rights."

"We decided it was time to bring the police and the community together," Jones said.

Some people may be scared of the police, Jones said.

Police may be just as afraid of the people they stop.

After Brown's death, towns across America have been talking about how police treat black people.

Many in the black community believe Brown would not have been killed if he was white.

People have asked: What happens when a young black man is stopped by the police?

How did it end in death in Ferguson?

In Rocky Mount, a few young black men have been bothered by police, said the Reverend Andre Knight.

He is with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) in Rocky Mount.

Knight said some black men have been stopped by police just because they are black.

It is called profiling.

It is against the law in many places.

In October, Jones attended a meeting about the Ferguson shooting.

He became worried that it could happen in Rocky Mount.

Police Chief James Moore had been thinking the same thing.

They decided to hold the community meeting.

At the meeting, 18-year-old Khristian Roberson listened closely as officers answered questions.

Most of the officers were black.

Roberson, who is also black, said he was stopped last month by an officer who said he drove through a red light.

During the stop, Roberson thought about what happened in Ferguson.

"I stayed calm.

I wasn't rude," Roberson said.

Roberson said the officer, who was black, did not give him a ticket.

"I thought I was treated OK," Roberson said.

He added that his mother thought he may have been stopped because he was black.

Roberson said the police at the meeting reminded him what to do if stopped by police.

People should show their hands.

They should not reach for anything or make sudden or threatening moves.

Ormani Muckle, age 17, attended the meeting with Roberson.

"It was good to hear the police position straight from them," he said.

Audience members asked questions.

They wanted to know how they could tell if they were being stopped because they were black.

What is a threatening movement?

They also wanted to know what police learned from the death in Ferguson.

No, police are not allowed to stop a black person just because he is black, police said.

A threatening motion is any sudden move, especially in the dark.

As for the Ferguson question, policeman Henry King answered.

He said it is important to hold community meetings so things like that never happen again.

