The Whigs were a political party in the 1800s.

The party broke up before the Civil War over the question of slavery.

Now the party is trying to make a comeback.

Its supporters see it as bridging the gap between fighting Republicans and Democrats.

Republicans want a smaller government.

Democrats want a bigger one.

Democrats think the government can help solve people's problems.

Republicans think people should be left alone to make their own decisions about some things.

Heshy Bucholz was voted in as an election judge in Philadephia last month.

He is the first person to run and win as a Whig in that city in 157 years.

His victory brought national attention to the party.

Hundreds of new members signed up.

Maryland is also a Whig hot spot.

The Whigs held four of their national meetings in Maryland in the 1800s.

There are about 200 members of the Modern Whig Party in Maryland.

Iraq and Afghanistan war veterans relaunched the Modern Whig Party in 2007.

The party claims to have 30,000 members.

The Whigs believe in bringing together ideas from many viewpoints.

They do this to get to the best answers to problems.

Modern Whigs like having things decided at the state level and at the level of towns and cities.

They say they are the party of facts and reason.

In Washington today, "one side shuts down so the other side doesn't talk," said Brendan Galligan.

He runs the New Jersey chapter of the Modern Whig Party.

Galligan is a school board member for a town in New Jersey.

Galligan ran for the school board in 2012.

He was 23.

He ran after seeing how much the school's spending had increased.

He works as an electrician.

"The old Whigs were about building the country.

Now it's about helping us from falling apart," Galligan said.

It is hard to compare the old and Modern Whig parties.

The United States is dealing with a completely different set of problems, said history professor William Anthony Hay.

Hay wrote a book about the old Whigs.

People today are upset with things not getting done in Washington, Hay said.

But that doesn't mean they know what the Whig Party is.

"They'd think you were talking about a hairpiece," Hay said.

The American Whig Party was originally formed in 1833.

Its purpose was to oppose a growing government and the presidency of Andrew Jackson.

People thought that Jackson was acting like a king.

The party split just before the Civil War.

Whigs disagreed over how much power the government should have over states.

They also disagreed over whether slavery should end.

The Whigs tried to appeal to as many people as possible.

That may have been a reason why the party broke up.

People in the party did not all believe in the same thing.

Many northern Whigs went on to form the base of the Republican Party.

Southern Whigs turned to the Democratic Party.

"The Whigs … can claim to be the first real party of the people," said Andrew Evans.

He is the national leader of the Modern Whig Party.

Abraham Lincoln was one of the party's most famous members, he said.

Modern Whigs don't want to make everything like the 1800s again.

"That's crazy," Evans said.

In October, the government shut down because Democrats and Republicans couldn't agree on how to spend money.

As a result, six of 10 Americans in a survey said they believed a third party was needed.

The Whig party also saw an increase in new members when the government shut down.

But even three parties might not be enough.

Galligan thinks the U.S. should have a five-party system.

"I've seen 4-year-olds in a minivan act better" than our leaders in Washington, D.C., Galligan said.

