The Whigs were a 19th century political party that broke up before the Civil War over the question of slavery.

Now the party is trying to make a comeback.

Its supporters see it as the political center between bitter modern day Republicans and Democrats.

Republicans want a smaller government, while Democrats want a bigger one.

Democrats think the government can help solve people's problems.

Republicans think people should be left alone to make their own decisions about some things.

Heshy Bucholz is a software engineer in Philadelphia.

He is also the first person to run and win as a Whig in that city in 157 years.

He was voted in as an election judge last month.

His victory has brought national attention to the party and caused hundreds of new members to sign up.

Maryland is also a Whig hot spot.

The Whigs held four of their national conventions in the mid-1800s in Maryland.

There are about 200 members of the Modern Whig Party in Maryland.

Two hundred people there also get the party's magazine.

The Modern Whig Party was relaunched in 2007 by veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.

The party claims to have 30,000 members.

The Whigs believe in bringing together ideas from many viewpoints to arrive at the best answers to problems.

Modern Whigs favor allowing issues to be decided at the state level and by cities and towns.

They say they are the party of facts and reason.

In Washington today, "one side shuts down so the other side doesn't talk," said Brendan Galligan.

He runs the New Jersey chapter of the Modern Whig Party.

Galligan is a school board member in a town in New Jersey.

Galligan's move toward being a Whig began after he discovered the school spending plan had increased by nearly one third in five years.

He ran unopposed for the school board as an independent in 2012.

He was elected to the school board at age 23.

He's an electrician.

"The old Whigs were about building the country.

Now it's about helping us from falling apart," Galligan said.

Comparing the old and Modern Whig Party is difficult.

The United States is dealing with a completely different set of problems, said William Anthony Hay, a history professor.

Hay wrote a book on 19th century Whigs.

"It is a rebellion against gridlock in Washington," Hay said.

But that doesn't mean people know what the Whig Party is today.

"They'd think you were talking about a hairpiece," Hay said.

The American Whig Party was originally formed in 1833.

Its purpose was to oppose President Andrew Jackson's king-like presidency and a growing government.

The party split just before the Civil War.

Whigs disagreed over how much power the federal government should have over states.

They also disagreed over whether slavery should end.

The Whigs tried to appeal to as many people as possible.

Its lack of a united stand on some issues lead to its breakup.

Many northern Whigs went on to form the base of the Republican Party.

Southern Whigs turned to the Democratic Party.

"The Whigs … can claim to be the first real party of the people," said Andrew Evans, national leader of the Modern Whig Party.

Abraham Lincoln was among the party's famous members, he said.

"We are very proud of our history.

We are a rebirth," Evans said.

"We're not trying to take everything back to the 19th century, that's crazy."

During the government shutdown in October, a survey found that six out of 10 of Americans who were asked believed a third party was needed.

Only one quarter of those asked believed the two main parties fairly represent Americans.

Interest in the Modern Whig Party comes at a time when people have become tired of the two-party system, Evans said.

Americans believe the two parties can't get anything done.

Whigs saw an increase of new members during the government shutdown.

"There's a need for Americans to have options that can really represent them," Evans said.

