When police shot and wounded a man in Rialto, California, in 2011, people got angry at first.

It looked as if there might be full-blown protests, like those seen recently in Ferguson, Missouri.

Witnesses said the man was unarmed.

Anger grew after cellphone video taken from a nearby balcony suggested that police had overreacted.

In the Ferguson case, it is still not clear why Officer Darren Wilson shot Michael Brown.

In Rialto, however, questions about the shooting were answered quickly.

The reason for the difference is simple: In Rialto, an officer was wearing a small camera on his uniform.

The officer's camera revealed what witnesses did not see: The suspect had bolted from his car and run into the street waving a handgun in the air.

The footage allowed police to defend themselves against claims they had used unnecessary force.

"We were very, very upset about how they reacted," Captain Randy De Anda said of protesters.

The video, he said, showed the real facts.

Cop cameras are catching on around the nation.

Most likely, their use will grow as the anger over Ferguson continues.

Body-worn cameras are usually placed on an officer's jacket or cap.

The Los Angeles Police Department is testing cameras.

This week, New York announced plans to do so as well.

Some police departments are resisting the cameras.

Others, however, say that there are possible benefits for them, as seen in the Rialto case.

"If the public has this type of technology with cellphones and iPads, why not all the better that we have this resource for our officers too?"

De Anda said.

The cameras certainly can make a difference.

Take a case that occurred last month in Salt Lake City, Utah.

On Aug. 11, an officer shot and killed a 20-year-old man, just two days after Brown was killed in Missouri.

In Utah, however, the officer was wearing a body camera.

The video should help show whether the officer should be punished or cleared.

According to Salt Lake City Police Chief Chris Burbank, the footage will show what happened "through the eyes of a police officer ...

These cameras are capturing good work by law enforcement.

If we're doing something wrong, it will capture that too.

But it is an advantage for all law enforcement.

What the camera captures is" what actually took place.

Burbank said the city started with 15 cameras two years ago.

By the end of next month, about 440 officers will be equipped with them.

Around the country, he said, about a dozen cities use cameras.

According to California Congressman Adam B. Schiff, having a "video record of events" is very useful.

For one thing, police know they are being recorded.

As a result, they are careful not to be too rough.

At the same time, if cops are falsely accused, camera footage may clear them.

In Los Angeles, about 30 officers have been testing various body camera models.

The goal is to eventually purchase about 500 cameras.

In Rialto, 120 officers were equipped with cameras in early 2012.

Since then, claims of police misbehavior have dropped dramatically.

De Anda said they spent $100,000 on the cameras over the two years.

The money went not only to purchase the cameras — each cost about $1,200 — it also went to run a website to store the footage.

The money spent was well worth it, De Anda said.

"We have had a big success," he said.

"Great success."

