The Whigs, the 19th century political party that fell apart before the Civil War over the question of slavery, is trying to make a comeback.

Its supporters see it as the political center between bitter Republicans and Democrats.

Heshy Bucholz is a software engineer in Philadelphia.

He is also the first candidate to run and win as a Whig in that city in 157 years.

His victory has brought national attention to the party and caused hundreds of new members to sign up.

The Whigs held four of their national conventions in the mid-19th century in Maryland.

Tim Zane is a registered Republican there and a former vice president at a large international bank.

He is in talks to be in charge of the Maryland branch of the Modern Whig Party.

Arizona, Hawaii, Idaho and Virginia also are seeking new chapter leaders.

There are about 200 members of the Modern Whig Party in Maryland.

Another 200 people support the group by receiving its newsletter.

Maryland would benefit from a third party because of its problem with representation, Zane said.

The Democrats are running Maryland's state government and have too much power there, he thinks.

He says that tax increases are evidence that Democratic control of decision-making is bad for Maryland's citizens.

The Modern Whig Party was relaunched in 2007 by veterans of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars.

The party claims to have 30,000 members.

Historically a party of compromise, the Whigs believe in mixing ideas from many viewpoints to arrive at the best solution.

Modern Whigs favor allowing issues to be decided at the state and local level.

They say they are the party of research and reason.

The Whigs see themselves in sharp opposition to the two main political parties, which brought about the recent government shutdown.

In Washington today, "one side shuts down so the other side doesn't talk," said Brendan Galligan, chairman of the New Jersey chapter of the Modern Whig Party.

Galligan is a school board member in a town in New Jersey.

Galligan's move toward being a Whig began after he discovered that the school's spending had increased by nearly 30 percent in five years.

He ran for the school board and was elected at age 23.

He is an electrician in New York City.

"The old Whigs were about building the country.

Now it's about helping us from falling apart," Galligan said.

A historical comparison between the old and Modern Whig Party is difficult.

The United States is dealing with a completely different set of issues, said William Anthony Hay, a professor of history at Mississippi State University.

Hay wrote a book on 19th century Whigs.

"It is a rebellion against gridlock in Washington," Hay said.

But that doesn't mean lots of people will quickly join the party today.

"I think if you ask people about the Whig tradition today, they'd think you were talking about a hairpiece," Hay said.

The American Whig Party was originally formed in 1833 to oppose President Andrew Jackson's king-like presidency and a growing government.

The party split just before the Civil War.

Whigs disagreed over how much power the federal government should have over states.

They also disagreed over whether slavery should end.

As a moderate party that tried to appeal to as many people as possible, its lack of solid beliefs seemed to contribute to its breakup.

Many northern Whigs went on to form the core of the Republican Party.

Southern Whigs turned to the Democratic Party.

"The Whigs … can claim to be the first real party of the people," said Andrew Evans, national chairman of the Modern Whig Party, who lists Abraham Lincoln as a famous member of the party.

"We are very proud of our history.

We are a rebirth," Evans said.

"We're not trying to take everything back to the 19th century, that's crazy."

During the government shutdown in October, a Gallup poll found that 60 percent of Americans who were asked believed a third party was needed.

Only 26 percent of those asked believed the two main parties fairly represent Americans.

"There's a need for Americans to have options that can really represent them," Evans said.

"It's about competition, as well.

The quality of the product improves, the price goes down.

Things are supposed to be better.

Politics is the same."

Interest in the Modern Whig Party comes at time when people are tired with the gridlocked two-party system, Evans said.

The party saw an increase of new members during the recent government shutdown.

Bucholz gained national attention as a breakthrough candidate in a time of near-constant fighting between Republicans and Democrats, and won by 36-24 votes.

Evans was "a little surprised" by Bucholz's victory.

"Since we have two major parties here, I definitely think that a third party could mediate and move conversation," Bucholz said.

Whigs think that our government leaders can't get things done anymore.

"I've seen 4-year-olds in a minivan act better" than our leaders in Washington, Galligan said.

