Myths die hard.

Especially when they concern a painting that helped give birth to a revered American art movement.

That movement is Abstract Expressionism and the painting in question is Jackson Pollock's mammoth 1943 "Mural."

"Mural" was something entirely new for American art.

Nearly 8 feet high and 20 feet wide, it was covered edge-to-edge with rhythmic lines and bold shapes.

These lines and shapes didn't represent anything in particular — that is, they were abstract.

Still, the artist compared them to a chaotic stampede of mustang horses.

The great painting did much to kick off the Abstract Expressionism art movement, which came about in New York after World War II.

Abstract Expressionism was the first American art style to have a major international influence.

For a time, it put New York at the center of the art world, instead of Paris.

Primarily a painting style, it avoided representing people, landscapes or objects.

Instead, it aimed to express feeling and energy through strong and active brushwork.

It also emphasized spontaneous creation — creating in the moment, without planning — and the process of painting itself.

Pollock's influential painting went on public view at the J. Paul Getty Museum on Tuesday.

But part of the myth of how he completed the painting has been debunked by science.

For years it has been claimed that Pollock painted the giant painting in one glorious burst of creativity.

The usual story is that Pollock fretted over the huge blank canvas for months, unsure of what to do.

It sat untouched in his studio, almost seeming to mock him.

Then, in a sudden burst of brilliant, all-night action, the masterpiece was created.

Except, that's not what really happened.

We now know that the painting in fact evolved over many days and perhaps even several weeks.

Collector and art dealer Peggy Guggenheim commissioned the work in the summer of 1943.

She was then planning a major Pollock show for her gallery.

The huge painting would serve as a statement of her faith in a barely known talent.

The canvas is four times bigger than any Pollock had previously attempted.

Notoriously insecure, he no doubt struggled with the immensity of the task.

The story goes as follows: Just after nightfall on the day before the work was due, it was said that Pollock began to paint.

By 9 a.m. the next morning, 15 intense hours later, "Mural" was done.

"I had a vision," he later explained.

But now, thanks to the Getty Museum's careful study of the layers of paint, we know for certain that story isn't quite right.

Pollock did lay out an initial overall composition, layering wet paint on top of wet paint.

For this first stage he used high-quality oil paints of teal, lemon yellow, red and umber.

Perhaps that was done in a single lengthy session.

However, much of the paint was applied later.

Separate layers each required drying time, some for many days.

More than 25 paints have been identified.

That includes white patches of ordinary house paint — a surprise discovery.

Now that the myth of the exhausting, one-shot painting binge has been undone, it's worth asking: What purpose did that unlikely story serve in the first place?

Wanting to make Pollock seem like a bold man of action surely had something to do with it.

Consider that the tale's primary source was Lee Krasner, Pollock's girlfriend.

In 1943 Pollock, then 31 years old, was an artist living in Greenwich Village in the midst of World War II.

At the time, most young American men were off fighting or at least wearing a uniform.

That made him seem cowardly to some.

What's more, Krasner knew of widespread rumors that Pollock was secretly a homosexual, which was not at all acceptable at the time.

The story of one brilliant, all-night painting campaign helped make Pollock sound forceful and manly.

And that in turn helped fight off the doubts and rumors.

So now, does the destruction of the myth lower "Mural's" artistic importance — or Pollock's?

The answer is that it shouldn't — in fact, it should make us appreciate Pollock more.

The carefully constructed painting shows us that Pollock knew exactly what he was aiming for.

He slowly built up his vision bit by bit over days (or weeks).

That may not match today's popular idea of the artist as someone whose ideas come fully formed, in mysterious bursts of inspiration.

But the popular image doesn't fit how artists really are.

Pollock was an actual artist.

He thought a lot about "Mural," and he worked hard to complete it.

