Myths die hard.

Especially when they're about a painting that helped give birth to a respected movement in American art.

The painting in question is Jackson Pollock's mammoth 1943 "Mural."

"Mural" was something entirely new for American art.

Nearly 8 feet high and 20 feet wide, it was covered edge-to-edge with rhythmic lines and bold shapes.

These lines and shapes didn't represent anything in particular: That is, they were abstract.

They were more about feelings and ideas than physical things.

Still, the artist compared them to a stampede of mustang horses.

The great painting did much to kick off the art movement called Abstract Expressionism, which emerged in New York following World War II.

Abstract Expressionism was the first American art style to have a major international influence.

For a time, it put New York at the center of the art world.

Primarily a painting style, it avoided representing people, landscapes or objects.

Instead, it aimed to express feeling and energy.

It also emphasized spontaneous creation — creating in the moment, without planning — and the act of painting itself.

Pollock's painting went on public view at the J. Paul Getty Museum on Tuesday.

But now, part of the myth of how he created the painting has been proven false by science.

For years it was believed that Pollock painted "Mural" in one glorious burst.

The usual story is that Pollock worried about the huge blank canvas for months.

He was unsure of what to do with it.

Its blankness almost seemed to mock him.

Then came a sudden burst of brilliant, all-night action: By morning, the masterpiece had been created.

Except, that's not what really happened.

We now know that he painted over many days and perhaps even several weeks.

Collector and art dealer Peggy Guggenheim commissioned the work in the summer of 1943.

She was planning a November Pollock show for her art gallery.

The huge painting would serve as a statement of her faith in Pollock.

He was not well-known at the time.

The canvas is four times bigger than any Pollock had previously attempted.

He probably struggled with the immensity of the task.

Just after nightfall on the day before the work was due, Lee Krasner, Pollock's girlfriend, said he began to paint.

Fifteen intense hours later, Krasner said "Mural" was done.

"I had a vision," Pollock later explained.

But now we know for certain that story isn't quite right.

This is thanks to the Getty Museum's careful study of the work's layers of paint.

Their examination shows that Pollock laid out a rough first version of the painting.

For this stage, he placed wet paint on top of wet paint.

He worked with teal, lemon yellow, red and brown oil paints.

Perhaps this stage was indeed done in a single lengthy session.

However, much of the paint was applied later.

And the separate layers each required drying time, some for many days.

More than 25 paints have been identified.

That includes white patches of ordinary house paint — a surprise discovery.

Now that the myth of the one-shot painting binge has been undone, it's worth asking: What purpose did that unlikely story serve in the first place?

Surely one reason was to make Pollock seem like a bold man of action.

Consider who the tale's main source was: Krasner, Pollock's girlfriend.

In 1943 Pollock was 31 years old.

He was an artist living in Greenwich Village in the midst of World War II.

At the time, most young American men were off fighting or at least wearing a uniform.

That made him seem cowardly to some.

What's more, Krasner had heard rumors that Pollock was secretly gay.

Being gay was something not accepted at that time.

The story of one brilliant, all-night explosion of painting helped make Pollock sound forceful and manly.

That, in turn, helped fight off the doubts and rumors.

Which raises a question: Does the disproved theory about how Pollock created "Mural" decrease its artistic importance — or Pollock's?

The answer is that it shouldn't.

In fact, it should make us appreciate Pollock all the more.

The carefully made painting shows us something important.

Pollock was an artist who knew exactly what he was aiming for — and who worked hard to get there.

He slowly built up his vision bit by bit over days (or weeks).

That may not match today's popular idea of the artist as a mysterious genius whose ideas come fully formed.

But the popular image doesn't fit how artists actually work.

Pollock was a real-life artist.

He thought a lot about "Mural," and he worked very hard to create it.

