SHINGTON – Thousands of people come to the FBI every year looking for a job.

They get turned down.

The FBI is the top U.S. law enforcement group.

The people who get turned down have experience.

They have the right education.

They do not have a criminal record.

They are turned down because they failed a lie-detector test.

The FBI will not hire people who fail the tests.

But there is a problem.

Experts say the test does not show for sure if somebody is lying.

The test is even worse at spotting truth or lies when people apply for a job.

One job seeker said he was called "a lazy, lying, drug dealing" drug user.

He said he was told he qualified for a job except for the test.

The technical term for the test is a polygraph.

Most people probably know about the tests from television crime shows.

Police use them to question criminals.

But the government also uses the tests to help decide if it will hire people for some jobs.

The test has critics whenever it is used.

But many really think it is wrong when the test is used to see if somebody looking for a job is truthful.

They say questions used then are less clear than they are when police are questioning crime suspects.

When questions are not clear, it can look like a person is lying.

At least it can to the machine.

The lie-detector machine the FBI uses also has problems measuring sweat.

Many other police departments use the same machine.

The people who give the tests look at breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying.

But many see sweat as the true sign of lying.

The maker of the machine says the problem is rare.

But Gene Iredale said the problem could mean that the FBI and others are making decisions based on bad information.

He added that there is a reason that the tests are not allowed in court.

Iredale is a lawyer.

He has filed lawsuits against the government.

A spokeswoman said the bureau thinks the tests are still a good tool.

The FBI tests about 13,000 people a year.

The tests are done on people who are looking for jobs.

They are also done in criminal cases and for national security checks.

Four of every 10 people who apply to be a special agent get turned down because they failed the lie-detector test.

Other law enforcement groups also use the tests.

The Philadelphia Police Department says that it will not hire someone who does not pass the test.

Other police departments say they do not use just the tests to decide if they should hire someone.

But they do not say what they would do if somebody failed the test.

James Wedick used to work for the FBI.

Now he is a private investigator.

He said the bureau relies more than most on the tests.

He said he had repeatedly seen highly qualified people turned away.

They had just failed the test.

The result follows them even if they try to apply elsewhere.

Police departments and federal agencies often take into account whether someone previously failed a test.

They do that even if they have not tested the person themselves.

"Many of these people work their entire adult lives to get a job with the bureau," he said, only to get turned down because of that test.

