SHINGTON – Thousands of people come to FBI offices across the country every year looking for a job, only to be turned down.

The reason that the top U.S. law enforcement agency will not take them is not because they do not have the right experience or education.

They also do not have a criminal record.

They are turned down because they failed a lie-detector test.

The FBI has a policy of not hiring people who fail the tests.

But experts say the testing does not reliably show when somebody is actually lying.

This is especially true when they are applying for a job.

"I was called a lazy, lying, drug-dealing junkie by a man who doesn't know me, my stellar background or my societal contributions," wrote one applicant in Baltimore.

He said he was told he qualified for a job except for the test.

The technical term for the test is a polygraph and most people probably know about them from crime shows.

Police use them to question criminals.

But the government also uses the test on people looking for jobs.

The test has many critics.

Scientists are especially critical when it is used for job screening.

They say   questions used then are often more vague than they are in criminal investigations.

That can to lead to reactions that might seem like a person is lying.

There are also problems with how the lie-detector machine the FBI uses measures sweat, McClatchy found.

Many other federal agencies and police departments across the country use the same machine.

The people who administer the tests also look at levels of breathing and blood pressure to decide whether someone is lying.

But many see the sweat measurement as the true sign of lying.

The maker of the machine says the problem is rare.

But lawyer Gene Iredale said that the problem could mean that decisions agencies such as the FBI are making are based on bad information.

He added that there is a reason that the tests are not allowed in court.

A spokeswoman said the bureau finds the tests to be a good tool.

The FBI tests about 13,000 people a year.

The tests are done on people who are looking for jobs.

They are also used in criminal cases and national security checks.

At least three out of 10 people taking these tests  fail.

Four of every 10 people who apply to be a special agent get turned down because they fail.

Other law enforcement groups also use the tests.

The Philadelphia Police Department says that it will not hire someone who does not pass a polygraph test.

Other police departments say they do not rely entirely on the test to decide if they should hire someone.

But even those departments do not say what they would do if somebody failed the test.

James Wedick used to work for the FBI.

Now he is a private investigator.

He calls the bureau one of the "worst culprits" in relying on the testing.

He said he had repeatedly seen highly qualified people turned away.

The result follows them even if they try to apply elsewhere.

Police departments and federal agencies often weigh whether someone previously failed a polygraph, even if they have not tested the person themselves.

"Many of these people work their entire adult lives to get a job with the bureau," he said.

The FBI rejects people even as the applicants insist they have never done anything wrong.

Some applicants view the rejection as illegal discrimination.

"I believe I was discriminated against as a black female," wrote one woman who applied to the Memphis, Tennessee, FBI office and was told she had failed two lie-detector tests.

The first tester said the woman seemed to be lying about drug use.

After she was granted another test, the second tester said she passed.

A supervisor overturned that conclusion.

In all the cases reviewed, the bureau countered that the tests showed the applicants were hiding some sort of wrongdoing that was not discovered during the usual background investigation.

