The 18th-century British navigator Captain James Cook is celebrated as the first European to explore the South Pacific.

Centuries earlier, however, Polynesian seafarers in canoes crossed vast swaths of water to colonize lonely islands from Samoa and New Zealand all the way to Hawaii.

How they managed such a feat has long been something of a mystery.

Now, a roughly 600-year-old canoe discovered in New Zealand may shed some light on the Polynesians' sailing technology.

The vessel, which is described in a new study, is one of just two canoes dating back to such an early time period.

The preserved canoe remains were discovered in 2012 on New Zealand's South Island, following a major storm which pulled them from a sand dune.

The 19.95-foot-long section of hull is part of a sophisticated canoe carved from a single timber.

Few such vessels have lasted long enough to be found, because wood usually decays quickly.

Fortunately the swampy, oxygen-poor spot it was buried in allowed the canoe to survive the centuries, researchers said.

Its shape turned out to be very unlike the boats that early European explorers described when they first toured the South Pacific.

"It was one of those situations where it sort of took your breath away," said lead study author Dilys Amanda Johns.

"I'd never seen anything like it."

Using radiocarbon dating, the team found that the canoe was last caulked around the year 1400.

The canoe, known as a waka, was probably at least 45.9 feet long when it was whole, Johns said.

The image of a sea turtle is carved into the hull — a symbol that is rarely found in the Maori culture of New Zealand but that featured throughout Polynesia.

The Maori are Polynesians who left Polynesia between 1250 and 1300 and sailed to New Zealand, settling there.

Sea turtles were held in high regard in Polynesia, and were celebrated for their long ocean voyages.

"A sea turtle on a 600-(year)-old Polynesian canoe is a unique and powerful symbol," the study authors wrote.

A few features, including four transverse ribs carved into the hull, haven't been known historically in New Zealand, but have been featured in canoes in the Southern Cook Islands, described in 1913.

The New Zealand canoe also shares some design elements with a canoe found about 30 years ago on Huahine in the Society Islands.

It's thought to be from around the same time period as the New Zealand canoe, even though it was discovered roughly 2,500 miles away.

The canoes "could have come from the same design tradition," the authors wrote.

Clearly, the Polynesians knew how to get around.

Scientists have tried to understand the kinds of boats and sailing technology that would have allowed seafaring Polynesians to brave the waters and winds.

Without these kinds of archaeological finds, researchers have to rely on far less direct evidence, including the much-later observations of European explorers.

Based on the wind patterns we know today, the Polynesians appear to have traveled against the wind during their colonizing voyages.

Researchers have therefore concluded that they would have needed sufficiently high-tech sailing canoes to navigate these unfavorable conditions.

Recently, however, a team led by Ian D. Goodwin conducted a study which challenges that idea.

Shifting ancient wind patterns, Goodwin claims, may have created ideal windows of opportunity for certain generations of sailing Polynesians.

Goodwin's team created a model of the climate during the time of the Polynesian voyages which shows that at key periods, the winds favored travel to distant islands.

For example, based on their model, the winds favored sailing from central East Polynesia to New Zealand from 1140 to 1260.

From 1250 to 1280, they favored travel to Easter Island.

The sailing conditions they found would have allowed canoes "lacking an upwind capability" to travel all known routes.

For her part, Johns is not entirely convinced by the Goodwin study.

While the trends Goodwin found may have been helpful, she said, the closing of such wind windows doesn't appear to have stopped the Polynesians.

"We think Polynesians were really good sailors," said Johns, speaking from New Zealand.

"We think they were able to sail down here with or without help."

