Hold your nose before reading this: Doctors are putting healthy people's poop into pills.

And these pills are being used to cure people.

The poop pills knock out something called C-diff.

This is a terrible gut infection.

Scientists tried the new treatment on 27 patients.

They cured them all.

Yes, it's a disgusting idea.

But C-diff is a serious problem.

Half a million Americans get it each year.

And about 14,000 of them die.

The germ causes upset stomachs.

And also terrible diarrhea.

Bacteria are a kind of super tiny animal.

They live inside us.

Our bodies need good bacteria.

They digest, or break down, food.

But sometimes bad bacteria grows inside our gut.

This messes up our digestion.

And it makes us sick.

C-diff is one of the worst of the bad kind of bacteria.

There is a very strong medicine that kills C-diff.

But it also destroys the good kind of bacteria.

We need the good bacteria to stay healthy.

Recently, scientists realized something.

A healthy person's poop has good bacteria in it.

That poop can be useful.

It can regrow good bacteria in a sick person.

But how do you get someone's else's poop into a person?

Dr. Thomas Louie has come up with a good way.

It works like this: Healthy poop is collected, usually from a relative.

Then the good bacteria is removed from the poop.

It is cleaned and packed into pills.

There's no poop left, just bacteria, Louie said.

"These people are not eating poop."

There are no smelly burps either.

This is because the bacteria aren't released for a while.

By then they're well past the stomach.

Patients need to swallow a lot of pills: between 24 and 34.

One after the other.

The pills reach the large intestine, or colon.

Healthy bacteria are released.

Then they begin growing inside the body.

Louie has treated 27 patients.

All had at least four C-diff infections.

None got sick again after taking the poop pills.

One patient was 69-year-old Margaret Corbin.

She had a terrible C-diff infection.

It lasted for two whole years.

"It was horrible," she said.

"I thought I was dying.

I couldn't eat.

Every time I ate anything or drank water I was into the bathroom.

I never went anywhere, I stayed home all the time."

She took pills made by Louie two years ago.

"I've been perfectly fine since."

