Dairy farmer Ron Koetsier's 1,200 cows produce 90 tons of manure a day.

And for the past three decades, he has tried unsuccessfully to turn the stinky dung into energy to power his 450-acre farm in Visalia, Calif.

He installed a nearly $1 million renewable energy system in 1985 that used the methane from manure to create electricity for his farm.

In 2002, he replaced that system with newer technology.

But he hit a snag when air-quality standards called for expensive improvements to reduce air pollution.

He eventually shut down the system, in 2009.

However, in a few weeks, Koetsier's renewable-energy efforts will get a reboot.

A new company will replace his current system.

And that new system will meet strict air quality rules in the highly polluted San Joaquin Valley.

A decade or so ago, dozens of California dairy farmers built million-dollar systems called methane digesters.

Those digesters convert manure into power.

Then, unexpected pollution problems and state regulations got in the way.

Plus, farmers were not making much money from the digesters, so they gave up on the systems.

Only a handful are still in operation.

All that could be changing as renewable energy companies develop new ways of running digesters to boost profits.

They're improving technology to meet tough air quality rules.

At the same time, the state is trying out a simpler permitting process to help remove costly regulatory hurdles.

Koetsier will be the first dairy farmer to install a digester under the state's program.

He said he is optimistic that this go-around — his third try to make a system work — will finally pay off.

After hearing of the technological and other advances, he decided to "give it another whirl," Koetsier said.

State officials are pushing to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and that is causing electricity companies to pursue more renewable energy sources.

Manure is renewable as long as the cows keep chewing cud.

Experts say digesters show particular promise in California.

It's the top dairy-producing state in the country with 1.8 million cows.

"If these digesters run properly, they can reduce odors associated with manure, stabilize nitrogen and have a number of environmental benefits," said John Blue.

He's a climate change adviser for the California Environmental Protection Agency.

The systems "add to California's goal of renewable power generation.

We'd like to see dairy digesters as part of the mix."

One California renewable energy company, CH4 Power Inc., said it plans to build more than 40 digester systems over the next year.

It will begin building its first digester on Koetsier's dairy in the coming weeks.

Other companies are expected to follow.

But the challenge will be persuading weary dairy farmers to give digesters another try.

Especially after some tough years in the dairy business.

Dairy farmers have plenty of manure lying around to convert to energy.

A typical cow can produce as much as 150 pounds of dung daily.

That presents a continuing challenge for farmers to dispose of the waste and control the methane produced by decomposing manure.

Methane is a greenhouse gas.

Digesters seemed like the perfect solution only a few years ago.

Manure is fed into a digester, which extracts methane as the dung decomposes.

It removes impurities from the manure and burns it to produce energy.

But many farmers got in trouble over air pollution rules.

Their generators emitted nitrogen oxide, or NOx, which is part of smog.

Putting new parts into the digesters to cut down on pollution was expensive, costing about $150,000.

And it put additional strain on the engines that run the systems.

The current generation of digesters has improved technology.

That should solve the environmental concerns, experts said.

With those advances in mind, officials are trying to kick-start new projects.

They're turning to a simpler permitting program on the books since the mid-1990s but never used.

Ray Brewer, president of CH4 Power, drew Koetsier back to the digester concept.

He promised a new, possibly less risky way of doing business.

But, Koetsier won't run the operation.

Instead, CH4 will lease the land where the system will be installed and buy Koetsier's manure.

CH4 technicians will be able to monitor it remotely.

And they will be readily available if the system breaks down, Brewer said.

Brewer tested his system in other states, such as Wisconsin and Idaho.

Then he began shopping it around to California dairy farmers, who he said were very doubtful.

He eventually signed his first contract with Koetsier.

"Talk about apprehensive," Brewer remarked.

"That was a little bit of an understatement."

Brewer's business model lets farmers lease their land and sell their animals' waste to his company.

That seemed like less of a gamble, Koetsier said.

It's a model dairy farmers will be more comfortable with, according to the experts.

That way, a dairy operator can focus on producing milk, not running a small power plant.

"You have a lot of dairy farmers who put these things on and found themselves willy-nilly in the energy business," said Stacey Sullivan of Sustainable Conservation, a San Francisco environmental group.

"There are few people who have managed to make it work."

