Dairy farmer Ron Koetsier's 1,200 cows produce roughly 90 tons of manure each day.

And for the past three decades, he has tried unsuccessfully to turn the stinky dung into energy.

He wants to power his 450-acre farm in Visalia, Calif., using that energy.

He installed a nearly $1 million renewable energy system in 1985.

That system used the methane from manure to create electricity for his farm.

In 2002, he replaced that system with newer technology.

But he hit a snag.

New air-quality rules called for expensive fixes to reduce air pollution.

He eventually shut down the system, in 2009.

But in a few weeks, Koetsier's efforts will start again.

A new company will replace his current system.

His new system should meet strict clean air rules in the highly polluted San Joaquin Valley.

A decade or so ago, dozens of California dairy farmers built million-dollar systems called methane digesters.

Those digesters turn manure into power.

But there was unexpected pollution and legal problems.

Plus, farmers were hardly making any money from the systems.

Most of them gave up.

Only a handful are still in use.

All that could be changing.

Clean energy companies have developed new ways of running digesters to boost profits.

They're improving technology to meet tough smog-control rules.

At the same time, the state is trying to remove costly rules that could act as a roadblock to new digesters.

Koetsier will be the first dairy farmer to install a digester under the state's program.

He said he's positive that this time it will finally pay off.

After hearing of the improvements, he decided to "give it another whirl," Koetsier said.

State officials are pushing to reduce greenhouse gases, which contribute to climate change.

And that is causing power companies to pursue more renewable energy sources.

Experts say digesters show particular promise in California.

It's the top dairy-producing state with 1.8 million cows.

"If these digesters run properly, they can reduce odors associated with manure... and have a number of environmental benefits," said John Blue.

He's a climate change adviser for the California Environmental Protection Agency.

The systems "add to California's goal of renewable power generation.

We'd like to see dairy digesters as part of the mix."

One California renewable energy company, CH4 Power Inc., plans to build more than 40 digester systems over the next year.

It plans to build its first digester on Koetsier's dairy in the coming weeks.

Other firms are expected to follow.

The challenge is persuading dairy farmers to give digesters another try.

Especially after some tough years in the dairy business.

Dairy farmers have plenty of manure lying around to convert to energy.

A typical cow can produce as much as 150 pounds of dung daily.

That creates a challenge for farmers to dispose of waste.

They also must control the methane produced by decomposing manure.

Methane is a greenhouse gas.

Digesters seemed like the perfect solution only a few years ago.

Manure is fed into a digester.

The digester removes methane gas as the dung decomposes.

It burns the methane to produce energy.

But many farmers got in trouble with air pollution regulations.

Their generators put out nitrogen oxide, a gas which is part of smog.

The current generation of digesters has better technology.

And that should make them a lot less harmful to the environment, experts said.

With those advances in mind, state officials are trying to start new projects quickly.

Ray Brewer, president of CH4 Power, drew Koetsier back to the digester idea.

He promised a new, less risky way of doing business.

Koetsier won't run the operation.

Instead, CH4 will rent the land where the system will be installed, and buy Koetsier's manure.

CH4 will be able to keep an eye on the digester even without being on Koetsier's farm.

And the company will be available if it breaks down, Brewer said.

Brewer tested his system in other states.

Then he began shopping it around to California dairy farmers.

He said California farmers were very doubtful.

He eventually signed his first contract with Koetsier.

Brewer's business model lets farmers rent their land to his company.

Then they sell their animals' waste to CH4.

Power is then produced.

That seemed like less of a gamble, Koetsier said.

It's a model dairy farmers will be more comfortable with, experts said.

That way, a dairy operator can just focus on making milk, not running a small power plant.

