The poor smoke more than the rich.

They smoke for different reasons.

Lindell Harvey is poor.

He smokes because he's hungry.

"You smoke out of anxiety because you don't have the food you need," said Harvey, 54.

He lives alone in eastern Pennsylvania.

He is disabled and can't work.

He gets a little money from the Navy, where he used to work.

But even with that money, he is still very poor.

Harvey smokes cigarettes to get him through hard days.

"In my mind, the smoking becomes a comfort."

The poor are lacking in nearly everything important — food, jobs, health care, and a safe place to live.

But, they do have too much of one thing: Nicotine.

It's the chemical in tobacco.

Cigarettes are made of tobacco.

Nicotine causes people to become addicted to cigarettes.

Once a person becomes addicted, the body craves nicotine.

It is very difficult to resist the urge to smoke.

Philadelphia is the poorest of the 10 biggest U.S. cities.

It also has a high amount of smoking for a big city, according to a health department report.

In Philadelphia, smoking is more common among the poor than people who aren't poor, said Giridhar Mallya.

He works for the Philadelphia Department of Public Health.

Being poor can be very hard on a person's mind.

It is not easy to relax, or to feel positive.

People with more money can afford to get counseling for their problems.

The poor cannot, so they smoke to help themselves deal with their distress, Mallya said.

The poor may also smoke more because they often live in places with no grocery stores.

Instead, they shop at corner stores.

They see many cigarette ads in those types of stores, Mallya said.

Mariana Chilton teaches health at Drexel University.

She sees a link between smoking and poverty.

When you don't have money, it creates mental and emotional suffering, said Chilton.

She is an expert on hunger.

"One of the fastest, most convenient ways to help is a cigarette."

She says it may calm you down and keep you from hurting yourself or others.

Smoking is also a way to deal with hunger, Chilton said.

Families without enough to eat are more likely to smoke than families with plenty to eat, she said.

"Smoking treats hunger pangs," Chilton said.

"Instead of having lunch, mothers will feed their children, then smoke."

That's how it works for Elaine Styles, 51.

She's a day care worker who lost her job.

"I smoke so I don't have to eat," she said.

She makes sure her family eats something.

Then she smokes a 50-cent cigarette and goes straight to bed.

Because smoking is expensive, people ask aren't the poor being irresponsible for spending money on cigarettes?

Shouldn't they spend that money on food instead?

Poor smokers spend about one-sixth of what they make on cigarettes, Mallya said.

In Philadelphia, the average smoker spends about $1,000 a year on cigarettes.

Mallya says it is a shame that cigarettes in Philadelphia are cheap.

They cost about $5 to $6 a pack.

In other cities they cost more.

The more cigarettes cost, the fewer are smoked, he said.

Most poor people want to quit smoking, surveys show.

But poverty, combined with the power of nicotine, make stopping hard.

"People smoke knowing it is not good for them," said Frank Leone.

He runs a smoking treatment program at the University of Pennsylvania.

"Nicotine gets into the part of the brain stem that creates a sense of safety, comfort, warmth."

If you have to decide between buying bread or cigarettes, he says, your brain will tell you to just smoke.

