When you make popcorn in the microwave, something quite unique happens.

A kernel turning into a fluffy white treat actually goes through an exciting scientific transformation.

Many people do not understand that popping kernels is rather complicated.

Two researchers from France were fascinated by this process.

The popping of corn is a reminder that science applies to everything around us — even snack food.

Researchers Emmanuel Virot and Alexandre Ponomarenko used physics to study the phenomenon of popcorn popping.

They recently published a study on popcorn.

Until now, most research on popcorn has been focused on simple questions.

For example, chemists determined how much moisture a kernel needs to pop.

Other scientists studied the shape of kernels.

They found the ideal shape for an unpopped kernel is to be round.

Other researchers figured out how to reduce the number of kernels that don't pop in a batch of popcorn.

Virot and Ponomarenko aren't interested in improving the taste or experience of popcorn.

Instead, they wanted to know more about what causes popcorn to act and taste like it does.

They especially wanted to learn what makes popcorn jump and why it makes that pop-pop-pop sound.

The scientific name for popcorn is Zea mays everta and it is the only type of corn that pops.

Popcorn kernels are rounder than other corn kernels.

There is a thin layer, or hull, that covers the seed.

Inside the seed is the kernel's endosperm.

The endosperm is a starch that provides food (energy) for the living part of the kernel, known as the germ or embryo.

When the kernel gets very hot — above 100 degrees Celsius (212 degrees Fahrenheit) — the water inside hits its boiling point and turns to steam.

The steam creates a vapor that forces its way into the endosperm.

The endosperm melts into a thick substance, like bread dough.

The vapor puts pressure on the hull as the heat is increased.

Eventually, the hull cannot take the heat anymore.

The kernel has to explode.

The starch cools very quickly as soon as the kernel explodes.

It turns into a spongy white flake of popcorn.

After this popping process, the fluffy corn is twice as large as the original kernel.

Virot and Ponomarenko used high-speed cameras to capture this process very closely.

They used the cameras to observe kernels popping on a hot plate.

They turned the heat and placed a few kernels on the very hot surface.

The cameras took thousands of pictures every second.

It took them hundreds of tries to figure out what made the kernels jump.

At first, they thought the steam makes the kernel jump, but that turned out to be wrong.

They eventually discovered that a small "leg" pops out from the broken hull.

The leg kicks the kernel into the air.

When the leg is released, the popcorn moves like a gymnast somersaulting.

All of this happens very fast, in just one-fifteenth of a second.

After studying these small movements, the French team was able to conclude what temperature the kernels needs to pop.

They put kernels of microwaveable popcorn in an oven and turned up the temperature slowly.

Each time they cranked it up, the temperature increased 50 degrees.

Almost all of the kernels popped when the heat reached 180 degrees Celsius (356 degrees Fahrenheit) — no matter how big or small the kernel was.

Finally, they investigated why the popcorn makes the pop-pop-pop sound as it heats up.

They brainstormed three possible reasons for the noise.

They thought it happened when the hull cracked, when the kernel bounced after exploding, or when the water vapor was released.

To figure out the right answer, they used microphones to study when exactly the popcorn made the noise.

They put the microphones very close to the hot plate, and used the cameras as well.

There was no sound when the popcorn first opened, which told the researchers that the hull was not causing the noise.

Soon, they realized that the hull actually cracks twice.

They heard the pop noise 6 milliseconds after the second crack.

They used the process of elimination to conclude that the trigger for the popping sound was the release of water vapor.

At the end of a long day of experiments, the researchers would usually enjoy a snack of the popcorn they tested together.

