The head of the Catholic Church visited a dangerous slum on Thursday.

He told people living there that their government must do a better job of helping them.

The Church's new leader is Pope Francis.

He has 1.2 billion followers around the world.

The comments he made might cause a fuss.

But they were not surprising.

He is known for caring about fairness and the problems of the poor.

The [pope](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope) was speaking in the Varginha slum.

The crowd was soaked by rain as they listened to him.

They cheered when he told them to never give up working for more fairness in the world.

Varginha is a very poor and violent slum.The government has made things a little better to try to make people there less angry.

But the pope seemed to say the government needed to do more.

The pope spoke at a recently fixed up soccer field.

He said young people are "often disappointed by facts" that show people are putting "their own interests before the common good."

He told people not to get sad or loose hope.

"Situations can change, people can change."

The pope is a religious leader, not a political one.

But his message was political.

Protests spread across Brazil last month.

People were angry about government greed and dishonesty.

They complain the state is spending too much on sports events.

They say there are is not enough money for education and health care.

Going to the slum was probably the trickiest event in the pope's week in Brazil.

The trip was his first overseas journey since he began the job in March.

The pope was born in Argentina.

Both Brazil and Argentina are in South America.

Security and planning were complicated.

The recently paved streets inside the slum are narrow; large parts of the slum are destroyed.

The pope has many fans in the slum.

But the crowds are unpredictable.

Still, the visit seemed to go off without major problems.

"I'm so excited, I'm going to cry," Rosa dos Santos told reporters.

She was one of the people living in the slum who greeted the pope.

"This is really important for us," said office worker Milena de Souza.

"He's a representative of humility and caring and most importantly, true peace, which is something we need here.

Because of all the violence we've had here, hopefully, the pope can bless us."

The neighborhood of about 36,000 people was still getting cleaned up less than a day before the pope arrived.

Military police also have been out in full force for days.

Rita de Cassia said the only reason for the improvements was the pope's visit.

Francis traveled to the slum in a regular silver car, not a limo.

He then switched to an open-sided "popemobile" from which he waved at followers who swarmed the vehicle.

He kissed a few babies who were held up to him.

Government sharpshooters lined the route.

Hundreds of people waited in cold, steady rain for the pope to arrive.

Earlier in the day, he blessed some of Brazil's athletes.

The 2016 Olympic Games will take place in Brazil.

Varginha is built on old swampland.

It is one of several slums once run by drug lords.

Police have pushed them out or gotten them under control.

The government has put aside money for community centers, libraries and a train station.

But people in the slum say they have received more broken promises than actual help.

There are no sewers or garbage hauling.

They also complain that police treat everyone like a criminal.

Francis prayed at the chapel.

Then he went to a small home.

The walls were freshly painted and decorated with balloons in his honor.

The pope said he wanted to "be able to visit every district throughout the nation.

I would have liked to knock on every door, to say 'good morning.'

But Brazil is so vast!

It is impossible to knock on every door," he said.

And so, he added, the slum would represent "every district of Brazil."

