According to tradition, Jesus ate a Passover meal in the Cenacle, the room of the Last Supper, the night before his crucifixion.

But Christians aren't the only ones who revere the site.

On the first floor is a Jewish shrine to the Biblical King David, said to be buried in a crypt below.

The Cenacle's stained-glass windows are filled with Arabic calligraphy, evidence that it once housed a mosque.

A minaret rises from the top floor to the sky.

The Centacle, which means dinner in Latin, on Jerusalem's Mount Zion is a witness to the layers of religious history in Jerusalem.

The ancient building is also a modern example of the trouble competing faiths can cause.

On Monday, Pope Francis said Mass in the Cenacle on the last day of his whirlwind tour of the Holy Land.

The pope's visit followed weeks of protest rallies by ultra-Orthodox and ultra-Nationalist Jews, who fear a Roman Catholic effort to take control of the building.

That tension has been fueled by discussions between Israel and the Catholic Church over allowing regular Christian organized services in the Cenacle.

Although Christians can say private prayers there anytime, organized Christian prayers are usually held in the Cenacle only twice a year.

They take place on Pentecost, the 50th day after Easter, and on Maundy Thursday, the Thursday before Easter.

As a result, the area around the sacred building, which Jews call the Tomb of David, has become a religious minefield.

Christian clergy say they are facing rising hostility in the neighborhood.

"I've been spat at.

I've been cursed in the street," the Rev.

David Neuhaus, the Latin patriarch's vicar for Hebrew-speaking Catholics, told an Israeli radio station.

The Latin patriach is the title given to the Catholic Archbishop of Jerusalem.

"I think most Christians who walk around in traditional Christian garb have met with this kind of behavior."

Israeli officials say the notion that the Catholic Church will take control of the building is completely unfounded.

Yigal Palmo, Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, called it "a crazy conspiracy theory."

"We've been dealing with it for years and denying it time after time," Palmor said.

"We've been negotiating church prayers.

They want access for organized religious ritual, and it has nothing to do with property rights or ownership."

The building has been owned variously by the Catholic Church, the Muslim Ottoman Turks and Israel.

When Israel took control of Mount Zion in 1948, it kept the status quo, the traditional ownership and regulations governing Jerusalem's holy sites.

Under the logic of the status quo, any religion that tries to hold an extra prayer service is seen as making a claim.

Franciscan friar Alberto Joan Pari would like to see Christians be able to pray more regularly in the Cenacle, arguably where Christianity began.

It's where Jesus is said to have intoned the words— "This is my body" and "This is my blood" — on the night before his execution.

His words are used during the Consecration in the Mass.

"It's exciting.

It's very deep," Pari said of the Cenacle.

"If you think that everything started from here.

This is a place where you feel a lot of energy."

While little remains of the original room, Pari said one wall contained several bricks from the first structure dating back to the time of Jesus.

This past week, the room smelled of wet paint, evidence of last-minute improvements before the pope arrived.

Workers hosed down the cobbled streets outside, and several police officers watched over the site on both floors.

To enter, Pari rang a hidden doorbell.

If the doorbell was more prominent, he said, hostile neighbors would ring it day and night.

Just before Easter, Pari said, an Orthodox Jewish man threatened to kill him if he prayed in the Cenacle.

Jerusalem City Council member Arieh King sees things differently.

King is the chairman of the ultra-nationalist United Jerusalem party.

He arrived at David's Tomb on a motorcycle and wore a wide black biking jacket and a crocheted skullcap as he walked the grounds.

King said no one can argue with Judaism's historic connection to the land.

King pointed to a smooth paved courtyard.

Underneath, he said, were the tombs of David and several other ancient Jewish kings.

A doorway from the courtyard led to a small synagogue, where black-hatted religious men chanted Hebrew psalms.

If Christians got the right to hold regular services in the Upper Room, King said, religious Jews would not be able to pray there.

According to the most strict interpretation of Jewish law, it's forbidden to pray in the same space as "idol worshippers."

Some believe that includes Catholics, because a crucifix, a statue of Jesus on the cross, is present during Mass.

"Jews will not be able to pray here, and this is something no Jew can accept," King said.

Hana Bendcowsky is the program director for the Jerusalem Center for Jewish-Christian Relations, a group that fosters interfaith dialogue in the city.

She is worried about the atmosphere in the area over the last few months.

Posters warned that the pope was coming "to get the keys … and thus to pass the Tomb of David to the hands of the Christian Church."

In recent weeks, Jewish vandals have scrawled "King David for the Jews" and anti-Christian graffiti on the St. George Romanian Orthodox Church in Jerusalem and on the city's Notre Dame center, where the pope stayed.

Pari said he was a bit afraid of what will happen after the pope's visit.

"If I have a possibility to meet personally the pope, I will ask him to please pray for us," Pari said.

"Because when he leaves Israel the situation will change."

