Pope Francis is the mighty and much-loved leader of the Roman Catholic Church.

Later this month he is coming to New York City.

One of the spots he will visit is a block in East Harlem.

The block is certainly not fancy.

Rat poison signs are posted near a group of apartment buildings.

Dog poop dots the sidewalk on one end of the block.

It is all very different from some of the other places the pope will visit, such as St. Patrick's Cathedral.

Yet Francis has a good reason for coming to the area.

On Sept. 25 he will be dropping by Our Lady Queen of Angels School.

Most of the school's students come from poor families.

Most are immigrants whose families came from other countries.

They are exactly the kind of people the pope thinks most deserve a bit of help.

The pope has given many moving speeches about poverty and about the hardships immigrants face.

His visit to Our Lady Queen of Angels will help draw attention to those problems.

Our Lady Queen of Angels has 290 pupils, from prekindergarten to eighth grade.

While visiting the school, the pope will talk with a few students who were selected by lottery.

He will also meet with dozens of immigrants.

They will include several children who came to the United States on their own, without their parents.

The Vianel Beauty Salon sits right across the street from the school.

The hairdressers there hope the pope's visit will also draw attention to the closing of Our Lady Queen of Angels Church.

The church stands next to the school, but was shut down in 2007.

At the time, church leaders said too many of the church's members had moved away or died.

They decided it did not make sense to keep it open any longer.

The women at the salon would like to see the church reopen.

Lili Garcia was married in the church 54 years ago.

She said she missed the church and her husband, who died last year.

The pope's visit has brought back memories of how important the church was in her life.

"It is emotional for me," Garcia said of the pope's visit to her neighborhood.

Garcia has been getting ready for the visit for weeks.

She plans to post Spanish-language newspaper clippings about the pope on the walls and windows of the shop as the day of the visit draws near.

Vianel Garcia runs the beauty salon.

She and her mother, Amparo Duarte, plan to fly balloons outside the little shop on the big day.

They are also planning a party inside the salon for people hoping for a glimpse of the pope.

"I get goose bumps just thinking about it," Duarte said.

Not everyone on the block is excited, however.

Danny Sheeri works at a plumbing store a few doors up from the beauty salon.

He just shrugged when asked about the visit.

"I'm worried about business.

Why do I care about the pope?"

Sheeri said as he puffed on a cigarette.

However, Lili Garcia thinks the visit may be just what the neighborhood needs.

"I like that finally we have a pope who understands the people," she said.

She praised Francis for being humble and for helping the church change with the times.

"It's a big blessing to have the pope," Garcia said.

"We know we're going to have a lot of change.

We can feel it."

Duarte said various friends and relatives will be coming to stay with her at her apartment.

Their dream is to catch Francis' attention.

Perhaps they will be able to get him to cross the street to give them a blessing and maybe a hug.

If he does come over, they plan to offer him some delicious homemade chicken and rice.

