Pope Francis told people who live in a dangerous slum in Brazil on Thursday that their leaders must do a better job of helping them.

The comments might cause a fuss.

But they were in line with what the pope cares about most: social justice and reaching out to the poor.

Francis is the first person from the Americas to be named [pope](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope).

His role is to serve as spiritual leader to the world's 1.2 billion members of the Catholic Church.

The pope was speaking in the Varginha shantytown.

But he said he was making a case to public officials, those with more wealth and "all people of good will who are working for social justice."

The rain-soaked crowd cheered when he said told them to never give up working for a more fair world, where people stand together.

Varginha is a slum so poor and violent it is sometimes compared with a trouble spot in the Middle East.

The government has made small improvements to try to slow the people's anger.

But the pope seemed to be saying that such efforts were not enough.

"You have a particular sensitivity towards injustice" the pope said to the young people in the crowd at a recently fixed up soccer field.

"But you are often disappointed by facts" that show people are putting "their own interests before the common good."

He told the audience to not get discouraged or let their hope wear out.

"Situations can change, people can change," he said.

It was the most political message yet in the trip.

There were large protests across Brazil last month.

People were angry about government greed and dishonesty.

They complained the state is spending too much on sports events.

They demanded more money for education and health care.

Going to the slum was probably the trickiest event in the pope's week in Brazil.

The trip was his first overseas journey since his election in March.

It brought him to his native continent.

The pope was born in Argentina.

Security and planning were complicated.

The recently paved streets inside the slum are narrow; large parts of the slum are practically in ruins.

Even though the pope has many fans there, the crowds can be unpredictable.

Still, the visit seemed to go off without major problems.

"I'm so excited, I'm going to cry," Rosa dos Santos told reporters.

She was one of the residents who greeted the pope.

"This is really important for us," said office worker Milena de Souza.

"He's a representative of humility and caring and most importantly, true peace, which is something we need here.

Because of all the violence we've had here, hopefully, the pope can bless us."

The neighborhood of about 36,000 people was still getting cleaned up less than a day before the pope arrived.

Military police also have been out in full force for days.

Rita de Cassia said the only reason for the improvements was the pope's visit.

Francis traveled to the slum in a regular silver car, not a limo.

He then switched to an open-sided "popemobile" from which he waved at followers who swarmed the vehicle.

He kissed the occasional baby lifted up in his direction.

Government sharpshooters lined the route.

Hundreds of residents and visiting pilgrims waited in cold, steady rain for the pope to arrive.

Earlier in the day, he blessed some of Brazil's athletes.

The country will host the Olympic games in 2016.

Varginha is built on old swampland.

It is one of several slums that was once run by drug lords.

Police have pushed them out or gotten them under control.

The government has spent money on community centers, libraries and a train station.

But residents say they have received more broken promises than actual help.

There are no basic services like garbage hauling and sewers.

They also complain that police treat everyone like a criminal.

After praying at the chapel, Francis entered a small home.

The walls were freshly painted and decorated with balloons in his honor.

Pope Francis is known for his humble, simple ways.

They were on display in Varginha.

The pope said he wanted to "be able to visit every district throughout the nation.

I would have liked to knock on every door, to say 'good morning.'

But Brazil is so vast!

It is impossible to knock on every door," he said.

And so, he added, the slum would represent "every district of Brazil."

