Pope Benedict XVI stunned the world on Monday when he announced he is quitting.

The [pope](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope), who is the leader of the Roman Catholic Church, said he is too weak and tired to fulfill his duties.

It is the first time a pope has quit in 600 years.

Benedict, age 85, made the announcement at the church's headquarters in Rome, Italy.

He delivered the news to some high-ranking priests called cardinals.

Now, all eyes will be watching as the cardinals gather in Rome to choose a new spiritual leader.

Benedict's resignation was shocking because popes are given the job for life.

They are expected to serve until their dying breath.

The last pope to resign was Gregory XII in 1415.

He quit to help end a power struggle within the church.

The pope is important because he leads the world's 1.2 billion Catholics.

The church believes that the pope speaks for God.

He has the final word in all religious matters.

Benedict and the Catholic Church have faced many tough issues recently.

The worst was a worldwide child-abuse scandal involving priests.

Benedict apologized to the victims and created new policies to prevent future abuse.

But some critics said his changes did not go far enough.

Critics also say Benedict hurt religious harmony by making comments that angered Muslims and Jews.

But Benedict's admirers say he should be remembered as smart and caring.

They point to powerful essays he wrote about helping the world's poor.

Benedict resigned speaking in the ancient Latin language.

He told the cardinals that his mind and body were too weak to lead the church in "today's world."

Benedict has complained about many changes in modern life.

He is against gay marriage and does not approve of rock music.

Benedict became pope in 2005 after Pope John Paul II died.

John Paul served even after a disease robbed him of his speech and ability to walk.

The New York Times described Benedict as shy and bookish.

John Paul, in contrast, was comfortable in the spotlight.

He often spoke in stadiums full of devoted Catholics.

The Times pointed out that souvenir shops in Rome still sell more postcards of John Paul than of Benedict.

The Catholic Church is expected to declare John Paul a saint.

Benedict was born with the name Joseph Ratzinger in Germany in 1927.

His father was a police officer and his mother was a cook.

At age 12, he entered a training school for priests.

But World War II interrupted his studies.

The German army drafted him and for a short time he was a prisoner of war.

When the conflict ended, he was released and he resumed his training.

He became a priest in 1951.

Benedict was the name he took when he was elected pope.

Some called Benedict "God's Rottweiler."

This nickname refers to the German breed of guard dog known for its fearsome determination.

He earned it for his tough-minded, traditional views on modern issues.

For example, he doesn't believe priests should marry.

Nor does he believe women should become priests.

Vatican watchers say the next pope will probably share the same ideas.

But even if he thinks just like Benedict, the next pope may not look like him.

The Catholic Church is growing in Africa and Latin America.

Many believers say it is time for a pope who comes from one of those regions.

Two African cardinals and a Canadian cardinal are seen as possible choices.

Choosing a new pope is secret and mysterious.

All cardinals under the age of 80 gather in Rome to vote.

They are confined to church property and forbidden contact with the outside world.

The voting takes place in the famous Sistine Chapel.

Two-thirds of the cardinals must agree on a single candidate.

They write their choices on paper ballots, which are burned in a stove after each round of voting.

If black smoke appears from the chimney of the chapel, it means they could not agree.

They must keep voting, even if it takes a month or longer.

When white smoke appears from the chimney, it means an agreement was reached.

A new pope is named.

Church experts say there will be a new pope in time for Easter on March 31.

