Pope Benedict XVI stunned the world on Monday when he said he is quitting.

The [pope](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=pope), who is the leader of the Roman Catholic Church, said he is too frail for the role.

It is the first time a pope has quit in 600 years.

Benedict will turn 86 years old this spring.

He gave the news to some high-ranking priests called cardinals.

Now, all eyes will be watching the church headquarters in Rome, Italy.

That's where the cardinals will meet to choose a new pope.

Popes are expected to serve until their dying breath.

That is why it was so shocking when Benedict said he was quitting.

The last pope to resign was Gregory XII in 1415.

He quit to help end a power struggle within the church.

The pope is important because he leads the world's 1.2 billion Catholics.

The church believes that the pope speaks for God.

The pope has the final word in all religious matters.

Benedict and the Catholic Church have faced many tough issues recently.

The worst was a worldwide child-abuse scandal involving priests.

Benedict apologized to the victims.

He worked on preventing future abuse.

But some critics said his changes did not go far enough.

Critics also say Benedict hurt religious harmony.

They point to comments he made that angered Muslims and Jews.

But Benedict's admirers say he should be remembered as smart and caring.

They point to his powerful essays about helping the world's poor.

Benedict said his mind and body were too weak to lead the church in "today's world."

Benedict has complained about many changes in modern life.

For example, he is against gay marriage and doesn't approve of rock music.

Benedict became pope in 2005 after Pope John Paul II died.

John Paul served even after a disease robbed him of his speech and ability to walk.

The New York Times described Benedict as shy and bookish.

John Paul, in contrast, was comfortable in the spotlight.

He often spoke in stadiums full of Catholics.

The Times pointed out that souvenir shops in Rome still sell more postcards of John Paul than of Benedict.

The Catholic Church is expected to declare John Paul a saint.

Benedict was born with the name Joseph Ratzinger in Germany in 1927.

His father was a police officer and his mother was a cook.

At age 12, he entered a training school for priests.

But World War II interrupted his studies.

Like all teenage males, he was required to join the German army.

For a short time he was a prisoner of war.

When the war ended, he resumed his religious training.

In 1951 he became a priest.

Benedict was the name he chose when he was elected pope.

Some called Benedict "God's Rottweiler."

A Rottweiler is a German guard dog known for its fearsome determination.

Benedict earned this nickname for his tough-minded, traditional views.

For example, he doesn't believe priests should marry.

Nor does he think women should be priests.

Church experts say the next pope will probably share the same ideas.

But even if he thinks just like Benedict, the next pope may not look like him.

The Catholic Church is growing in Africa and Latin America.

Many believers say it is time for a pope who comes from one of those regions.

The possible choices include two African cardinals and a Canadian cardinal.

Choosing a new pope is a secret and mysterious process.

All cardinals under the age of 80 gather in Rome to vote.

They are confined to church property and forbidden contact with the outside world.

The voting takes place in the famous Sistine Chapel.

Two-thirds of the cardinals must  agree on a single candidate.

They write their choices on paper ballots, which are burned in a stove after each round of voting.

If black smoke appears from the chimney of the chapel, it means they could not agree.

They must keep voting, even if it takes a month or longer.

When white smoke appears from the chimney, it signals agreement.

The next pope is named.

Church experts say there should be a new pope by Easter.

