According to tradition, Jesus ate a Passover meal here at the Cenacle the night before his crucifixion.

But Christians aren't the only ones who revere the site on Jerusalem's Mount Zion.

On the first floor is a Jewish shrine to King David, who is said to be buried below.

The minaret of a former mosque rises from the top floor to the sky.

The ancient building is a witness to the layers of religious history in Jerusalem.

It is also a modern example of the trouble competing faiths can cause.

On Monday, Pope Francis said Mass in the room of the Last Supper, also called the Cenacle, on the last day of his tour of the Holy Land.

His visit followed weeks of protest rallies by ultra-Orthodox Jews.

They fear a Roman Catholic takeover of the building, which is also holy to them.

Christians may say private prayers in the Last Supper room.

But organized Catholic prayer services are usually held there only twice a year.

They take place on Pentecost, the 50th day after Easter, and on Maundy Thursday, the Thursday before Easter.

What sparked the protests were discussions between Israel and the Catholic Church over allowing more Catholic services in the Last Supper room.

As a result, the area around the sacred building has become a religious minefield.

Christian clergy say they face rising hostility in the neighborhood.

"I've been spat at.

I've been cursed in the street," said the Rev.

David Neuhaus, a priest with the Latin patriarchate.

Latin patriarch is the title given to the Catholic Archbishop of Jerusalem.

"I think most Christians who walk around in traditional Christian garb have met with this kind of behavior."

Israeli officials say the rumor that the Cenacle will be given to the Catholic Church is untrue.

Yigal Palmo, the Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman, called it "a crazy conspiracy theory."

"We've been dealing with it for years and denying it time after time," Palmor said.

"They want access for organized religious (services), and it has nothing to do with property rights or ownership."

The building was previously controlled by the Catholic Church and the Muslim Ottoman Empire, which set the twice-yearly Christian prayer schedule.

When Israel took control of Mount Zion in 1948, it made no changes.

Franciscan Friar Alberto Joan Pari would like Christians to be able to attend more regular services in the Cenacle, where Christianity arguably began.

That's where Jesus is believed to have said "This is my body" and "This is my blood."

His words are used during the Consecration at Mass.

"It's exciting.

It's very deep," Pari said of the room.

"If you think that everything started from here.

This is a place where you feel a lot of energy."

While little remains of the original room, Pari said one wall contained several bricks from the first structure.

The room smelled of wet paint from last-minute improvements before the pope's visit.

Workers hosed down the cobbled streets outside.

Several police officers watched over the site.

To enter, Pari rang a hidden doorbell.

If the doorbell was more obvious, he said, hostile neighbors would ring it day and night.

Just before Easter, Pari said, an Orthodox Jewish man threatened to kill him if he prayed in the Last Supper room.

Jerusalem City Council member Arieh King sees things differently.

King is the chairman of the United Jerusalem party.

He arrived at David's Tomb on a motorcycle and wore a wide black biking jacket and a crocheted skullcap.

King said Judaism has a historic connection to the land.

King pointed to a smooth paved courtyard.

Underneath, he said, were the tombs of David and several other ancient Jewish kings.

A doorway from the courtyard led to a small synagogue, where black-hatted men chant Hebrew psalms.

If Christians get the right to pray regularly in the upper room, it would become a church, he said.

Under the most strict interpretation of Jewish law, Jews would not be able to pray in the room below "Jews will not be able to pray here, and this is something no Jew can accept," he said.

Hana Bendcowsky is the program director for the Jerusalem Center for Jewish-Christian Relations.

She is worried about the atmosphere in the area over the last few months.

Posters warned that the pope was coming "to pass the Tomb of David to the hands of the Christian Church."

In recent weeks, Jewish troublemakers scrawled anti-Christian graffiti on a church, as well as on the city's Notre Dame of Jerusalem Center, where the pope stayed.

Pari said he was a bit afraid of what will happen after the pope's visit.

"If I have a possibility to meet personally the pope, I will ask him to please pray for us," Pari said.

"Because when he leaves Israel the situation will change."

