The East Harlem block that Pope Francis will visit deserves a blessing more than most places in New York City.

Rat poison signs are posted in the soil outside one of two housing projects that flank Francis' destination, Our Lady Queen of Angels School.

Remnants of dog walkers who failed to scoop dot the sidewalk on one end of the block.

Overall the scene is far from the splendor of St. Patrick's Cathedral or the hushed reverence of the Sept. 11 memorial, both of which the pope will also visit.

Our Lady Queen of Angels sits at the heart of a predominantly Latino and black neighborhood.

Francis chose to come to the school on Sept. 25 in large part because most of its students are immigrants and underprivileged.

They reflect the population that the pope, who is deeply concerned with poverty and the challenges of immigration, sees as most deserving of attention and assistance.

The area surrounding the school has been overlooked by the change that has spread across much of Harlem.

Depending on one's point of view, its unchanged character can be seen as a good or bad thing.

While much of Harlem has been revived and cleaned up, many longtime residents have been pushed out by rising rents.

The feel of many neighborhoods has changed as new, wealthier outsiders, often white, have moved in.

"That's why I liked this neighborhood — it wasn't like the new Harlem," said Sherwin Robinson, who moved onto the block a year and a half ago.

He will have a front-row seat to the papal visit from the steps of his brick apartment building directly across from the school.

Our Lady Queen of Angels is one of six Catholic elementary schools in Harlem and the South Bronx.

These days, Catholic schools — seen by Pope Francis as essential to his mission of serving the poor — are facing extraordinary challenges.

New York has lost more than 50 Catholic schools since 2011 because of shifts in population, competition from free, privately run charter schools, and other factors.

"I hope this changes the conversation about urban Catholic education in America," Kathleen Porter-Magee said of the papal visit.

Porter-Magee is superintendent at the Partnership for Inner-City Education, which manages Our Lady Queen of Angels and five other schools.

"I think the conversation in the last decade has been one of pessimism," with many thinking that schools closing was unavoidable, she said.

"I think we are really at a renaissance right now, where everybody, Catholic and non-Catholic alike, realizes these are institutions which serve a unique and important need.

I believe his visit will help shine a spotlight on them."

The Harlem school has 290 pupils, from prekindergarten to eighth grade, most of whom are from poor families.

At the Vianel Beauty Salon across the street, the women washing, coloring and styling their customers' hair hope the visit also shines a spotlight on the loss of Our Lady Queen of Angels Church, which operated adjacent to the school.

It was shuttered in 2007, and dozens more have been closed or merged with others since then in the face of diminishing congregations and other factors.

Lili Garcia was 17 when she married the love of her life, Junior, in the church 54 years ago.

On a recent afternoon, she was missing the church and her husband, who died a year ago.

Garcia held a black-and-white photograph of the wedding couple, she in a puffy white dress, Junior in a rented tuxedo.

She clutched it to her chest and wept.

"It is emotional for me," Garcia said of the papal visit to the neighborhood.

In addition to meeting a few pupils selected by lottery, Francis also will visit with dozens of refugees and immigrants while at Our Lady Queen of Angels.

They will include several youths who were among the wave of unaccompanied minors who have entered the United States.

Garcia and her friends who run Vianel have been planning for the visit for weeks.

Garcia pulled out a folder stuffed with Spanish-language newspaper clippings about Francis, which she plans to post on the walls and windows of the shop as the day of the visit draws near.

Vianel Garcia, who runs the salon, and her mother, Amparo Duarte, spoke of the balloons they planned to fly outside the little shop on the big day and of the party they planned in the salon for people hoping for a glimpse of the pontiff.

"I get goose bumps just thinking about it," Duarte said.

Not everyone on the block is caught up in papal excitement, however.

Danny Sheeri, who works at a plumbing store a few doors up from the beauty salon, just shrugged when asked about the visit.

"I'm worried about business — why do I care about the pope?"

Sheeri said as he puffed on a cigarette.

For Lili Garcia, though, the visit may be just what the neighborhood and its residents need.

"I like that finally we have a pope who understands the people," she said, peering out the salon window at the school and figuring out the best place to stand for the clearest views.

She praised Francis for being humble and for helping the church adapt to the times.

"It's a big blessing to have the pope," Garcia said.

"We know we're going to have a lot of change.

We can feel it."

Duarte said various friends and relatives will be coming to stay with her at her apartment.

Their dream is to catch Francis' attention and perhaps draw the famously sociable pontiff across the street for a blessing, maybe a hug or perhaps some Spanish-style chicken and rice.

