Here in California's Central Valley, a swirling flock of migrating shorebirds is swooping down and coming to a landing.

A recently flooded rice field is providing them with a new kind of pit stop.

Such spots are much needed these days.

California's drought is drastically reducing places where migrating birds can rest on their long journeys.

The new arrivals to the field — hundreds of them — are dowichers, a type of wading bird, says conservationist Greg Gulot.

The dowichers are some of the first birds to fly south in an annual migration that brings 350 species to California's Sacramento and San Joaquin valleys.

Millions of birds are currently heading south from the Arctic and subarctic.

Worryingly, California's drought has cut critical wetlands to as little as one-sixth of what would have been available in past years.

The field now filling with dowichers is one of the first to be used this fall under a new program of "pop-up" habitats.

Simply put, a habitat is the set of environmental conditions that provides what a species needs for its survival.

For countless migrating birds, wetlands are an essential habitat.

Conservationists are temporarily renting 14,000 acres from rice farmers.

They are flooding them just long enough to give the migrating birds the rest and food they need to survive their flights.

Within hours of workers flooding the field two weeks earlier, hundreds of migrating birds appeared.

"It was incredible," says biologist Simon Avery, a field monitor for the Nature Conservancy, which conceived and operates the pop-up rented wetlands, first tested last spring.

"The birds are flying high over our heads, and they see water and come down."

Ninety-five percent of California is currently experiencing severe drought.

As a result, wildlife refuge managers are warning that there could be major bird die-offs this fall and spring as waterfowl and shorebirds crowd too few acres of wetlands.

Pop-up wetlands are one of the few tools that conservationists and others have to help avert disaster.

Without the pop-up habitat, "it'd be impossible" to provide significant replacement for the hundreds of thousands of wetlands that have dried up, says Gulot.

"We would feel helpless."

The flocks landing in the pop-up wetlands are one of the few bright spots for wildlife in the state this fall.

A lush, wet winter in Canada and Alaska created prime breeding conditions for birds, meaning more birds than usual are coming to California wetlands.

At the Central Valley's Grassland ecological area — one of the largest continuous wetlands in the continental United States — manager Ric Ortega sees the extent of the drought crisis clearly.

He has been able to flood just 5,000 of the 30,000 acres he would normally have under water this time of year.

Water cutbacks mean his wetlands have received no water deliveries since January.

Tens of thousands of birds already are crowding into Grassland's one wet patch, making disease outbreaks a major worry.

Ortega is hoping to avoid the kind of outbreak seen at Northern California's Tule Lake National Wildlife Refuge, where at least 5,000 ducks have died.

At the San Luis National Wildlife Refuge near Los Banos, the water shortage means refuge manager Kim Forrest was unable to irrigate this year.

Migrating birds will find less swamp timothy, millet and other grasses to feed on.

Even before the drought, human development had destroyed 95 percent of the state's wetlands.

Rice farmers — who flood their fields in winter to let old, harvested rice stalks rot away — became essential substitute providers of wetlands.

Since the drought began, however, water cutbacks have hit them hard.

Normally, the state's rice farmers have 250,000 to 300,000 acres flooded in winter; this winter, as few as 50,000 acres may be flooded.

The Nature Conservancy's new program lets farmers submit bids to flood their fields in key migration periods — September to October, and February to March.

It is during those months that water habitat is expected to be especially needed.

Bird-tracking data and satellite photos are used to place pop-up wetlands where they will do the most good.

It was just that kind of careful study that led to the selection of the 5,000-acre Montna Farms, located outside Sacramento Valley's Yuba City.

This week, farm manager Jon Munger was pushing to get fields harvested, prepared and flooded again by the next day.

Least sandpipers and greater yellowleg migratory shorebirds stood alongside dirt irrigation ditches, waiting for the fields to fill.

In two weeks, Munger said, there will be thousands of birds, swimming, resting and hunting bugs.

Without these fields providing a rare strip of wetlands, the birds would have a hard time getting "the weight and feed and energy they need to keep moving on," he said.

"That's what's worrisome about this year."

