The humble white potato has lately been at the center of a rollicking debate.

Congress is pushing hard to get the spuds included in the WIC program.

Founded 40 years ago, WIC provides food for low-income women who are pregnant or breast-feeding, and their infants and children.

Senators and members of the House of Representatives say it is their right to get involved.

Doctors, nutritionists and others accuse Congress of improperly imposing itself on nutrition science.

The WIC program provides coupons that help feed poor women and children.

Known as vouchers, these coupons can only be used to buy certain foods, such as milk, eggs and bread.

Each item's inclusion is based on medical research into the particular needs of the people who use WIC.

Five years ago, WIC began to include fruits and vegetables.

White potatoes were left out.

That's not because potatoes aren't considered healthy enough, according to the Department of Agriculture (USDA), which runs WIC.

Rather, it is because the 8.7 million women and children covered by WIC already eat enough white potatoes.

Saying that the exclusion makes potatoes look unhealthy, the National Potato Council has been pushing members of Congress to speak out.

It has been approaching both Democrats and Republicans, many of them from potato-growing states.

This same group, with the help of Congress, took on the Obama administration in 2011 when the president wanted to limit potatoes in school lunches.

In the end, the group was successful in forcing the president to back down.

Mark Szymanski, spokesman for the council, said the decision to leave out the potato is not "founded in good nutritional science or common sense."

The Department of Agriculture, he said, "is singling out one item from the entire food basket."

It is saying, "Do not eat this because it's somehow lacking."

Senator Susan Collins, a Republican from the potato-growing state of Maine, praised the crop.

The potato, she said, contains a lot of potassium, which is "important for pregnant women and new mothers."

Meanwhile, nearly 100 health and science organizations have joined to ask Congress to stay out of scientific matters.

Among them are the American Pediatric Association, the American Medical Association, the National PTA and the March of Dimes.

Congress should not interfere with "science-based rules regarding the federal child nutrition programs," the organizations wrote.

Last Tuesday, around 100 doctors went to Capitol Hill to urge Congress to back away from potatoes.

WIC officials, meanwhile, are furious.

"The National Potato Council has declared war on WIC," said the Reverend Douglas Greenaway, president of WIC.

"I would call it nothing more than industrial greed.

This is all just a public relations battle on the part of the potato industry."

Campaigners on behalf of the poor say Congress is going too far.

Congress has never before interfered in this way, based on pressure from an industry, said Julie Zaebst of the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger.

"It's just ridiculous."

Zaebst said she worries that Congress is setting a dangerous example.

She fears that what is happening now may encourage other industries to push for "foods that wouldn't help families."

White potatoes themselves pose a problem, said dietitian Chelsea Anderson.

White potatoes don't offer as many health benefits as other vegetables, she said.

Another problem, she added, is that there are "not a lot of healthy ways people prepare them."

Doctor Hans Kersten agreed, saying, "I often hear women say french fries are their favorite vegetable."

White potatoes need not be villainized, said nutritionist Alison Ventura, who sees things a little differently.

"They're a very healthy part of a diet," she said.

Nonetheless, she added, "young children's diets are much higher in french fries" than they should be.

