Lately, a fierce fight has been raging over something very humble: the white potato.

The government is pushing hard to get the potato included in a food program.

The program is known as WIC.

It provides food to poor mothers and their young children.

Senators and members of Congress say it is their right to get involved.

Doctors and others say the government is behaving improperly.

They say the government shouldn't try to make decisions about things that are best decided by science.

The WIC program provides extra food to those who need it.

However, mothers are only allowed to buy certain foods.

Those foods are the ones considered to be the healthiest for pregnant women and young children.

Among them are such things as milk, eggs and bread.

Five years ago, WIC began to include fruits and vegetables in the list of what mothers could buy.

White potatoes were left out.

That's not because potatoes aren't considered healthy enough, WIC says.

It's because most people already eat enough white potatoes.

The National Potato Council objects to this reasoning.

It claims that leaving potatoes out makes them look unhealthy.

The council has been pushing the government to speak out.

It has been approaching both Democrats and Republicans.

Many of whom come from potato-growing states.

The council took on President Obama in 2011 when he wanted to limit potatoes in school lunches.

It managed to get the president to back down.

Mark Szymanski is a spokesman for the council.

The decision to leave out the potato, he says, is not based on "science or common sense."

WIC, he said, is unfairly "singling out" one food.

It is saying, "Do not eat this," because somehow the food isn't good enough.

Senator Susan Collins, from the potato-growing state of Maine, praised the crop.

The potato, she said, contains a lot of potassium.

This mineral is "important for pregnant women and new mothers."

Meanwhile, nearly 100 health and science groups have joined together to ask the government to stay away from the decision.

Last Tuesday, about 100 doctors went to Washington, D.C.

They told the government to back away from potatoes.

WIC officials, meanwhile, are furious.

"The National Potato Council has declared war on WIC," said Douglas Greenaway, president of WIC.

The real reason for the fight, he said, is that potato growers want to make more money.

It's all nothing but simple "greed."

Campaigners for the poor say the government is going too far.

Julie Zaebst works for the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger.

Congress, she said, has never before interfered in this way.

What makes it worse, she added, is that it is doing it to help potato growers, not mothers and children.

"It's just ridiculous."

Zaebst said she worries that the government is setting a dangerous example.

She fears that other businesses will see an opportunity.

Soon, they too may start to push for "foods that wouldn't help families."

As for the potato, it's not just that people are already getting enough.

According to food expert Chelsea Anderson, white potatoes aren't that good a food.

White potatoes don't offer as many health benefits as other vegetables, she said.

There's another problem as well, she added: the way people cook potatoes.

There are "not a lot of healthy ways people prepare them."

Doctor Hans Kersten agrees.

"I often hear women say french fries are their favorite vegetable," he said.

Some food experts do defend white potatoes.

Alison Ventura is one.

White potatoes are "very healthy," Ventura said.

Still, she added, kids _do_ eat way too many french fries.

