The humble white potato has lately been at the center of a fierce fight.

The government is pushing hard to get the potato included in the WIC program.

WIC provides food to poor mothers and their young children.

Senators and members of Congress say it is their right to get involved.

Doctors and others say the government is behaving improperly.

They say Congress should not make decisions about matters that are best determined by science.

The WIC program provides extra food to those who need it.

However, mothers are only allowed to buy certain foods, such as milk, eggs and bread.

These foods are the ones considered the healthiest for pregnant women and young children.

Five years ago, WIC began to include fruits and vegetables.

White potatoes were left out.

That's not because potatoes aren't considered healthy enough, WIC says.

Rather, it's because most people already eat enough white potatoes.

The National Potato Council objects to this reasoning.

It claims that leaving potatoes out makes them look unhealthy.

The council has been pushing members of Congress to speak out.

It has been approaching both Democrats and Republicans, many of them from potato-growing states.

This same group, with the help of Congress, took on President Obama in 2011 when he wanted to limit potatoes in school lunches.

The group got the president to back down.

Mark Szymanski is a spokesman for the council.

The decision to leave out the potato, he says, is not based on good "science or common sense."

WIC, he said, "is singling out one item from the entire food basket."

It is saying, "Do not eat this because it's somehow lacking."

Senator Susan Collins, from the potato-growing state of Maine, praised the crop.

The potato, she said, contains a lot of potassium.

This mineral is "important for pregnant women and new mothers."

Meanwhile, nearly 100 health and science groups have joined together to ask Congress to stay out of the potato fight.

Last Tuesday, around 100 doctors went to Washington, D.C.

They urged Congress to back away from potatoes.

WIC officials, meanwhile, are furious.

"The National Potato Council has declared war on WIC," said Douglas Greenaway, president of WIC.

The real reason for the fight, he said, is that potato growers want to make more money.

It's all nothing but simple "greed" on their part.

Campaigners for the poor say Congress is going too far.

Congress has never before interfered in this way, said Julie Zaebst of the Greater Philadelphia Coalition Against Hunger.

What makes it worse, she added, is that Congress is doing it to help potato growers, not mothers and children.

"It's just ridiculous."

Zaebst said she worries that Congress is setting a dangerous example.

She fears that other businesses may soon start to push for "foods that wouldn't help families."

As for the potato, it's not just that most people already get enough of them.

According to food expert Chelsea Anderson, white potatoes aren't really that good a food.

White potatoes don't offer as many health benefits as other vegetables, she said.

Another problem, she added, is that there are "not a lot of healthy ways people prepare them."

Doctor Hans Kersten agrees.

"I often hear women say french fries are their favorite vegetable," he said.

Some food experts, like Alison Ventura, defend white potatoes.

"They're a very healthy part of a diet," she said.

Still, she added, "young children's diets are much higher in french fries" than they should be.

