President Barack Obama addressed the nation on Tuesday, urging people to "turn the page."

He argued that his presidency was bringing on a new era of smart leadership and a growing wealth for the country.

He said it was time to put the days of money troubles, terrorism and long wars behind the country.

"It's now up to us to choose who we want to be over the next 15 years, and for decades to come," Obama said in his State of the Union speech.

Obama, a Democrat, was speaking to a Congress controlled by Republicans for the first time in his presidency.

But although they often disagree, Obama made it clear that he would not change his plans to suit Republicans.

Instead, Obama was proposing higher taxes on wealthy Americans.

The money from the taxes would be used to help the middle class.

Middle class Americans would pay fewer taxes.

It would also be easier for them to go to college because community college would be free.

But key elements of the president's proposals for laws seem unlikely to pass in Congress.

It seemed that he was also focused on creating a plan for Democrats to use in the 2016 election.

He was also trying to sell the story that his government's plans had caused the economy to grow and jobs to be created.

"The verdict is clear," Obama said.

"Middle class economics works.

Expanding opportunity works.

And these policies will continue to work, as long as politics don't get in the way."

New Iowa Senator Joni Ernst, gave the Republican response.

She called for cooperation, too.

But Ernst still disagreed with Obama in many ways.

She mentioned that many Americans suffer with no hope of higher pay, and many still have no jobs.

Ernst said Obama's solutions often led to "failed policies like Obamacare," speaking of the law making health care available to all Americans.

While the president's address was mainly focused on national issues, he also talked about two of his recent political actions overseas.

President Obama mentioned his decision to change the United States' relationship with Cuba.

The U.S. has forbid any business with the communist country for more than 50 years.

People from the United States could not visit Cuba or buy Cuban-made goods.

Now, President Obama wants to change these rules.

He also discussed the need to fight the Islamic State, an extremist group that has taken over parts of Iraq and Syria.

The group has also been called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

It wants to set up its own country governed by Islamic law.

The centerpiece of the president's address was a plan to tax wealthy people and banks more.

Much of the new taxes and fees would be used to make life more affordable for the middle class.

Some families would have to pay less in taxes if both parents work.

Others would get to pay less in taxes if they hire a babysitter or caretaker for their children.

A $60 billion program would make community college free.

Obama is also asking lawmakers to give workers more vacation time or sick days.

And he's used his presidential powers to try to help young adults be able to buy homes.

More people have jobs than at any other time during Obama's presidency.

But Republican Mitch McConnell, a senator from Kentucky, said Obama's plans were not going to pass Congress and become laws.

McConnell, the majority leader in the Senate, urged Obama to work with Republicans to fix existing government programs, not just propose tax increases.

Republicans want to fix Medicare and Social Security, which provide health care and money to retired people.

They also seek to balance the budget, so that the government doesn't spend more than it has.

Both the White House and Republicans used their guest lists for Tuesday's speech to put a human face on their points of view.

Among those scheduled to sit with First Lady Michelle Obama were Chelsey Davis, a student from Tennessee who plans to graduate from a community college in May; Dr. Pranav Shetty, who has been working on the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and Alan Gross, who was released from a Cuban prison last month as part of Obama's decision to open up trade and business with the communist nation.

Speaker of the House John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio, announced that his guest would be Jorge Luis García Pérez, who spent 17 years in a Cuban prison for opposing the country's communist government.

Florida Republican Senator Macro Rubio brought a well-known Cuban dissident's daughter.

Cuban dissidents, who have opposed the Cuban government, do not approve of Obama's desire to end the trade ban with Cuba.

Obama wants Congress to lift the decades-long trade ban on Cuba.

Administration officials admit they don't think it can happen quickly.

The morning after the State of the Union, Obama was headed to Idaho and Kansas.

He is visiting the mostly Republican states to promote his plans for his seventh year in office.

