Cierra Schell was limping down the Appalachian Trail after nine days of backpacking.

The soon-to-be junior at Philadelphia's School of the Future was suffering, but she was so proud.

"This is ridiculous," she said.

"I feel dirty.

My feet got blisters all over.

But it was worth it.

I reached my breaking point yesterday.

I fell.

I didn't want to get up, but I did it for my team.

So we could reach camp and get some sleep.

I felt I couldn't go on, but I pushed myself past that, and I made it."

She had never seen a mountain, much less climbed one.

She had gone nine days without a shower.

"I don't even smell myself anymore," she said.

Cierra hobbled into the Visitors Center at the Delaware Water Gap and dropped her 40-pound pack.

The next part of her two-week adventure would be in a canoe.

Cierra and 19 other city high school juniors were recently sent into the wilderness, in two groups, by a program called Summer Search.

This trip was the first big step in a five-year effort to push these teens to see and achieve lives they never imagined possible.

"I live in a really bad neighborhood," Frank King, 15, said, "and before I didn't really care for other people.

But seeing people cry, and seeing the girls struggle, I liked helping them."

Frank was what the camp counselors called a "rock star," meaning that he became a leader who worked hard to keep the group together.

Mickai Mercer, 15, melted down.

"Sleeping under a tarp with four people I don't even know, it was hard for me," he said.

"I cried.

I lashed out.

I screamed at everyone.

People would pick on me and make it worse."

He continued, "After a while, we just all started to get along."

The counselors running the program helped Mikai see that if he stayed upbeat and kept good thoughts, then he would have good results.

"I really started to change.

I'm not afraid of bugs anymore.

I'm happy and I'm actually really having fun."

At home, Sarah Kone didn't tell anybody when she was angry.

But in camp, at night, her feelings spilled out.

She was encouraged to tell others if they had been mean or selfish.

And she got results – they worked it out.

"For the first time I feel like I can talk," she said.

"I think this trip is going to change me forever."

Summer Search serves 2,000 teens every year.

The mission is to help poor people living in cities succeed.

The program would like to help teens living in poverty get on a path that leads them toward college and success.

Summer Search is based on the idea that how a person acts in everyday life can lead to success.

Grades and test scores are important, but not the only way to tell if someone is going to be successful.

Amanda Jefferson works at Summer Search in Philadelphia.

She says that the program can't undo 10 years of bad education.

But the program can teach kids how to push through life with a good attitude.

She says kids from Philadelphia are at a greater risk than those from Summer Search offices elsewhere.

In Philadelphia, children of poor parents are more likely to become poor adults, she says.

"One in seven of our kids have a family member in jail," she said.

"I could count on one hand the number of black boys in our program who have a dad at home."

Teachers suggest students who they think would benefit from Summer Search.

Teens are chosen during their second year of high school.

Their first big adventure is a trip like this one.

The second summer they go on more challenging trips, often overseas.

They have weekly conversations with adults who help them.

They receive support until they are done with college.

In Philadelphia, half of the first Summer Search class graduated from college.

Jefferson said that now more than half are on track to finish college.

Jefferson admits that 35 students is but a tiny fraction of the city's students.

"It's all about the ripple effect," she said.

Summer Search is spending a lot of time and effort on a small number of kids.

"What effect is that going to have on their school, their family, their community?

I always say to my kids, 'Yes we want you to be a college graduate.

But we also want you to be a good dad, a good husband.'

That's where you're going to break the cycle."

