Cierra Schell just finished her ninth day of backpacking on a mountain.

She was limping.

She was in pain, too, but so proud of it.

"This is ridiculous," she said.

"I feel dirty.

My feet got blisters all over.

But it was worth it."

Cierra is a high school student.

She had never seen a mountain before this trip.

Climbing one was unthinkable.

"I reached my breaking point yesterday," she said.

"I fell.

I didn't want to get up, but I did it for my team.

So we could reach camp and get some sleep."

"I felt I couldn't go on," Cierra added.

"But I pushed myself past that, and I made it."

Cierra and 19 other high school students from Philadelphia recently went into the wilderness for two weeks.

They were sent in two groups by a program called Summer Search.

This trip was a big step.

It was the start of a five-year effort to push the teens do things they never imagined possible.

"I live in a really bad neighborhood," Frank King, 15, said.

"Before I didn't really care for other people.

But seeing people cry, and seeing the girls struggle, I liked helping them."

Frank was what camp counselors called a "rock star."

He became a leader who worked hard to keep the group working together.

Mickai Mercer, 15, melted down.

"Sleeping under a tarp with four people I don't even know, it was hard for me," he said.

"I cried.

I lashed out.

I screamed at everyone.

People would pick on me and make it worse."

But things changed.

"After a while," he continued, "we just all started to get along."

The counselors running the program helped Mikai see that if he stayed upbeat and kept good thoughts, then he would have good results.

"I really started to change.

I'm not afraid of bugs anymore.

I'm happy and I'm actually really having fun."

Summer Search helps 2,000 teens every year.

The mission is to help poor teens living in cities succeed.

The program would like to help teens living in poverty get on a path that leads them toward college.

Summer Search is based on the idea that how a person acts in everyday life can lead to success.

Amanda Jefferson works at Summer Search in Philadelphia.

She says that the program can't undo 10 years of a bad education.

But they can teach kids how to push through life.

She says kids from Philadelphia are more likely to fail than kids from other places.

"One in seven of our kids have a family member in jail," she said.

"I could count on one hand the number of black boys in our program that have a dad at home."

Teachers name students whom they think would be helped by the program.

Teens are chosen during their second year of high school.

Their first big adventure is a trip like this one.

The second summer they often go on more challenging trips.

Some even go to other countries.

During the year, they have weekly conversations with adults who guide them.

They receive support until they are done with college.

In Philadelphia, half of the first Summer Search class finished college.

Jefferson said that now even more teens in the program are on track to complete college.

Summer search is putting a lot of time and effort on a small number of kids,  Jefferson said.

"And what effect is that going to have on their school, their family, their community?"

She always tells her kids that she wants them to finish college, but to be a good person too.

"That's where you're going to break the cycle" of poverty, she said.

For Sarah Kone, telling people how she felt was hard.

But now after the Summer Search wilderness trip she can talk about her feelings.

She was encouraged to tell others if they had been mean or selfish.

And she got results.

They worked it out.

"For the first time I feel like I can talk," she said.

"I think this trip is going to change me forever."

