In January 1964, President Lyndon Johnson called for a War on Poverty in the United States.

Millions of Americans have been helped since.

But many of the states that were among the poorest all those years ago still are today.

Almost a quarter of families were considered poor in 1959.

But families in some states were in much worse shape than others.

More than half of the families in Mississippi were below the poverty line.

That is the least amount of money that people need to live on.

The official line was annual pay of $2,973 for a family of four in 1959.

That is like making $23,800 a year today.

In 2012, one out of every seven families was in poverty.

That's a big improvement from 1959.

But Stateline found that some states are still much worse off.

Many are the same states that had problems in 1959.

Mississippi still has the nation's highest poverty levels.

But now, less than a quarter of the state's families are poor.

In some areas, the reasons for poverty today are the same as they were many years ago, experts say.

Workers in these areas are less educated.

Fewer people have health care.

They live far away from big cities.

They don't get help from anti-poverty programs.

"You have these persistently poor regions," said James P. Ziliak.

He studies poverty.

Some states that were better off in 1959 remain so today.

In 1959, only one out of every 10 families in Connecticut was poor.

It was the only state that low.

In 2012, it was about the same.

But it was no longer the lowest in the nation.

That was New Hampshire, with just one out of every 12 families in poverty.

Other states have seen big improvements.

Minnesota is an example.

In 1959, one out of every five families was poor there.

Today, it's improved to one out of every 10.

Stateline looked at poverty information from 1960, 1970 and 1980.

The government's official poverty numbers only look at how much money a family makes.

It doesn't take into account how much things cost, such as food and housing.

That cost is a lot different from state to state.

The poverty numbers also don't include how much government programs can help a family.

Some of those programs came from the War on Poverty.

The government has started to use a new measure of looking at poverty which includes how much things cost.

It also looks at how much government help families get.

Some states with low official levels of poverty have higher levels under the new measure.

California has a high cost of living.

So the new measure shows it as the state with the highest level of poverty.

The South is still home to the largest share of poor Americans.

In 1959, nearly four out of 10 families living in Louisiana and Georgia were poor.

Those states continue to have high levels of poverty today.

A few things could explain why.

Fewer people under 65 in those states have health care than in most states.

Both states also have slightly lower education levels than the national average.

But some of the states that were poorest in 1959 appear much better under the newer measure.

This shows how government programs can keep families above the poverty line.

Mississippi's had the worst levels of poverty in 2012.

One out of every five families was poor under the old measure.

But that falls to one out of every six under the new measure.

New Mexico and Arkansas both had the same kinds of improvement.

Poverty experts and supporters of the government "safety net" think they know why.

They say it is because of programs that give families extra money.

These include food stamps, which were part of the War on Poverty.

