New numbers show government programs help many Americans from being poor.

The government often counts the number of poor people.

The new count shows that programs such as welfare and food stamps keep some people from poverty.

Welfare gives money to poor people.

Food stamps can be used by the poor to buy groceries.

Social Security money is given to older people when they stop working.

The study found that without it, half of the elderly would be poor.

The new numbers look at how much poor people make.

The government said that a family of four making $23,624 a year in 2013 was poor.

The new numbers add in how much people get from programs like welfare and food stamps.

The new numbers also look at the difference in costs around the country.

Some areas are more expensive.

Families living in expensive areas can have more money than $23,624 but still be poor.

Officially, almost 46 million Americans are counted as poor.

The new numbers show there are more, almost 48 million poor people.

Thirteen states and the District of Columbia found there are more poor people when they used the new numbers.

California had the biggest difference.

In 26 other states, the number of poor people went down.

The numbers show how much the different programs help.

They calculate how many people in each state would be poor if they did not get help from the programs.

School lunch programs also helped keep children from poverty.

Even small programs helped.

The Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program pays each family about $500 to help pay electric and heating bills.

It made a dent, too.

Tax breaks give money to working people.

The Earned Income Tax Credit reduces taxes for workers.

In Mississippi, each person received $2,817 on average.

That compared to the average of $2,300 for the whole country.

Residents of Vermont got the least, just under $1,900 each.

How much government programs help depends on how many people get them.

Last year, almost one in four residents of West Virginia got Social Security.

In Alaska, only one in 10 residents got Social Security.

