Growing up poor is not easy.

Fruits and vegetables are expensive, so healthy food can be hard to come by.

Many poor children live in unsafe neighborhoods.

Their parents struggle to earn enough money to get by.

They tend to be stressed and worry often.

Children growing up in these conditions face many challenges as a result.

Being poor makes it more likely that a child will struggle in school.

A new study published this week looks at how growing up poor affects children.

The study shows that poverty can harm the growth of children's brains.

It also found that harming the growth of the brain makes it harder to succeed in school.

The study was performed by Seth Pollak.

He is a psychologist at the University of Wisconsin.

A psychologist studies people's brains.

The study included 389 people.

They ranged in age from 4 to 22.

Some of them came from poor families, while others came from families with more money.

Pollack examined the size of certain areas of the brains of the people in the study.

To do so, he used a machine called an MRI scanner.

An MRI scanner uses magnetic fields and radio waves to make pictures of the body.

He then compared the brains of the people in the study who grew up in poor families with the brains of those who did not.

A family of four was considered poor if they lived on $24,250 or less each year.

The results of the study were clear.

The brains of children growing up in poverty were different.

Some areas of the brain were not as fully grown.

For example, Pollack found that the brains of children who grew up in poor families had less gray matter than the brains of the other children.

Gray matter is an important material that makes up the brain.

There were no differences between the brains of children from middle-class and rich families.

Only the brains of poor children showed differences.

In other words, growing up rich does not mean more brain growth.

But growing up poor can keep the brain from growing fully.

Pollak hoped to see the brain differences disappear as children grew older and spent more time in school and outside their homes.

He hoped that the brains of poor children would end up looking like everyone else's.

This is not what he found, however.

His study shows that the brains of people who grow up poor still look different at age 22.

Pollak also looked at how the boys and girls in the study were doing in school.

He found that children who grew up poor tended to struggle more.

Pollak thinks that poverty harmed the children's brain growth.

When the brain does not grow fully, schoolwork can be more difficult.

"This was an important study," says Joan Luby.

She is a doctor at the Washington University School of Medicine in Saint Louis, Missouri.

Luby says that the study helps explain the link between poverty and success in school.

With a better understanding of this link, it may be possible to do more for children growing up poor.

Programs, like free lunches for students, might help children growing up poor.

The programs could improve children's health, and may also give them better opportunities to succeed.

In future studies, Pollak hopes to look at some of the programs that support children growing up poor.

He is interested to learn how these programs affect children's health.

Pollak says that he now thinks of poverty as a health problem.

