In January 1964, President Lyndon Johnson called for a War on Poverty in the United States.

Millions of Americans have been helped since.

But many of the states that were among the poorest all those years ago are still poor today.

Almost a quarter of the families in the average state were considered poor in 1959, but some states were in much worse shape than others.

More than half of the families in Mississippi were below the poverty line.

The poverty line is the least amount of money that people need to live on.

The official line was an yearly income of $2,973 for a family of four in 1959, which is like making $23,800 a year today.

In fifteen states, about one-third of families were in poverty.

By 2012, just one out of every seven families was in poverty.

The current poverty line is an income of less than $23,492 for a family of four.

Stateline found that some states are still much worse off.

Many are the same problem states from 1959.

Mississippi still has the nation's highest poverty rate.

But now it is at less than a quarter of families.

Arkansas also remains above average.

In some areas, the reasons for poverty today are the same as they were many years ago, experts say.

Workers in these areas are less educated.

Fewer people have health care.

They live far away from big cities.

They don't get help from anti-poverty programs.

"You have these persistently poor regions," said James P. Ziliak.

He runs the Center for Poverty Research at the University of Kentucky.

"There has been some catch-up over the decades," Ziliak said.

"It just hasn't been enough."

Some states that were better off in 1959 remain so today.

In 1959, only one out of every 10 families in Connecticut was poor.

It was the only state that low.

And in 2012, it's still about the same.

But, it is no longer lowest in the nation.

New Hampshire is, with just one out of every 12 families is in poverty.

Other states have seen a big improvement.

Minnesota is one example.

In 1959, one out of every five families was poor there.

Today it's improved to one out of every 10.

The government's official poverty numbers are based just on pay.

It doesn't take into account how much things cost, including food and housing.

That cost is a lot different from state to state.

The poverty numbers also don't not show how much government programs can help a family's bottom line.

Some of those programs came from the War on Poverty.

There is a different measure of poverty the government has started to use.

It includes how much things cost and how much government help is available.

Nationally, this measure shows similar poverty numbers.

But some states with low official numbers have higher ones under the new measure.

California has a high cost of living, so the new measure places it as the state with the highest poverty rate.

One study shows that the South is still home to the largest share of poor Americans.

In 1959, nearly four out of 10 families living in Louisiana and Georgia were poor.

Those states continue to have high levels today.

A few things could explain why: Both states are among those with the fewest people under 65 that have health care.

Both states also have slightly lower education levels than the national average, says the government.

On the other hand, some of the states that were poorest in 1959 appear much better under the newer measure.

This shows how government programs can keep families above the poverty line.

Mississippi had the worst levels of poverty in 2012.

One out of every five families was poor under the old measure.

But that falls to one out of every six under the new measure.

New Mexico and Arkansas both had the same kinds of improvement.

Poverty experts and supporters of the government safety net give credit to programs that help family incomes.

The government, for example, has said 5 million more Americans would have been considered poor in 2012 without food stamps.

Food stamps were part of the War on Poverty.

"We're doing the best we can to fight poverty, and we're doing a pretty good job," said Timothy Smeeding of the University of Wisconsin.

He says that discussions about the War on Poverty should concentrate on the broader measure and benefits of the safety net.

