Some of the poorest people in the United States live in states with the lowest overall poverty rates.

Stateline.org news organization said it discovered this after analyzing poverty numbers released last week by the U.S. Census Bureau, the government agency that collects information on Americans and the economy.

It found that some states with the lowest poverty rates in 2013 also had some of the highest percentages of low-income residents living in deep poverty.

The poverty line was $23,550 a year for a family of four in 2013.

Deep poverty was defined as a family of four living on only $12,000.

The persistence of deep poverty in rich states is a huge problem, experts say.

Maryland is just one example.

In 2013, 20.6 percent of Americans were living at, below, or just above the federal poverty line, living on roughly $23,000 to $30,000 a year.

In Maryland, the poverty rate was just 13.3 percent, the third-lowest percentage in the U.S.

However, nearly 38 percent of Maryland's low-income residents were living in deep poverty.

Neighboring Washington, D.C., was the only place with a higher percentage of people living deep poverty.

Experts see several possible explanations for the difference.

Some point to areas of poverty in rural western Maryland, which are far from jobs and anti-poverty programs.

Others think it is because of the large numbers of extremely poor people concentrated in certain areas of Baltimore.

A recent Brookings Institution study found more than 1 in 10 of the city's poor residents live in areas where the overall poverty rate tops 40 percent.

The situation is familiar to Bill McCarthy, who runs Catholic Charities of Baltimore.

McCarthy described areas of Baltimore where more than 90 percent of people live in poverty and many residents are homeless.

In some parts of the city, more than 70 percent of people are unemployed.

Many of them have criminal records that make it difficult for them to find jobs.

In those cases, he said, the traditional programs for getting people out of poverty don't work that well.

They help in the short run, but don't bring "real change to people," McCarthy said.

For some people, traditional anti-poverty programs aren't enough.

Among these programs are food stamp programs, which give food to poor people, and other benefits, like unemployment pay — money given to people who are out of a job.

Yet, some of the poorest people in Baltimore are homeless and don't have an address where they can receive unemployment checks.

Other states are experiencing similar problems.

About 14.5 percent of people in Hawaii live in poverty, the fifth lowest in the country, but nearly 37 percent of them live in deep poverty.

Hawaii is an extremely expensive state.

Food and housing there have very high costs, which makes the poverty problem worse.

Nationally, about 34 percent of poor people live in deep poverty.

Vermont has the lowest percentage, at 26.3 percent.

Half of Americans who are stuck in deep poverty are younger than 25 years old, according to a report from the Urban Institute.

More than a third of those are younger than 17.

To help poor children, the government and organizations provide free or reduced-price lunches in schools, health care and extra food for their families.

Reaching childless adults in deep poverty can be more difficult.

Many programs are limited to parents, or are tied to work.

Just 4 percent of deeply poor people older than 16 worked full time for the full year of the Urban Institute's study.

About 75 percent didn't work at all in that year.

"Most people in poverty are working," said Elizabeth Lower-Basch of the Center for Law and Social Policy, a poverty research group.

People in deep poverty, though, tend to be out of work or don't have a steady job, she said.

Many of the deeply poor struggle with problems that make it difficult to find work, including family violence and mental illness.

This is especially significant in Washington, D.C., where nearly 45 percent of low-income residents live in deep poverty.

Support isn't always there for people who struggle with these problems, said Jenny Reed of the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute.

"It's really hard to get a job if you don't have a place to go at night," she said.

"It's sort of a circular problem.

It's very difficult for people who are in deep poverty to start to climb out."

Yet some say that any help for poor people that doesn't emphasize work and being self-sufficient is doomed to fail.

They argue that the key to reducing poverty is to require that people work or get job training in order to receive money and government support.

Rachel Sheffield is with the conservative Heritage Foundation.

She said the country has a huge system for helping poor people but it hasn't helped them get jobs so they be truly independent.

