Programs such as food stamps and welfare help keep Americans out of poverty, says a new government report.

Welfare gives money to poor people and food stamps let the poor buy groceries.

Social Security money is given to older people when they stop working.

The study found that without Social Security, half of the elderly would be poor.

Instead, with Social Security, just 15 percent of elderly are poor.

A family of four making $23,624 a year in 2013 was considered poor, based only on how much they earn as income.

The government's Supplemental Poverty Measure adds in how much all of the government programs are worth.

It adjusts for the value of programs such as welfare, Social Security and food stamps.

The Supplemental Poverty Measure also adds in the costs of living in different parts of the country.

A family with more money can still be poor if they live in a more expensive area, because of high rents and home costs.

Officially, almost 46 million Americans are considered poor.

The new numbers show there are more.

Almost 48 million people live in poverty when using the Supplemental Poverty Measure.

Thirteen states and the District of Columbia were poorer when they used the adjusted numbers.

California had the biggest difference; it was followed by Hawaii, New Jersey and Florida.

In 26 other states, the number of poor people went down.

The numbers show how much the different programs help poor people.

They calculate how much of the state's population would be poor without those benefits.

For example, the percentage of Americans in poverty would be nine percentage points higher without Social Security.

National school lunch programs also help keep children out of poverty.

Even small programs helped, such as the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program.

It pays families about $500 on average to help with power and heating bills.

Tax breaks are also a powerful help against poverty.

The Earned Income Tax Credit reduces taxes that people pay to the government.

The credit added up to more than $65 billion last year.

Mississippi residents got an average of $2,817 in tax credits in 2013, much more than the average of $2,300 for the whole country.

People in Vermont got the least, just under $1,900.

The effect of benefits on a state's poverty rate depends on how many people get them.

Last year, almost one in four residents of West Virginia got Social Security.

In Alaska, only one in 10 residents got Social Security.

The benefits of food stamps also vary by state.

In Mississippi, a large share of the population received food stamps, but in Wyoming few people do.

