Some of the poorest people in the United States live in the richest states.

The Stateline.org news organization discovered this by studying a new government poverty report.

Stateline.org looked closely at rich states like Hawaii, Maryland and Massachusetts.

They have low percentages of poverty.

For every 100 people in those states, only a small number are poor.

Yet, some states with the lowest percentage of poor people have high levels of very poor people.

It is hard to notice because there are two types of poverty.

There is poverty and deep poverty.

In 2013, a family of four living on $23,550 a year was called poor.

A family of four living on only $12,000 was called deeply poor.

Some experts say the high numbers of deeply poor people in rich states is a huge problem.

Maryland is one example.

In 2013, about one of out five American families were near the poverty line.

They lived on $23,000 to $30,000 a year for a family of four.

Maryland had the third lowest percentage of poverty in the U.S. One out of seven families in Maryland was poor.

Yet, more than one-third of the poor people there were deeply poor.

Washington, D.C., is next door to Maryland.

It was the only place with even more deep poverty.

There could be several reasons.

Some experts say that poor areas in the Maryland countryside are too far from jobs and programs that fight poverty.

Other experts have a different explanation.

They say many deeply poor people live in the same areas of Baltimore.

Bill McCarthy runs Catholic Charities of Baltimore.

McCarthy said in some neighborhoods in Baltimore, nine out of 10 people are poor.

In these areas, seven out of 10 people don't have jobs.

Many people living there have committed crimes.

Businesses don't want to hire them.

McCarthy said most programs for getting people out of poverty don't work well there.

They help for a while, McCarthy said.

Yet, they don't bring "real change to people."

For one thing, some of the poorest people in Baltimore are homeless.

They don't have an address where money to live on can be sent.

Other states have the same problem.

Hawaii has the fifth lowest poverty level in the United States.

However, it is the sixth highest for poor people living in deep poverty.

Food and homes are very expensive in Hawaii.

The high cost of living there makes the problem worse.

Across the U.S., about one out of every three poor people live in deep poverty.

Half of the Americans stuck in deep poverty are younger than 25 years old.

More than a third of them are younger than 17.

The government and charities give health care and school lunches to help them.

Reaching adults in deep poverty is more difficult.

Many programs are only for parents.

Others are connected to jobs.

"Most people in poverty are working," said Elizabeth Lower-Basch.

She is with the Center for Law and Social Policy, which fights poverty.

People in deep poverty are often out of work or don't have a full-time job, she said.

"It's really hard to get a job if you don't have a place to go at night," said Jenny Reed.

She is with the D.C. Fiscal Policy Institute.

"It's very difficult for people who are in deep poverty to start to climb out."

Some say that programs that do not help people find jobs will fail.

They say poor people should work or learn job skills if they want help.

Rachel Sheffield is with the Heritage Foundation.

She said government programs have not helped people get jobs so they can support themselves.

