Top predators are large animals, such as lions or great white sharks, that hunt smaller animals, but have no natural enemies of their own — except humans.

Overhunting and overfishing of top predators has been called humanity's biggest impact on nature.

It is as harmful in the sea as it is on land.

Top predators are at the top of food chains.

Food chains can be thought of as a series of levels, with each level dependent on the next for food.

An ocean food chain starts with many plants and tiny animals like shrimp.

Small fish eat those and bigger fish eat those smaller fish.

Top predators help control the populations at lower levels.

This keeps all the ocean life in balance.

People generally prefer eating larger predatory fish like grouper, tuna, swordfish and sharks, rather than species lower on the food chain, such as anchovies and sardines.

Their preference strongly encourages fishermen to focus on catching the bigger fish.

The result is something called "fishing down the food web."

Fishermen go after the more valuable predators first.

They fish them until there aren't enough left to support fishing and then move on to species lower in the food chain.

New research shows just how severely predatory fish populations have declined worldwide since modern, large-scale fishing began.

Scientists analyzed food webs involving more than 3,000 ocean species.

Their results show that since the beginning of the 20th century, humans have reduced predatory fish populations by more than two-thirds.

Most of this alarming decline has occurred since the 1970s.

Many predatory fish species are known to be in trouble.

Twelve percent of grouper, 11 percent of tuna and billfish and 24 percent of shark and ray species are considered to be threatened with extinction.

These population declines involve much more than losing a supply of fish that humans like to eat.

Predators keep other ocean life in balance.

Their loss can cause ripple effects throughout the entire ocean.

For example, kelp-eating sea urchins have been growing in number due to the loss of predators that eat urchins.

The result has been the destruction of kelp forests, which are home to many unique and economically important species.

Predators play an important part in maintaining the ocean's health, says professor Villy Christensen, co-author of the new study.

Declines in their population can be very difficult to reverse.

When we've seen big declines in the populations of the larger fish, Christensen says, "it has taken many decades for them to rebuild."

In the United States this gloomy picture has started to improve, thanks to careful fisheries management.

Thirty-four fish stocks — local populations of fish of the same species — have been declared rebuilt since the year 2000.

Overall, more than 90 percent of U.S. fish stocks are not considered overfished.

Worldwide, though, almost 30 percent of fish stocks are overfished.

"The main problem is really in the developing countries where we need more effective institutions for fisheries management," says Christensen.

"We need to get effective management introduced in all countries," or we will see very serious consequences.

The new study adds important information to the global debate on how many fish we should be taking from the oceans.

It shows that when it comes to many species of predatory fish, we have been fishing far too heavily.

More needs to be done internationally to restore predatory fish populations.

Fishing quotas for many species need to be reduced and existing quotas need to be enforced.

Only by taking these steps can we ensure that we will have healthy populations of these fish — and healthy oceans — in the future.

