Top predators are large animals, like lions or great white sharks, that hunt smaller animals, but have no natural enemies.

Humans are their only real predator.

Some have called the decline in the numbers of top predators mankind's biggest effect on nature.

Their disappearance is as harmful in the sea as it is on land.

Top predators are at the top of food chains.

Food chains can be thought of as a series of levels.

Each level relies on the one below for food.

An ocean food chain starts with plant life.

Tiny animals like shrimp eat those, small fish eat the shrimp, and bigger fish eat those smaller fish.

Each level helps control the populations at the lower levels, keeping all the ocean life in balance.

People generally prefer eating larger predatory fish like grouper, tuna, swordfish and sharks.

They are usually less interested in species lower on the food chain, such as anchovies and sardines.

Fishermen try to catch the fish people most like to eat, because these are worth more money.

Naturally, then, they go after the bigger fish.

The result is something called "fishing down the food web."

Fishermen go after the more valuable predators first.

They fish them until there aren't enough left and then move on to species lower in the food chain.

A new study shows there has been a severe decline in predatory fish populations.

Scientists studied food webs involving more than 3,000 ocean species.

Their results show an alarming decline.

Since the beginning of the 20th century, humans have reduced predatory fish populations by more than two-thirds.

Most of this decline has occurred since the 1970s.

Many predatory fish species are known to be in trouble, and some are in danger of dying out altogether.

Much more is involved than losing a supply of fish people like to eat.

Predators keep other ocean life in balance.

Their loss can cause ripple effects that affect the entire ocean.

For example, kelp-eating sea urchins have been growing in number due to the loss of predators that eat urchins.

The result has been the destruction of kelp forests, which are home to many important species.

Professor Villy Christensen is the co-author of the new study.

Predators, he says, play an important part in maintaining the ocean's health.

Declines in their population can be very difficult to reverse.

When we've seen big declines in the populations of the larger fish in the past, Christensen says, it has taken many years to build back their numbers.

In the United States this gloomy picture has started to improve.

The improvement is due to careful management of fishing.

Fishermen are only allowed to catch a certain number of particular kinds of fish within a given period of time.

The number they are allowed to catch is known as a quota.

Thirty-four U.S. fish stocks — local populations of fish of the same species — have been rebuilt since the year 2000.

Overall, more than 90 percent of U.S. fish stocks are not considered overfished.

Worldwide, though, the picture is not as good.

Almost 30 percent of the world's fish stocks are overfished.

The main problem, Christensen says, is that some parts of the world are still not regulating fishing enough.

Careful management must be introduced in all countries.

Otherwise, he says, we will see very serious problems.

Christensen's new study helps us understand how many fish can safely be taken from the ocean.

It shows that when it comes to many predatory fish, we have been fishing far too heavily.

To restore predatory fish populations internationally, more need to be done.

Fishermen need to be held strictly to the quotas that already exist and quotas for many species need to be reduced.

Taking these steps is the only way to have healthy populations of predatory fish.

We need them around if we are to have healthy oceans in the future.

