Miami is one of the largest and most modern cities in the United States.

But, right in the middle of it is an ancient [Native American](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) village.

Scientists who study humans from the past, called archaeologists, discovered it.

Months of digging leg to the discovery.

A parking lot had covered up the village.

Archaeologists say the village is probably one of the most significant early sites in the United States.

The archaeologists carefully dug up eight large circles.

The circles contain holes carved into stone.

Archaeologists believe these holes formed the base for Tequesta Indian homes.

Posts were put into the holes.

Homes were built on top.

The village is believed to be 2,000 years old.

Rows of hundreds of such postholes have been discovered.

They stretch across the site.

Archaeologist Bob Carr is in charge of the dig.

He says he believes that the postholes supported other structures.

It's possible the Tequesta made boardwalks connecting their homes.

A rocky area lies by the village site.

Carr's team says it marks the original shoreline where Biscayne Bay and the Miami River met.

That spot was filled up by soil long ago.

"What's unusual and unique about the site is that it's this huge chunk of land where a major part of this ancient Tequesta village site is preserved,'' Carr said.

He says it's one of the earliest city plans in eastern North America.

The finds have created a problem, however.

The Tequesta village site is on an empty city block.

A company called MDM Development Group owns it.

The group plans to build movie theaters, restaurants and a hotel there.

The city of Miami approved MDM's plan, called the Met Square project.

But, the city has not allowed construction to start.

When the plan was approved, little was known about the site.

Since then, thousands of Tequesta artifacts have been found.

Bones and shell tools are among them.

Some Florida officials want to save the archaeological site.

But, the Met Square project would need changing.

MDM says it would cost a lot of money.

The developer has offered to carve out one or two of the larger circles.

They're in limestone on the site.

The circles would be displayed in a public square.

Carr is paid by MDM.

By law, the company has to pay for the archaeological dig.

Carr has suggested to MDM that as much as possible of the site be saved.

"If you have a necklace filled with pearls, what makes it valuable is its entirety, not four or five pearls,'' Carr said.

MDM knew the site was inside an archaeological zone when it bought it 10 years ago.

Carr and other archaeologists suspected it was once part of a Tequesta village.

Burial grounds found nearby made it likely something would be there.

In 1998, postholes were discovered nearby by Carr.

The old postholes are opposite the newly discovered Tequesta village site.

Archaeologists figured that they were from a Tequesta council house or ceremonial building.

Like the Tequesta village, it was built 2,000 years ago.

The city's historic preservation board is in charge of archaeological sites.

It will decide what to do about the Tequesta site.

Some people want to turn the site into an exhibit.

State officials say it might become a National Historic Landmark, like the Statue of Liberty.

Yet, the site is important for more than just the Tequesta village.

Carr's team has found other artifacts there.

Two building were later constructed on top of the village.

A well and artifacts from Fort Dallas have been found.

The military fort was used during the Seminole Indian wars in the mid-1800s.

Remains of the 1897 Royal Palm Hotel were also discovered.

The Palm led to the founding of the city of Miami.

"It's extremely important,'' said city preservation board member Gerald Marston of the site.

"If they gave it a name, it's the birthplace of Miami.''

