The little boy in a bright-green shirt tightly holds onto a sandwich bag and asks, "Can you open this for me?"

He hands the bag to the elderly man seated to his right.

"Sure I can, buddy," says 92-year-old David Carriere.

The man's wrinkled hands reach for the bag and slowly tear at the opening.

Now happy, the little boy starts stuffing sandwiches into the bag.

"I haven't worked with him in a while," Carriere says.

"He's smart."

Carriere is an elderly man who lives at Providence Mount St. Vincent retirement home in West Seattle.

It is also known as "the Mount."

Retirement homes are a place for elderly or older people.

One Friday, a group of elderly people and some children packed sack lunches for the homeless.

It is one of many activities that bring elderly and young people together.

The program is run by the Intergenerational Learning Center, or ILC.

It is a day care center located inside a retirement home for older people.

Children come to the ILC five days a week.

The children's ages are from 6 weeks to 5 years old.

They interact with older people who live at the Mount.

Their average age is 92.

The activities they do together include music, art and story time.

Charlene Boyd, who runs the Mount, says the ILC was developed 23 years ago.

"We wanted this to be a place where people come to live, not come to die," Boyd said.

She says interacting with children cheers up the older people.

It also helps young children learn about the good and bad parts of aging.

"It's normal for someone to use a wheelchair or a walker, and that's just part of life," Boyd said.

"These kids see that every day, and they're not afraid."

The ILC has become a popular program.

Currently, there are 125 students in the day care center.

It has a waiting list of 2-1/2 years.

Eileen Hirami has taught at the center for 13 years.

She says the children learn to respect older people.

She says sometimes it's joyful and sometimes it's stressful, but they try to grow together.

Ryan Smith, Charlene Boyd's son, was one of the first children enrolled in the day care center.

Now he is 23 years old.

He says the program made him want to help others.

Not long ago, Smith finished school at Washington State University.

He is studying to become a firefighter.

He says the program had a big effect on his life.

"It made me more aware of my surroundings and of elderly people."

Eileen McCloskey plans activities for the older people who live at the Mount.

She says the older people's "eyes light up" when they talk to the children.

"You just step back and let this magic happen," McClosky said.

Victor Warkentin has two children in the program.

They are ages 2 and 5.

He thinks the center has had a big effect on the way his kids see the world.

He says it has helped them solve problems and take new chances.

Not long ago, Warkentin and his family moved from West Seattle to Issaquah, Washington.

He has to drive a longer time to get to the ILC.

Still, he continues to make the trip for his children.

"It's worth it to me," he said.

"I haven't found anything that comes close."

