In less than two months, President Barack Obama will choose the spot for his library.

He will keep documents from his presidency there.

The University of Chicago wants to put the library in a public park.

But people in Chicago fought over the plan.

There was a battle over the land in the park.

It was not the first time a president's library was at the center of a fight.

In Texas, people fought Texas A&amp;M University.

The school had planned to move a pig farm to make way for the George H.W.

Bush presidential library.

In Georgia, people protested President Jimmy Carter's library.

A road was going to be built through a park so people could drive to the library.

People tied themselves to trees to try to stop the construction.

The University of Chicago was in a similar fight.

It planned to build the library on 20 acres in either Washington Park or Jackson Park in Chicago.

The plan made some people angry.

They didn't want the library to be built in the park.

Other people wanted the library because it would bring jobs to the area.

The Chicago Park District approved the plan last week.

It said the city would be in charge of the 20 acres, but only if the University of Chicago was chosen by Obama to host his library.

The University of Chicago was seen as the most likely spot for Obama's library.

The president is from Chicago.

The problem was that the university did not own the land it wanted to build the library on.

Benjamin Hufbauer wrote a book about presidential libraries.

He said a battle like this is normal.

There is a long history of land fights involving presidential libraries.

The library building in Chicago would only take a small piece of land.

The rest would be saved as open space.

Some people said the fight made the university look bad.

It might lead to another university getting the Obama library.

Three other universities are in the running.

President Bill Clinton also had trouble with his park.

Little Rock, Arkansas, wanted to build the Clinton library.

The city wanted some land on the edge of downtown where there were some unused buildings.

The owner of the land argued against the library.

He refused to give up his property.

It was right in the middle of where the library was supposed to go.

In the end, the owner lost.

Chicago's 350-acre Washington Park is special.

It was designed by the famous park builder Frederick Law Olmsted.

But Chicago isn't the only city where there has been a fight over an Olmsted park.

When Jimmy Carter was about to build his library in the 1980s, people were upset.

To get to his library, he wanted to build a road through Olmsted Linear Park in Atlanta, Georgia.

People did not like the idea.

"The original plan would have completely ruined the park," said Jennifer Richardson.

She lives in Atlanta and took part in the protests.

In the end, the Carter library was built, but the highway ended at the park.

