In less than two months, President Barack Obama will choose the location for a library where he will store documents from his presidency.

People in Chicago were fighting over a plan to place it in a public park.

It was not the first time that a presidential library has been at the center of a battle over land.

In College Station, Texas, people fought against having one at Texas A&amp;M University.

The university had planned to move a pig farm to make way for the George H.W.

Bush presidential library.

In Atlanta, Georgia, people tied themselves to trees and laid down in front of bulldozers.

They wanted to stop a two-lane highway to President Jimmy Carter's library at the top of a hill in a park.

The University of Chicago found itself in a similar fight.

Its plan was to build the Obama library on 20 acres in either Washington Park or Jackson Park.

Some Chicago residents got angry about it.

Last week, the Chicago Park District approved the plan.

It allows the transfer of parkland to the city's control.

However, this will only happen if the University of Chicago is chosen to get Obama's library.

Some people saw the University of Chicago as the most likely spot for Obama's library.

But the university planned to build the library on land it did not own.

Some said that maybe the university blew its chance.

"It's often tricky finding real estate and making it all work," said Benjamin Hufbauer.

He is the author of a book about presidential libraries.

The university's plan to use land in a park isn't the only one to have troubles.

There is a long history of land fights involving presidential libraries, Hufbauer said.

The library building in Chicago would take up 3 to 5 acres of parkland.

The rest would be preserved as open space.

If the university is selected to host the library, the Obamas would decide whether to build it in Washington Park or Jackson Park in Woodlawn.

There was a lot of disagreement over the plan.

People who wanted to keep the park the way it is have threatened to sue the city.

In general, people who live in the Washington Park and Woodlawn neighborhoods like the plan.

They see it as a way to bring more jobs to the area.

Some people said the fight has made the university look bad.

It makes the school's biggest rival, Columbia University of New York, look like a better fit for the library.

The University of Illinois at Chicago remains in the running to build the library on the Near West Side, as does the University of Hawaii, which wants to build it in Honolulu.

In Little Rock, officials argued over the meaning of a park.

The city had plans to build President Bill Clinton's library on the edge of downtown.

The problem was, there were already some unused warehouses there.

This sparked a court battle that lasted nearly five years.

The city argued that it could just take the private land, make it into a park, and then build a library for Clinton.

Gene Pfeifer, who owned some of the land, disagreed.

He refused to give up his property.

It was right in the middle of where the library was supposed to go.

The argument went to court.

The court decided to allow the city to take the property.

Chicago's 350-acre Washington Park is a special park.

It was made by the famous designer Frederick Law Olmsted.

Chicago isn't the only city where a fight has been waged over a park built by Olmsted.

When Jimmy Carter was about to build his library in the 1980s, people fought about it, too.

He wanted to build a roadway through Olmsted Linear Park in Atlanta.

The two-lane highway would wind through the park and circle the Carter library.

The library was on top of the hill where Union General William Sherman watched Atlanta burn during the Civil War.

"The original plan would have completely ruined the park," said Jennifer Richardson, an Atlanta resident who participated in the protests.

The case was in the courts for more than 12 years.

In the end, the Carter library was built, but the highway ended at the park.

