The little boy in a bright-green shirt tightly grips a sandwich bag and asks, "Can you open this for me?"

He thrusts the bag at the elderly man seated to his right.

"Sure I can, buddy," says 92-year-old David Carriere as his weathered hands reach for the bag and slowly tear at the opening.

Satisfied, the little boy starts stuffing sandwiches into the bag.

"I haven't worked with him in a while," Carriere says.

"He's smart."

Carriere is a senior citizen who lives at Providence Mount St. Vincent retirement home in West Seattle, a place that's also known as "the Mount."

On a recent Friday, a group of older people and some youngsters are packing sack lunches that will be delivered to the homeless.

It's one of many projects that bring the elderly and the young together through the Intergenerational Learning Center (ILC), a day care inside the retirement home.

Five days a week, children ages 6 weeks to 5 years old interact with the Mount's residents, whose average age is 92.

Activities range from musical hour to story time to art classes.

Charlene Boyd, who runs the Mount, says the ILC was developed 23 years ago "as a way to further the center's mission of developing community and making the last years of life "meaningful, life-affirming and engaging."

"We wanted this to be a place where people come to live, not come to die," Boyd said.

In 1991, Boyd was part of the team that decided to open a day care at the Mount, an idea that she and others thought would add to the "community" that the Mount strives to cultivate.

"To make from the beginning of life to the end of life the best years of life, "Boyd says.

"Linking that full circle."

Boyd says interacting with children cheers up the older residents.

It also helps young children learn about the good and bad parts of aging.

"It's normal for someone to use a wheelchair or a walker, and that's just part of life," Boyd said.

"It's not out of sight, out of mind.

It's right here.

These kids see that every day, and they're not afraid."

Donna Butts runs "Generations United," a national group that believes in mixing up the generations so they can learn from each other.

She says the idea has been around for about 25 years and has many benefits.

Older adults involved in the programs tend to be happier, have more friends, better memories and take better care of themselves, Butts says.

For young people, extra attention from an older adult helps improve social skills and reduces fear of aging.

Indeed, the ILC has proved to be a popular program.

Currently, there are 125 students in the day care center, which has a waiting list of 2-1/2 years.

People who work at the center believe the mixing of the generations helps children, even outside of the classroom.

Eileen Hirami, who has taught there for 13 years, says it makes children more "emotionally aware."

"From the time you're a baby to the time you die, you're an individual who wants to be recognized and respected," Hirami said.

She says the children start to understand this through their daily interactions with different age groups.

They have relationships, not only with residents of the Mount, but with teachers and adult and teenage volunteers.

Ryan Smith, the son of administrator Charlene Boyd, was one of the first children enrolled in the day care.

Now 23, he credits the program with instilling his "need to help people."

Smith recently graduated from Washington State University and is studying to become a firefighter.

"Looking back now, I think it's had a big impact on my life," Smith said.

"It made me more aware of my surroundings and of elderly people."

Eileen McCloskey, an activities director for some of the residents, says it is unlike any other long-term-care environment she has ever worked in.

"You heard all this life," McCloskey remembers of her first ILC event.

"There was a joyous ... noise coming down the hallway that you just don't associate with long-term care."

She says the residents' "eyes light up" when they interact with the children.

"You just step back and let this magic happen," McClosky said.

"It's textbook — that's exactly why we have this program, and it's happening right here."

Victor Warkentin has two children, ages 2 and 5, enrolled in the program.

He thinks the center has had a big effect on the way his kids see the world.

He says it has helped them solve problems and be more willing to take chances.

Warkentin sees the intergenerational approach as an "added bonus" that just "makes the program that much better."

Recently, Warkentin and his family moved from West Seattle to Issaquah, Washington.

But he continues to make the trek to West Seattle.

"It's worth it to me," he said.

"I haven't found anything that comes close."

