!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/US_NEWS_DISCIPLINE_4_LA.jpg)LOS ANGELES — Spurgeon Intermediate School sits in the center of one of the poorest areas in Orange County, Calif. For years, it has ranked as one of the lowest-performing schools in the region.

But early this year, things got even worse.

In March, 36 teachers and employees filed a harassment complaint against the administration and students.

Children were attacking adults, smoking marijuana and making obnoxious noises in class, the complaint said.

By the end of the school year, more than 40 percent of the students had been suspended for a total of more than 800 days.

"When someone says Spurgeon, it's like the worst thing in the world," a parent told the school's new principal, Todd Irving.

Spurgeon is located in Santa Ana.

On the first day of school after the first bell had rung, Irving faced dozens of parents in a room near his office and a translator stood at his side.

Eliazar Arines, whose son is in the eighth grade, told Irving that last year her boy was ridiculed so relentlessly that he was hospitalized for depression.

"I came to complain five times, and no one paid attention to me," she said, her voice cracking.

Things were so bad, one teacher said, it was like "Lord of the Flies."

The book by British author William Golding tells the story of a group of boys who become stranded on a deserted island without adults and become totally out of control.

Irving was hired over the summer to keep Spurgeon under control.

The 6-foot-1 former college basketball player had two major goals: enforce the small rules, and at the same time, give the troublemakers some attention.

In the weeks before school, he asked his vice principals to put together a list of the school's 50 most disruptive students and then promised to be responsible for them.

At a school like Spurgeon, he said, "you aren't going to have that kid who has a desk to work at at home.

You aren't going to have that kid who has the laptop at home.

So what are you going to do to make the playing field even for them?"

Over the summer, he met with each of the 50 students and their parents.

The meetings gave Irving a glimpse into the problems they faced at home.

Some of the students have trouble waking up for school because they don't have beds to sleep in.

There are boys whose fathers are serving life sentences in prison.

Others have mothers who are being deported, because they came to the United States illegally.

Other students are already addicted to drugs.

Teachers and administrators talk about certain students like they're a problem.

"But they come to us with problems," he said.

Irving loves bow-ties and is fond of making lists.

The white board in his office often has dozens of bullet points, outlining goals and responsibilities.

He took the same approach with the 50 students.

Each was asked to sign a contract promising to come to class every day and to follow rules, like being on time.

Teachers would judge their behavior on a scale of one to five and if they behave well consistently, they could leave the program.

"One thing I firmly believe is kids make mistakes," Irving said.

The second morning of the school year, Irving and his vice principals explained a long list of rules and expectations to the students.

The students are expected to pick up their own trash, get to class on time, no fighting, no gangs, no lighters, no stink bombs, no matches.

No one will feel threatened by students, Irving told them.

That afternoon, a father, angry to the point of tears, told Irving his son was being bullied.

The troublemaker was a lanky eighth-grader with braces and spiked hair named Ernesto.

Toward the end of the school day, Irving called in Ernesto, his mother, a counselor, translator and school police officer.

The officer stood over the boy and put his face a few inches from his.

"This is a whole different ship now," the officer said.

"Who's the man in charge?"

"Him," Ernesto said quietly, looking at Irving.

Irving asked Ernesto to sign the contract.

On a recent morning, Irving stood in front of Spurgeon, greeting students with a handshake.

Throughout the day, students are in and out of his office.

He has frequent conferences with parents, sends administrators and counselors to visit students who don't show up; sometimes he pulls troublemakers out of class and lets them sit in his office, doing homework or just talking.

So far, suspensions are down, and 38 of the 50 students identified as troublemakers are behaving much better.

Susan Mercer, the president of the teachers union, said the school was getting better.

Teacher John McGuinness agreed, saying, "If you set expectations, tell the students what's going to happen and then actually do it, you usually find that it's effective."

Still, the biggest remaining challenge is learning.

Irving has said he wants the school to improve its test scores by 50 points this year.

That would be a significant achievement — but still far below state targets.

Schools have a cycle, Irving said, where students are on their best behavior at the beginning of the year.

But, by spring, if the rules aren't enforced, things can get out of control.

So he's trying not to get comfortable.

