The group of women filed quietly into a gym.

Ten yoga mats were laid out for them.

A teacher was waiting.

Slipping off their shoes, they stood in place on the mats.

It was time for the stretching to begin.

The only unusual thing about this yoga class was where it was held: inside the Cook County Jail.

The women were all prisoners.

Instead of yoga pants, they wore pink and gray prison uniforms.

"Lovely.

That was cool," said 29-year-old Kristy Montgomery after completing a tree stretch.

The weekly class, she said, is healing.

"Every time, my body feels lighter.

My mind feels lighter and feels freer."

Yoga has been offered at the women's jail for six years.

It began with a group of volunteers from a company called Yoga for Recovery.

They started showing up with yoga mats.

Soon, they were leading classes for the inmates.

Alisa Kannett helps run Yoga for Recovery.

She says yoga can make prisoners feel better.

And that, she thinks, can help stop them from going back to crime after they are released.

Prisons across the country have been running yoga programs for years.

But they are now more popular than ever.

According to an Oxford University study, yoga can make prisoners calmer.

It can put them in a better mood.

It can make them less likely to act without thinking, and more able to pay attention.

Also, yoga just feels good.

It can still be hard to get some prisoners interested.

This is especially true if they aren't familiar with yoga.

Marshawn Feltus said he's a perfect example.

When he entered prison years ago, he knew nothing about yoga.

And he didn't want to know, either.

The few times he saw people doing yoga, Feltus paid little attention.

"I kinda just glanced it over and said 'oh, that's white people exercise,'" he said.

But his shoulders hurt from weightlifting.

After a buddy persuaded him to attend a class, he instantly became a fan.

"If yoga was a lady," he said, "I would've definitely said 'I do.'"

Now out of prison, Feltus is a yoga teacher himself and runs his own practice.

Yoga did a lot to help him stop being a criminal, he said.

At least four Illinois Department of Corrections prisons offer yoga classes.

But they don't spend any money on the classes.

Instead, they depend on volunteers.

At the Cook County Jail, about 30 volunteers teach yoga classes for women.

The yoga they teach is different from traditional yoga.

For one thing, teachers try not to touch prisoners.

Many prisoners might be bothered by touching.

People who've been hurt before "don't like to feel like someone's behind them," said teacher Marcelyn Cole.

People usually close their eyes during some yoga stretches and exercises.

But prisoners don't have to if it makes them uncomfortable, Cole added.

Dr. Elizabeth Feldman says yoga can make prisoners more calm.

It can soothe cramped muscles.

It can make prisoners, who sleep on hard metal beds, less stiff.

But yoga is not for everyone.

Prisoners who have a hard time sitting still or following directions are not invited to yoga classes.

Prisoners who are very violent aren't invited, either.

Yoga is just one approach to making prisoners less likely to return to crime, Feldman said.

"It's not the miracle cure of everything that ails society.

It's one tool that might be helpful."

