When A.J.

Briscoe woke up on Monday, Sept. 29, it was pouring rain.

He had to cancel a meeting at his favorite coffee shop because his van had broken down the day before.

Instead, he worked from the dining room table of his small, tidy home in north Minneapolis.

Still, for Briscoe, the rain and broken-down van were extremely minor problems on this "amazing" day.

That day was liberation day for Briscoe.

It was the first time in 22 years he was not in prison or on probation.

It marked a new beginning for the former gang member and five-time convicted criminal.

For 22 years Briscoe had to report his daily actions, live only where others said, accept surprise visits by his probation officer.

Now Briscoe has new rights and responsibilities: he can vote; he can leave the state.

Most importantly, he can pursue his dream: to be an entrepreneur who encourages young people to read with a message of hope.

He wants to stop young people from going down the tempting but destructive path he took.

The idea that he is completely free now — free to pursue his goals and dreams — thrills him and keeps him awake at night.

"I've been struggling to stay optimistic, to stay encouraged," said Briscoe, who is married and has a 5-year-old son he's trying to get closer to.

Over the past 22 years, in and out of prison, Briscoe has had to face his bad decisions: dropping out of school in the seventh grade, transforming from a straight-A student to a drug dealer who was shot twice and spent more than 10 years in prison.

One struggle for Briscoe is money.

He made plenty as a drug dealer, and now that he's following the law, he is not yet able to support his family.

His probation officer, Kim Peterson, believes in him, but she knows that he faces a difficult road ahead.

"Kim told me, 'You can't do anything related to your past life, because you'll destroy people's faith and hope that people can change.'"

Albert Joseph Briscoe III grew up in Tennessee then moved to Minneapolis with his mother to be closer to his grandmother.

She was the one who largely raised him.

Briscoe was a gifted student who had the chance to go to respected schools in his area.

"But it wasn't cool to be smart," he said, and the temptation of the streets was strong.

Briscoe's mother struggled to pay the bills to support him and his sister, but she guided them with love.

His father was involved in criminal street activity and served time in prison.

Around the neighborhood, Briscoe began to see guys who were getting rich by breaking the law — he saw young men with new cars, with jewels.

At 12, Briscoe was arrested for the first time, stopped by police with crack cocaine.

He got a week of juvenile detention.

By age 14, he said, he had made $200,000 from drug sales, with the money stored in safety deposit boxes.

"I couldn't buy anything," he said, laughing at the memory, "because I couldn't drive."

Briscoe told himself he wasn't really hurting anybody — he was just selling drugs.

"I wasn't breaking into people's homes.

I wasn't stealing money," he explained.

His life started to follow a pattern: arrests, criminal charges, group homes, jails and prisons from Minnesota to Tennessee to West Virginia.

His grandmother never gave up on him, traveling to visit him and writing him letters encouraging him.

She died in 2012, but not before she sensed a powerful transformation occurring within her beloved grandson.

The transformation had begun years earlier when Briscoe overheard a fellow prisoner struggling to read a children's book to his child.

The prisoner was illiterate, Briscoe said.

Even though Briscoe had a GED — a high school diploma — and he could read, he was still worried about how he would teach his own children.

"It haunted me to think about my own son asking me to help him with his homework," he said.

Briscoe began to educate himself in prison — it became his college.

Once, while facing serious criminal charges, Briscoe dug into a law book and discovered an error in the case against him.

He presented it to his lawyer, who presented it to the judge.

Briscoe got three years for that crime, instead of 60.

He reflects that "reading literally saved my life."

From then on, he read everything he could get his hands on.

He was particularly inspired by authors Farrah Gray, a black businessman, and J.A.

Rogers, a Jamaican-American author who wrote about the African-American experience in America.

Briscoe began to spread his pro-reading message by creating a prison literacy program in Tennessee.

Prisoners there each contributed a small amount of money to update the prison library.

Recently, he has set his sights on a new target: young people who might be facing the same temptations he did when he was 12.

Two years ago,  while still on parole, Briscoe founded a community literacy project called To Succeed You Must Read!

The program reaches students in schools and libraries, and includes a summer book club.

Briscoe plans to visit 200 inner-city schools to promote literacy and to get kids to "act on their ideals instead of on fear."

Today, Briscoe lives with his wife, Sundia, in a home filled with stunning African art.

Their front porch features a bookshelf stacked with young-adult literature free for the taking.

And there is plenty of taking, Sundia said with a laugh.

"Every day, in the summer especially, I come home to kids waiting on the stairs.

They want to eat, because he's always cooking or baking.

They grab a book.

They're so excited to just be around him," she said.

