Ernest Williams, who is in prison for drug dealing, had long ago stopped asking his family to come see him in prison.

The visits, he said, left him too sad and hurt, a reminder of the freedom he lost.

On a recent Tuesday, though, Williams traded his prison jumpsuit for a gray suit, lavender tie and black shoes.

For a few treasured moments, he danced with his three daughters at the Miami prison where he is serving his 41-month sentence.

For the first time ever, the Federal Bureau of Prisons hosted a Daddy-Daughter Dance for prison inmates and their daughters.

The Daddy-Daughter Dance theme was There's Still Time at the Ball.

It reminded prisoners that there is still time to be better fathers.

"I haven't seen my girls in months, I could not believe how much they have grown," said Williams.

"I was so happy to see them but so sad that I will not be able to leave with them.

I am here instead of being outside with my family because of the choices I made."

The Daddy-Daughter Dance was a part of its program to reach out to families of prisoners.

Strong relationships with family are critically important for staying out of jail after prisoners return home.

"You are a key to the success of your father," Federal Bureau of Prisons Director Charles E. Samuels Jr. told the 20 girls.

They were aged 4 to 18.

At the dance, the 13 fathers in suits and ties and tuxedos spent two hours with their girls.

They danced and hugged, and they laughed and cried.

These fathers have been in jail for years, missing many chapters of their daughters' lives — birthdays, holidays, first tooth, first crush, first heartbreak.

Some of the girls are so young, they only know a father in prison.

Others were old enough to remember what life was like when their father was home.

"I haven't been there for so many special moments," said prison inmate Michael Rangel, his eyes welling up with tears.

Rangel is the father of three daughters and has been in prison almost three years for theft.

"I talk to them and email them all the time, but it's not the same as being there."

The girls arrived in fancy dresses.

The littlest ones wore light-colored gowns and party shoes.

"I wanted to dress up to look pretty for my daddy," said Rangel's 15-year-old daughter.

Her 13-year-old sister said, "I wanted to make him feel special."

Still, no one could forget that this was a prison.

Each of the girls walked through metal doors into the prison.

They had to remove their shoes, jewelry and belts to go through a body scanner.

Later, they were escorted to the party room, transformed into a fairy-tale ballroom.

It was decorated with purple ribbons, glitter paper chandeliers and a big cardboard cutout carriage — the handmade gifts of female prisoners.

One by one, each man greeted his daughter and escorted her to a seat to the song "You Are So Beautiful."

All the men had been convicted of something, but for an afternoon, they were just fathers spending time with their girls.

The dance came out of a conversation about ways to keep prisoners on a straight path after they get out of jail.

Returning to a strong family gives ex-prisoners their best shot at starting over.

The federal prison system, which is responsible for more than 213,000 inmates across the country, wants to hold dances at other prisons.

Walter T. Richardson is a minister with the Miami-Dade Police Department.

He hopes the dance changed the prisoners and gave them something to look forward to.

"We want the focus not so much on what happened, what brought them here, but what kind of future they can have.

Their daughters are their future," he said.

After the dance, Anthony Martin, a father of two young girls, sat quietly.

One of his daughters was crying, head in her hands.

"She misses me and I love her so much," he said, comforting the 8-year-old.

"I was so glad to be able to interact with my girls in a different way."

Martin is serving a 70-month sentence for drug dealing.

"I missed my youngest daughter learning to talk.

I missed the 'terrible twos.'

I missed the first day of school," he said.

"And then something like this happens where you see them all dressed up and looking so pretty.

It just makes you want to do the right thing."

