It looked like any other newsroom.

Editors chatted about the next paper and fixed up stories.

Front pages were tacked up on the walls.

But this newspaper office was unlike almost any other.

Writers and editors wore the blue uniforms of California prisoners.

And when the phone rang, they answered, "Hello, San Quentin News."

The newspaper is one of the few made by people behind bars.

Prisoners write the articles and design the pages at San Quentin, a prison outside of San Francisco.

It's a community newspaper for a community of felons and prison guards.

Articles mark officers' retirements and prisoners' releases.

They talk about the court battle over reducing California's prison population.

There are regular columns, Sudoku puzzles, book reviews and recaps of prison-yard sports.

The paper emphasizes uplifting stories about prisoners improving their lives.

Headlines talk about prisoners who "work for peace."

Others are about those who go from committing crimes to having better futures.

Staffers say their work can bring soul-searching.

Telling other people's stories helps them explore their own lives.

For people like Rashaan Thomas, it can also bring pride.

When he appeared in a front-page photo of a basketball game, Thomas mailed his mother a copy of the newspaper.

It was the first time he was in a newspaper and no one got hurt, said Thomas, who is 43 years old.

He's the sports editor, and a convicted killer.

Before they reached San Quentin, many of the editors' only brushes with journalism were the articles about their crimes.

But the newspaper is giving them something to work toward.

The paper is distributed inside San Quentin.

It is also mailed to 16 other California prisons.

The editors have larger plans.

They want to send them to the state's 34 prisons.

"We have a vision," said Arnulfo Garcia, who is the editor in chief.

"Our dreams are big."

It could take more than 10 years.

But the managing editor, Juan Haines, jokes, "We've got a lot of time."

At 56 years old, Haines is serving 55 years to life in prison for bank robbery.

Garcia's sentence is 65 years to life for burglary and running away from court.

He is 61 years old.

More than the pasts of the writers and editors make the San Quentin News unconventional.

They are invested in the topics they cover, although they aim for objectivity.

They don't have the freedom to write what they want.

Prison officials look over their work and sometimes there is censorship.

Every issue of the San Quentin News is reviewed by prison administrators before it is printed.

Editors say it's rare for officials to block something.

But it has happened.

Haines wrote a review of the book, "Makes Me Wanna Holler."

The book is about growing up black in America.

Prison officials yanked the article.

They feared it would bring up problems between people of different races.

The newspaper does have articles about spending cuts and prison conditions.

Last summer's hunger strike in California's prisons received front-page coverage.

But Haines said there are two things you don't write bad things about: the food and the package room.

"We get all our goodies through packages, and we have to eat in the cafeteria every day," he said.

Prisoners who work at the newspaper can find more than pride and a way to pass time behind bars.

Some find themselves again.

David Marsh studied journalism more than 30 years ago.

But he never worked at a newspaper until he wound up at San Quentin.

Marsh, 58, was released from San Quentin in 2010 and began hunting for a job in the Central Valley.

He didn't have much work experience.

But he showed the editors at the Valley Voice in Visalia some articles he had written for the San Quentin News.

After he was hired, he said, "If I could afford it, I'd pay them for the job."

