It looked like an ordinary newsroom.

Editors chatted about the next issue and tinkered with stories, front pages were tacked up on the walls, and family photos were on the desks.

But in fact this newspaper office was unlike almost any other, which was obvious from the dress code: Staff members wore the standard blue uniform of California prisoners, and when the phone rang, the answer was a crisp, "Hello, San Quentin News."

The newspaper — which bears the motto, "The Pulse of San Quentin" — is one of the country's few inmate-produced publications.

Prisoners write the articles and design the pages from behind the walls of the all-male lockup outside San Francisco that houses California's death row.

It's a community newspaper for a community of felons and the guards who keep them there.

Articles mark officers' retirements, releases of people from the prison, and the latest news about the federal court battle fighting to reduce California's swollen prison population.

A regular column highlights an OG's opinion — OG for "old guard," rather than the more common "original gangster."

There are Sudoku puzzles, book reviews and recaps of prison-yard sports.

The paper emphasizes uplifting stories about the people behind bars improving their lives.

Headlines refer to prisoners who "promise to work for peace" or go from "criminal life to positive futures."

Staffers say their work can inspire soul-searching.

Telling other people's stories helps them explore their own lives.

For people like Rashaan Thomas, it can be a source of pride.

When he appeared in a front-page photo of a basketball game, Thomas mailed his mother a copy of the issue.

"It was the first time I was in the paper and nobody got shot," said Thomas, the 43-year-old sports editor, and a convicted killer.

Before they reached San Quentin, many of the editors' only brush with journalism was as subjects of articles about their crimes.

Each issue of the monthly San Quentin News is a reminder that their lives did not end when they were locked up.

The paper is distributed inside San Quentin and mailed to libraries at 16 other California prisons.

The editors have larger plans and are working with graduate students at Berkeley to expand the newspaper.

They're also hoping to increase circulation by 10 times to at least 120,000 copies.

They hope to distribute them in all of the state's 34 prisons.

The editors may be behind bars, but the newspaper is giving them something to work toward.

"We have a vision," said Arnulfo Garcia, 61, the editor in chief.

"Our dreams are big."

Their plan depends on funding from foundations, individual donors and even some subscriptions.

It could take more than 10 years to reach the goal, but the managing editor, Juan Haines, 56, joked, "We've got time."

After all, Haines is serving 55 years to life for bank robbery; Garcia's sentence is 65 years to life for burglary and skipping bail.

More than the criminal records make the San Quentin News unconventional.

Staff members have an obvious stake in the topics they cover, although they aim for objectivity.

And they lack true freedom about what they can write.

Prison officials oversee the paper and occasionally stop content from running.

Former reporters and editors from around the Bay Area donate their time to help put out each issue.

The prison has had a newspaper on and off since at least 1930.

When Robert Ayers became warden in 2006, he thought reviving a paper that had been shut down since the early 1980s would be a good idea.

California's prison system was facing enormous challenges, including the takeover its health care system by the federal government because of unconstitutionally poor care.

"There was all kinds of information, misinformation, rumor," Ayers said, and he believed a newspaper would provide a way to communicate with the prison population.

The first issue of the rejuvenated San Quentin News appeared in June 2008.

Only a handful of such publications still come from behind prison walls.

Others include the monthly Prison Mirror newspaper in Minnesota and the Angolite magazine in Louisiana.

Every issue of the San Quentin News is reviewed by prison administrators before going to press.

Editors say it's rare for officials to block something, but it has happened.

Haines, for instance, wrote a review of the book "Makes Me Wanna Holler."

The book is about growing up black in America.

Prison officials yanked the article, fearing it could create racial problems at the prison.

Sgt.

Don McGraw, administrative assistant to the prison's warden, said the decision was about safety in the institution.

The newspaper does carry articles critical of cuts in money and prison conditions.

Receiving front- page coverage was the hunger strike that roiled California's prisons last summer.

But Haines said there are "two things you don't criticize": the food and the package room.

"We get all our goodies through packages, and we have to eat in the cafeteria every day," he said.

Prisoners who work at the newspaper can find more than pride and a way to pass time behind bars.

Some, like David Marsh, who earned a journalism degree more than 30 ago, find themselves again.

Marsh, who never used his degree, wound up at San Quentin for selling drugs, and joined the prison newspaper.

Marsh, 58, was released from San Quentin in 2010 and began hunting for a job in the Central Valley.

Although Marsh had little work experience, he showed the editors at the Valley Voice in Visalia some articles he had written for the San Quentin News.

After he was hired, a grateful Marsh said, "If I could afford it, I'd pay them for the job."

