It looked a lot like any other newsroom.

Editors chatted about the next issue and tinkered with stories, and front pages were tacked up on the walls.

But in fact this newspaper office was unlike almost any other.

This was clear from the dress code: staff members wore the standard blue uniform of California prisoners.

And when the phone rang, the answer was a crisp, "Hello, San Quentin News."

The newspaper is one of the country's few inmate-produced publications.

Prisoners write the articles and design the pages from behind the walls of the prison outside San Francisco.

It's a community newspaper for a community of felons and guards.

Articles discuss officers' retirements, prisoners' releases, and the court battle over reducing California's prison population.

A regular column highlights an OG's opinion — OG for "old guard," rather than the more common "original gangster."

There are Sudoku puzzles, book reviews and recaps of prison-yard sports.

The paper emphasizes uplifting stories about prisoners improving their lives.

Headlines refer to prisoners who "work for peace" or go from "criminal life to positive futures."

Staffers say their work can inspire soul-searching — telling other people's stories helps them explore their own lives.

For people like Rashaan Thomas, it can be a source of pride.

Thomas is 43 years old and a convicted killer.

When he appeared in a front-page photo of a basketball game, he mailed his mother a copy of the issue.

"It was the first time I was in the paper and nobody got shot," said Thomas, the sports editor.

Before they reached San Quentin, many of the editors had only had their names in the news for committing crimes.

Each issue is a reminder their lives did not end when they were locked up.

The paper is distributed inside San Quentin and mailed to libraries at 16 other California prisons.

And the editors have larger plans.

They want to increase circulation by 10 times and hand them out in the state's 34 prisons.

"We have a vision," said 61-year-old Arnulfo Garcia, the editor in chief.

"Our dreams are big."

"We've got a lot of time," joked the managing editor, Juan Haines.

At 56 years old, Haines is serving 55 years to life for bank robbery.

Garcia's sentence is 65 years to life for burglary and skipping bail.

More than the criminal records make the San Quentin News unconventional.

Staff members are invested in the topics they cover, although they try to be unbiased.

And they lack true freedom because prison officials check what they write, sometimes even censor articles.

Only a handful of newspapers come from behind prison walls.

They include the monthly Prison Mirror newspaper in Minnesota and the Angolite magazine in Louisiana.

Every issue of the San Quentin News is reviewed by prison administrators before going to press.

Editors say it's rare for officials to block something, but it has happened.

When Haines wrote a review of the book "Makes Me Wanna Holler," prison officials took it out of the paper.

It was a book about growing up black in America.

They feared it could cause problems between people of different races.

The newspaper does include articles that criticize spending cuts and prison conditions.

But Haines said there are "two things you don't criticize": the food and the package room.

"We get all our goodies through packages, and we have to eat in the cafeteria every day," he said.

Prisoners who work at the newspaper can find more than pride and a way to pass time behind bar — some find themselves again.

David Marsh earned a journalism degree more than 30 years ago but never used it before he wound up at San Quentin for selling drugs.

He joined the prison newspaper.

Marsh, 58, was released from San Quentin in 2010 and began hunting for a job in the Central Valley.

He didn't have much work experience.

But he showed the editors at the Valley Voice in Visalia some articles he had written for the San Quentin News.

After he was hired, he said, "If I could afford it, I'd pay them for the job."

