The group of women filed quietly into a recreation room, where they saw 10 yoga mats laid out for them.

A teacher was waiting.

Slipping off their shoes, they stood in place on the mats.

It was time for the stretching to begin.

The only unusual thing about this beginners' yoga class was where it was held: inside the Cook County Jail.

The women were all prisoners.

Instead of yoga pants, they wore pink and gray jail uniforms.

"Lovely.

That was cool," said 29-year-old Kristy Montgomery after completing a tree position.

Like many of the other women there, Montgomery has a history of drug use and prostitution.

The weekly class, she said, is healing.

"Every time, my body feels lighter.

My mind feels lighter and feels freer."

Yoga has been offered at the women's jail for six years.

It began when a group of volunteers from a company called Yoga for Recovery started showing up with yoga mats.

Soon, they were leading classes offered to the female prisoners.

Alisa Kannett helps run Yoga for Recovery.

She says yoga can make prisoners feel better.

And that, she thinks, can help stop them from going back to crime once they are released.

Prisons across the country have been running yoga programs for years.

But they are now more popular than ever, says Gabriella Savelli.

She directs a group called Prison S.M.A.R.T., which has helped start yoga programs at 36 prisons in 21 states.

According to an Oxford University study, yoga can make prisoners calmer.

It can put them in a better mood.

It can make them less likely to act without thinking, and more able to pay attention.

And it just feels good, say many inmates.

It can still be hard to get some prisoners interested though.

This is particularly true if they aren't familiar with yoga, Savelli said.

Marshawn Feltus said he's a perfect example.

When he entered the Illinois River Correctional Center years ago, he knew nothing about yoga.

And he didn't really want to know about it, either.

"The few poses that I had seen, I kinda just glanced it over and said 'oh, that's white people exercise,'" Feltus said.

But his shoulders hurt from weightlifting.

After a buddy persuaded him to attend a class, he instantly became a fan.

"If yoga was a lady, I would've definitely said 'I do,'" Feltus said of his first experience on a yoga mat.

Now out of prison, Feltus is a yoga teacher himself these days.

Yoga did a lot to help him stop being a criminal, he said.

Rick Fahnestock runs the yoga program at Illinois River Correctional.

At least 20 prisoners attend the yoga classes offered there five days a week.

Sometimes, as many as 40 men show up.

For some, classes are just a way to get out of their cells, he said.

At least three other Illinois Department of Corrections prisons also offer yoga to prisoners.

Neither the state nor the city spends any money to run prison yoga programs.

Money is just too tight.

Instead, they depend on volunteers.

At the Cook County Jail, Kannett oversees about 30 volunteers who lead yoga classes for women.

The yoga they teach is different from traditional yoga, Kannett said.

She urges teachers to avoid touching prisoners.

Many prisoners, such as those with a history of abuse, could be bothered by the touching, she explained.

People who've been hurt before "don't like to feel like someone's behind them," said teacher Marcelyn Cole.

During some yoga stretches, people usually close their eyes.

But at a recent class at the jail, Cole told prisoners they didn't have to if it made them uncomfortable.

Dr. Elizabeth Feldman says yoga can make prisoners less tense.

It can soothe cramped muscles.

It can make prisoners, who sleep on hard metal beds, less stiff.

But yoga is not for everyone.

Prisoners who have a hard time sitting still or following directions are not invited to the classes.

Nor are prisoners who are very violent.

Yoga is just one approach to making prisoners better, Feldman said.

"It's not the miracle cure of everything that ails society.

It's one tool that might be helpful."

