Bacon, hot dogs and bologna are under attack: The World Health Organization (WHO) declared that eating them raises one's risk of developing cancer.

In particular, it said, a daily diet of bacon, hot dogs or bologna can lead to cancer of the large intestine, or colon.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/MEAT_CANCER_Edit.png) The WHO is part of the United Nations, a group whose members are countries that work together to solve the world's problems.

While U.S. rates of colon cancer have been declining, it is the No.

2 cancer for women worldwide and No.

3 for men.

The WHO researchers looked at two kinds of meat: processed meat and red meat.

Processed meat is meat that has been flavored or preserved, often by adding chemicals.

Bacon, hot dogs and bologna are all processed meats, along with sausages, beef jerky and anything smoked.

Red meat includes beef, veal, pork, lamb, mutton and goat.

The WHO said processed meat is definitely linked to cancer.

It said red meat probably is as well.

The new WHO report is the most thorough study yet on the long-suspected link between meat and cancer.

The report was prepared by the WHO's cancer agency.

The agency analyzed years of previous research on possible connections between meat and cancer.

A group of 22 scientists from the WHO evaluated more than 800 studies about meat and cancer.

The studies looked at more than a dozen types of cancer in populations with varied diets.

Based on its review of those studies, the WHO classified processed meat as cancer-causing.

It noted links to colon cancer in particular, but also to stomach cancer.

It said red meat is probably cancer-causing as well.

Doctors and other cancer experts welcomed the WHO report.

But meat producers are angry.

They have begun fighting back.

The North American Meat Institute said in a statement that cancer is a complicated disease and is "not caused by single foods."

The findings could hurt the American meat industry, which is protesting vigorously the linking of their products with cancer.

The industry says the disease involves a number of lifestyle and environmental factors.

For the first time, the WHO has put processed meats in the same danger group as smoking.

Its findings do not mean that bacon, hot dogs and salami are as bad as cigarettes, only that there is a confirmed link to cancer.

Even then, the risk is relatively small.

The results of the WHO's study may not be as shocking in the United States.

Many parents here already worry about chemicals added to processed meats like bacon or bologna.

The American Cancer Society has long cautioned against eating too much steak or deli meat.

The agency's findings could shake up public health attitudes elsewhere, however.

In many European countries, sausages are loved and smoked ham is considered a national delicacy.

The WHO said it did not have enough information to define how much processed meat is too dangerous.

However, it said the risk rises with the amount consumed.

Eating a 1.75-ounce portion of processed meat daily increases the risk of colon cancer by about 18 percent, the agency said.

Roughly speaking, one hot dog or a few slices of bologna would equal that amount of meat.

Overall, the lifetime risk of developing colon cancer in the United States is about 1 in 20, or 5 percent.

By the WHO's calculations, having a cold-cut sandwich every day would raise that risk to only around 6 percent.

For an individual, the risk of developing colon cancer as a result of eating processed meat "remains small," said Dr. Kurt Straif of the WHO.

However, the risk "increases with the amount of meat consumed."

Given how many people eat processed meat worldwide, the effect on global cancer rates is significant, Straif added.

Around 34,000 cancer deaths per year are linked to diets heavy in processed meat.

Experts have long warned of the dangers of certain chemicals used to preserve, flavor or color meat, such as nitrites and nitrates.

The body turns such chemicals into cancer-causing compounds.

It is also known that grilling or smoking meat can create cancer-causing chemicals.

Doctors have long advised against eating lots of red or processed meat.

They have done this not just because of the cancer danger.

The high fat and salt content of much meat can also lead to heart disease.

The WHO report said grilling, pan frying or other high-temperature methods of cooking red meat are the most problematic.

They produce the highest amounts of cancer-causing chemicals.

Susan Gapstur of the American Cancer Society said the WHO report is "an important step in helping individuals make healthier dietary choices."

Her organization has recommended limiting red and processed meat intake since 2002.

It suggests choosing fish or poultry or cooking red meat at low temperatures.

Independent experts stressed that the WHO findings should not be overblown.

Food nutrition scientist Gunter Kuhnle said the new WHO findings are certainly very significant.

However, he added, it is important to understand the scale of the risk.

While eating a couple of slices of bologna per day increases the risk of cancer 18 percent, smoking three cigarettes a day increases it 500 percent.

Kuhnle said the findings are very important, but should not be exaggerated.

They should not be used to alarm or frighten people, he said.

