RLIN, Germany – Over the last 15 years, the bottled-water industry has grown at an explosive rate, a trend that shows no sign of slowing.

In fact, bottled water – including everything from "purified spring water" to flavored water and water enriched with vitamins, minerals, or electrolytes – is the largest area of growth in the beverage industry, even in cities where tap water is safe.

This has been a disaster for the environment and the world's poor.

The environmental problems begin early on, because of where the water comes from.

The bulk of bottled water sold worldwide is drawn from subterranean water reserves, many of which feed rivers and lakes.

Tapping these underground water sources can worsen drought conditions.

But bottling the runoff from glaciers in the Alps, the Andes, the Arctic, the Cascades, the Himalayas, Patagonia, the Rockies, and elsewhere is not much better.

It diverts that water from rivers and wetlands which help to sustain biodiversity — the variety of living things like plants, animals and organisms that inhabit a particular area of the Earth.

This has not stopped big bottlers and other investors from aggressively seeking to buy the rights to glacier water.

China's booming mineral-water industry, for example, taps into Himalayan glaciers, damaging Tibet's ecosystems in the process.

Much of today's bottled water, however, is not glacier or natural spring water.

Instead, it is processed water, which is municipal water or, more often, groundwater that has been purified.

Not surprisingly, bottlers have been involved in disputes with local authorities and citizens' groups in many places over using too much water, and even their role in pollution.

In drought-stricken California, some bottlers have faced protests and investigations, and one company was even banned from tapping spring water.

What's worse, processing, bottling and shipping the water wastes a lot of resources.

It takes 1.6 liters of water, on average, to package 1 liter of bottled water, making the industry a major water consumer and producer of wastewater.

Processing and transportation burns fuel, causing greenhouse gasses, a significant factor in global warming.

The problems do not stop when the water reaches the consumer.

The industry depends mainly on single-serve bottles made from a plastic called polyethylene terephthalate (PET) that is made out of crude oil and natural gas.

In the 1990s, it was PET that turned water into a convenient, portable, lightweight product.

But PET does not decompose, and, while it can be recycled, it usually is not.

As a result, bottled water is now the single biggest source of plastic waste.

Tens of billions of bottles end up as garbage every year.

In the United States, where the volume of bottled water sold last year increased 7 percent from 2013, 80 percent of all plastic water bottles become litter, stuffing landfills.

Of course, higher rates of recycling could improve this situation substantially.

For example, Germany has successfully promoted recycling with a combination of smart regulations and incentives.

People leave small deposits when they buy bottled water, and machines at supermarkets return these deposits in exchange for bottles, which are often brought in by the poor.

Some might argue that the safety and health benefits of bottled water offset these environmental consequences.

But those benefits are little more than a marketing strategy.

Although tap water in Western countries occasionally has quality problems, so does bottled water.

The industry's own production process sometimes causes bacteria and chemicals to contaminate the water.

Indeed, tap water is often healthier than bottled water.

Bottled water may lack fluoride, which helps prevent tooth decay.

Fluoride is a mineral that is naturally present in most groundwater or is added in tiny amounts to municipal water supplies.

There are also health concerns because tiny bits of chemical compounds may leach, or escape, from PET bottles.

They can also leach out of the large reusable polycarbonate water tanks used in homes and offices.

Less than optimal storage conditions – which include prolonged exposure to sunlight and heat – can expose consumers to the hormone estrogen, which can alter the working of the body's endocrine system by mimicking the role of natural hormones.

To be sure, these consequences are not going unnoticed.

In the United States, environmental concerns have prompted some university campuses and at least 18 national parks to ban the sale of bottled water.

The bottled-water industry sees the danger as well and is doing everything possible to keep public opinion on its side.

To that end, big water bottlers like Nestlé, PepsiCo and Coca-Cola Company are pursuing "green" initiatives that make bottled water seem more environmentally correct.

But make no mistake: Bottled water is adding to the world's resource and environmental challenges.

It is making it harder to deliver drinkable water to the world's poor.

It delivers no health benefits over clean tap water, and it does not even taste better.

Indeed, taste tests reveal that people cannot tell the difference between bottled and tap water.

Obviously, tap water needs to change its image.

Unfortunately, it lacks the marketing muscle and advertising budgets that have powered the dramatic growth of the bottled-water industry.

When a product that is cheaper and better does not win, that is bad news for consumers.

When the product is water, we all lose.

