Suddenly drones are everywhere.

The pilotless airplanes have been used to find and rescue lost or injured people.

They are used to spray crops.

The giant Internet company Amazon has said it might try using them to deliver packages.

Drones will soon become even more common.

They could likely be allowed to fly almost anywhere.

Drones can be very useful.

They can also cause serious problems.

Drones are very good at gathering all sorts of information.

Much of the time that information can be gathered without a person even knowing.

Most drones already have cameras attached to them.

These cameras can record and send a detailed view of the drone's surroundings.

The companies that build drones are starting to add special thermal cameras.

These are cameras that can pick up body heat.

A drone with a thermal camera can spot a person in the dark or through walls.

Some companies are even working on a drone that can recognize a particular person.

Meanwhile, drones are becoming smaller and smaller.

Some can now get into tiny spaces.

They can peek through windows, fly into buildings and sit unnoticed in corners or other small spaces.

Their small size and quietness means drones could be used for spying.

People might use them to spy on neighbors, family members or almost anyone.

Drones could also be used by enemies who want to spy on or attack the United States.

The price of drones is dropping quickly, too.

The simpler ones now cost only a few hundred dollars.

Soon, almost anyone will be able to afford a drone.

They will only become more and more common.

Something must be done now to help prevent the harm drones could cause.

Simply banning drones is not the answer.

We would then lose the many good things they have to offer.

There are many dangerous, dirty or dull jobs that drones are perfect for.

Some uses of drones are clearly helpful, such as using them to find lost people.

However, other ways of using them can lead to serious problems.

For example, people have an important right not to be spied on.

Drones make it very easy to collect information on them anyway, without their knowing.

Drone operators need to be sure they are using drones properly.

They must be careful their drones do not harm anyone, or take away their rights.

There are laws against collecting information about someone without their permission.

Such laws were written to cover things like computers, telephones and the closed-circuit TVs that security guards use to see what people are doing.

However, they could be used for drones too.

Courts and the police should try to use those older laws whenever they can.

It will take time to write a new set of laws just for drones.

Drone manufacturers need to do their part as well.

They should help people understand how to operate drones without breaking the law.

In addition, all drones should be numbered so they can be traced and identified.

It is very important to figure out how to control the use of drones.

The rights of citizens must be protected now, before drones become an even bigger part of our life.

