Drones are suddenly everywhere.

The pilotless aircraft have shown up in American television thrillers like "24" and "Homeland."

They have been considered by the giant online retailer Amazon as a way to deliver packages, they have seen action in disaster zones in Haiti and the Philippines, and they have hovered menacingly over French nuclear power plants.

This once secretive technology now seems to be very much out in the open and all over the place.

Drones will only become more common now that policymakers in the United States and Europe have committed to giving them full access to civilian airspace.

So it is more important than ever to quickly identify and address the unique challenges they present to civil liberties and privacy.

For starters, drones are significantly changing the way information is collected, and in more and more new ways.

Until now, most non-military drones have been equipped only with high-resolution cameras, offering police officers, search-and-rescue teams, journalists, filmmakers and inspectors of crops and infrastructure a bird's-eye view of their surroundings.

However, that is about to change.

Manufacturers are experimenting with drones equipped with thermal cameras, which pick up body heat, allowing for night vision and the detection of hidden people or animals.

They are also working on drones that will be able to recognize individuals by using facial-recognition software.

In addition, some operators have become interested in using drones equipped with multiple sensors to collect so-called "big data," or large collections of data that can be analyzed for patterns.

Meanwhile, drones are becoming smaller, allowing them to infiltrate spaces that normally would not be reachable.

They can peek through windows, fly into buildings and sit, undetected, in corners or other small spaces.

Their size and silence means they potentially can be used for spying, which has raised concerns about industrial espionage, sabotage and terrorism.

The next drone that flies over a French nuclear power plant might be too small to be noticed.

The price of drones is also plummeting.

Already, a basic model costs no more than a few hundred dollars.

Commercial operators, who want to maintain good customer relations, have an interest in using drones responsibly.

Private individuals, however, are likely to have fewer reservations about using them to spy on neighbors, family members or the general public.

Some action to protect privacy is necessary, but it is still not clear what is the best approach to take.

Simply banning drones would deprive society of the many benefits they have to offer.

There are many dangerous, dirty or dull duties they are perfectly suited for.

In addition, they are much cheaper to operate and maintain than manned aircraft.

The use of drones for crop dusting, pollution monitoring or search-and-rescue operations is unlikely to raise serious concerns.

Other applications, especially by police, journalists and private citizens, clearly could.

The sheer variety of the technology's potential applications makes it almost impossible to regulate with one-size-fits-all legislation alone.

Instead, interested parties at all levels need to carefully consider the potential impact on privacy, data protection, and ethics on a case-by-case basis.

Well-meaning drone operators need to consider carefully how their activities might violate privacy and breach civil liberties.

They should take steps to minimize these effects, to the best of their abilities.

Government agencies, public organizations and businesses should publish guidelines on drone use, as they have done for other technologies.

The guidelines governing the use of closed-circuit televisions employed for building security purposes could serve as a good starting point.

Such existing regulations would have to be supplemented, however, to account for the different types of data a drone can collect.

Drone manufacturers need to play their part as well.

Among other things, they should provide guidance to assist users — especially private citizens — in operating their products within the bounds of the law.

Serial numbers should be included on all drones, so individual drones are traceable.

Civil authorities should consider how existing laws on privacy, data protection, trespassing, and harassment could be used to prosecute drone operators who violate privacy and other human rights.

The challenge is both urgent and complex.

The rights of citizens need to be protected before the market for drones really takes off.

