In the early 1800s, a group of English textile workers known as the Luddites worried that new power looms and spinning frames would cost them their jobs.

They protested by smashing the machines.

Today, anxiety about new technologies is as high as ever.

In the middle of a major employment crisis, some people fear that technology could cost workers millions of jobs.

It is increasingly replacing workers in factories, and using computers for some legal and accounting tasks has eliminated jobs in those professions as well.

The science of robotics is revolutionizing manufacturing.

Every year, an additional 200,000 industrial robots come into use, and right now, the total number is roughly 1.5 million.

One of the main challenges of our era will be to keep people working in a world of increasingly automated workplaces.

Yet no country can afford to ignore the transformation.

Globally, some 200 million people are unemployed, up 27 million since 2008.

There is a critical need to anticipate what kind of skills will be needed in the future and provide the global workforce with the education needed to find work.

In a survey, one-third of employers worldwide complained that they are unable to find workers with the right skills for job openings.

Government job training programs must be strengthened, and employers and trade unions, which represent workers, must assume greater responsibility for training workers in the needed skills.

They also must work more closely with educators and experts to share information about the job market, how workers are succeeding and services to help people find jobs.

No matter whether a country is rich or poor, investment in education and skills will let its workforce invent and adapt to new technologies.

This kind of investment will decide whether everyone will prosper or whether many will be left behind.

A large supply of workers who have been appropriately trained and can continue to learn will continue to boost the number of available jobs.

Workers also must be protected in good times and bad.

The nature of work is changing.

The vast majority of workers used to have full-time jobs.

Now people are increasingly finding only short-term work or temporary contracts.

They are paid for working on specific projects or for a set amount of time.

Many workers are forced to take part-time jobs to earn enough to live, or even must leave their country in search of a job.

These trends are worsening the gap between rich and poor, as the rich get richer and the poor get poorer.

As a result, policies are necessary to protect workers.

Along with a strong system of unemployment benefits, programs and protections like healthcare are essential to give workers security and to ensure a healthy economy.

Government programs such as pensions and social security, which give people an income in retirement, must be strengthened.

Yet only 20 percent of the world's population is covered adequately by social security, and more than half the world lacks any coverage at all.

That is why the International Labor Organization (ILO), which was established in 1919, is still important today.

The organization was started to protect workers' rights.

In a world of increasingly automated workplaces and worsening employee-employer relationships, the ILO is more necessary than ever.

The complex challenges facing workers worldwide will require complex solutions.

In 2013, the ILO launched its Future of Work initiative.

The plan seeks to identify and analyze job trends and begin a discussion about how to adapt to the rapidly changing labor market.

Our world has changed vastly over the past century – and not only because of technology.

By 2050, the global population will exceed 9 billion, and the number of people age 60 and older will have tripled.

Three-quarters of the elderly will be living in what are now poorer, developing countries, and the majority of them will be women.

These population changes will further revolutionize the labor market, social-security systems, economic development, and the world of employment.

Human society has made much progress since the era of the Luddites.

Yet a simple truth persists: machines must strengthen, not weaken, the likelihood of prosperity for everyone.

We must build on the principles of human dignity and the opportunity for decent work.

