TAWA, Canada – One-quarter of all the food in the world is lost each year due to inefficient harvesting, inadequate storage and waste in the kitchen.

If that waste is cut in half, the world could feed an extra billion people – and make hunger yesterday's problem.

The extent of food loss is particularly shocking in view of a new global study on food security from the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO).

According to the FAO, 57 developing countries have failed to achieve the Millennium Development Goal of halving the proportion of hungry people by this year.

"Developing" is a term used to describe certain countries that are not as developed or rich as other countries.

One in every 9 people on the planet – 795 million in all – still goes to sleep hungry.

Of course, there has also been remarkable progress.

Over the last 25 years, the world has fed an extra 2 billion people and – despite the 57 countries that failed – the developing world as a whole has almost halved its hunger rate.

But the challenge is to sustain the progress: by 2050, demand for food will have nearly doubled.

One reason is that by then the world will have added another 2 billion mouths to feed; a second reason will be the growing appetite of a surging new middle class, as economies grow and people have more money to spend on food.

At the moment, the United Natiions is considering 169 new development targets to succeed the Millennium Development Goals.

Hunger is just one target area, among many.

These targets are vitally important, because they will determine how more than $2.5 trillion in development money will be spent.

The issues range from climate change to malaria.

My think tank, the Copenhagen Consensus Center, works to find solutions to the world's biggest problems.

Therefore, we asked 60 teams of top researchers to assess which proposed targets will do the most good – and which will not.

Our research on food security shows that there are smart ways to feed many more on the planet – but they have little to do with the attempts to stop waste in rich countries.

In the rich world, the focus is on food wasted by the consumer.

This makes sense: more than half of the rich world's losses take place in its kitchens (basically because we can afford it).

In Britain, for example, the greatest waste is in salads, vegetables and fruits.

These are luxuries when compared with the cheap calories contained in the grains and tubers consumed throughout the developing world.

Smaller households in rich countries waste more per person, because it is harder to put everything to use.

Richer households add waste when they can afford to buy extra "just to be on the safe side."

By contrast, the world's hungry poor waste very little, simply because they cannot afford to.

In Africa, daily food waste averages 500 calories per person but consumers account for only 5 percent of this loss.

More than three-quarters of the waste occurs well before the kitchen, for example, during inefficient agriculture, when birds and rats eat crops during harvest or when pests spoil stored grain.

There are many remedies for this kind of waste – from the "curing" of roots and tubers to minimize damage, to more expensive refrigeration.

So why aren't these technologies – widely used in richer countries – adopted in the developing world?

The answer is a lack of infrastructure.

If there are no proper roads linking fields to markets, farmers cannot easily sell their surplus produce, which may then spoil before it can be eaten.

Improving road and rail capacity enables farmers to reach buyers.

It also enables fertilizer and other agricultural materials and tools to reach farmers.

Supplying reliable electricity permits grains to be dried and vegetables to be kept cool.

Economists from the International Food Policy Research Institute estimate that the overall cost of approximately halving the amount of food lost post-harvest in the developing world would be $239 billion over the next 15 years.

It would generate benefits worth more than $3 trillion, or $13 for every dollar spent.

This would make food more affordable for the poor.

By 2050, better infrastructure could mean that 57 million people – more than the current population of South Africa – would no longer be at risk of hunger.

Additionally, about 4 million children would no longer suffer from malnutrition.

Most of these gains would be in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, the world's most deprived regions.

But there is an even better investment.

We can achieve three times the economic benefits, and even larger reductions in the number of people at risk of hunger, if we focus on improving food production rather than just on preventing food losses.

Today, only $5 billion is spent annually on research to improve the seven major global food crops, and just one-tenth of that is targeted to help small farmers in Africa and Asia.

Investing an extra $88 billion in agricultural research and development over the next 15 years would increase yields an additional 0.4 percent each year.

That might not sound like very much, but the reduction in prices and improvements in food security would help almost everyone.

It would be worth nearly $3 trillion in social good – yielding an enormous $34 of benefits for every dollar spent.

Hunger is a complex problem, exacerbated by financial pressures, unpredictable commodity prices, natural disasters and civil wars.

But we could take an enormous step toward winning the global campaign against malnutrition, simply by investing in improved infrastructure and in agricultural research and development.

