USANNE, Switzerland – Drones are remote-controlled planes.

Drones can be flown by computers on board.

People can also control them from the ground.

They can be used as a weapon during war.

They can also be used to deliver packages to people's homes.

Drones that fly packages are called cargo drones.

There will be even more of them in a few years.

These drones do not weigh very much.

It makes them cheap to fly.

Yet, they are just as fast and safe as cargo planes.

Rich countries and poor countries may use drones differently.

In rich countries, drones will mostly deliver packages.

In poor countries, drones can have a more important purpose.

About 800 million people in the world live far from hospitals.

Drones can fly medicine to distant villages.

They can save lives.

They can even give people jobs.

A group of people started a new program.

They are in Switzerland.

The group is called Red Line.

Companies are just beginning to make emergency cargo drones.

Red Line wants to speed this up.

The group also wants to build the world's first droneport in Africa.

A droneport is an airport for drones.

Technology does not always help poor countries.

Sometimes, things that cost less work better.

Training teachers can help more than technology in poor countries.

Health care can help more, too.

BRAC is the world's largest charity group.

It gives money to poor people.

It is in Bangladesh, a country near India.

BRAC has helped 1.3 million students go to school.

The children do not use computers.

They do not need technology.

Why be hopeful about cargo drones?

One reason is that they can fly anywhere.

They can go to faraway places in Africa, Asia and Latin America.

There, many people are very poor.

Many are also sick.

Villages are far apart.

Roads might never be built to connect them.

Cargo drones will never take the place of trucks and trains.

Cellphones became popular in Africa.

They are cheaper than making a landline phone system.

Landline phone systems need miles and miles of wires.

Cargo planes can be like cellphones.

They can work for those who need them most.

