RLIN, Germany – More and more people are drinking bottled water.

It has been terrible for the environment.

Most bottled water comes from underground water.

Much of this water flows to rivers and lakes.

When underground water is bottled it means less water for farming.

Bottled-water companies use water from mountain glaciers, too.

This is not much better.

Glaciers are huge chunks of ice.

Water from glaciers is important.

When they melt, the water fills rivers and streams.

This has not stopped companies from using glacier water.

Chinese bottled-water companies take water from glaciers in the Himalayan mountains.

It hurts the environment in Tibet, which is next to China.

Much of bottled water is actually water that has been treated to be safe to drink.

It has been filtered, or cleaned.

Some of it comes from the water used by towns and cities.

More often it comes from groundwater that was purified.

California is in the middle of its worst drought ever.

There has not been much rain for years.

There is not enough water even for farms.

Some people say that bottled-water companies are using too much water.

One company was even stopped from using water from a spring.

There is another problem.

It takes about 1.6 liters of water to end up with one liter of bottled water.

Water is wasted when the bottling happens.

There is also still another problem.

Water bottles are made from a plastic.

It is called polyethylene terephthalate (PET).

PET does not break down when it is thrown out.

It can be recycled though.

Yet people usually do not put it in the recycle bin.

Billions of bottles end up in the trash every year.

Eight out of 10 plastic water bottles are just thrown out.

Some say that bottled water is safer and more healthy.

That claim is not true either.

Actually, tap water is often healthier than bottled water.

Chemicals or germs can get into bottled water.

Also, bottled water may not contain fluoride.

The mineral helps prevent tooth cavities.

Fluoride is naturally in most groundwater.

It can also be added to tap water.

Bottled water adds to the world's problems.

It is not any healthier than clean tap water.

It does not even taste better.

People cannot tell the difference between bottled and tap water.

People have tasted both in tests.

They seemed the same.

It is bad news when a better and cheaper product does not win.

When it is water, we all lose.

