Drones are airplanes that can fly themselves.

They do not need a pilot.

Drones can be as big as a regular airplane.

They can also be very, very small.

These days, drones seem to be everywhere.

They are used to find lost people.

They are used to spray farmers' fields.

Some companies even want to use them to send packages.

Drones can be very useful.

They can also be very harmful.

For example, they can be used to spy on people.

Drones can record what someone is doing without the person even knowing it.

Most drones have cameras on them.

These cameras can take very clear pictures.

Now some drones also have special thermal cameras.

Such cameras show body heat.

They can spot a person in the dark or through walls.

Some new drones can do even more than that.

They can recognize a certain person.

Drones are becoming smaller and smaller.

They can now get into tiny spaces.

They can peek through windows and fly into buildings.

Drones are also very quiet.

A small one can sit unnoticed in a corner.

Drones could be used for all sorts of spying.

For example, people could use them to spy on their neighbors.

People who want to attack the United States could use them to spy on our country's leaders.

The price of drones is dropping quickly, too.

The simpler kinds now cost only a few hundred dollars.

Soon, almost anyone will be able to buy a drone.

There will be more and more of them around.

Drones can also be used to do bad things.

Something must be done to stop those things from happening.

We should not just get rid of drones.

They can also do good things.

Drones are perfect for many kinds of jobs.

For example, they can fly close to a fire.

A person in a plane would not be safe doing that.

Still, the way drones can so easily spy on people is a big problem.

People have a right not to be spied on.

There are laws against spying on people.

Such laws were written for things like computers and telephones.

They could also be used for drones.

The police should use those laws whenever they can.

It will take time to write new laws just for drones.

