TAWA, Canada – One-quarter of all the food in the world is lost each year.

It is wasted due to inefficient harvesting, inadequate storage and food going unused in kitchens.

If that waste is cut in half, the world could feed an extra billion people – and make hunger a problem of the past.

The extent of food loss is particularly shocking in view of a new global study on food security from the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO).

According to the FAO, 57 developing countries have failed to achieve the Millennium Development Goal of halving the proportion of hungry people by this year.

"Developing" is used to describe certain countries that are not as developed or rich as other countries.

The United States and Japan are considered developed countries.

The Democratic Republic of the Congo and many other countries in Africa are considered poor and developing countries.

One in every 9 people on the planet – 795 million in all – still goes to sleep hungry.

Of course, there has also been remarkable progress.

Over the last 25 years, the world has fed an extra 2 billion people.

Despite the failures of the 57 countries, the developing world as a whole has almost halved its hunger rate.

But the challenge is to sustain the progress: by 2050, demand for food will have nearly doubled.

One reason is that by then the world will have added another 2 billion mouths to feed; a second reason will be the growing appetite of a surging new middle class, as economies grow and people have more money to spend.

At the moment, the United Nations is considering 169 new development targets to succeed the Millennium Development Goals.

Hunger is just one target area, among many.

These targets are vitally important, because they will determine how more than $2.5 trillion in development money will be spent.

The problems range from climate change to malaria.

My think tank is called the Copenhagen Consensus Center.

Our research center tries to find solutions to global problems.

Therefore, we asked 60 teams of top researchers to determine which proposed targets will do the most good – and which will not.

Our research on food security shows that there are smart ways to feed many more on the planet.

However, they have little to do with the attempts to stop waste in rich countries.

In the rich world, the focus is on food wasted by the individual consumer.

More than half of the rich world's losses take place in the kitchen.

In Britain, for example, the greatest waste is in salads, vegetables and fruits.

These are luxuries when compared with the cheaper food, such as grains, potatoes and roots, eaten throughout the developing world.

By contrast, the world's hungry poor waste very little, simply because they cannot afford to.

In Africa, buyers account for only 5 percent of the food loss.

More than three-quarters of the waste occurs well before the kitchen.

The waste occurs during inefficient agriculture, such as when birds and rats eat the crops.

There are many solutions for this kind of waste, from the practice of "curing" roots to minimize damage, to refrigeration.

So why aren't these technologies, which are widely used in richer countries, adopted in the developing world?

The answer is a lack of infrastructure.

If there are no proper roads linking fields to markets, farmers cannot easily sell their extra vegetables.

Therefore, vegetables may spoil before they can be eaten.

Improving roads and railroads also allows fertilizer and other agricultural supplies to reach farmers.

Researchers from the International Food Policy Research Institute estimate that the overall cost of halving food waste would be worth the investment.

It would cost $239 billion over the next 15 years.

Yet this would generate benefits worth more than $3 trillion, or $13 of benefits for every dollar spent.

This would make food more affordable for the poor.

By 2050, better infrastructure could mean that 57 million people would no longer be at risk of hunger.

Most of these gains would be in Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, the world's poorest regions.

But there is an even better investment.

We can achieve three times the financial benefits if we focus on improving food production rather than just on preventing food losses.

Today, only $5 billion is spent annually on research to improve the seven major global food crops.

Just one-tenth of that is targeted to help small farmers in Africa and Asia.

Investing an extra $88 billion in agricultural research and development over the next 15 years would increase food yields an additional 0.4 percent each year.

That might not sound like very much, but the reduction in prices and improvements in food security would help almost everyone.

It would be worth nearly $3 trillion in benefits.

This yields an enormous $34 of benefits for every dollar spent.

Hunger is a complicated problem, and it's worsened by financial pressures, unpredictable food prices, natural disasters and civil wars.

But we could take an enormous step toward winning the global campaign against malnutrition.

This calls for investing in improved infrastructure and in agricultural research and development.

