The Luddites were a group of English weavers.

They lived about 200 years ago.

They spent years learning to make cloth by hand.

Then factory owners decided to use new machines instead.

These looms were faster and cheaper than people.

The Luddites worried they would lose their jobs.

They protested by smashing the machines.

Today, many people are still scared by new technology.

Computers and robots may be the scariest.

They can do things that people cannot do.

Computers can do advanced math quickly.

Robots can lift heavy loads.

They also make fewer mistakes.

Many office workers have lost jobs to computers.

Factory workers have lost their jobs to robots.

Every year, 200,000 more robots are put to work in factories.

Right now, there are 1.5 million robots working in factories.

If people want to keep their jobs, they will need to learn different kinds of work than they did in the past.

Countries cannot ignore this problem.

Worldwide, about 200 million people do not have jobs.

That number has been rising.

In 2008, just 173 million were not working.

Many businesses say that they cannot find workers with the right skills.

Governments must figure out what these skills are.

Then they must teach them to workers.

Rich and poor countries both need to do this.

Training workers will help them to use new technologies.

If countries do this, life will be better for everyone.

If they do not, life could become worse.

Workers must be protected in good times and bad.

Most workers used to work full time.

Now more and more people find only short-term work.

They may work for just a month or two at a time.

Many people must work at a second job to earn enough money.

Other people have to go to another country to find a job.

This problem is making poor people even poorer.

People who lose their jobs need to be helped.

They must still get some money to live on.

Workers also need health care.

Another way to help workers is to pay them money when they get older.

When people stop working, they retire.

Then pensions or social security programs give them money to live on.

The programs are usually run by the government.

The problem is that more than half the world does not get social security at all.

The world has changed much since the Luddites.

Yet, one simple truth is the same.

Machines must help, not hurt, people.

Everyone must have the chance to find a good job.

