Corona del Mar High School is one of California's best schools.

Many kids are rich.

They are super-competitive.

And there is a lot of pressure to be perfect at any cost.

Earlier this year, the school threw out 11 students for cheating.

The latest problem is an NFL-style "draft" to pick prom dates.

In emails, students from "the 2014 CdM Senior Prom Draft Committee" said that 40 senior boys recently got together.

They drew numbers and took turns picking girls to ask to the prom.

Each boy was given two minutes to make his choice.

The picks were then announced.

They "were generally applauded," one email said.

The emails said the yearly prom draft "provides a solution for two guys who want to ask the same girl."

The prom is a dance, usually at the end of the last year of high school.

The boys aren't supposed to pay for a higher draft pick, an email said.

But at another prom draft, a boy paid $140 for a higher number.

This way he had a better chance of getting the girl he wanted.

The email said that the female students were not ranked or rated.

But apparently the more beautiful girls were chosen first.

"I think it's insulting — it demeans girls," said Andrea Fine.

She is the mother of two students, a boy and a girl, at the school.

"Among my circle of friends, we talk about it.

We're kind of alarmed, (like) 'What's our school coming to?'"

Kathy Scott is the school's principal.

She urged parents to tell their kids to stay away from the draft.

Scott said it is not OK for any student to be judged like that.

Social media sites like Twitter or Facebook were buzzing about the draft.

Some called it "creepy."

But some Corona del Mar students are defending it.

One girl, a junior, said she wasn't upset by it.

She said that most girls knew before the draft who wanted to ask them to the prom.

"There's still a chance of us saying no," said the student.

Katrina Foley is with the school district.

She said the students probably don't believe they were being disrespectful to girls.

"And that's part of the problem," Foley said.

"A lot of this stuff comes back to wealth and being responsible with that wealth."

Corona del Mar ranks 37th in the state and 222nd in the country.

Most of the students are white.

Fewer than 2 out of 10 students at the school are non-white.

Some say the rich kids feel that they can do whatever they want and get away with it.

Jane Garland worked at the school when the students were caught cheating.

She said she felt pressure to go easy on kids whose parents gave money to the school.

"We were always told, 'They're high-profile, be careful,'" she said.

Irvina Kanarek graduated from a nearby high school.

She developed an eating disorder when she couldn't squeeze into her prom dress.

She later founded a nonprofit group to prevent eating disorders.

People with eating disorders often starve themselves to be thinner.

She said she felt pressure to be thin, beautiful and rich.

"When you hear that over and over, it just becomes the norm," she said.

She said the pressure on high school girls to look perfect is intense.

This pressure gets even worse around prom season.

It's not just rich kids behaving badly, Kanarek said.

Kids feel a lot of pressure to be best.

Zoe Nicholson, president of Pacific Shore National Organization for Women, doesn't like the draft, but she does not think students should be punished.

It's more important to have an honest conversation about deeper problems, she said.

