Corona del Mar High School is one of California's top-ranked schools.

But many call it a place of unlimited money and hyper-competition, and the pressure to be perfect is extreme.

Earlier this year, the Newport Beach school expelled 11 students accused in a cheating scheme.

The latest scandal is an NFL-style "draft" to pick prom dates.

Students from "the 2014 CdM Senior Prom Draft Committee" said that 40 senior boys met recently in private.

The boys drew numbers.

They then took turns picking girls to ask out.

Each boy was given two minutes to make his choice.

The picks were announced to all the boys.

They "were generally applauded," said one email to the media.

The emails claimed the draft "was planned and organized with only the best intentions in mind."

The yearly prom draft "provides a solution for two guys who want to ask the same girl."

The prom is a dance usually held at the end of the last year of high school.

The boys aren't supposed to pay for a higher draft pick, an email said.

But at another prom draft, a boy apparently paid $140 for a higher number.

The email said that the female students were not ranked or rated.

But apparently the more beautiful girls were chosen first.

"I think it's insulting — it demeans girls," said Andrea Fine.

She is the mother of two students, a boy and a girl, at the school.

"Among my circle of friends, we talk about it.

We're kind of alarmed, (like) 'What's our school coming to?'"

Over the weekend, school principal Kathy Scott sent an email to parents.

Scott urged them to discourage their kids from participating.

She said it is not OK for any student to be judged like that.

Social media sites were buzzing with the news.

Some criticized the prom draft as "creepy."

Some Corona del Mar students defended it.

One girl, a junior, said she wasn't upset by it.

She said that most girls knew before the draft who wanted to ask them to the prom.

"There's still a chance of us saying no," said the student.

A tweet from one male participant proclaimed, "Many drafters on the prowl tomorrow for #freeagents so dress nice ladies."

The tweet was taken down.

Katrina Foley is a school district trustee.

She said the students probably don't believe they were being disrespectful to girls.

"And that's part of the problem," Foley said.

"A lot of this stuff comes back to wealth and being responsible with that wealth."

Corona del Mar ranks 37th in the state and 222nd in the country.

The school is heavily white.

Non-white students make up just 16 percent of the school.

Some observers say there's a huge sense of entitlement among kids with money.

The rich kids feel that they can do whatever they want and get away with it.

Jane Garland used to be the school district's head of discipline.

She said that during the cheating scandal she felt pressure to go easy on kids whose parents gave money to the school.

"We were always told, 'They're high-profile, be careful,'" she said.

"There is really a bad culture over there, and everyone knows it's there."

Irvina Kanarek graduated from a nearby high school in 2000.

She developed an eating disorder when she couldn't squeeze into her prom dress.

She nearly starved herself to be thinner.

She later founded a nonprofit group to prevent eating disorders.

Growing up, she said, "I heard things like, 'Oh, if you live in Corona del Mar, maybe you'll find somebody to take care of you.'

'I'm on this new (diet), I'm only eating grapefruit for a week.'"

She said, "When you hear that over and over, it just becomes the norm."

Everyone thinks they have to go on a diet, become more beautiful and marry a rich man.

She said the pressure on high school girls to look perfect, particularly around prom season, is more intense than when she was a student.

"Cheating, eating disorders, drafting people for prom — that's (a reflection of) a highly competitive nature," she said.

"I don't want to say it's just wealthy kids behaving badly.

I think it has to do with a higher standard of achievement," she said.

Zoe Nicholson, president of Pacific Shore National Organization for Women, doesn't like the draft.

But she doesn't think students should be punished.

They need to have an honest conversation about deeper issues, like eating disorders and body image, she said.

What about the "girl in the room who isn't going (to the prom), the girl who didn't qualify for the draft?"

she asked.

