The federal government's proposal Nov. 12 to ban smoking inside and out of public housing buildings across the nation got a mixed reaction from the people most affected.

Some who suffer from secondhand smoke were thrilled.

But others, including some nonsmokers, worried that it gives the government too much power.

They fear it gives the police yet another reason to harass or even evict poor people for doing what would otherwise be a legal activity in the privacy of their own homes.

"I think it is completely bogus," said Devante Barrett, a 24-year-old nonsmoker who lives in housing projects in Manhattan's Chelsea neighborhood.

"You might as well have us all chained up in bondage now."

Smoking is already banned in about 20 percent of federally subsidized housing.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development, which oversees these developments, wants to extend that to the other 940,000 units around the country.

The ban would reach cities such as New York, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Miami.

"I would not like that.

And other residents wouldn't like that either.

But I would have to comply with it," said chain smoker Dana Jones, who lives in an apartment complex next to a church in downtown Atlanta.

Jones acknowledged that a federal ban would probably force her to finally break her habit.

HUD Secretary Julian Castro said a nationwide ban would protect more than 760,000 children.

It would also save about $153 million a year in health care costs, repairs and preventable fires.

"Everyone — no matter where they live — deserves a chance to grow up in a healthy, smoke-free home," said the surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy.

"There is no safe level of secondhand smoke."

Daniel Ramirez, a 16-year-old who lives in the William Mead Homes in downtown Los Angeles, agreed.

"I think we all know smoking is a bad thing.

I don't smoke, and I don't want people to smoke around me," he said as he stood on a lawn outside the complex littered with cigarette butts.

His 77-year-old neighbor, Juan Manuel Cabrera, disagreed.

He has been smoking for 67 years.

He said no federal policy is going to stop him from lighting up in his own house.

"When I'm in my house I don't bother nobody and nobody bothers me," Cabrera said on his porch.

An ashtray was within arm's reach and a pack of Marlboro Lights in his pocket.

The rule covers all lit tobacco products — cigarettes, cigars and pipes.

It would ban smoking in all apartments and homes, indoor common areas and administrative offices.

Smoking also would be prohibited outdoors within 25 feet of buildings.

Electronic cigarettes that emit vapor but not smoke would still be allowed.

The public now has 60 days to comment.

The ban would take effect 18 months after the rule is finalized.

"The clock starts today," said Ed Cabrera, a HUD spokesman in San Francisco.

He said residents will be asked for their input.

Officials will try to figure out how to enforce the rule, looking to see what has worked in the 60 percent of public housing in California where smoking is already banned.

The policy will probably become part of each lease agreement.

It would largely be up to residents to reports when and who they saw smoking.

"Tenants who don't comply and continue to smoke could face possible eviction," Cabrera said.

"One thing that we've stressed is that we're not targeting residents as a way to get them to quit smoking.

We just want to make our properties smoke-free so they're safer for everyone."

It's all too much for Luis Torres, 64, who has lived in New York public housing for 44 years.

He has been ticketed for smoking in the hallway, which is already illegal, and said he does not smoke in his apartment because his son has asthma.

He's particularly upset that the ban would influence what people are allowed to do inside their own homes.

"That's private.

You can do everything you want in your apartment," Torres said.

HUD began encouraging public housing agencies to adopt smoke-free policies in 2009.

Currently, more than 228,000 public housing units are smoke-free.

The units are in cities including Boston, Seattle, Minneapolis, San Antonio and Detroit.

"This is a natural step," said Michael Siegel, a professor of health at Boston University's School of Public Health.

Smoke-free protections started with workplaces and then spread to restaurants and bars, he said.

But Jamila Michener, a professor of government at Cornell University, disagreed.

She called the policy a "misdirection of energy."

HUD would have more of an impact on public health by helping residents enroll in Medicaid, insurance that could help them break the smoking habit, she said.

Philip Morris USA, a major cigarette company, would not comment directly on the proposed rule.

The company said in a statement that people should be able to avoid secondhand smoke in many public places and on the job.

However, the statement said, owners of private residences should be able to set their own rules for smoking in that location.

