The federal government recently proposed to ban smoking inside and out of public housing buildings across the nation.

The idea, which was introduced Nov. 11, got mixed reactions from the people it would affect most.

Some people were thrilled.

But others worried it gives the government too much power.

They fear it gives the police yet another reason to harass or even kick out poor people from their homes.

People would be doing what would otherwise be a legal activity in the privacy of their own homes, they say.

Smoking is already banned in about 20 percent of federally subsidized housing.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development oversees these developments.

It wants to extend the ban to the other 940,000 units around the country.

"I would not like that.

And other residents wouldn't like that, either.

But I would have to comply with it," said chain smoker Dana Jones, who lives in an apartment complex in downtown Atlanta.

However, Jones said a federal ban would probably force her to finally break her habit.

HUD Secretary Julian Castro said the ban would have many benefits.

He said it would protect more than 760,000 children.

It would also save about $153 million a year in health care costs, repairs and preventable fires, Castro said.

"Everyone — no matter where they live — deserves a chance to grow up in a healthy, smoke-free home," said the surgeon general, Dr. Vivek Murthy.

"There is no safe level of secondhand smoke."

The rule would ban lit tobacco products — cigarettes, cigars or pipes — from apartments and homes.

These products would also be banned from indoor common areas and administrative offices.

Smoking would be prohibited outdoors within 25 feet of buildings as well.

Some electronic cigarettes would still be allowed.

The public now has 60 days to comment on the proposal.

The ban would take effect 18 months after the rule is finalized.

"The clock starts today," said Ed Cabrera, a HUD spokesman.

He said residents will be asked for their input as officials figure out how to enforce the rule.

Officials will try to learn what has worked before.

There is already a ban in 60 percent of public housing in California.

The policy will probably become part of each lease agreement.

But residents would have to report who and when they saw smoking.

Cabrera said that tenants who do not follow the rules could possibly be kicked out of their residence.

He said the policy is not a way to get people to stop smoking.

"We just want to make our properties smoke-free so they're safer for everyone," he said.

Luis Torres, 64, does not support the idea.

Torres has lived in New York public housing for 44 years.

He has been ticketed for smoking in the hallway, which is already illegal.

He does not smoke in his apartment because his son has asthma.

He is upset that the ban would determine what people are allowed to do inside their own homes.

"That's private.

You can do everything you want in your apartment," Torres said.

HUD began encouraging public housing agencies to adopt smoke-free policies in 2009.

Now, more than 228,000 public housing units are smoke-free.

The current policy includes Boston, Seattle, Minneapolis, San Antonio and Detroit.

"This is a natural step," said Michael Siegel, a professor of health.

Smoke-free protections started with workplaces and then spread to restaurants and bars, he said.

Siegel works at Boston University's School of Public Health.

But Jamila Michener, a professor of government at Cornell University, disagreed.

She called the policy a "misdirection of energy."

She said HUD would have more impact on public health by helping residents enroll in Medicaid.

Medicaid is insurance that could help people break the smoking habit entirely.

Philip Morris USA, a major cigarette company, did not comment directly on the proposed rule.

People should be able to avoid secondhand smoke in many public places and on the job, the company said in a statement.

However, people's homes are different, the statement says.

There, it said, people should be able to set their own rules about smoking.

