Yessenia Puente is tired of her home.

She lives in Puerto Rico, an island in the Caribbean.

Puente's husband died six years ago.

The schools are not safe for her three children and she doesn't make enough money to send them to safer schools.

Every two days, she has no running water.

The island has not gotten enough rain, so the government shuts off the water to try to save supplies.

Not long ago, the government told people they had to pay more money for things.

For every dollar they spend, they must pay an extra 11-and-a-half cents to the government.

This is called a sales tax.

The tax made it too expensive for Puente to stay in Puerto Rico.

It is why she decided to move.

A truck showed up at her apartment to load up her belongings.

They would be shipped to Orlando, Florida.

Since January, the company has moved almost 1,500 families to Orlando.

"I've been thinking about it for a while because I've seen how things are deteriorating," said Puente, who is 35 years old.

"But with everything happening now, I decided it's time to go."

Like Puente, thousands of others are saying goodbye to their lives on the island.

They will start over elsewhere in the United States.

Puerto Ricans are U.S. citizens, so they can move to the U.S. if they wish.

Several moving companies in Puerto Rico say they are very busy these days.

They are packing up homes as people move to cities across the United States.

Some of these cities are Miami, Orlando, New York, Boston and Chicago.

One reason people are leaving is because Puerto Rico owes so much money.

It owes billions of dollars that it has borrowed.

It needed the money to pay for things like bridges, roads and schools.

But the island does not have enough money to pay everyone back.

"It's hard to quit and start over, but I have no choice," said Puente.

"My kids are worried and ask many questions but they understand.

We don't even have money to go to the movies.

The cost of living is too high."

Nelson Rodriguez runs a family-owned grocery store in San Juan.

He says the sales tax is really bad for shoppers.

"For every $100, the government takes $11.50," he said.

"People are going to have to rethink how to stretch their dollars."

In June, government leaders admitted they could not fix Puerto Rico's money problems.

Since then, they have been trying to come up with some answers.

The White House has said it will not give Puerto Rico the money it needs.

But some U.S. lawmakers are trying to help.

They want to pass laws that could eventually help Puerto Rico not have to pay back all the money it owes.

In the meantime, Puerto Ricans have come up with some answers of their own.

One idea is to make people who work for the government take days off without any pay.

This would save the government money.

Another is to lower the amount companies must pay their workers.

Both of these ideas would result in people earning even less money than they do now.

And a very high number of Puerto Ricans still have no jobs at all.

"It's sad, really sad," said Blanca Valentine.

She was born in Puerto Rico and is visiting from New Jersey.

"How are people supposed to survive?"

