Scientists say a huge earthquake could hit California, Oregon and Washington.

It could cause a great ocean wave, called a tsunami.

The land would flood with water.

No one knows if the earthquake will happen for sure.

Scientists do think there is a chance.

It might happen in the next 50 years.

Buildings, bridges and roads would be destroyed.

Fires would burn.

More than 14,000 could die.

About 30,000 could be injured.

Thousands would be homeless.

Businesses would be ruined.

A great earthquake and tsunami destroyed parts of Japan in 2011\.

The same thing can happen here.

The Japanese quake made people think about planning for disasters.

The planners in the government would help victims and rebuild the cities.

One of the planners is Clayton Braun of the Washington National Guard.

He said the damage would be worse than Hurricane Katrina or Super Storm Sandy.

Oregon also has planners.

They have written a book on what to do after an earthquake.

Andrew Phelps is the boss of the planners.

His book is never more than 100 feet away.

When he goes to dinner, it is in his car.

Plans include planes, helicopters and ships.

Thousands of soldiers, police officers, firefighters, engineers and medical workers are in the plan.

They would set up centers with water, food, tents, blankets and medicine.

Helicopters would help towns on the coast.

Roads and bridges would be gone.

Boats would bring supplies and help the injured.

Emergency hospitals would be set up.

Hotels, colleges, and sports arenas would be used as shelters.

Clean water and emergency cellphones would be brought in.

Seattle, Portland and other cities could be damaged.

Many buildings could collapse.

Rescue teams would be sent to look for survivors in fallen buildings.

Parts of highways would be closed.

Some would have huge cracks in the road.

Engineers would begin repairing roads and bridges.

People say more than 1,000 bridges in Oregon and Washington could be damaged.

The planners are ready.

Still, they worry that an earthquake can happen at any time.

