Remember Michael Brown by changing the system, said leaders at his funeral in Ferguson, Missouri.

More than 2,500 people came from around the country to attend Brown's funeral.

The black teen was killed by a white police officer on August 9.

The Reverend Al Sharpton is a religious and civil rights leader.

He came to the funeral and told the crowd that Brown's death must mark the beginning of change.

They must join together to change not just how police treat black people, he said.

There also must be change in the African-American community.

"Nobody is going to help us if we don't help ourselves," said Sharpton.

The funeral at the Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church on Monday was emotional and uplifting.

Many famous people attended.

There were rappers and Hollywood actors and directors.

The relatives of other young people who were killed also came.

Many of the people at the funeral never met Brown, who was 18.

They felt that it was important to be there.

They wanted to take part in a day that could become a turning point in the history of blacks and whites in America.

During the funeral, Brown's mother, Lesley McSpadden, stood as if in shock.

She stared down at her son's casket, shaking her head back and forth.

A tear rolled down her cheek.

Brown's cousin, Bernard Ewing, choked back tears as he spoke.

"I love you Mike.

That's all I've got to say," Ewing said.

He stood on a stage behind Brown's casket.

It was piled with red roses.

On top was a St. Louis Cardinals baseball cap.

Sharpton told listeners to join together to start a new movement.

"We can't have a fit.

We've got to have a movement," he said.

Sharpton had strong words for  protesters who stole from stores.

For nearly two weeks after Brown's death, protesters — both peaceful and violent — demonstrated in anger over Brown's death.

Many feel that he wouldn't have been killed if he was white.

"A fit — you get mad and run out for a couple of nights," said Sharpton.

"A movement means we've got to be here for the long haul."

He said it's time to "turn our chance into change" and into new laws.

Other speakers talked about the need for black people to vote.

About 14,000 of the 21,000 people who live in Ferguson are black — more than one-half.

The City Council and Police Department, though, are almost all white.

In the last election, only about one out of eight people who live in Ferguson voted.

DeeNa Adair came to the funeral with her husband and 10-month-old grandson.

She said she took part in the protests in Ferguson.

"If we don't stand up now, what is his future?"

said Adair of her grandson.

She said her 20-year-old son had been shot and killed in St. Louis.

"Hopefully ... this is what sparks the nation to change," Adair said.

Brown's death may be what causes the country to deal with problems between blacks and whites.

In the church, a choir sang.

Women pounded tambourines and shook maracas.

Men, women and children swayed and danced.

They held their hands toward the sky.

There were only a handful of white faces in the crowd.

A survey showed that whites and blacks see the police differently.

Whites are far more likely than blacks to think that police treat both races equally.

Blacks are more likely to think that police treat them unfairly.

The survey was done after Brown's death.

Nate Parker is an actor from California.

Parker said his 17-year-old nephew had asked what he should do if stopped by police.

Parker said he went to the funeral because he did not know the answer.

No charges have been filed yet in Brown's death.

Officials say the officer, Darren Wilson, fired after Brown attacked him.

Some witnesses say Wilson ordered Brown to stop walking down the middle of his street.

Wilson then shot him.

Brown did not have a weapon on him.

