Mount Rainier looms large over Puget Sound.

For years, adventurous climbers have been drawn to its heights.

Rainier's icy peak can be deadly, however.

Last week, Rainier claimed six new victims.

Rainier is more than 14,000 feet high.

It is the fifth-tallest mountain in the continental United States.

The mountain rises alone near Seattle.

Many outdoorsy people in the area are fascinated by it.

"There is a draw, but I can't explain it," said Len Throop, who has climbed Rainier many times but never reached the top.

"From the first time I ever saw it, I felt" it.

"Even if you can't see it, you know it's there.

And it's dangerous.

(Last) week is one example, and it's not even the worst."

The worst accident happened in June 1981.

Back then, 11 climbers died under giant chunks of ice.

Among the six dead climbers were two experienced mountain guides.

Both worked for Alpine Ascents International.

The six victims fell more than 3,000 feet.

The names of the dead have not yet been released.

However, Alpine Ascents said that the lead guide was Matt Hegeman.

A family member identified one of the other climbers as 26-year-old Mark Mahaney.

Climbing Rainier is always hard, and never easy.

Only half of "the people who try it, make it," said climber Martinique Grigg.

"It's a tough mountain.

You need to be in good physical condition, and you need to have training to be safe in the mountains.

You need to know how to travel over a glacier, how to rescue your climbing partners."

Climbing Rainier requires not just skill and endurance.

It also requires special equipment.

Climbers must attach spikes to their boots to keep from sliding.

They carry ice axes that help stop them if they do start slipping down the mountain.

Often, they are tied to their fellow climbers for safety.

The route the ill-fated climbers took last week goes up Liberty Ridge.

That route, Grigg said, "is one of the most difficult on the mountain."

Mike Maude has gone up the Liberty Ridge route several times.

The ridge is very steep and long, he said.

"Once you get started falling," he said, "there's no stopping."

Gary Harrington of Alpine Ascents said it's not clear what caused the deaths.

Climbers face many possible problems, though.

These include "rock fall, avalanche, a mixture of everything in between."

The ground search for the six climbers' bodies has been called off.

It's too dangerous for the search to continue.

"To continue searching there puts everybody at risk," Grigg said.

"The sad fact (is), sometimes bodies are not recovered."

If an avalanche slid over them, "they could be covered 30 to 40 feet or more."

Climbing experts said that last week's accident could make people think twice about safety.

However, it probably won't keep them off Mount Rainier.

The peak is just too special for climbers.

"We moved here six years ago," Grigg said.

"I would see that mountain and think, 'I want to climb that one day.'

We talk about it as magical.

You can't see it sometimes," when the weather is bad.

"And then, all of a sudden, it's just there."

