Bill Lokey was standing in a huge cave below the summit of Mount Rainier, a 14,411-foot-high volcano in Washington state.

A ceiling of ice arched 40 feet overhead.

Bigger than a ballroom, the chamber faded into darkness at either end.

Lokey recognized the cave — he had been there before.

In the early 1970s, Lokey was among a group of adventurers who explored and mapped the ice caves of Mount Rainier.

The caves form as heat rises from the volcano's depths and melts the base of the ice cap that fills Rainier's twin craters.

Lokey and a group of young mountaineers and scientists camped on the summit for weeks at a time.

They used tape measures and compasses to make maps of the passages.

Ever since, Lokey had hoped to return someday to study the caves in more detail.

This summer, he finally crossed paths with a dream team of experts who shared his passion.

They set out in August.

When they reached the top, Lokey found himself back in the icy caves of Mount Rainier at the age of 67.

Getting there was not easy.

Leading the group was cave explorer Eddy Cartaya.

The team included a geologist — a scientist who studies the Earth — who hoped to learn more about the Rainier volcano, as well as a biologist whose goal was to see if anything lived in the caves.

The crew was loaded with winter camping gear, satellite phones and enough food and fuel for more than a week.

Lokey, however, chose to stick to gear he was used to from the 1970s.

When he set off on a Monday morning in August, he carried 75 pounds on his back.

The first day of the trek was exhausting.

It took seven hours for the 15-person team to reach Camp Muir, a cluster of stone huts partway up the mountain.

Although their journey had just begun, they were already nearly two miles above sea level.

A climbing ranger greeted them with some bad news.

He warned that a storm was forecast to hit within the next two days.

Cartaya and his group decided to leave right away.

Their plan was to try to reach the summit on Tuesday, hoping that the storm would hold off until Wednesday.

As it turned out, they would not be that lucky.

After a long day of hiking, the team began setting up their tents on Tuesday afternoon.

Then the sky darkened and pellets of snow began to fall.

"We grabbed our packs and ran for the nearest cave entrance," Cartaya said.

They made camp there for the night.

Eventually, the storm passed and Cartaya and his team started mapping.

They used advanced modern tools to take extremely detailed measurements.

Later, they would be able to use these measurements to create a three-dimensional image of the caves.

Lokey's group considered ending their journey at Muir, but the weather started to improve.

At 2 a.m. Friday, they set out again.

Thirteen hours later they reached the caves.

Now, the skies were sunny and clear, and it was the scientists' turn to go to work.

U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) researcher Matt Bachmann took air samples.

He hoped that these samples would provide information about what gases the volcano was releasing.

Knowing more about the mix of gases coming from Mount Rainier could help scientists predict volcanic eruptions.

When a volcano gets close to erupting, the mix of gases it releases starts to change.

Air measurements can be some of the earliest signs that an eruption may happen soon.

Microbiologist Zoe Harrold studies the tiniest forms of life.

She was there to study what forms of life might be living in the caves.

Her findings could be useful for understanding the origins of life on Earth.

The environment of the Rainier caves today is similar to the environment of the Earth millions of years ago.

The combination of volcanic gas, frigid water and icy soil resembles the conditions on Earth when the first living things appeared.

It is also what scientists expect the environment to be like on Mars, and on Jupiter's moon Europa — two other places in the solar system where life might be possible.

Understanding life in the caves of Mount Rainier could help explain how life emerged on Earth and where else in the solar system life could exist.

Lokey spent his two days on the summit assisting the researchers and retracing his steps from 40 years ago.

"It's just amazing to be here again," he said, before heading down Sunday.

As thrilled as he was, though, he wasn't sure he would be back.

This climb had been tough for the 67-year-old.

If he does climb Mount Rainier again, Lokey said, someone else will have to carry the heavy stuff.

