Eight-year-old Angelo Notarangeli likes to skateboard and play basketball.

He isn't much into arts and crafts.

But when it comes to the Rainbow Loom, that's a different story.

"There are like 10 people at school that don't have them.

Everyone else is into it," said Angelo, who lives in Naperville, Ill.

It's not unusual for kids and parents to become obsessed over a particularly hot toy.

What has surprised toy store owners and parents is that boys are addicted to the Rainbow Loom as much as girls are.

The Rainbow Loom, a plastic loom that helps kids weave colorful rubber band bracelets, was invented by Cheong-Choon Ng.

His two daughters enjoyed making rubber band bracelets.

But Ng, a former Nissan crash-test engineer from Novi, Mich., struggled to join in, and then created a loom that made weaving the bands together easier for him.

Each kit, which costs $15 to $17, contains a small rectangular loom studded with pegs, and enough mini rubber bands and plastic clips to make 24 bracelets.

It also includes a hook to weave the bands into stretchy, brightly colored jewelry.

So far, Ng said he has sold about 3 million kits.

At Learning Express Toys of Naperville, Ill., the area around the checkout counter is surrounded by loom kits and sample bracelets.

A screen runs Rainbow Loom lessons on repeat.

There are buckets of shiny Rainbow Loom charms, personalized Rainbow Loom supply organizers, and boxes upon boxes of rubber bands.

It is a kaleidoscopic array of neon, tie-dye, glitter and glow-in-the-dark rings.

The looms are in such hot demand that Chicago toy stores struggle to keep them on the shelves.

"The last time parents were this hot and heavy over a toy, it was Beanie Babies," said Katherine McHenry, who owns Chicago's Building Blocks Toy Store.

Beanie Babies are stuffed animals that were wildly popular in the 1990s.

Parents' attempts to buy the loom is made more difficult by the fact that many chain stores don't carry them.

Ng said that before the product became a hit, most stores refused to sell them.

Some Learning Express Toys stores began carrying Rainbow Loom products last year, and they've been available at national crafts chain Michaels Stores Inc. since August.

When Angelo first heard about the Rainbow Loom, he thought it sounded "really stupid."

But then he kept seeing the bracelets on his friends' wrists.

"The more complicated ones looked really cool," he said.

His mother, Toni Notarangeli, thought she wasn't hearing right when he begged her to buy him a loom.

At Learning Express Toys of Naperville last week, Angelo's mom bought him a second loom so he could connect the two looms together and create more intricate designs.

As she paid, owner Steve Zdunek reassured her that boys come in all the time.

About 40 percent of the looms he sells now are bought for boys, he estimated.

"It's perceived (by adults) as a more of a girl thing, but the kids just ignore it," said John Flanagan, owner of Learning Express Toys of Geneva Commons.

His own son Conor, who is 11, regularly wears an armful of bracelets, and at his soccer tournaments, almost every player wears a Rainbow Loom necklace in their team colors, Flanagan said.

Most parents weren't sure why Rainbow Loom is such a hit with their kids, but they said they hope the fad sticks around.

It requires creativity and good hand-eye coordination, and it's screen-free — except for the YouTube videos kids watch to learn new techniques.

Others said their kids were suddenly generous, making bracelets for friends and younger siblings.

McHenry suspects the secret to Rainbow Loom's success is that it is such a social activity.

"Kids have a lot of fun trading bracelets with friends," McHenry said.

"There's a group (mind-set) to it."

Diana Fill, who lives in Geneva, Ill., said the toy was a lifesaver when her family traveled to the Wisconsin Dells.

At the hotel, her son Garrett, 10, and his friends perched on their bunk beds and pulled out their looms, carefully hooking rubber bands around the pegs.

"When he told me about it, I said, 'Honey, isn't that a girls' thing?'"

Fill said.

"But it was nice for us because they were so quiet."

At a Rainbow Loom class at Learning Express in Geneva, Garrett, his friend Sydney Parquette, 9, and her sister Sarah, 7, worked on learning a new bracelet design: the triple single.

When asked if she was surprised that boys like Rainbow Loom, which after all makes rainbow colored bracelets, Sydney nodded emphatically.

Garrett, who likes making bracelets with his favorite sports teams' colors, doesn't see it that way at all.

"I like that you can be really creative and make your own designs," Garrett said after putting the finishing touches on an orange, white, lime and teal bracelet.

He held out his wrist and proudly inspected his handiwork.

"They make me look swag."

