Ray Rice will no longer play football for the Baltimore Ravens.

The team cut him on Monday after a video came out that showed him hitting his girlfriend.

The video was recorded in February.

It was put online on Monday.

The video showed him in an elevator hitting Janay Palmer.

She is Rice's wife.

But at the time, they were engaged to be married.

In the video, Rice and Palmer both hit each other.

Then, Rice knocked Palmer off her feet.

As she fell, her head hit a handrail in the elevator.

The fall knocked her out.

Before the video came out, a different video showed Rice pulling her out of the elevator.

The first video did not show him hitting her.

When the first video was shown, the NFL said Rice would not be allowed to play for two games.

Many people thought the punishment was too light.

They thought Rice should be fired.

Roger Goodell, who leads the NFL, was in charge of punishing Rice.

After hearing from people who were angry at the punishment, Goodell apologized.

He wrote a letter to the owners of all of the NFL teams.

He said that he was sorry for not making the punishment harsher.

On Monday, changes were also made for the NFL.

Now if a player hits a family member or girlfriend, he will not be allowed to play for six games.

Even in court, Rice's punishment was not very harsh.

He was accepted into a program in May that would keep him out of jail.

But the new video changed things.

The Ravens said Monday that Rice was dropped from their team.

The NFL also acted.

Goodell, the NFL commissioner, announced that Rice would not be allowed to play in the NFL until further notice.

It is not known whether he will ever be back in the NFL.

On July 31, Rice said his actions were "inexcusable".

He said this was "something I have to live with the rest of my life."

He said, "I know that's not who I am as a man.

That's not who my mom raised me to be.

I let her down, I let my wife down, I let my daughter down.

I let so many people down because of 30 seconds of my life that I know I can't take back."

