Real estate agents have long bragged about how far they will go to sell properties and now some find that the sky's the limit.

As unmanned planes, or [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), become more available, some agents have started to use them to sell properties.

They invite buyers to view country homes, waterfront land and suburban houses, with images taken by the drones from high up.

Robert McArtor, an agent with Re/Max Components in Maryland, uses a drone to take pictures and make videos of his properties, with a camera mounted on the belly of the aircraft.

The images have helped him create the "wow factor" for his clients, he said.

McArtor, who does not consider himself a tech fan, was very nervous when he launched his first drone this winter.

That aircraft was a bug-like machine he flies by remote control.

It can loop around a house at an altitude of 25 to 50 feet.

It took more than 20 hours of practice, and a few crashes, to learn how to fly it.

McArtor is one of the few agents in the Baltimore region talking about his work with the drones.

That's because using a drone for commercial reasons is not allowed by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).

The FAA, which regulates the U.S. airspace, has been working since 2008 on rules for small flying machines, such as the drones.

People flying drones as a hobby are allowed to fly them up to 400 feet in the air.

The National Association of Realtors has advised its members not to use the drones until the FAA issues final regulations.

The group asked the FAA in April to come out with the new rules as soon as possible.

Ben Gielow is a general counsel for the Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International, an industry trade group.

He said the longer the FAA takes to write the rules on drones and real estate, the more difficult it may become to regulate the activities.

"This industry is starting to form itself, and the longer the FAA waits to write the rules, the more difficult it's going to be to get the horse back in the barn," he said.

The FAA said it expects to publish the rules this year.

Its original deadline was 2011.

The agency has issued at least 12 orders for people using drones commercially to stop, said spokesman Les Dorr.

The FAA spends about 80 percent of its time answering questions about drones.

"It has a been a major challenge to write safety regulations that will ensure the safety of people and property ... while not putting an undue regulatory burden on an emerging industry," he said.

The FAA estimates that 7,500 commercial drones will have a license to fly by 2018.

But a study by Gielow's group expects sales of 160,000 units per year by 2020.

In the Mid-Atlantic region, the number of drones used in real estate is small but growing.

A March survey by the MRIS multiple listing service of 1,300 real estate professionals found that 1.3 percent had used drones to sell properties.

But about 13 percent of the people who participated in the survey said they expect to use the drones in the next 12 months.

Andrew Strauch, MRIS vice president of product innovation and marketing, said he has seen drones being used to sell properties on the West Coast.

He said it could make buying and selling more efficient.

"We're visual people," he said, adding that the technology will help realtors save time because they will only physically show homes to people who are really interested.

The technology is most useful when real estate agents are selling large properties.

Buyers benefit from a complete view of the area, said Ron Howard, who leads one office for Re/Max Preferred.

He used the services of a drone photography business when he was selling a Baltimore County home in 2012.

The company is called Elevated Element and offers real estate photo packages with prices starting at $199.

Hiring a photographer and a plane can cost about $350.

It was a cheaper alternative to using an airplane and allowed for closer images, he said.

Most of the houses he is selling are in the city.

For those places, he uses images found on Google.

"I don't think you're going to see a lot of city agents using drones," he said.

"If we were out in the county with multiple-acre estates we would be using it all day long."

McArtor said he thinks agents will want training on how to use the drones.

He is working to create a safety course he hopes to sell to other agents.

In the meantime, he hopes more people will use the drones.

He's not concerned about the FAA.

"I wanted this for all properties," he said.

"I have no worries."

