If you want to save the planet, please make sure your garbage is buried in a landfill.

There is plenty of room.

People talk about "reduce, reuse, recycle."

It may sound like a good idea to those who want to prevent climate change or keep garbage from piling up.

Climate change is caused by burning fuels like oil or gas.

The truth, however, is that recycling has a cost.

A big cost.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a government department in charge of the environment.

The EPA says that it only makes sense to recycle about one-third of our trash because recycling more than that is too expensive.

Recycling paper or aluminum does cause less pollution than making them from scratch.

It is not the whole story, though.

Paper companies pay for the trees they use.

If it was cheaper to recycle scrap paper, they would be beating down your door to buy it.

They are not doing that, though.

It is more expensive to recycle old paper than to make new paper.  Plastic is another problem.

It is made out of oil and recently the price of oil has gone way down.

Now, new plastic containers are cheaper to make than recycling old ones.

Also, it wastes water.

Many people rinse their plastic containers with water before they put them into a recycling bin.

If they use hot water, gas or coal is burned to heat that water.

Glass is even worse.

You have to recycle a lot of glass to reduce pollution by just a little.

Yet, there is more.

The glass has to be collected from neighborhoods.

The trucks that collect the glass also cause pollution.

Recycling glass is more expensive than making it from scratch.

New glass is made mainly from sand, and there is plenty of that.

Many cities pick up glass in recycling trucks.

Then they just dump it at the local landfill.

Why are they pretending?

Because people feel strongly about "reduce, reuse, recycle."

They learn it in school and hear it all over the place.

Most Americans do not know the evidence about recycling.

City and state officials should think about the costs and benefits of recycling programs.

They should get rid of programs that waste money and hurt the environment.

If recycling saved money, companies would be lined up to buy your trash.

Do not bother looking because they are not there.

There is a true recycling test.

Is someone actually willing to pay you to sort and save your trash?

If they are not, what you have been told about recycling in the past is probably just garbage.

> ABOUT THE WRITER William F. Shughart II is the research director of the Independent Institute, 100 Swan Place, Oakland, Calif.

He is also the J.

Fish Smith Professor in Public Choice at Utah State University's Huntsman School of Business.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

We Americans use a lot and waste a lot.

We dump far more trash than we need to into landfills.

In fact, we make twice as much garbage per person as countries in Western Europe.

Since 1960, the amount of trash thrown out each year has tripled.

In 2013, it totaled 508 billion pounds.

On average, each person threw out 4.4 pounds of garbage every day.

We have gotten a lot better at handling garbage.

People began recycling much more after the mid-1980s.

Now, on average, Americans recycle about one-third of their trash.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is a government department.

It reports that we recycle two-thirds of all paper and half of all cans.

However, we recycle less than half of electronics, like cellphones and computers.

We recycle only about a third of glass and plastic bottles and jars.

We should be able to do much better than this.

So why are we not?

Some people just do not want to do it.

Many people do not think recycling is easy.

A number of states say that people have to recycle, but they do not make people follow their laws.

In most cases, they do not offer people much reason to recycle.

Some states and cities do much better because they take recycling seriously.

Cities such as Seattle, Washington, encourage recycling.

They charge people money for throwing out garbage.

The more garbage they throw out, the more they have to pay.

It works.

In 2014, half the people in Seattle recycled their trash.

The city is trying to get rid of the "maximum possible amount of waste."

Few other cities have set such a high goal.

Some people see matters differently.

They argue that recycling costs too much and is not effective.

Some states seem to agree with them.

They do not want to give money to help city recycling programs and say the cities should end their programs or pay for the cost themselves.

Is this the right action to take?

Recycle only if enough good things come from it?

Doing that would send exactly the wrong message.

Some experts believe that a good starting point is when a product is made.

We should be careful to avoid waste.

Then we should reuse and recycle what is left over.

Only then should we throw out what cannot be recycled.

No one argues that the cost of recycling is not important.

However, it is not a good enough reason to stop recycling.

We are in the early stages of an important change.

It will cut down on garbage and pollution.

It will also get people to change what they use and throw out.

That is the way to go.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Michael Kraft is a retired political science and public and environmental affairs at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay.

Readers may write him at UWGB, 2420 Nicolet Dr., MAC B310, Green Bay, WI 54311 or e-mail him at kraftm@uwgb.edu > > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

