If you're worried about the planet, please make sure your trash is buried in a landfill; there's plenty of space available.

On the surface, the phrase "reduce, reuse, recycle" may seem like a sensible call to action for those who want to limit carbon emissions or reduce the amount of waste left behind for future generations.

The reality, however, is that the costs associated with the process of recycling almost always outweigh the benefits.

Even the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) says it only makes sense economically and environmentally to recycle about 35 percent of discarded materials.

Among those materials are paper and aluminum cans, according to the agency.

Recycling 1 ton of paper or aluminum cans, the agency says, can save about 3 tons of carbon dioxide emissions over producing those materials anew.

But not so fast.

Paper mills pay for the trees they process.

If it was cost-effective to recycle scrap paper, producers would be beating down your door to buy it.

But they aren't.

That means it's more expensive and more resource-intensive to recycle old paper than to cut and pulp pine trees and then replant seedlings for processing when mature.

Plastic provides another cautionary tale.

Given the recent dramatic decline in crude oil prices, it is now cheaper to make a new plastic container than to recycle an old one.

Even if that were not true, the EPA says that recycling a ton of plastic saves only about a ton of carbon dioxide.

However, that estimate doesn't take into account the water most consumers use to rinse their plastic containers before they put them into a recycling bin.

New York Times science columnist John Tierney recently wrote, citing the work of author Chris Goodall, "If you wash plastic in water that was heated by coal-derived electricity, then the net effect of your recycling could be more carbon in the atmosphere."

Glass is an even worse recyclable.

To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 1 ton you have to recycle 3 tons of glass.

If one includes the cost of collecting glass waste in small quantities from neighborhoods, and the pollution produced by the collection trucks and the recycling process itself, glass recycling creates more greenhouse gas emissions and is more expensive than making new glass, which comes primarily from sand, an abundant raw material.

No wonder many municipalities across the country continue to pick up glass in recycling trucks only to dump it at the local landfill.

Why the charade?

Because "reduce, reuse, recycle" is an emotional mantra, not reasonable environmental policy, and years of indoctrination has left most Americans blind to the actual evidence surrounding recycling programs.

By sending an extra fleet of trucks around town once a week, adherents of the recycling religion actually are undermining their stated goal of protecting the environment.

It doesn't help that the rise of the recycling movement has created a powerful interest group of people who lobby politicians to keep things the way they are.

More rational environmental policies would consider the costs and benefits of recycling programs and scrap those that are wasteful and harmful to the environment.

If recycling were truly cost-effective, private companies would be lined up at your doorstep to buy your trash.

Don't look now because they're not there.

The true recycling test is whether someone is willing to pay you to sort and save your trash.

If they're not, what you've been told about recycling in the past is probably just garbage.

> ABOUT THE WRITER William F. Shughart II, research director of the Independent Institute, 100 Swan Place, Oakland, Calif., is J.

Fish Smith Professor in Public Choice at Utah State University's Huntsman School of Business.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

We Americans consume a lot and waste a lot.

That means we dump far more trash than is necessary into landfills.

In fact, we produce twice as much waste per capita as Western European nations.

The amount of municipal solid waste produced annually in the United States has tripled since 1960, and in 2013, it totaled 254 million tons.

That's 4.4 pounds per person every day.

We've made a lot of progress over the years in how we handle this waste.

Recycling jumped dramatically nationwide after the mid-1980s, but it leveled off around 2010, with the average American recycling or composting 34 percent of his waste.

The rate varies by the type of waste, and by state and city.

The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reports that we recycle 99 percent of lead acid batteries, 67 percent of paper, and 55 percent of aluminum cans, but only 40 percent of the rapidly increasing quantity of consumer electronics such as cellphones and computers, only 34 percent of glass containers, and 30 percent of plastic bottles and jars.

We should be able to do much better than this.

So why don't we?

Individual habits are one explanation.

Many people think recycling is inconvenient, even in cities that provide curbside, single-stream collection for recyclables.

A number of states mandate recycling, but they don't enforce their laws, and in most cases they offer few incentives to recycle.

Some states and cities do much better because they take recycling seriously as part of a broad commitment to sustainability.

Cities such as Seattle impose fees that are proportional to the amount of waste put out for collection, a so-called pay-as-you-throw system.

Even if the cost is small, it's an important incentive to encourage people to recycle, and they do.

Seattle had a 50 percent recycling rate in 2014, and 71 percent for single family households, and the rate continues to improve.

The city has set a goal of eliminating the "maximum possible amount of waste."

Few other cities are so ambitious.

Some critics see matters differently.

They argue that recycling is too costly and ineffective to continue, and some states seem to agree with them.

They have balked at continuing even a modest subsidy for municipal recycling, saying that cities should terminate their programs or pay for the cost themselves.

Is this the right action to take?

Recycle only if it generates enough benefits by some arbitrary metric?

Doing that would send exactly the wrong message as cities and businesses across the nation try to build a new commitment to sustainable use of resources.

Experts in sustainable management believe that we should start by redesigning production processes where possible to prevent or minimize waste in the first place.

Then to the extent possible, we reuse what cannot be reduced, recycle what is left over, and only then dispose of what cannot be recycled.

No one argues that the cost of recycling is unimportant.

But there are ways to deal with that cost rather than declare it excessive and abandon recycling programs.

We could follow the lead of the most innovative cities by putting a price on trash.

If people have to pay more, they will find ways to generate less waste, as will businesses, and the fees can cover the cost of recycling programs.

Think about what else such fees might do to reduce excessive packaging and wasted food.

We toss out about 40 percent of the food we buy.

This is one reason why several large cities, including San Francisco and Seattle, now require household composting.

The EPA is trying to promote what it calls sustainable materials management as a long-term way to address all of these challenges.

We are in the early stages of an important sustainability transition that will put a premium on efficiency throughout a product's life cycle, reducing the environmental impact, and rethinking business and household consumption.

That's the way to go!

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Michael Kraft is professor emeritus of political science and public and environmental affairs at the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay.

Readers may write him at UWGB, 2420 Nicolet Dr., MAC B310, Green Bay, WI 54311 or e-mail him at kraftm@uwgb.edu > > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or its editors.

