Hoping to sell that art masterpiece for a fortune?

These days, it might help if it's red.

That's just one development in an art market that has come roaring back from its recent slump.

Buyers from countries that once bought few works of art, such as China, are newly important.

They are molding tastes and driving top-end prices ever higher.

Global demand for works by [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso), Matisse and other modern masters seems bottomless.

Sales next week at London's Sotheby's and Christie's auction houses are expected to be brisk.

Experts estimate they will generate at least $650 million.

Sotheby's put its pieces on public display in London Thursday, and there was quite a bit of red visible in the top-tier works.

Gerhard Richter's intensely red painting "Wall" is expected to sell for at least $20 million.

An Andy Warhol portrait of former Chinese leader Chairman Mao is valued at $7 million to $9 million.

And a vivid red piece in plastic by Alberto Burri could break the $4 million record for the Italian artist.

"When we're pricing things we're aware of the power of red," said Alex Branczik of Sotheby's.

"Red is a color that incites passion.

It's the color of the sunset, it's the color of blood," Branczik said.

It's appealing to people everywhere, he said, but particularly so for Asian buyers.

For them, red has associations with luck and happiness.

There is some evidence to support this theory — four of the five most expensive Richters ever sold are red.

Sotheby's says there's a chance "Wall" could beat the $37.1 million record for a living painter.

Buyers from Asia, and especially China, are one reason the art market has rebounded from the global banking crisis of 2008.

Newly wealthy Chinese collectors began by buying works from their own country — both modern art and historic treasures.

They then moved to modern and contemporary European art as well as other areas.

China accounted for $14 billion of the $58 billion in global art sales in 2012.

Asian buyers spent twice as much on modern artworks at the auction house in 2013 as they did the year before.

Art spending by Latin Americans also leapt last year.

Russian and Middle Eastern collectors continue to pay record prices.

"When I started in this industry, it was really European and American (buyers)," said Jay Vincze, head of Christie's Impressionist and modern department.

"Now it is truly global."

He added, "The buyers are out there ... the market is strong."

That has led to a mood of quiet optimism at the auction houses.

In sales starting Feb. 4, Christie's will be auctioning Pablo Picasso's "Woman in a Turkish Costume," a portrait of his wife Jacqueline Roque that is expected to sell for up to $27 million.

It will also offer Juan Gris' "Still Life with Checked Tablecloth," valued at up to $24 million.

There are also multimillion-dollar works by Piet Mondrian, Rene Magritte, Fernand Leger and Joan Miro.

"When you look around these rooms, the supply we've got this season is incredibly rich and varied," Vincze said Thursday.

"The quality is very, very high."

A few blocks away at Sotheby's, sales that start Feb. 5 include Vincent Van Gogh's "Man is at Sea," Lucian Freud's portrait "Head on a Green Sofa," and works by Claude Monet, Marc Chagall and Henri Matisse.

Another highlight is Camille Pissarro's 1897 "Boulevard Monmartre," which Sotheby's calls "one of the most important Impressionist paintings we've handled."

It's expected to sell for $9 million to $14 million, but there's a feeling it could fetch even more.

It's a far cry from the jittery years after the 2008 banking crisis, when many works sold for little or not at all.

Auctioneers are already looking to woo the next wave of wealthy art buyers.

Christie's held its first sale in India last month, and Sotheby's opens an exhibition of Indian and international art in New Delhi on Friday.

And, said Branczik, "I think Central Asia is interesting.

It's a place where a lot of wealth is being generated."

