Hoping to sell a piece of art for a fortune?

These days, it might help if it's red.

That's just one new change in the art market.

Buyers from countries, like China, who didn't buy much art have increased their spending, by a lot.

These new buyers are shaping tastes and driving prices ever higher.

Just a few years ago, the art market was doing badly.

Now it has come roaring back.

Demand is nearly bottomless for works by modern masters like [Picasso](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Picasso) and Matisse.

In London, Sotheby's and Christie's are both putting modern works up for sale next week.

The artworks will be auctioned.

Whoever is willing to pay the most gets the art.

Prices are predicted to be high.

At least $650 million worth of art is expected to sell.

Sotheby's put its pieces on view in London this Thursday.

There was quite a bit of red visible, especially in the most highly valued works.

Take Gerhard Richter's red painting "Wall."

It's expected to sell for at least $20 million.

Andy Warhol's red picture of Chairman Mao is valued at $7 million to $9 million.

And then there's a bright red piece by Alberto Burri.

It could go for more than $4 million.

That would be a record for the Italian artist.

"We're aware of the power of red," said Alex Branczik of Sotheby's.

"Red is a color that incites passion.

It's the color of the sunset, it's the color of blood," Branczik said.

It's appealing to people everywhere, he said.

But particularly for Asian buyers.

For them, red is linked to luck and happiness.

Branczik might just be on to something: four of the five most expensive Richters ever sold are red.

Sotheby's says there's a chance "Wall" could beat the $37.1 million record for a living painter.

Asian art buyers are one reason the art market has rebounded.

Buyers from China have led the way.

Chinese collectors began by buying works from their own country.

Then they started buying European and American art.

China made up $14 billion of the $58 billion of art sold in 2012.

Asians are also buying more modern art, not just historical pieces.

In 2013, they spent twice as much on modern art as they did the year before.

Art spending by Latin Americans also leapt last year.

Russian and Middle Eastern collectors continued to pay record prices.

In the past, said Jay Vincze of Christie's, there were really only European and American buyers.

"Now it is truly global."

He added, "The buyers are out there ... the market is strong."

All this has raised hopes that 2014 will be a good year in the art world.

In sales starting Feb. 4, Christie's will be offering Pablo Picasso's "Woman in a Turkish Costume."

It is expected to bring in up to $27 million.

Juan Gris' "Still Life with Checked Tablecloth" will also be up for sale.

It is valued at up to $24 million.

Sotheby's will be holding sales starting Feb. 5.

They will offer Vincent Van Gogh's "Man is at Sea."

And Lucian Freud's "Head on a Green Sofa."

Works by Claude Monet, Marc Chagall and Henri Matisse will be offered as well.

Another highlight is Camille Pissarro's 1897 "Boulevard Monmartre."

It's expected to sell for $9 million to $14 million.

But there's a feeling it could bring even more.

All this is very different from the way things were just a few years ago.

Back then, many works sold for low prices or not at all.

Auctioneers are already looking for the next wave of rich art buyers.

Christie's held its first sale in India last month.

And Sotheby's is opening an exhibition there on Friday.

And, said Branczik, "I think Central Asia is interesting.

It's a place where" a lot of new money is being made.

