Over the years, many people have objected to the name of the Washington Redskins football team.

On Wednesday, a governmental board ruled on the matter: The name is insulting to [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Native+American), it said.

The team, it declared, shouldn't have a special right to sell products bearing the name.

The ruling was 2-1 against the team.

It doesn't force the team to abandon the name.

However, it says that the team's use of the name should no longer be protected.

Right now, the team has complete rights to the Redskins name.

By law, it can prevent others from using the name on sweatshirts, caps or other clothing.

The new ruling could make it difficult to stop others from using the team's name.

Sports teams make a lot of money from team-related clothing.

The Redskins stand to lose much of that money if anybody can use their name.

That puts pressure on the team to change what it calls itself.

If it came up with another name, the new one could be protected.

The Redskins aren't ready to give up yet, though.

The team quickly announced it will fight the new ruling.

It may be years before a final decision is made.

Still, the new ruling shows that more and more people believe the name must be changed.

This was actually the second time the board has ruled on the team's name.

In 1999, it ruled essentially the same way it has now.

That earlier ruling was overturned in 2003, however.

Courts overturned the board's earlier ruling based on perhaps overly picky reasoning.

Those who objected to the name, the courts said, had waited too long to complain.

Too many years had passed since the time when the team began using its name.

In 2006, the case was relaunched by a younger group of Native Americans.

Having only recently grown up, they wouldn't have been able to complain to the courts earlier.

For that reason, they were allowed to do so now.

Over the past year, more and more people have come out against the name.

On Saturday, the United Church of Christ asked its members not to attend Redskins games or buy Redskins clothing.

Half of the U.S. Senate recently wrote letters urging a name change.

One letter declared that "racism and bigotry have no place" in sports.

On Wednesday, Washington, D.C., Mayor Vincent Gray added his voice.

The Redskins name will almost certainly have to change, he said, if the team ever wants to build a new stadium in the city.

Team owner Dan Snyder refused to comment after the ruling.

In the past, he has said repeatedly that he will never change the name.

Redskins players have mostly avoided the topic.

"Our job as players is to focus on what we can on this field day-in and day-out," quarterback Robert Griffin III said.

It's up to team lawyers to handle the problem, he added.

Players will speak out "when it's the right time."

The Redskins have responded to attacks by creating something called the Original Americans Foundation.

This group has been giving money to Native American tribes.

Suzan Shown Harjo, a lead figure in the latest case, said the foundation is simply trying to buy support.

She compared what it is doing to bribery.

Supporters of a name change quickly hailed the new decision.

It is "just a matter of time," Senator Harry Reid said, until a name change happens.

Sooner or later, he added, Snyder will be "forced to do the right thing."

