There's a farm hidden in a quiet corner of the city of Chicago in Illinois.

The 2-year old farm is the size of a football field.

The farm is also special because it is the only farm in the entire state of Illinois where people from distant countries take care of the plants and vegetables.

The farmers came from countries around the world.

Some are from the African country of Congo.

Others are from the Asian nations of Bhutan and Myanmar.

Many of them were forced to leave their homes.

They are called "refugees" because they came to the United States for a safe place, or refuge, to live.

The farm is a place where these refugee farmers can return to their old lives.

They grow fresh vegetables to make traditional food, get fresh air, exercise and meet other people.

"When I get here, I'm so happy," said Matun Myint, a farmer from Myanmar.

"I don't have any worries."

The other refugees had many worries back in their home countries.

The people from Myanmar are called Burmese.

Their country used to be called Burma.

They had to leave when the army took over their country.

The army chased people away who were against the new rulers.

Some of the refugees spent almost 20 years in a camp in Thailand before coming to the United States.

The Bhutanese farmers also had to leave Bhutan.

They spent years in camps in the Asian country of Nepal before moving to the United States.

"These are people who never chose to leave their homes; they were kicked out," said farm manager Linda Seyler.

When the refugees arrive in the United States they don't speak English.

They also don't know a lot of people.

They can meet other people at the farm with similar stories.

The meetings happen at a farmers market that takes place twice a week.

The farmers share tips on how to cook with the vegetables they plant and listen to each other's stories.

Some 100 families use the farm.

The land is divided in many small parts.

Another part of the farm is used by people from the neighborhood.

Vegetables grown there are sold at farmers markets.

The money they get from the sales help pay for the farm's costs.

Families can sell their vegetables at the markets too.

Farmers made $980 in one season last year.

They can make even more money this year because they will sell the vegetables at another farmers market.

Many of the refugees were farmers in their countries.

Some of the farms were very large.

They grew rice and wheat in their land.

Some of them also raised cows and made their own butter and cheese.

Sha Darnal, a refugee, said his father had a large farm in Bhutan.

His father used bulls to work in the fields.

Farming in Chicago is very different.

The city farm is smaller and the weather is much colder.

The refugees from Burma had never seen winter before.

The first time Myint saw snow on the ground, she was so curious that she ate some.

Tah Mae, another refugee, said they were used to planting all year-round.

"Here, when the weather gets cold, all the plants die," he said.

The farmers also had to learn how to work on small plots.

"We had big land" in Bhutan, said Buddhi Darjee.

"Here we have a very limited space."

Most refugees enjoy spending time at the farm.

Planting things and spending time around the gardens is good for the refugees' health.

Many refugees are sad because they miss their countries.

They feel better when they come to the farm.

Darjee is one of them.

"Once I am in the garden, I don't want to go home," she said.

