It could be a scene from a distant land: Women in long, colorful skirts and men in traditional garments are tending to a small, lush farm, where chopped, fermented daikon is spread out to dry.

A daikon is a large white radish.

But this scene takes place off Chicago's Lawrence Avenue.

Hidden in a quiet corner of the city's busy Albany Park neighborhood, the Global Garden Refugee Training Farm is tended by natives of Congo, Bhutan and Burma.

It is the only refugee farm in Illinois.

Founded with government funding, the 2-year-old farm covers slightly more than an acre.

It gives refugees living in the city an opportunity to return to the farm lives many left behind.

It allows them to grow fresh vegetables for traditional dishes, to get fresh air, exercise and socialize.

"When I get here, I'm so happy," said Matun Myint, 43, a refugee from Burma, who spoke through an interpreter.

"I don't have any worries."

She and the other refugees have had plenty of worries elsewhere.

The Burmese refugees escaped when their country, now known as Myanmar, was under military rule.

They spent as many as 20 years in a refugee camp in Thailand.

The Bhutanese refugees fled Bhutan after a government campaign forbade free expressions of their original Nepalese culture in 1989.

They spent years in refugee camps in Nepal before being invited to settle in the U.S. beginning in 2008.

"These are people who never chose to leave their homes; they were kicked out, and then invited to come here," said farm manager Linda Seyler.

"When they arrive here, they don't speak English," she said.

Along with reconnecting them with the land, the farm encourages meetings among refugees and with neighbors at the twice-weekly farmers market, she said.

"You come to the market stand … and there is so much that happens between the farmers and their neighbors," she said.

"They're sharing recipes, they're meeting people from other ethnicities — people who use the same vegetables in different ways."

"This is a place to socialize, to learn, and a place to relax," said Hasta Bhattarai, who until recently was the program coordinator of the Bhutanese Community Association of Illinois.

Some 100 families — about half from Bhutan and half from Burma, plus two families from Congo — farm on 40-foot plots.

Another section of the farm is planted and worked communally.

Vegetables grown there are sold at twice-weekly farmers markets.

The proceeds from the sales pay for the farm's operation.

Families can sell their extra produce at the markets too.

Last year, farmers earned as much as $980 in a season, Seyler said, and this year, when farmers are also selling at the Horner Park Farmers Market, they could earn even more.

Many of the refugees were farmers in their native lands, some on a large scale.

"Most of us, including myself, had big plots in Bhutan," Bhattarai said.

They grew rice, millet and wheat.

Some raised cows and made their own butter and cheese.

Sha Darnal, 26, said his father had 20 acres in Bhutan and plowed the fields using bulls.

Farming in Albany Park is different because of the size of the plots and the weather.

The refugees from Burma had never seen winter.

The first time Myint saw snow on the ground, she was so curious that she ate some.

They were used to planting year-round, said Tah Mae, 40.

"Here, when the weather gets cold, all the plants die," he said.

Working such small plots has taken some adjustment.

In Bhutan, "we had big land, and this was our lives," said Buddhi Darjee, 42, who spoke through an interpreter.

"Here we have a very limited space."

Even so, it is a space she treasures.

"Once I am in the garden, I don't want to go home," she said.

Naina Darjee (no relation) feels just as strongly about the garden, which he visits almost every day.

It is his connection to the world he came from.

"Sometimes I forget my life in Bhutan," said Darjee, 66.

In the garden, he remembers.

The farm is good for refugees' physical and mental health, said Yvette Kyaw, a health promoter for the Heartland Alliance, who serves as an interpreter for families from Burma.

"They come here and they are depressed.

They miss their country," she  said.

"But they say, 'When we get stressed out, we just come down to the garden.'"

The refugee farm was born when Seyler saw a notice about grants from the Refugee Agricultural Partnership Program (RAPP), part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee Resettlement.

RAPP supports small farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain additional income, and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration.

Seyler, a former Peace Corps volunteer in rural Thailand with degrees in agronomy, wrote a letter asking for grants.

In 2010, they received a three-year nonrenewable startup grant for a refugee farm in Chicago.

In 2011, refugees began working on the plots at four community garden sites, including 10 plots donated by the Peterson Garden Project.

Then, garden project founder LaManda Joy spotted a vacant lot in Albany Park, an area home to many refugees.

It turned out the plot was owned by the city.

The City Council approved its use for the refugee garden, Seyler said, and in 2012, volunteers and refugee farmers began their work.

Forty truckloads of mushroom compost were brought in and the farm finally became a reality.

