Hidden in a corner of the city of Chicago lies a farm called the Global Garden Refugee Training Farm.

The 2-year-old farm was founded with help from the government in 2012.

It is the size of a football field.

Most people who work in the farm came from distant countries such as the African country of Congo and the Asian nations of Bhutan and Myanmar.

Many of the people were forced to leave their home countries.

They are called "refugees" because the United States has offered them a safe place, or refuge, to live.

The farm gives refugees living in the city a chance to return to the farm lives many of them were forced to leave behind.

They can grow fresh vegetables for traditional dishes, get fresh air, exercise and meet other people.

"When I get here, I'm so happy," said Matun Myint, a refugee from Myanmar.

"I don't have any worries."

She and the other refugees had plenty of worries back in their home countries.

The refugees from Myanmar are called Burmese because their country used to be called Burma.

The Burmese refugees escaped when the army took over their country.

The army chased out people who were against their rule.

Some of the refugees spent as many as 20 years in a camp in Thailand before coming to United States.

The Bhutanese refugees left Bhutan for similar reasons.

Their government didn't want them to express themselves freely.

They spent years in refugee camps in the Asian country of Nepal before moving to the U.S. "These are people who never chose to leave their homes; they were kicked out," said farm manager Linda Seyler.

"When they arrive here, they don't speak English."

The farm brings together refugees and neighbors at a farmers market that is held twice a week.

"There is so much that happens between the farmers and their neighbors" when they come to the market, she said.

The refugees share instructions on how to cook with the vegetables they plant.

They listen to each other's stories and learn new ways of using the same vegetables.

"This is a place to socialize, to learn, and a place to relax," said Hasta Bhattarai, who used to work with Buthanese refugees.

Some 100 families use the farm.

Part of the land is used by people from the neighborhood.

Vegetables grown there are sold at a farmers market.

Money from the sales helps pay for the farm's costs.

Families can sell their vegetables at the markets too.

Last year, farmers earned as much as $980 with the sales.

Many of the refugees were farmers in their native land.

Some of the farms were very large.

"Most of us, including myself, had big plots in Bhutan," Bhattarai said.

They grew rice, millet and wheat.

Some raised cows and made their own butter and cheese.

Sha Darnal said his father had 20 acres in Bhutan and worked in the fields using bulls.

Farming in Chicago is very different.

The farm is much smaller and the weather is much colder.

The refugees from Myanmar had never seen winter.

The first time Myint saw snow on the ground, she was so curious that she ate some.

They were used to planting all year-round, said Tah Mae.

"Here, when the weather gets cold, all the plants die," he said.

They also had to learn how to work on such small plots.

In Bhutan, "we had big land," said Buddhi Darjee.

"Here we have a very limited space."

The farm is good for refugees' health, said Yvette Kyaw, a health worker.

Kyaw said many refugees are sad because they miss their country.

But when they are very sad or anxious they come to the farm to feel better.

Darjee is one of them.

She is very fond of the farm.

"Once I am in the garden, I don't want to go home," she said.

