Are employers required to make allowances for their workers' religious beliefs?

Should they give employees days off for religious holidays, or time to pray during work hours, for instance?

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court in Washington state will hear arguments in a case closely watched by legal groups.

It is being followed because it could set a standard and finally clear up the state's discrimination law.

The lawsuit was brought by four employees of Gate Gourmet.

The company prepares food for airline passengers.

For safety reasons, it prohibits its workers from bringing their own meals to work.

The four men — vegetarian, Orthodox Christian, Muslim and Hindu — say the meals the company had been serving during the workers' shifts led them to eat pork without knowing it.

Eating that and certain other foods conflicts with their religious and moral beliefs.

Asegedew Gefe, one of the workers, is an Orthodox Christian, a form of Christianity practiced in Ethiopia and Egypt.

He has been working at Gate's warehouse at Seattle's international airport since 2010.

"We're not asking for this or that," he said.

"If it's broccoli, tell us it's broccoli.

If it's pork, tell us pork."

But does the company have to?

It is banned under state law from firing or refusing to hire a person because of his or her religious beliefs.

But the law is less clear on whether employers must allow for religious practices in the workplace.

This comes at a time when employees are increasingly expressing their religion at work.

Some say the protection isn't spelled out in state law.

But it is understood as being part of the law, they say.

A year ago, Washington judge Mary Yu granted Gate's request to dismiss the workers' lawsuit.

She said state law does not require employers to allow for religious practices.

Yu wrote that her order was based on an earlier court case.

In that one, a very Christian woman sued a school district.

She claimed her supervisor told her to give false information to another employee which was against her religious beliefs.

The court dismissed that case.

In doing so, it concluded that the Supreme Court, lawmakers and the Human Rights Commission, which enforces discrimination law, had never formally recognized religious allowances under state law.

A high court ruling in the case would guide lower courts in deciding such lawsuits in the future.

It could set the standard for the allowances employers must make.

It might allow workers to sue smaller companies with as few as eight workers.

Only businesses with 25 people or more can be sued in federal cases.

Aaron Rocke is the lawyer for the Gate workers.

He said that tolerating religious practices in the workplace is understood as being part of state law.

The main issue in the case is "an important matter of civil rights," he said.

It would show Washington as a state that respects religion, or one that doesn't.

Lawyers for Gate said the company "takes its legal obligations very seriously."

They declined to comment further, citing the upcoming Supreme Court arguments.

While low in numbers, workplace complaints regarding religion have been on the rise since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

And a poll this year by a center for religious understanding in New York focused on the most common conflicts involving religion at work.

One was being required to work on a religious holiday.

Another was attending company events where the food served was not allowed by a person's religion.

The state law banning discrimination in employment based on a person's race or religion was passed in 1949.

That was 15 years before the Civil Rights Act of 1964 created those rights at the federal level.

But the federal law was later updated, and regulations written, to provide for "reasonable" religious arrangements in the workplace.

The Washington state one was not, however.

While Washington state has not written regulations, it has published guidelines around such protections.

And it has investigated such complaints and made determinations on cases.

Those decisions implied that such protection exists, whether under state law, or under federal law.

Still, most lawyers in the state say they file employee discrimination cases in federal, rather than state, court.

Hardeep Rekhi, a Seattle lawyer, recently won a lawsuit he filed for a Muslim man.

The employee was fired from his job as a security guard after he refused to shave his beard, which he wears in keeping with his religion.

Rekhi filed the case in federal, instead of state, court.

There was a lack of clarity in state law, he said.

