A group of Republican governors had an angry message for President Barack Obama this week.

They demanded he drop plans to resettle thousands of Syrians in their states.

The Syrians are refugees who have been forced to flee their country.

Millions of people have left Syria since civil war broke out there in 2011.

Hundreds of thousands have not yet found a new place to live.

Over the past four years, 2,200 Syrian refugees have been allowed into this country.

The United States has promised to take in at least 10,000 more over the next year.

Many state governors do not want that to happen.

They claim it would be very hard to spot fighters hidden in with the refugees.

They also say it would be a particularly bad time to let in new Syrian refugees.

After last week's deadly attacks in Paris, France, they think it is just too risky.

Last Friday's attacks in Paris were carried out by the Islamic State group, also known as ISIS.

Gunmen fired into crowds of people.

They killed 129 and wounded hundreds.

None of the Paris attackers were Syrian refugees.

Still, the attacks have made many in the United States less willing to accept Syrian refugees.

Both the United States and France are involved in Syria's civil war.

The two countries are supporting forces trying to remove Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.

Both countries have been bombing targets in Syria.

The Islamic State group is fighting in Syria as well.

The group has taken control of parts of the country.

The U.S. is now seeking to remove Assad and to defeat the Islamic State group.

The extremist group claims the attacks in Paris were meant to punish France for its bombings in Syria.

Some fear that the group might be planning to strike the United States next.

They worry that Islamic State group fighters could slip in with the Syrian refugees.

Some governors have said their states still want to take in the Syrian refugees.

They say it is the right thing to do.

Many Republican governors do not agree.

They are pleading with the president to stop the refugee program for now.

The program lays out how many refugees go to each state.

Some governors say they have the right to stop resettlement in their state.

States can "completely shut down these refugee relocation programs," Texas Governor Greg Abbott said.

"The states are saying we are not going to accept any more of these refugees," he said.

The government must first come up with a better way to spot terrorists, Abbott said.

It may not be that easy for states to turn away refugees.

The United States has laws on refugee resettlement.

The most important law is the Refugee Act of 1980.

It declares that the national government is in charge of refugee resettlement, not the states.

The states do not have the right to block refugee placement.

Still, that did not stop Indiana Governor Mike Pence.

This week he ordered that resettlement be blocked in his state.

Most likely, his order will not stand.

Some members of Congress are pushing new, tougher rules for admitting refugees.

Obama has said he will not sign those new rules into law.

He does not think they will help.

Refugees are already checked very carefully before they are let into the country.

It can take as long as three years before they are cleared.

Under the new rules every refugee would have to be officially declared safe by three top government officials.

Those three officials are the Homeland Security secretary, the head of the FBI and the director of National Intelligence.

Obama said the change would not make Americans any safer.

Instead, it would only make life harder for the thousands of refugees who need a new place to call home.

They would have to wait much longer before they could finally settle down.

Some might never make it in, even though they have done nothing wrong.

