Republicans and Democrats fought for control of the government in an election.

On Tuesday, Americans voted for more Republicans to be lawmakers.

The Republican party is a group.

They usually do not agree with President Barack Obama.

The Democrats usually agree with the President.

He is also a Democrat.

In the United States, lawmakers can be in the Senate or the House of Representatives.

The Senate and the House together are called Congress.

Congress works with the president to make laws for the country.

Sometimes, Congress also works against the president to make sure he does not use too much power.

In the House of Representatives, voters choose 435 people from all 50 states.

States with a lot of people get to have more lawmakers in the House.

Small states have fewer lawmakers.

The Senate has 100 people.

Each state votes to choose two senators.

Americans vote every two years for representatives and senators.

They vote for people who they believe will make good decisions for the country.

Voters have not been happy with President Obama.

Many people who voted for Democrats in the past voted for Republicans in this election.

In the last two years of Obama's presidency, Congress will be controlled by people who do not agree with him.

In the House of Representatives, Republicans already had control.

More people in the House do not agree with Obama than agree with him.

Now, voters chose to have Republicans control the Senate as well.

There used to be more Democrats than Republicans in the Senate.

During the election on Tuesday, this changed.

Republicans won in Arkansas, Colorado, Iowa, Montana, North Carolina, South Dakota and West Virginia.

Republicans will control the Senate.

The Republicans also held onto their control in the House of Representatives.

They might gain even 12 more spots in the House.

The increase in Republicans would give the party the most control it has had since 1949.

The election showed that voters are angry with the government.

They are upset with President Obama.

Many voters believe that the country's government is going in the wrong direction.

They think that switching to a Republican government will make a difference.

In Kentucky's Senate election, the Republicans easily won.

The Democrats wanted a win in Georgia, but they failed.

In Kansas, Democrats wanted Greg Orman to win.

Orman ran as neither a Democrat nor a Republican.

He was an independent candidate.

In other words, he did not pick a side.

He ran against Senator Pat Roberts, a Republican.

Democratic Vice President Joe Biden said he supported Orman on Tuesday.

It was not enough.

Roberts still won the spot in the Senate.

Democrats did stay in control in New Hampshire.

In Louisiana, the election was not yet clear.

Three popular people were running in the southern state.

The votes were split three ways, so no one won.

There will be a second election next month so the state can decide.

The election will be between Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, and Bill Cassidy, a Republican.

Still, the night belonged to the Republican Party.

Kentucky Senator McConnell spoke to his supporters.

"Tonight, Kentuckians said we can do better as a nation," McConnell said in his victory speech.

"Tonight, they said we can have real change in Washington."

