Republicans and Democrats fought for control of the House of Representatives and the Senate on Tuesday.

Both groups are lawmakers.

The Republicans are critics of President Obama.

The Democrats support the President.

He is a Democrat.

The Republicans already had control of the House of Representatives.

After the election, Republicans took control of the Senate as well.

The Senate and the House both make up the legislative branch of the government, called Congress.

They sometimes work with the president to make laws for the country.

Sometimes, Congress also works against the president to make sure he does not use too much power.

The House of Representatives is made up of 435 people from all 50 states.

States with big populations have more people in the House than states with small populations.

The Senate has 100 people and each state gets two senators.

Americans vote every two years for representatives and senators.

They vote for people who they believe will make good decisions for the country.

Voters have not been happy with Democratic President Barack Obama.

Because of this, many people who voted for Democrats in the past voted for Republicans in this election.

Now in the last two years of Obama's presidency, both Congress will be run by his critics.

Republicans won spots in the Senate that used to be taken by Democrats.

They won in Arkansas, Colorado, Iowa, Montana, North Carolina, South Dakota and West Virginia.

For the first time since January 2007, Republicans control the Senate.

The Republican Party also held onto their control in the House of Representatives.

They might gain even 12 more spots in the House.

The increase in Republicans would give the party the most control it has had since 1949.

The results showed just how angry voters are with the government.

They are especially upset with President Obama.

Many voters believe that the country's government is going in the wrong direction.

They think that switching to a Republican government from a Democratic one will make a difference.

In Kentucky's Senate election, Republican Mitch McConnell easily beat Democratic Alison Lundergan Grimes.

The Democrats wanted a win in Georgia, but Michelle Nunn lost to Republican David Perdue.

In Kansas, Democrats appeared to be counting on Greg Orman.

He did not run as a Democrat or a Republican.

He ran as an independent.

Orman was up against Senator Pat Roberts, a Republican.

Democratic Vice President Joe Biden said he supported Orman on Tuesday but it wasn't enough.

Roberts still won the spot in the Senate.

Democrats did stay in control of New Hampshire.

Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen won the race against Republican Scott Brown.

In Louisiana, the election was not yet clear.

Three popular people were running in the southern state.

Because the votes were split three ways, it was still not known who the winner will be.

There will be a second election next month so the state can decide between Mary Landrieu, a Democrat, and Bill Cassidy, a Republican.

Still, the night belonged to the Republican Party.

Kentucky Senator McConnell spoke to his supporters.

"Tonight, Kentuckians said we can do better as a nation," McConnell said in his victory speech in Louisville.

"Tonight, they said we can have real change in Washington."

