If someone collapses and stops breathing, a 911 call is made to alert emergency responders.

Now, in hundreds of communities across the U.S., there is also a smartphone app to alert regular people in the area to help.

These people can start life-saving efforts until the professionals get there.

The cell phone app is called PulsePoint.

It's one of a number of apps that rescue workers, hospital staffers and patients themselves are using to try and improve responses to health emergencies and help save lives.

PulsePoint was made to aid victims who have suffered cardiac arrest.

During cardiac arrest, the heart suddenly stops beating.

Blood stops flowing to the brain and other organs.

The victim is unconscious.

If not treated within minutes, it usually results in death, according to the National Institutes of Health.

Sudden cardiac arrest is different from a heart attack.

In a heart attack, the blood flow is blocked, but the heart usually doesn't stop beating and the person remains conscious.

PulsePoint has helped save lives in cities such as Cleveland, Ohio.

In the last year, about 4,000 people there have downloaded the app.

Thirty-six citizens have responded to almost three dozen calls.

Some of the emergency apps that have been developed in recent years help people alert authorities if they're having a health crisis.

Others make important information about a patient available to emergency responders.

This information includes the name of the patient's doctor and emergency contacts, allergies, medications and medical condition.

A free app called 911HelpSMS informs a user of where he is located before he calls 911 in a medical emergency.

It also instantly texts family members and gives them the person's GPS location.

Another free app called EMNet finderER was developed for Massachusetts General Hospital.

It allows users, including sick people, EMTs, doctors and caregivers, to quickly locate the nearest hospital in an emergency.

PulsePoint works through crowdsourcing.

This means it reaches out to a large number of people in order to find someone nearby to help a patient who has suffered cardiac arrest.

Every year, more than 326,000 people who were not in a hospital experience cardiac arrest, according to the American Heart Association.

Ninety percent of them die.

But if correct CPR is given within three to five minutes, it can double or triple a victim's chance of surviving.

CPR involves pushing down on the chest of the victim in order to get their heart beating again.

PulsePoint was first released in 2010.

Since then, more than 1,100 cities in 22 states have signed on, according to Shannon Smith, a spokeswoman for PulsePoint.

Here's how it works: When a 911 call about a cardiac arrest in a public place comes in, PulsePoint app users are notified at the same time as first responders, like police, firefighters or paramedics.

Users are notified if they're within a certain distance, generally about a quarter of a mile, and if the victim is in a public location.

The app also directs citizen responders to the place where they can find the nearest defibrillator.

This device sends an electric shock to the heart to try to restore its normal rhythm.

The app is free for users.

Cities pay for the app so that their public health workers can use it.

So far, PulsePoint has been activated more than 4,000 times and more than 10,000 citizens have responded.

Among the success stories was that of a 56-year-old Oregon man who collapsed in his car outside his gym, and a 5-week-old baby with an enlarged kidney in Washington state, who went into cardiac arrest at a ballet shop where his sister was getting a tutu.

"Being able to arm CPR-trained citizens with a tool to locate someone in distress, as well as the nearest defibrillator, strengthens the person's chance of survival," Smith said.

Jeff Helm is chief of emergency response in Sioux Falls, South Dakota.

His department launched PulsePoint more than two years ago.

When the program started, some people raised questions about how to keep a person's health information private, and who will be held responsible if something goes wrong.

But Helm said neither turned out to be a problem because citizen responders who assist during a medical emergency are protected from being held responsible under Good Samaritan laws.

Every state has these laws in place to protect people who help victims in public places.

More than 10,000 people have downloaded the app in Helm's community.

He said that the app has gotten a lot of positive feedback.

"It keeps the public engaged," he said.

"Everyone has a smartphone nowadays, and now we have an avenue to get them to the right place at the right time."

