A crowd of workers gathered on Aug. 29 at a McDonald's in New York City chanting for higher pay.

More protests were expected to spread across the country during the day.

About 500 people, including workers, activists, religious leaders, news crews and local leaders, showed up outside the McDonald's on Fifth Avenue.

The protesters chanted "Si Se Puede" ("Yes, We Can" in Spanish).

They shouted "Hey, hey, ho, ho $7.25 has got to go."

Some held signs saying "On Strike: Can't Survive on $7.25."

By law, workers in all 50 states [must be paid at least $7.25 an hour by law](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

The protesters want $15 per hour.

They are also want the chance to join a union.

Trade unions represent people who work in a common field.

The union bargains with companies on behalf of the workers for their wages and working conditions.

The protesters planned to spread out to other restaurants throughout New York during the day.

Protests were also expected in 1,000 restaurants in 50 cities.

Los Angeles, Chicago, Charlotte, N.C. are just some of the places workers are targeting.

Meanwhile, a group in Washington took an opposite view.

The Employment Policies Institute put a full-page advertisement in the Wall Street Journal, a major newspaper.

The ad shows a robot making pancakes.

It explains that restaurants have to pay workers less to keep prices low.

If wages get too high, they might need to use robots instead.

The fast-food protests first began in New York on Nov. 29.

There have been three protests in New York since then, and they have spread to Chicago and other cities.

Thursday's protest will be the first for fast-food workers in Los Angeles and other cities.

"This is our fourth strike in New York, and now we have 50 cities striking with us," said Tyeisha Batts, 27, one of the protesters.

"I'm ready for a change," said Batts.

She has worked in fast-food restaurants for six years.

More workers are beginning to stand up and demand better working conditions.

And they are not just blue collar employees.

Some professional workers are asking for changes too.

But the fast-food protests are different because they are not targeting one company.

In Chicago, for instance, workers were expected to strike at Wendy's, Subway and McDonald's restaurants.

In New York, they protested outside Wendy's and Burger King along with McDonald's.

Derrick Langley stood in front of the chanting crowds.

The 27-year-old pointed to scars on his arms that he said came from cleaning the grill in the KFC restaurant where he works.

He also has a second-degree burn on his right foot, he said.

"They don't seem to care," he said about his employers.

"It's horrible how they manage us, how they talk to us, how they treat us.

They don't respect us as human."

The fast-food workforce has changed over the years.

Restaurants used to hire mostly younger people just trying to make pocket money.

Now, workers are older.

They depend on the work to feed their families.

Studies by the Economic Policies Institute show that the average age of minimum-wage workers is now 35, and that most of them are 20 and older.

"This morning, I'm out here taking a stand for all the fast-food workers around the world," Langley said.

"If you're not going to stand up for yourselves, we will."

