A crowd of chanting workers gathered on Aug. 29 at a McDonald's in Manhattan to call for higher wages and the chance to join a union, kicking off a day of protests that organizers said will spread to 50 cities and 1,000 fast-food restaurants across the country.

About 500 people, including workers, activists, religious leaders, news crews and local politicians, showed up outside the McDonald's on Fifth Avenue.

The protesters chanted "Si Se Puede" ("Yes, We Can" in Spanish) and "Hey, hey, ho, ho $7.25 has got to go."

Some held signs saying "On Strike: Can't Survive on $7.25," referring to the [federal minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

The protesters planned to spread out to other stores throughout New York during the day.

Protests are also expected in Los Angeles, Chicago, Charlotte, N.C., and other cities.

Meanwhile, a Washington-based think-tank placed a full-page advertisement in the Wall Street Journal "to address the protest."

The ad, by the Employment Policies Institute, shows a picture of a robot making pancakes.

It explains that restaurants have to pay workers less to keep prices low.

Otherwise, they might need to switch to robots if wages get too high.

"Why Robots Could Soon Replace Fast Food Workers Demanding a Higher Minimum Wage," the ad reads.

The fast-food protests first began in New York on Nov. 29.

There have been three protests in New York since then, and they have spread to Chicago and other cities.

Thursday's protest was to be the first for fast-food workers in Los Angeles and other cities.

"This is our fourth strike in New York, and now we have 50 cities striking with us," said Tyeisha Batts, 27, one of the protesters, who has worked in fast food for six years.

"I'm ready for a change."

The protests come as more workers in blue- and white-collar jobs begin to stand up and demand better working conditions.

But the fast-food protests are unique because they are not targeting one employer or company, but a whole industry.

In Chicago, for instance, workers are expected to strike at Wendy's, Subway and McDonald's outlets.

In New York, they're to be at Wendy's and Burger King along with McDonald's.

Derrick Langley, 27, stood in front of the chanting crowd, pointing to scars on his arms that he said came from cleaning the grill in the KFC restaurant where he works.

He also has a second-degree burn on his right foot, he said.

"They don't seem to care," he said about his employers.

"It's horrible how they manage us, how they talk to us, how they treat us.

They don't respect us as human."

The fast-food industry used to employ mostly younger people just trying to make some extra money as they went through school.

Now, workers are older and depend on the work to feed their families.

Studies by the Economic Policies Institute show that the average age of minimum-wage workers is now 35, and that 88 percent are 20 and older.

"This morning, I'm out here taking a stand for all the fast-food workers around the world," Langley said.

"If you're not going to stand up for yourselves, we will."

