Drones are a touchy subject.

The aircraft fly without a pilot while someone controls them from another location – sometimes thousands of miles away.

Drones can be used for many purposes.

The remote-controlled planes can drop bombs, get information or watch people from the sky.

Many people have concerns about the United States using drones to fire missiles.

They claim that these attacks have killed lots of innocent people.

Yet [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) may also be used to save lives, including those of endangered animals.

An American man is now testing a new plan for drones.

He wants to stop poachers who hunt for rhinoceros in Africa.

The rhino is very rare but hundreds are killed every year.

The hunters slaughter the huge beasts to sell their horns.

Earlier in May, 13 rhinos were killed in South Africa in just one week.

People believe that in South Africa alone, one animal is killed every 11 hours.

The demand for rhino horn has increased a lot in the last few years.

Criminal gangs are offering as much as $30,000 per pound for the horns.

The horns are ground up into powder and then sold in parts of Asia.

People there believe that rhino horn can cure a lot of illnesses, including cancer.

Hunters have already killed 350 rhinos in South Africa this year.

In 2012, 668 endangered rhinos died for their horns.

Professor Tom Snitch thinks that using drones could be very helpful in catching the poachers.

Snitch works at the University of Maryland.

He has experience using pictures taken from satellites to solve problems.

He feels he might be able to use his knowledge to protect rhinos in Africa.

The details of his plan are secret.

If the hunters knew what was happening, they could easily avoid being caught.

But Snitch and his team will start working over the next few days in the huge Kruger game reserve in South Africa.

This vast park is home to lions, elephants, buffalo, leopards and rhinos.

It is 220 miles wide.

Snitch will use small drones called the Falcon.

These aircraft only weigh about 12 pounds and have a range of about six miles.

The team hopes to use technology so they can fly their drones in the right places.

They will use software to try to predict where the hunters will be.

Then Snitch will call game wardens to catch the poachers.

The project will gather information about previous killings and then look at all the data together.

This information will include the weather, the number of poachers in the park and where they were.

Then the team will look at information about animal movements.

All this work will allow the team to better predict where the hunters will strike next.

The drones will be a huge help in this too.

Snitch hopes that his work will impress the South African government, and the country will use drones to protect rhinos in the future.

Wildlife groups also say they're eager to use technology to work against poachers.

Carter Roberts is president of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF).

He said that animal lovers need to fight back against the illegal hunters.

"We're not winning this battle," Roberts explained.

"It's become a huge crisis, and the bad guys are extremely sophisticated.

They have night-vision goggles.

They've got helicopters.

We need to up our game to combat what we're dealing with."

The animal conservation experts say that rhinos are majestic beasts.

Many people have also worked very hard to save the rhino.

This animal nearly died out completely 100 years ago.

"We don't want it to be on our shoulders, to be the ones responsible for the extinction of a species that's been on Earth for millions of years," Matt Lewis, an African animal expert, said.

"I think we should just pull out all stops and say this cannot happen on our watch.

We cannot let rhinos go extinct.

We cannot be the people to let that happen," Lewis continued.

Professor Snitch's drones may be very important in the rhino's desperate fight for survival.

