In a famous play by William Shakespeare, Richard III was described as a horrible murderer.

That's still how most people think of the English king.

Richard died in battle almost 530 years ago.

On Friday, Britain's high court ruled on where he will be buried.

The king is to be buried in Leicester.

His skeleton was found in that city in 2012.

The one-time ruler of England was dug up from underneath a parking lot.

The court had to decide between two cities.

Some descendants of Richard wanted him buried in York, in northern England.

They argued that York was the city closest to Richard's heart.

For that reason, they said, it had the strongest claim on his bones.

It is time for Richard III to be reburied with dignity, the court declared.

The long-ago king, it said, must at last be "laid to rest."

The king will be buried in Leicester Cathedral.

That church is right next to the place where Richard's remains were found.

Scientists who study humans from the past, called archaeologists, found Richard by using old maps.

They had been looking for the last place his body was known to be buried.

In September 2012, they discovered a man's skeleton.

It was immediately clear that he had suffered terrible battle wounds.

DNA and other tests proved that the man was Richard.

He was killed in battle on Aug. 22, 1485, at Bosworth Field, outside Leicester.

Following his death, the crown passed to his enemy Henry Tudor.

Richard was the last English king to die in battle.

Almost as soon as Richard's remains were found, a modern-day battle broke out.

The legal fight was over where the king should be buried.

The government selected Leicester as Richard's final resting place.

However, a group called the Plantagenet Alliance challenged that decision.

Richard was the last of the Plantagenet rulers.

The alliance's position was that York would be a better choice.

Richard, they said, spent much of his early life in and around that city.

Nonetheless, on Friday the high court said that the government had made the right decision.

The court noted that the proper rules had been followed; that Henry VII, who became king on Richard's death, had buried him in Leicester; and that the present queen, Elizabeth II, is happy with him being there.

David Monteith oversees Leicester Cathedral.

He said the court's decision was quite right.

"He fell here.

He's lain here for over 500 years," Monteith said.

The cathedral, he added, is only about 500 feet from where Richard was found.

Even though Richard had strong ties to York, he also "spent time all across England," said Monteith.

"He knew the city of York well, but he knew the city of Leicester well.

He didn't leave any will saying (where) he should be buried … We're simply doing what the law requires."

The cathedral has already begun preparing for the reburial.

It is scheduled to take place next year.

A new tomb will be built in the heart of the church.

Planning has also begun for a funeral service fit for a king.

Historians are bitterly divided over Richard's true character.

Some feel he doesn't deserve his bad reputation.

Was Richard the bloodthirsty murderer described in the play "Richard III" by Shakespeare?

Did he really have his two young nephews executed so he could call the crown his own?

Or was he actually a wise and just ruler?

Was his name smeared after his death by his enemies the Tudors?

No matter where he's buried, those questions may never be answered.

