England's King Richard III died in battle more than five centuries ago.

On Thursday, his remains are being re-buried with great ceremony at Leicester Cathedral.

The fate of Richard's remains has dominated headlines in Britain since his bones were dug up from under a Leicester parking lot in 2012 and identified using DNA testing a year later.

Richard III was slain in 1485 at the Battle of Bosworth Field, a moment immortalized by Shakespeare.

In Shakespeare's play "Richard III," the cornered king senses his own doom.

"I have set my life upon a cast,/ And I will stand the hazard of the die," he intones, and then famously cries out: "A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse."

Richard never escaped on a trusted steed and was, instead, cut down by the soldiers of his rival, Henry Tudor.

Analysis of Richard III's remains indicate his death was particularly brutal: his body was battered and penetrated in multiple places, from his head to his pelvis, suggesting his enemies did some gruesome things to his corpse.

His reburial in a new crypt in Leicester's cathedral perhaps offers the medieval king a kind of quiet, dignified redemption.

However, it does not end the longstanding debate over his reign.

Before he was king, Richard III was a loyal supporter of his brother, Edward IV.

Upon Edward's death, however, Richard usurped the crown from his brother's 12-year-old son, Edward V. Both Edward V and his brother were housed at the Tower of London, the state prison, before disappearing.

At the heart of the controversy is the belief that Richard III murdered his two young nephews, to keep either from ever becoming king.

This alleged crime colors his reputation to this day.

In the decades and centuries since his death, Richard III has been seen as an evil villain guilty of the worst crimes.

Shakespeare played a big part in cementing his reputation as a gnarled, unnatural usurper who even emerged from the womb "corrupt" and "misshaped."

Some accounts described him as a hunchback, a claim that analysis of his bones showed to be somewhat false.

Richard III's defenders point to the lack of any evidence proving that he was responsible for the deaths of the two princes.

They argue that the last thing England needed at the time was a child monarch, and that Richard III in his brief two-year reign introduced important reforms.

These include an early form of legal aid that was made available to those who could not afford lawyers.

"The achievements of his short reign have been overshadowed by historical myths and Shakespeare's monster," said Phil Stone, chairman of the Richard III Society, an organization devoted to overturning the monarch's bad reputation.

His achievements, Stone added, "were real and had lasting impact."

Ultimately, it may be slightly pointless to fret over the moral character of a monarch who died centuries before the world recognized anything other than the vulgar power of men with weapons.

He was another warlord in an age of warlords.

"In his day, political power was invariably won or maintained on the battlefield," said Cardinal Vincent Nichols, archbishop of Westminster.

It was achieved "only by ruthless determination, strong alliances and a willingness to employ the use of force, at times with astonishing brutality."

Richard III will be buried with respect and elaborate ceremony.

Nonetheless, this week's spectacle will not change the fact that he is more a figure from the world of "Game of Thrones" than our present moment.

