A green boat cut through the polluted waters of Rio de Janeiro's Guanabara Bay Monday.

It sailed alongside the local fishing boats but instead of grouper and swordfish, its catch was plastic bags, soda bottles and an old toilet seat.

The green boat is one of three so-called "eco-boats."

These floating garbage ships are a key part of the plan to clean up Rio's Guanabara Bay.

Brazilian authorities have pledged it will be clean in time for it and other Rio waterways to host events during the 2016 Olympic Games.

Critics say the boats do little to address the more pressing question of sewage.

There's little trash and sewage service in this sprawling mega-city of 6 million people.

Tons of garbage and raw waste flow daily down sludge-filled rivers.

They empty into the bay, where Olympic and Paralympic sailing events will be held.

At low tide, you can see mountains of household trash, old sofas and even washing machines.

The Associated Press looked at more than 10 years of government tests on waterways.

In all of them, fecal bacterial pollution levels were far above those considered safe by Brazilian or U.S. law.

That pollution means nearly all beaches along the large bay have long been abandoned by swimmers.

Some health experts warn of risks to athletes who come into contact with the water.

Elite sailors have warned that high-speed crashes with floating trash could damage or even sink sailboats during the Olympics.

Water pollution has been making headlines in Brazil's local press recently.

Thick patches of brown foam appeared along the city's most popular beaches.

Beaches like Copacabana are overwhelmed currently with holiday visitors during the Southern Hemisphere's summer, which takes place at the same time as winter in the U.S. And the beaches have been flooded with trash.

Much of it is floating in water only a few feet from the sand.

That's where authorities hope the eco-boats will make a difference.

They are rectangular boats made of steel and fitted with powerful speedboat motors.

They have a net that traps garbage floating up to 18 inches below the water's surface.

It captures everything from household trash to bigger items like abandoned television sets and refrigerators.

The trash is dumped into the boat, where recyclables are sorted out.

The boats don't deal with sewage.

But authorities insist they'll make a big dent in the overall pollution.

"Our objective is to not to have floating garbage in Guanabara Bay," said Gelson Serva.

He heads the state government's latest bay cleanup program.

The program is an $840 million project that includes efforts to expand the capacity of the city's strained sewage treatment system.

Only 30 percent of Rio's sewage is treated.

The rest flows into area rivers, the bay, local lagoons and its world-famous beaches.

"Those who live around the bay can already notice a difference over the past two years," Serva said.

Behind him, the clanking net dumped garbage into the ship's hull.

Three mid-sized boats rented from a local company began operating on Friday.

They weighed 4 tons and had the capacity to hold 37 square feet of trash (3.5 square meters).

Each mid-sized boat costs $842 daily to operate.

This includes fuel and a three-person crew consisting of two sailors and a garbage collector.

Serva said six small boats and one large barge will join them by March.

Mario Moscatelli is a scientist and outspoken environmentalist.

He said that the eco-boats are a positive step in the right direction, but are too little, too late.

"At this point, for the patient that is Guanabara Bay, over-the-counter medicines won't do," he said.

What's needed now are more extreme treatments, he believes.

Moscatelli said the major rivers flowing into bay should be fitted with heavyweight "eco-barriers" to filter out the garbage at the source.

The "eco-barriers" already in use on some rivers are too flimsy and allow most of the trash through, he said.

"This sort of manual collection is great for photos," he said of the boats now gathering trash.

"But it doesn't even begin to address the root of the problem."

