Car accidents killed more than 34,000 people last year in the United States.

Most of those accidents were caused by people, not the cars.

The good news is that may change.

Robot cars are headed to U.S. roadways.

These vehicles use a computer or a machine to control some of the car's motion.

Cars that steer themselves through bumper-to-bumper traffic will be for sale by the end of the year.

Cars that park by themselves will be next.

Cars that don't need a driver at all are less than 10 years away.

Inventors are working quickly.

The problem is, lawmakers need to catch up.

Only Nevada, California and Florida allow testing of driverless cars on their roads.

These states also started to write a new set of laws for those cars.

The new laws will answer many of the questions about driverless driving.

Do you need a license to ride in a self-driving car?

Who is at fault if there is an accident?

The car's owner or the carmaker?

What if a self-driving car runs a stoplight?

Who gets the ticket?

Should the person riding in the self-driving car be allowed to nap?

Send texts?

Or drink beer?

Is it possible for a hacker to take over a computer-powered car over the Internet?

These are all issues puzzling lawmakers.

In Washington, D.C., the Senate's transportation committee tried to understand the possible dangers of driverless cars.

They also thought about what rules might be needed nationwide.

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is trying to find answers to their questions.

The NHTSA have created a new group to help study the robo-cars.

It will focus on cyber security, so that drivers don't lose control of their cars.

It will also study the possible future of "car communication."

Technology may soon allow vehicles to exchange information while driving.

The head of the NHTSA said that the new car technology is "breathtaking."

He added though, that safety is the most important thing.

Some people think cars that are run by a robot will drive better than people.

They say that's because humans tend to make more mistakes than computers.

Richard Wallace works in Michigan studying the future of cars and driving.

He said computer-driven cars could help stop the majority of car crashes each year.

Some tools to stop car accidents are already in cars.

One of those tools stops cars from rolling over during an accident.

Some new cars can sense when they  are about to collide into something.

The car brakes automatically.

Wallace says the next step is "traffic jam assist."

This technology lets a driver push a button to let the car find its way through slow-moving traffic.

Wallace says that next year some cars will have traffic jam assist.

He added that automatic parking will be in cars in the next few years.

Fully robot-driven cars will most likely not be available for at least another seven years.

John D. Lee is an engineering professor at the University of Wisconsin.

He told senators that the technology may help safety – but it could also hurt it.

Drivers will have more distractions than ever.

And cars will not be so simple.

"Fifteen years from now, lawmakers probably will be debating whether people should even be allowed to drive," Lee said.

