A group of third-graders practiced teamwork.

The students built a pyramid out of cups.

They had to work together.

They could not touch the cups with their hands.

They had to use strings.

It took them only 10 minutes to do it.

This spring, the students will take part in a robot-building contest.

It is called Rockin' Robotics.

To do well, they must work together.

The kids go to Huntersville Elementary School in North Carolina.

The school is trying something new.

It is letting some of the best students out of their regular math classes.

They will get to work on special projects.

The projects will teach the kids to use their imagination and solve problems.

Sabrina Walters teaches at Huntersville.

She runs the program to teach kids how to build robots.

The class uses Lego robot kits.

She said students should learn how to make their own robots and video games.

Then they would not have to buy them.

For the contest, the students must invent something to make.

It must be something people would want to buy.

The students have a choice.

They can make something better, or they can make a new item.

The kids have many ideas.

Some of their ideas are serious.

Others are just fun.

One idea is a skateboard that helps people learn.

Another idea is a remote-controlled car.

The contest will be held May 30.

Colin Edelman is in the robot class.

He wants to build a Statue of Liberty robot.

The Statue of Liberty is a huge statue on an island near New York City.

It is 300 feet tall.

His robot would be much smaller, but it would talk.

It would answer questions about New York.

It would also say how the statue came to America from France.

"It'd be sort of like Siri," he said.

Siri is the computer voice on an iPhone.

Colin says the robot-building class teaches him about teamwork.

It also teaches him to solve problems.

Colin said his team has one weakness.

The kids do not work well together yet.

But they are getting better.

He said they will become strong at teamwork.

"That's how we'll end up winning," Colin said.

