The huge, 15-foot-tall robot sits in a warehouse near San Francisco, California, waiting for a fight.

It is getting ready to fight another machine from the other side of the world.

The robot looks fearsome.

It has a missile launcher in one arm and a cannon in the other.

Some of that is just showing off, because it runs on a lawnmower engine and only rolls around at about 2 miles per hour.

Gui Cavalcanti and Matt Oehrlein, the robot's inventors, have signed it up for a fight.

To win, they will need to spend the next year getting it into shape.

This is not exactly the promised future of robotics.

Robots are more often used to help humans with manufacturing, health care and getting around.

Cavalcanti and Oehrlein, co-founders of MegaBots Inc., want to satisfy another human desire: fierce, gladiator-style entertainment.

"There's an entire group of gamers who've been waiting for this their entire lives," Cavalcanti said.

"People like combat and people really like high technology.

This is a perfect blend.

We want to make an entertainment spectacle."

The engineers and their third co-founder, Brinkley Warren, released a video recently on the website Kickstarter, looking for financial help to give the machine a makeover.

They want to defeat a robot built by a Japanese robot company.

MegaBots made the challenge and the Japanese accepted last month.

The time and place of the battle is still to be determined.

For now, the American robot only fires paintballs, so it is not quite ready for the Japanese model, Kuratas.

That robot has speed, crushing hand-to-hand fight skills and a strong machine gun.

The MegaBots team knew they needed to improve their robot, so they asked for contributions on Kickstarter.

They raised almost half of their $500,000 goal in the first 48 hours.

It took 3 1/2 months and $200,000 to build this machine, called Mk II.

The Mk II is what is called a "mech."

It was inspired by the MechWarrior video games its inventors played when they were kids.

It needs a gunner and a human pilot to drive it.

"Right now, it has more in common with a vehicle than a robot," Cavalcanti said.

Some of the changes made to the robot include armor to handle stronger punches.

It also has a pump system to lift the extra weight of the new armor and weapons.

It will need even more power to run some of the new items.

"Our robot is sort of built for range combat," Oehrlein said.

"It can't really take a punch or swing a punch."

MegaBots moved this spring, looking for a better place to build robots.

The company went cross country from Boston, Massachusetts, to the San Francisco area.

"It's hard to build really big robots in Boston," Oehrlein said.

It is an old city, rents are high and it is hard to find big warehouses with cranes.

There are more of those places in the San Francisco area, he said.

The team also wanted to find tech people to hire as the company grows.

San Francisco has many technology companies and many people with experience working in technology.

Cavalcanti and Oehrlein had worked at big-name robotics companies, but left to build their own robots.

Warren runs the business.

The robot builders imagine a chain of arenas devoted to their new battle sport.

It would be a kind of robot Olympics that is part mixed martial arts fight and part auto racing.

Each country will arm its own robot army.

Don't worry, Oehrlein and Cavalcanti say, it will always remain pure sport.

"Ours is a bigger target than a tank, slower than a tank, and it can fall over," Cavalcanti said.

For a real military, it's "the worst possible design."

If robots should ever fight a war on Earth, they will be agile and smaller, not big, awkward humanoid machines.

It's different in a robot fight.

Watch out, Kuratas.

