Often, it is the best students who get overlooked in their classrooms.

That's the view of Sabrina Walters, a teacher at Huntersville Elementary School who has come up with a solution to ensure this doesn't happen.

"We are doing some innovative work at Huntersville Elementary … by allowing (students) to (test) out of units of study and replace those units with opportunities for critical and creative problem-based learning opportunities," Walters said.

In other words, students who test out of a math class might get to learn robotics instead.

On a recent day, third-graders at Huntersville Elementary practiced their problem- solving skills and working as a team.

Their task was to build a pyramid using plastic cups, but the catch was that they could not touch the cups with their hands and could only use a rubber band attached to several strings.

It took them just 10 minutes.

This spring, the students will compete against dozens of kids from other schools in a competition called Rockin' Robotics.

The contest emphasizes teamwork and problem-solving skills using science and technology.

"They will learn how to communicate and collaborate with their peers," Walters said.

"And they will learn how to shape their futures to become creators, not just consumers."

The school received more than $5,000 in grants for the robotics program, including money from EnergyUnited, a North Carolina power company.

EnergyUnited is giving nearly $40,000 in funding this year to 27 teachers across the state through its Bright Ideas Grant Program, said Maureen Moore, a spokeswoman for EnergyUnited.

"It's an outstanding way for teachers in grades K-12 to secure funding for projects that they might otherwise not be able to provide for their students."

Huntersville's robotics program teaches students to build and program robots using Lego Mindstorms robots and software.

For the competition, the students must create something with commercial value, which people would be interested in buying.

It can be something new, or they can choose to improve on something that already exists.

The students have not yet decided on a specific project, but ideas range from the ambitious to just plain fun.

Ideas include a skateboard that teaches people how to learn and a remote-controlled car.

The Rockin' Robotics competition will be held May 30.

"We challenge all our students, including these top performers, by offering varied opportunities for enrichment from computer coding to problem-solving to creative writing to robotics," Walters said.

Last year, six teams of about 10 students each participated.

Walters was teaching at another school at the time, and her class took home second place by creating an electric guitar.

The winners made an automatic dog-feeder.

So far, students have learned how to write computer programming code.

They also recently participated in another contest sponsored by the Parent Teacher Association (PTA).

One of the students, Colin Edelman, wants;to build a small robotic model of the Statue of Liberty that could move around and lift up its torch.

The model would also include some facts about New York and how the statue came to America from France.

"You could ask questions to it and it'd be sort of like Siri on (an iPhone)," he said.

He rates the class a nine out of 10, calling it interesting and challenging.

Edelman said the classes have taught him about teamwork and how to solve problems creatively.

"We do a unit pre-test, and if we score 93 or higher, we get to come to this class," he said.

"Our weakness right now is probably that we don't really work together that well yet, but our strength eventually will be working as a team because that's how we'll end up winning."

