Car accidents killed more than 34,000 people last year in the United States.

Human error caused more than 90 percent of those accidents.

But, that percentage might get a lot smaller.

That's because robot cars are about to make their way onto U.S. highways and roads.

In a matter of months dealerships will sell cars that steer themselves through bumper-to-bumper traffic.

Self-parking vehicles are not far behind.

And cars that don't need human drivers at all are less than 10 years away.

The only problem is that laws still need to be written before robot cars hit the road.

Only three states — Nevada, California and Florida — allow testing of driverless cars on their roadways.

They have all started writing a set of laws for self-driving vehicles .

Driverless cars raise many questions for officials.

What training should be required to operate a self-driving car?

Is a license required?

Who's at fault in an accident, the car's owner or its manufacturer?

What if a self-driving car runs a stoplight?

Who gets the ticket?

May a car's occupant nap at the wheel, or text, or drink alcohol, if the car is driving itself?

Will hackers be able to take over  vehicles that run on computers?

Recently, senators met to discuss the latest advances in automobile technology.

Many struggled to fully understand the risks involved with the new vehicles.

They also considered what rules might be needed nationwide.

Sen. Jay Rockefeller leads a committee that oversees involving highways, aviation, rail, shipping and transportation security.

He said the new technology and research could completely change the very idea of what it means to drive.

Rockefeller asked how manufacturers can make sure computerized cars are reliable.

He wondered if enabling cars to connect to wireless networks would put them in danger.

Rockefeller brought up a worst-case scenario.

He asked whether a 14-year-old in Indonesia could "figure out how to shut a whole bunch of cars down because they're wired to the Internet?"

David Strickland, the head of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said his agency had created a new division within the Office of Vehicle Safety Research.

It will focus on cyber security.

The aim will be to "ensure that the driver cannot lose control and that the overall system cannot be corrupted to send faulty data," he said.

Strickland told the senators that the new technology that is possible is "breathtaking."

The NHTSA is also researching how drivers react and perform in different types of driverless vehicles.

"Our first priority is safety," Strickland said.

"We're not going to compromise safety."

People who support self-driving technology say computers can drive better than humans.

They say that's because people tend to make more mistakes than machines do.

"There's dramatic potential to reduce crashes by 80 to 90 percent, even more," said Richard Wallace, a researcher who studies car trends and the future of driving."

Some crash-prevention technologies are already available.

For example, stability control, which prevents rollover accidents, is required for new cars.

Other safety features in vehicles today are parallel parking assistance.

Some new cars include sensors that can tell the car to brake if it is about to hit something.

Wallace says that the next step is "traffic jam assist."

This technology allows a driver to push a button to let the car make its way through slow moving traffic by itself.

According to Wallace, some 2014 cars will have traffic jam assist.

He added that robot-operated parking is expected in the next few years.

Google and other companies have developed cars that can safety drive from Point A to Point B without anyone behind the wheel, but cars with that technology won't be for sale until 2020.

Fifteen years from now, lawmakers probably will be debating whether people should even be allowed to drive, said John D. Lee, an engineering professor at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

Lee warns that in addition to technologically advanced cars, the future holds many distractions for drivers.

The new technology, he says, will either make driving safety in the United States a lot better or much worse.

