Children are streaming across the Mexican border to escape violence and poverty back home in Central America.

Some travel another 1,500 miles to arrive in Florida.

More than 3,000 have come to Florida this year to join family members.

Under a 2008 law, children crossing the border alone cannot be sent out of the U.S. immediately.

They have the right to claim they should remain because they face danger if returned to their homeland.

Some of the children have been allowed to stay.

Others have been sent back to their countries.

The numbers of children crossing the border is becoming a crisis.

Children are fleeing countries such as Honduras.

Drug trafficking there has gotten worse and violent gangs attack families, including children.

Many come to Florida, which has the largest Honduran community in the nation.

Immigration courts in Florida are swamped with cases, as the children must prove their right to remain in the U.S.

Judges have to decide whether to let the children stay or send them home.

Florida courts are creating "rocket dockets."

The sped-up court cases will quickly decide the children's fate.

They'll get through a court's list of cases, or docket, fast.

Volunteer lawyers are scrambling to prepare.

They'll have to argue up to 50 hearings a day per judge.

The lawyers will be trying to prove the children's right to stay forever.

At the very least, they'll try to keep them from being sent back to their countries immediately.

Three immigration judges in Miami and two in Orlando are now working just on cases of border children.

Supporters of immigrants worry that the cases may be too fast to be fair.

On a recent Friday, 25 children appeared before a Miami judge.

Only three had lawyers, said Lesley Mendoza, who runs a free legal help program of Cuban lawyers.

Other than the three, the rest appeared by themselves, she said.

"Without speaking the language, without any knowledge and limited education, they are expected to navigate the legal system on their own.

That's just wrong."

The sped-up hearings mean some children won't have time to find a lawyer, Mendoza said.

"Many who do have a legal right will be sent back."

Being sent back for some of these kids means being abused, or forced to do whatever a gang asks them to do, she said.

Mendoza said some may be killed.

The Immigration Court in Orlando is also clogged with cases.

Volunteer lawyers are being found to represent all the children seeking protection.

"We have seen a dramatic increase in the last year, but these are not the first children to come," said Camila Pachon Silva, an immigration lawyer.

"The numbers right now have skyrocketed."

Yet, she said children "have crossed the borders on their own ever since we've had immigration in the United States."

Government officials reported that 3,181 of the children caught on the border so far this year had come to Florida.

Most of them are teenagers from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala.

"By having a special docket, you can move these cases, hopefully without stepping on anybody's rights," said Jeffrey Brauwerman, a former immigration judge and now a Florida immigration lawyer.

"I think the judges will be pretty fair-minded.

The key thing is to unclog the docket."

Immigrants have poured into Florida before.

In 1980, the Mariel Boatlift brought 125,000 Cubans.

Haitians fled to Florida in the 1980s and '90s.

The state is now home to nearly 4 million immigrants.

But rarely have immigration courts felt the need to speed up cases.

"This is a major stop," Brauwerman said.

After crossing the border, many children hop a bus to find family in Miami.

"Remember, we're still the gateway to the Americas."

