Florida immigration courts are increasingly swamped by unaccompanied children who illegally cross the U.S.-Mexico border to escape violence back home.

From the border, the children travel more than 1,500 miles to arrive in Florida.

The children want to stay and courts can't handle the cases at their normal speed.

Florida courts are creating "rocket dockets."

They'll get through a court's list of cases, or docket, fast.

The sped-up court cases will quickly decide whether the children should be sent back to their homelands.

Volunteer lawyers are scrambling to prepare for as many as 50 hearings a day per judge.

The lawyers will be trying to prove the children's right to become permanent residents, or at least avoid immediate deportation.

Many children are fleeing violence and poverty in Central America.

More than 3,000 have come to Florida this year to join family members.

To stay, they still must establish their right to remain.

Three immigration judges in Miami and two in Orlando are now focusing entirely on cases of border children who have settled in Florida.

Supporters of immigrants fear that the cases will be too quick to be fair.

Only three of the 25 children who appeared before a Miami judge on a recent Friday afternoon were represented by lawyers, said Lesley Mendoza.

She runs the Cuban American Bar Association's free legal help program.

"The rest were expected to appear by themselves," she said.

"Without speaking the language, without any knowledge and limited education, they are expected to navigate the legal system on their own.

That's just wrong."

She added, "By expediting hearings and not giving them time to find an attorney, many who do have a legal right will be sent back.

Being sent back for some of these kids means continuing to get raped on their way to school.

For the boys, it means doing whatever a gang asks them to do, or being killed."

The Immigration Court in Orlando is also clogged with cases.

Volunteer lawyers are being found to represent the large numbers of children seeking protection.

"A lot of children are appearing before immigration judges alone, without any legal counseling," said Camila Pachon Silva, an immigration lawyer with the Orange County Bar Association.

The group is training lawyers to deal with the cases.

"We have seen a dramatic increase in the last year, but these are not the first children to come," she said.

"The numbers right now have skyrocketed, but children have crossed the borders on their own ever since we've had immigration in the United States."

Federal officials reported that 3,181 of the children caught on the border so far this year had come to Florida.

Most of them are teenagers from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala.

Typically, children are placed with family members.

Dozens more are expected to arrive this month to be sheltered and placed in homes.

Under a 2008 law, unaccompanied minors cannot be deported from the country immediately.

The law gives them the right to claim they should remain because they face danger if returned to their homeland.

Some of the children have become permanent residents and some have been deported.

The numbers of children crossing the border is becoming a crisis.

Children are fleeing countries such as Honduras that have descended into lawlessness.

Drug trafficking there has escalated and violent gangs attack families, including children.

Many come to Florida, home to nearly 4 million immigrants and the largest Honduran community in the nation.

"By having a special docket, you can move these cases, hopefully without stepping on anybody's rights," said Jeffrey Brauwerman, a former immigration judge and now an immigration lawyer in Fort Lauderdale.

"I think the judges will be pretty fair-minded.

The key thing is to unclog the docket."

Florida has absorbed large inflows before — including the Mariel Boatlift, which brought 125,000 Cubans in 1980.

Haitians fled to Florida in the 1980s and '90s.

But rarely have immigration courts felt the need to speed up cases.

"This is a major stop," Brauwerman said, "because when they come over the border, many hit the Greyhound bus and come all the way down to Miami, where there's a lot of family.

Remember, we're still the gateway to the Americas."

