group of scientists say that the Rockstar energy drink could be bad for the heart.

They say that in 30 minutes, one can of Rockstar sends blood pressure up.

It also boosts a hormone in the body that can cause a fight-or-flight feeling in people.

The fight-or-flight feeling happens when a person thinks that they are in danger.

It gets them ready to fight or run away.

The feeling is caused by an increase in type of hormone that affects the heart and blood vessels.

A hormone is a chemical that the body releases.

Scientists conducted their study at Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota.

The Mayo Clinic is a famous hospital where scientists and doctors can study medicine.

Scientists worked with a group of 25 volunteers.

Each person drank a 16-ounce can of the Rockstar drink on an empty stomach.

They had to finish the drink in under five minutes.

One energy drink contains large amounts of caffeine.

It is the ingredient in coffee or Coca-Cola that makes people feel more awake.

Rockstar also contains taurine, guarana seed, ginseng root and milk thistle.

Taurine helps regulate the level of water and minerals in blood.

Some studies say it also improves the mind and body.

Guarana is made from the seeds of a South American tree and has high amounts of caffeine.

Ginseng root is a plant.

It is thought to give people energy and lower blood sugar.

Milk thistle has a few uses including lowering cholesterol.

On another day, the same group of people drank a placebo energy drink.

It tasted just like Rockstar.

However, it had none of the caffeine, taurine or other chemicals.

A placebo has no effect on a person, and is used in tests to make people think that they are taking something else.

The volunteers did not know which drink that they were given.

All of the volunteers were healthy.

They had an average age of 29 years old, and were of average weight.

None of the volunteers were on medications, and none had any alcohol or caffeine the day before.

Scientists measured their heartbeats and blood pressure before they drank.

They also took blood samples.

All of the tests were repeated 30 minutes later.

Scientists giving the tests did not know who got the real Rockstar drink and who got the placebo.

Before the drinks, all volunteers had normal heart beat and blood pressure readings.

After drinking Rockstar, their blood pressure went up.

Blood pressure measures the force created in blood vessels when the heart beats.

People with high blood pressure have a greater chance of having heart problems.

Blood pressure in those who drank Rockstar rose a bit.

Blood pressure in those who drank the placebo rose about half as much.

Both drinks caused volunteers' hearts to beat faster.

Rockstar drinkers averaged about three more beats each minute.

Those given the placebo averaged about four more beats each minute.

Scientists say the results are about the same.

The biggest difference was in levels of the hormone that can lead to fight-or-flight.

It makes blood pump faster and the heart pound.

After drinking Rockstar, the average amount of that hormone in the blood rose by almost three-fourths.

There was a smaller increase for those who drank the placebo.

Scientists wanted to see whether uncomfortable situations would affect how Rockstar works.

They asked the group to answer math questions, squeeze a hand grip or put a hand in ice water for two minutes.

None of the activities made a change.

Comfort level did not make a difference, but scientists still worry about the rise in blood pressure and the hormone.

They recently published the Rockstar study in a magazine for scientists.

It notes that the blood pressure and hormone increases after drinking Rockstar could make people more likely to develop heart disease.

Scientists also say that results might be different with another energy drink or more volunteers.

