Illustrations from the 1500s have people talking.

The pictures show cats and doves with what look like 21st century jet packs strapped to their backs.

The unusual pictures were from a manual on warfare published around the year 1530.

The text below each illustration is in German.

The text helpfully advises military commanders of the time how to use the illustrated animals: "Set fire to a castle or city which you can't get at otherwise."

The drawings recently caught the attention of not only an Australian book blog, but also University of Pennsylvania researchers.

The University has since digitized the illustrations, some in full color.

Mitch Fraas works at the University of Pennsylvania.

He said that he initially "really didn't know what to make of it."

He added, "It clearly looks like there's some sort of jet of fire coming out of a device strapped to these animals."

Fraas, a historian and digital humanities expert at the University of Pennsylvania library, set out to solve the mystery.

So were these unfortunate animals from the 1500s really wearing modern-day technology?

Fraas says no, obviously.

The work in question was written by weapons master Franz Helm of Cologne.

He was believed to have fought in several conflicts against the Turks in south-central Europe.

At that time, gunpowder was changing the way wars were fought.

Gunpowder is an explosive.

Helm's manual was circulated widely and illustrated by many artists.

In addition to the weaponized cats and birds, the manual is filled with all sorts of strange and terrible pictures.

Those images include bombs and missile-like explosive devices studded with spikes.

According to Fraas' translation, Helm explained how animals could be used to deliver devices that would start big fires.

"Create a small sack like a fire-arrow," the manual says.

"If you would like to get at a town or castle, seek to obtain a cat from that place.

And bind the sack to the back of the cat, ignite it, let it glow well and thereafter let the cat go, so it runs to the nearest castle or town, and out of fear it thinks to hide itself where it ends up in barn hay or straw it will be ignited."

In other words, capture a cat from enemy territory.

Then attach a bomb to its back, light the fuse and then hope it runs back home and starts a raging fire.

But Fraas said he could find no evidence that cats and birds were actually used in early modern war to cause harm.

A good thing, too.

"Sort of a harebrained scheme," Fraas said.

"It seems like a really terrible idea, and very unlikely the animals would run back to where they came from.

More likely they'd set your own camp on fire."

