This is one classroom where you can whip your hair.

Many people want to become a rock 'n' roll star.

A new school wants to teach them how to do it.

The rock school is called the Woodstock Music Lab.

It is in Woodstock, New York, and will open in about a year.

Paul Green helped start the school.

He sees the school as a big "petri dish" where young guitarists, producers and arrangers can learn and experiment together.

Green showed off the old elementary school that will become the Woodstock Music Lab.

He wants students to work together and help one another.

For example, one student might step out of the studio during a project and say, "I need a saxophonist."

Another kid who is a saxophonist working on a jazz project will say, "I will be right down!"

Green is a talkative rock teacher who has started rock schools before.

Michael Lang also helped start the school.

Lang organized the Woodstock music festival.

The famous festival happened nearly 50 years ago.

It took place in a muddy field about a hour away from where the new school will be.

Green hopes the school will open next year.

An important step was taken this summer when he and Lang bought the elementary school.

It cost $1 million.

Not long ago Green and Lang walked through empty classrooms.

They said the gym will become a recording studio.

The space is big enough to fit an orchestra.

Students will go to the school for two years.

They will learn how to perform, make, arrange and market music.

Lang wants to teach students everything there is to know about the music business.

College-age students who are between 18 and 22 years old can go to this school.

Even people in their 20s or 30s can go.

Each student will learn how to play two instruments.

Students can pick out one instrument.

Teachers will choose the other.

Students will not earn college degrees at first.

The school hopes to offer college degrees later.

Green and Lang will bring in well-known musicians to be guest teachers.

Some even own homes in the woods around Woodstock.

Jon Anderson was once the singer of a rock band named Yes.

Students also will see Green a lot.

He now runs the Paul Green Rock Academy.

He gives younger students after-school lessons.

He hugs and teases students.

He cracks them up by sticking his head into a classroom and singing loudly.

Big record companies used to watch out for their artists.

Lang and Green say they do not do that anymore.

They say their school will care about young artists.

Green said that the school will try to make great music like the Rolling Stones and Radiohead.

Green was asked if tough classes for students might choke the spirit of rock'n'roll.

He laughed.

Everyone knows rock'n'roll will never die.

