The horse trotted out of his trailer, kicking up dirt.

He is tall, with a strong frame and a bluish stripe down his nose.

He is Bruce, the beautiful chestnut-colored horse that just could not win.

His last, best chance is Bryce Runyan, a 25-year-old professional calf roper.

Other cowboys said "he couldn't run how they wanted," Runyan said.

"I saw he could run the way I wanted."

Bruce was not bold or fierce enough for bronco riding, the famous rodeo event where cowboys try to stay on a bucking horse.

However, Bruce was quick and strong, and he had something those wild-eyed broncos did not.

He was smart, and in calf roping, a smart horse can win.

Calf roping is a rodeo event involving a calf and a rider on a horse.

The rider throws a circle of rope around the calf's neck.

Then, he or she gets off the horse, runs to the calf, and ties three of its legs together.

This is all done in seconds.

Before Runyan had Bruce he had a friendly Chestnut named Maverick.

Maverick was a great horse and he and Runyan won first place and $5,000 in last year's Prescott rodeo.

However, he was getting older and he and Runyan had grown too used to each other.

This sometimes happens to rodeo horses and it causes them to lose.

They know their riders so well, they over-anticipate the next move, fouling the milliseconds that make up who wins and who loses.

After trying unsuccessfully to break in two other horses Runyan found Bruce.

He was a sweet horse, said the family who owned him, but no champion.

Could he fill Maverick's horseshoes?

A calf roper and his horse must wait to enter the ring behind a wooden gate.

After the calf runs a certain distance, the gate falls and the rider begins the chase.

Sometimes a rider gets too eager and crashes through the gate.

When the rider breaks this rule, he or she must wait 10 extra seconds.

Tenths of seconds matter: Runyan won last year by roping his first calf in 10 seconds flat.

His next-closest competitor came in at 10.70 seconds.

Runyan waited on his horse at the rodeo.

The calf ran out of the gate, but it ran to the center and Runyan could not adjust.

He and Bruce went through the gate too early, and the crowd groaned.

That was it.

A half-second and the show, for Runyan, was over.

Runyan thinks of growing up and leaving rodeo some day.

He sees himself marrying his girlfriend and working a job that requires less traveling.

He is not making a lot of money, but he is not losing a lot of money either.

"It could be a couple dollars either way," he said, grinning, "but no one's getting rich."

Someday he will join his father's construction business, and building work is easy to get in the Southwest.

For now he wants to keep riding.

The cowboy is going to the next rodeo a few days later, in Taylor, Arizona.

If Runyan does not win, he might not make it to the National Finals Rodeo.

He arrived in Taylor after a four-hour drive.

On rodeo night he readied his horse.

A cowboy nudged a black calf forward until it sprinted out of the gate.

Runyan and Bruce ran out and caught up with the calf in 3.2 seconds.

Runyan swooped the rope around the calf's neck and tied the calf's three legs together.

When he finished, Runyan looked up at the scoreboard, his time of 9.7 seconds surprised him.

It was his fastest time ever, even better than with Maverick.

"Well, folks!"

the announcer said.

"How about that!"

Runyan didn't even smile.

A graying cowboy who had been otherwise motionless waved him over, spoke for two seconds and went back to his silence.

"He said, 'Good ride,'" Runyan said.

This is the way it is in rodeos.

There is no showy victory lap, just a handshake and a check, this one for $2,000.

However Runyan came away with something even more valuable.

The cowboy now knows he had been right all along that Bruce was not a failure.

He, like Runyan, only needed the right partner.

