Rooftop farms are popping up all around Chicago.

People want to use the roofs of buildings to grow food.

It is an idea many other cities are interested in as well.

The McCormick Place convention center has grown tens of thousands of pounds of produce since 2013.

A historic factory in the Pullman neighborhood is planning to have the world's largest rooftop farm.

They expect it to be ready this summer.

Even small businesses and schools have rooftop gardens in Chicago.

It is too early to tell what kind of effect rooftop farming will have on food farming overall.

It is still a very new idea.

Peter Strazzabosco works for the city of Chicago.

He believes there are at least 13 rooftop farms in Chicago, although he said there could be more.

Other cities are also known for being green.

Washington, D.C., has three rooftop farms and Toronto, Canada, has two, people in those cities said.

Michael Bryson is a professor at Roosevelt University in Chicago.

He thinks rooftop farms are a very good idea because farming in cities can help us to improve how we grow and share food.

Bryson said rooftop farms make sense in Chicago.

It is a city that already had many rooftop gardens, called green roofs.

Chicago has really gotten behind "the practice of city farming," he said.

The last mayor of Chicago, Richard M. Daley, got the idea after seeing rooftop farms during a trip to Germany.

He returned with a mission to turn Chicago into a leader among cities that were trying to become more green.

He built the city's first green roof on top of city hall in 2000.

In the years since, green roofs have gotten a lot of attention.

Chicago has been recognized as one of the leaders in North America.

The city has more than 5.5 million square feet on more than 500 rooftops, Strazzabosco said.

No one knows the total number of green roofs in North America.

It is known that Washington has been adding them the quickest over the past four years.

Washington officials said the city has 2.3 million square feet of green roofs.

Philadelphia reported more than 1 million square feet.

To encourage city farming, Chicago passed a law in 2011.

It allows rooftop farms to be built in the city.

Gotham Greens is set to open a rooftop farm in August in the Pullman neighborhood of Chicago.

The company says it will be the world's largest.

Gotham Greens is building it on top of a factory owned by Method, a soap company.

Method began a partnership with Gotham Greens last spring.

When the farm opens, it will be 75,000 square feet.

This is nearly 2 acres in size.

Chicago is like New York.

It has lots of tall buildings with flat roofs.

They are perfect for rooftop farming.

Better technology has also helped with the growth of rooftop farms.

At the Method factory, a greenhouse will have sensors.

They will be able to track things like temperature, light and air quality.

This means Chicago's cold winters will not be a problem for growing.

A computer system will be used to change those conditions when needed.

