It wasn't a hopeful beginning to the start of a legend.

Fleeing poverty in Kentucky, Rose Will Monroe piled her son and daughter onto a bus in 1942.

It was not long after her husband was killed in a car wreck.

Monroe was determined to find work at the Willow Run airplane plant in Ypsilanti, Mich. She wanted to fly planes, but with two kids, the military kept the 22-year-old widow on the ground.

Monroe, a "tomboy" daughter of a carpenter, went to work.

She operated a 6.8-pound tool called a rivet hammer that drove bolt-like rivets into B-24 bombers to hold them together.

Monroe was just one of 6 million American women who entered the workforce during World War II.

But she came to represent them all.

Monroe became "Rosie the Riveter," the symbol of the tough, hardworking American women who helped win the war.

Victoria Croston of Conroe, Texas, Monroe's surviving child, now tells her mother's story.

On March 20, she spoke to a roomful of modern "Rosie the Riveters" in Fort Worth, Texas.

Fort Worth is a long way from Ypsilanti, where Monroe and her co-workers built 8,685 bombers.

That's about one about every 56 minutes during the war.

But "Rosies" in Fort Worth did just as well.

They built 1,803 planes at Consolidated Vultee Aircraft's bomber plant, now owned by Lockheed Martin Corp. About 30,000 people worked in the plant during the war, but Lockheed Martin officials aren't sure how many were women.

"Rosie the Riveter" was actually a mix of the experiences of many women.

She was first popularized by a song.

Soon, "Rosie" came to represent all women working to defend the country.

"There were quite a few faces of Rosie," said Croston, who spoke in honor of Women's History Month at Lockheed Martin.

Geraldine Hoff Doyle was the strong-armed model for the "We Can Do It" poster produced by the Westinghouse Electric Corp. Doyle worked only a few weeks in a military plant.

She played the cello and realized how easily the job could damage her hands, Croston said.

The striking poster of her was little-known during the war.

It only became famous in the early 1980s as a symbol of women's fight for the same rights and pay as men.

The best-known "Rosie" was Monroe, who starred in a series of promotional movies to raise money for the war.

She was discovered in 1944 by the actor Walter Pidgeon, who visited Willow Run to shoot a film.

When he learned that there really was a riveter named Rose on the job, he made her a showpiece of his movies.

"She had the right name, the right job and was in the right place at the right time.

You can't plan that," Croston said.

There was nothing glamorous, though, about the hard work during the two years she worked at the plant.

During the week, her son and daughter stayed at a co-worker's home.

Monroe lived in workers' housing at the plant.

After going back home, she had a number of jobs before she became a home builder in southern Indiana.

She also lived out her dream of flying in 1972, and later taught her daughter to fly.

Monroe's story is inspiring for today's "Rosies" at Lockheed Martin, said Gayle Roland, a top official at the company.

"They were so willing to pitch in and help."

Roland said.

"That strong human will to support the war effort is beyond anything" that she says she can understand.

The "Rosies" led the way for women who work at defense companies, which build planes and military equipment that help protect the country.

Women make up 2,667 of Lockheed Martin's 12,500 workers in Fort Worth.

Among them are Lorraine Martin, who heads the F-35 program in Fort Worth, and Janet Nash, vice president for producing F-35s.

Another woman, Marillyn Hewson,  is the head of the company.

She took over as CEO of the company last year.

"The work they did was incredible.

Can you imagine holding that 6.8-pound rivet hammer for eight hours?"

said Nash.

She noted that a modern rivet hammer weighs 2.5 pounds.

Nash's grandmother was a "Rosie," who filed down metal parts in a defense plant.

"Those Rosies, when they went home, they were tired," said Nash.

She has risen up at Lockheed since starting as an engineer 32 years ago, and is one of 12 female vice presidents.

She is in charge of about 2,000 people who work on the plant producing F-35 planes.

Women's jobs in her industry have changed a lot since she started.

"I was the first female production vice president in this company," said Nash.

"You hold a responsibility when you are the first of something to make sure you do the right things."

