Even the Queen of England is being asked to tighten her belt these days.

You'd think that if you live in a palace, you wouldn't have to worry about money.

But now even Queen Elizabeth II is being scolded by fresh, new lawmakers to spend less.

She's also being asked to chop the number of people who work for her.

There was one other thing: could your Majesty please keep your home in better shape?

A new report criticized how the queen is handling money.

The report came from Parliament.

It is similar to the U.S. Congress.

The Parliament is a group of officials who are elected to run the British government.

The report from Parliament said much of the palace and the other buildings in the queen's care are in disrepair.

One example was the boiler that generates the heat in Buckingham Palace.

It hasn't been fixed up in 60 years.

Buckets catch water leaking from the roof in one part of the palace.

To make matters worse, priceless artworks are kept there.

Even though important home repairs were needed, the royal family was still spending a lot of money.

They used more money than they were supposed to for the year.

They have a lot of people working for them, which costs a great deal.

They have not kept enough money in the bank for a rainy day.

People in Parliament suggested a number of fixes.

They said the people responsible for the queen's money should come up with better business ideas.

For example, they could sell more tickets to tours of Buckingham Palace.

Right now, the visits are limited to the summer months.

Margaret Hodge is one of those in Parliament pushing for changes.

She said the queen's workers need to make sure every pound of taxpayers' money is used well.

The pound is the money of the United Kingdom, like the dollar in the United States.

England has had to lay off workers.

A lot of jobs have been lost in the last five years to save money.

Lawmakers said the royal family should learn to live with fewer helpers.

The report also urged the queen to get a much firmer handle on needed repairs.

There's a huge backlog.

It's so large that no one knows how much it would cost to fix it all.

Parliament hasn't only picked on the queen.

It has criticized others.

It accused Google, Amazon and other companies of not paying their share of taxes to the United Kingdom.

Like workers, companies must pay taxes in the countries where they do business.

The palace responded to the report.

It said it has taken on important repairs and gave several examples.

It replaced a lead roof over the Royal Library at Windsor.

It removed a harmful material from the basement in Buckingham Palace.

The palace said it is always looking at what needs fixing.

Most British people are in favor of having a royal family.

But the cost is sometimes questioned.

The queen is one of the world's richest women.

When times are hard, people wonder if it is worth keeping up their royal lifestyle.

In 1992, people were upset about how certain members of the royal family were acting.

Queen Elizabeth II volunteered for the first time to pay taxes like everybody else.

A few years ago, the United Kingdom had to make strict spending cuts.

It lowered the amount of money it gives to families and the poor.

It fired some state workers.

The queen pinched pennies too.

(They all have her face on them, by the way.)

She did not give some workers pay raises.

She also cut back on travel.

