Once there was a time when being queen (or king) meant having the power to make your enemies' heads roll.

Now it means being told by upstart lawmakers to cut your expenses and chop the number of people on staff.

And could Your Majesty please do a better job of keeping your home in decent condition?

A report released Tuesday on how money is being spent by Britain's royal household criticized the state of disrepair of much of Queen Elizabeth II's considerable estate.

The report came from members of Parliament.

Like the Congress in the United States, people are elected to Parliament to run the country.

The report said that nearly 40 percent of the estate was in subpar condition.

The boiler in Buckingham Palace hasn't been overhauled in 60 years.

Buckets catch water leaking from the roof inside a gallery where priceless artworks are kept, one lawmaker said.

Yet even as urgent home repairs were needed, the world's most famous extended family spent $74.5 million in 2012-13, $3.8 million more than they were supposed to.

The number of people serving them remains unchanged from several years ago.

And the household's rainy-day reserve fund has dwindled to a decidedly less-than-princely sum of $1.7 million.

Parliament's spending watchdog committee said those responsible for handling the queen's money need to show a little more business savvy.

For example, they could throw open the doors of Buckingham Palace to ticket-buying lookie-loos (tourists) for more of the year.

Right now, the visits are limited to the summer months.

The queen's staff hasn't done enough "to ensure that we really eke out best value for every pound of taxpayers' money that is spent supporting the royal household and serving the queen," the committee's chairwoman, Margaret Hodge of the Labor Party, told Sky News.

"We think a more commercial approach ... could raise more income."

Lawmakers also said the royal household should learn to live with fewer underlings.

Government agencies have been forced to lay off workers during five years of the most brutal spending cuts Britain has seen in a generation.

"In recent years, public-sector organizations have managed to reduce spending while being expected to maintain or improve the services they provide," the report said.

The queen could do the same.

At the same time, the committee urged the royal household to "get a much firmer grip" on needed repairs at such properties as Windsor Castle.

Such a huge backlog has built up that no one knows how much it would cost to deal with all of it.

The royals are not alone in drawing criticism from Hodge's committee.

It has also taken Google, Amazon and other multinational companies to task, accusing them of using schemes to avoid paying taxes in Great Britain.

A statement from the palace said that the royal household has undertaken important repairs.

The statement gave several examples, including replacing a lead roof over the Royal Library at Windsor.

A dangerous material called asbestos was removed from the basement of Buckingham Palace.

The statement said the need for making repairs "is continually assessed."

Although most Britons support the queen, royalty's cost to them as taxpayers sometimes comes in for critical scrutiny, particularly when times are tough.

In 1992, for example, public anger was rising over the royal family's scandalous actions.

Elizabeth, who is one of the world's richest women, volunteered to pay taxes on her enormous fortune for the first time.

A few years ago, as spending cuts began to kick in, the queen pinched pennies (which all have her face on them).

She froze some staff salaries and pared back on some official travel.

However, she still received a publicly funded "sovereign grant" of $51.5 million in 2012-13, just for being queen.

The amount that is set to rise to $62.9 million in 2014-15.

