There was once a time when being queen (or king) meant having the power to make your enemies' heads roll.

Nowadays it means being scolded by newly elected lawmakers to spend less and cut staff.

And, could Your Majesty please keep your home in better shape?

A report released Tuesday on how money is being spent for Britain's royal home criticized a lot of things.

Much of the palace and the other buildings run by Queen Elizabeth II are in disrepair, said members of Parliament, the body that governs the United Kingdom.

Like Congress, it is made up of officials elected by the people.

Among the examples pointed out by a lawmaker was the boiler that heats Buckingham Palace.

It hasn't been overhauled in 60 years.

Another were the buckets found catching water leaking from the roof inside a room where priceless artworks are kept.

Yet even as important home repairs were needed, the world's most famous extended family spent $74.5 million in 2012-13.

The royal family exceeded its budget by $3.8 million.

Their number of servants is unchanged from several years ago.

And the household's rainy-day account has dwindled to a less-than-princely sum of $1.7 million.

Parliament's spending watchdog committee said the people responsible for handling the queen's money should show a little more business sense.

For example, they could sell tickets for tours of Buckingham Palace to the curious public for more of the year.

Right now, the visits are limited to the summer months.

The committee's chairwoman, Margaret Hodge, is one of those calling for changes.

The queen needs "to ensure that we really eke out best value for every pound of taxpayers' money," she told Sky News.

Government agencies have been forced to lay off workers.

In fact, the past five years have brought the deepest spending cuts Britain has seen in a generation.

"Government has had to cut back on spending while being asked to provided as much or more services," the report noted.

Lawmakers said the royal family should learn to live with fewer underlings as well.

The committee also urged the queen to "get a much firmer grip" on needed repairs.

Such a huge backlog has built up that no one knows the cost of dealing with all of it.

The royals are not alone in being criticized by Hodge's committee.

It has also accused Google, Amazon and other multinational companies of avoiding paying their share of taxes to the United Kingdom.

A statement from the palace said it has undertaken important repairs.

The statement gave several examples.

It replaced a lead roof over the Royal Library at Windsor and removed a dangerous material called asbestos from the basement of Buckingham Palace.

The statement said the need for making repairs "is continually assessed."

Although most Britons support the queen, the cost is sometimes questioned, particularly when times are tough.

In 1992, public anger was rising over scandals in the royal family.

Elizabeth, who is one of the world's richest women, volunteered to pay taxes on her enormous fortune for the first time.

As spending cuts began to kick in a few years ago, the queen pinched pennies (which all have her face on them).

She froze some salaries and cut back on some official travel.

However, she still received a publicly funded grant of $51.5 million in 2012-13, just for being queen.

The amount that is set to rise to $62.9 million in 2014-15.

