You'd think that if you live in a palace, you wouldn't have to worry about money.

But even the Queen of England is being asked to tighten her belt these days.

A report released Tuesday on how money is spent at Britain's royal home criticized a lot of things.

It said the royal family was spending too much and has too many workers.

Much of the palace and the other buildings run by Queen Elizabeth II are in disrepair.

The report came from members of Parliament, who are elected to run the government of the United Kingdom, similar to Congress in the United States.

One lawmaker gave several examples of problems on the royal estate.

One was the boiler that heats Buckingham Palace.

It hasn't been improved in 60 years.

Buckets were found to be catching water leaking from the roof inside a room where priceless artworks are kept.

The important home repairs went ignored, even though the world's most famous extended family spent $74.5 million in 2012-13.

That was $3.8 million more than they were supposed to spend.

They have a lot of people working for them, which costs money.

Their bank account for emergencies has shrunk down to $1.7 million.

Parliament's committee in charge of watching over spending suggested a number of fixes.

They said the people responsible for handling the queen's money need to show more business sense.

For example, they could throw open the doors of Buckingham Palace for more of the year.

Right now, the public can only buy tickets for tours in the summer.

The committee's chairwoman, Margaret Hodge, is one of the members of Parliament pushing for changes.

She said the queen's workers need to "really eke out the best value for every pound of taxpayers' money."

The number of workers is an example.

Many departments in the British government have been forced to lay off workers.

The past five years have brought the harshest spending cuts that Britain has seen in a generation.

"Government has had to cut back on spending while being asked to provide as much or more services," the report said.

Lawmakers said the royal family should live with fewer helpers.

The committee also urged the queen to "get a much firmer grip" on needed repairs.

A huge to-do list has grown.

No one even knows how much it would cost to deal with all of it.

Hodge's committee has criticized others besides the queen.

It accused Google, Amazon and other companies that do business in the UK of avoiding taxes.

Just like workers, companies must give some of what they earn to the government.

A statement from the palace said it has undertaken important repairs on its properties.

The statement gave several examples.

A lead roof over the Royal Library at Windsor was replaced.

A harmful material called asbestos was removed from the basement of Buckingham Palace.

The statement said the need for making repairs "is continually assessed."

Most Britons support the queen.

But the cost is sometimes questioned, particularly when times are tough.

In 1992, public anger was rising over the behavior of the royal family.

Elizabeth, who is one of the world's richest women, volunteered to pay taxes on her enormous fortune for the first time.

As spending cuts began to kick in a few years ago, the queen pinched pennies.

Those coins all have her face on them, by the way.

She froze some salaries for her workers and pared back on some official travel.

However, she still received a publicly funded grant of $51.5 million in 2012-13, just for being the queen.

The amount that is set to rise to $62.9 million in 2014-15.

