Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida announced on Monday that he is running for president in the 2016 election.

In his speech, he promised to move the nation beyond the politics of the past.

The 43-year-old Rubio presented himself as a new choice for American voters, announcing his candidacy Monday night in front of a banner that proclaimed "A New American Century."

His approach seems to bet on voters' frustrations with Washington and their desire for change.

"This election is not just about what laws we will pass," Rubio said Monday evening.

"It is a generational choice about what kind of country we will be."

Rubio's speech came just one day after Hillary Rodham Clinton announced her bid for the Democratic nomination.

Rubio presented himself as a fresh face representing a new generation of leadership, in contrast to candidates like Clinton who have been in politics for decades.

He also seemed to contrast himself with former Florida Republican Governor Jeb Bush, another possible candidate.

Both Clinton and Bush come from powerful political families.

Clinton's husband Bill was the 42nd president and served in the White House from 1993 to 2001.

Bush's father served as both vice president and president, and his brother was George W. Bush, the 43rd president from 2001 to 2009.

Rubio suggested Monday that his competition represented old ways of doing things in Washington.

"Too many of our leaders and their ideas are stuck in the 20th century," he said in his evening speech.

"The time has come for our generation to lead the way toward a new American century."

Rubio's didn't name Bush in his comments, but he compared himself to Clinton directly.

"Just yesterday, we heard from a leader from yesterday who wants to take us back to yesterday, but I feel that this country has always been about tomorrow," he told a group of supporters Monday morning.

Rubio also spoke of his working-class upbringing: "I live in an exceptional country where even the son of a bartender and a maid can have the same dreams and the same future as those who come from power and privilege."

The "son of a bartender" Rubio was referring to, of course, was himself.

The senator told supporters that he feels "uniquely qualified" to represent the Republican party.

He made the case that he can appeal to young people, minorities and the poor.

All of those are groups that do not generally vote Republican.

He argued that he could convince such voters that the Republican Party will defend the American Dream.

He said that the dream is slipping away from too many families.

"I feel uniquely qualified to not just make that argument, but to outline the policies that we need to have in order to achieve it," he said.

Supporters began lining up in 87-degree heat three hours before the public kickoff at Freedom Tower.

The location was the first stop for tens of thousands of fleeing Cuban exiles during the 1960s and 1970s.

It is an especially meaningful place to Rubio, whose family is Cuban.

Standing in line outside, 50-year-old Kelly Steele and her 18-year-old son wore tie-dyed Rubio T-shirts.

"We have had a lot of Bushes," Steele said.

"Senator Rubio kind of reminds me of JFK," she added.

"He's got that energy and desire."

Hours before the rally, the chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, argued that Rubio was not an outsider with a new outlook, as he has suggested, but rather just another Republican with old ideas.

"He's a follower, peddling the same tired Republican playbook," she told reporters.

Rubio also faces questions about his experience.

In response, he has outlined specific policy proposals both on foreign and domestic issues, and plans future presentations as his campaign gets underway.

On Tuesday, his first day as a candidate, he is set to return to Washington to join a Senate hearing on a proposed deal with Iran that would address the country's nuclear program.

Rubio faces steep challenges in the primary campaign.

Jeb Bush is expected to raise considerable money and run a well-funded campaign.

The son of one president and brother of another, he was governor while Rubio was speaker of the Florida House.

The two formed a close bond, but a presidential campaign is certain to test the strength of their friendship.

Rubio is the third major GOP contender to declare himself a candidate, after Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, in a field that could grow to 20 or more.

Both Cruz and Rubio are Hispanic, and if one of them is elected, he will make history as the nation's first Hispanic president.

