On Monday, Republican Senator Marco Rubio of Florida announced that he is running to become the president of the United States.

Rubio has been seen as a possible candidate since he was elected to the Senate in 2011.

In his speech Monday, he promised that he would make big changes as president.

The 43-year-old presented himself as a candidate for voters who were ready for something new in American politics.

He announced his candidacy Monday night standing in front of a banner that proclaimed "A New American Century."

"This election is not just about what laws we will pass," Rubio said Monday evening.

"It is a generational choice about what kind of country we will be."

Rubio's speech came just one day after Hillary Rodham Clinton announced that she is running for president.

Clinton is running as a Democrat, while Rubio is running as a Republican.

The two parties will each elect a single candidate in the coming months.

The winners from each party will face off in 2016.

By presenting himself as a fresh face in American politics, Rubio contrasted himself with Clinton.

She has been in politics for many years.

Rubio also contrasted himself with former Florida Governor Jeb Bush, another Republican who may run for president.

Both Clinton and Bush come from powerful political families.

Clinton's husband Bill was the 42nd president of the United States.

Bush's father served as president.

His brother George W. Bush was the 43rd president.

With their family ties, Clinton and Bush are linked to old ways of doing things in Washington.

Rubio argued that he is different.

"Too many of our leaders and their ideas are stuck in the 20th century," he said in his evening speech.

"The time has come for our generation to lead the way toward a new American century."

Rubio didn't name Bush in his comments.

He spoke directly of Clinton, though.

"Just yesterday, we heard from a leader from yesterday who wants to take us back to yesterday," he said, in reference to Clinton.

"I feel that this country has always been about tomorrow," he added.

Rubio also spoke of his background: "I live in an exceptional country where even the son of a bartender and a maid can have the same dreams and the same future as those who come from power and privilege."

The "son of a bartender" Rubio was referring to, of course, was himself.

The senator made the case that he was the right leader for the Republican Party.

He argued that he could appeal to a wide variety of voters.

Rubio suggested that he could convince voters that the Republican party will defend the American Dream.

He said that while the dream is slipping away from many families, he could convince voters to believe in it again.

He also argued that if he were president, he would make that easier to achieve.

Many of Rubio's supporters were on hand for the announcement.

They began lining up in 87-degree heat three hours before the public kickoff, which took place at Freedom Tower.

The Tower has a lot of history, especially for Rubio, whose family is Cuban.

It was the first stop for tens of thousands of people fleeing Cuba in the 1960s and 1970s.

Fifty-year-old Kelly Steele and her 18-year-old son waited in line wearing tie-dyed Rubio T-shirts.

"We have had a lot of Bushes," Kelly Steele said.

She felt that Rubio would bring needed change.

She also compared Rubio to a young John F. Kennedy.

"He's got that energy and desire," she said.

Democrats don't support Rubio, of course.

Hours before the rally, Democratic Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida criticized the senator, arguing that Rubio would not bring the change he was promising.

"He's a follower," she told reporters.

She suggested that Rubio was just like other Republicans, and would offer the same old ideas as president.

Rubio faces steep challenges to become the Republican candidate in 2016.

If Bush enters the race, he may be difficult to beat.

With his famous last name, he is expected to be able to raise a lot of money.

Rubio is the third major Republican contender to declare himself a candidate, after Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.

The number of candidates could eventually grow to 20 or more.

Both Cruz and Rubio are Hispanic, and if one of them is elected, he will make history as the nation's first Hispanic president.

