Russian soccer is filled with racism, a new report said.

Players there are insulted just because of their skin color.

That worries many people, because in 2018 Russia will hold the World Cup.

It is the world soccer championship.

Teams and fans from all over the world will be there.

There is concern about safety.

In Russia, fans have yelled insults at black players from Africa.

Also, a Russian soccer coach said hurtful things about black players on his own team.

The report listed more than 200 other examples of racism.

Piara Powar is the head of Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE).

Soccer is called football in Europe.

He said the report shows a pattern of racism and hate.

Powar's group helps fight racism in European soccer.

FARE also wrote the report.

Racism could make it unsafe to go to the 2018 World Cup.

Visitors want to be sure that "if they go they won't be attacked," Powar said.

The report listed many cases where fans raised money for neo-Nazis in jail.

Neo-Nazis hate blacks and Jews.

They think white people are better and should be in control.

The report said fans have shown neo-Nazi symbols at soccer games.

Fans also bully black players and people of other races.

Powar hopes Russia will take action to protect fans and players.

"Players have already said they will walk off if they hear racism," he said.

"That is a danger."

Vladimir Putin is the Russian president.

In 2010, he promised to deal with racism at soccer games.

"We see it and we believe it is a problem," Putin said.

The report argues that not enough has been done.

It says Russia must make a plan to stop racism.

Otherwise, "it will be difficult to ensure the safety of visitors" to the World Cup.

The suggestions include punishment for racism, creating a plan to stop neo-Nazi groups, and educating Russians about racism.

Yet some fans who shout racist insults may not even be racist.

They are just trying to upset the other team's star players, said Dmitry Dedkov.

He is a Russian soccer fan.

The report said rules were created in 2011 to deal with racism.

Stadiums could be closed for racism or bad behavior.

There are also other punishments.

But the rules have not worked.

Racism at soccer games is still bad, the report said.

Famous coaches and players take photos with fans in Russia.

Some of these fans wear T-shirts with Nazi symbols.

Famous singers have sung with racist fans in the stands.

The report says that none of this is surprising.

Racism has been growing in Russia for years.

Last season, Russian fans made monkey noises toward a black player on a team from Africa.

The team was fined for racism.

It had to pay money.

This soccer season seems to be especially bad.

Sometimes, even the victims get punished.

In December, Russian fans made racist comments to another team's player.

He was from Africa.

He responded with a rude gesture and was benched for three games.

Yet the team was fined only about $1,300.

A Russian coach even made insulting comments about black players on his own team.

He had to sit out for five games.

Racism is "widespread among Russian football fans," the report said.

It probably will not get better anytime soon.

