Russia won more medals than any other nation during the 2014 Sochi Olympics.

It also received the largest number of gold medals.

The day after the Games ended, a smiling President Vladimir Putin presented his athletes with awards.

He praised them for "defending the honor" of their country.

Russia's "great and glorious" sports history is not just a thing of the past, he said.

The winning athletes had shown the world that Russia is still a great sports power.

Now Russia's achievements at Sochi are being questioned.

On Monday a report was released that claims cheating was widespread during the games.

The report accuses Russian track and field athletes of using drugs that made them stronger and faster.

Such drug use is known as doping.

The report also claims this doping was covered up by the Federal Security Service (FSS).

The FSS is a sort of police force similar to the FBI here in the United States.

Russians consider sports a very important way to measure their country's place in the world.

Before 1991, Russia was part of the Soviet Union, a group of 15 countries that Russia largely controlled.

The Soviet Union was hugely successful in world sporting events.

It was able to take athletes from the 15 countries in the Union.

A great deal of money was spent on training athletes.

Things changed for Russia after the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union, however.

Russia became a much poorer country.

Young athletes were given much less training.

Low pay forced many athletes to look for work in other countries.

Russia has long been one of the best countries at track and field events.

However, it has been slipping in those sports.

The 2010 Vancouver Winter Olympics were particularly disappointing.

Russia left those games with only three gold medals.

Russia then tried to strengthen its team in time for the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi.

The Sochi Olympics were overseen by President Putin.

He saw them as a way to bring back Russia's pride in itself.

The Sochi games were a huge success for Russia's athletes.

They won 13 golds and 33 total medals.

For Russia, it was the best Winter Games ever.

That is why Russia is very unhappy about the doping claims.

It will be a huge blow if its athletes are kept out of the Summer Olympics.

Russian officials immediately attacked the report, which was prepared by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).

They claimed it failed to prove its main points.

In addition, it seems to be part of a plot to make Russia look bad, they said.

Government official Dmitry Peskov said there is "no evidence" for the charges.

The report said that many of the Russian athletes used the drugs, including several Olympic medalists.

It also claims that there were cover-ups.

The report mentions a laboratory that was supposed to test the athletes for doping.

It says agents from the FSS told the lab to hide any evidence it found.

WADA said the athletes should be kept out of the next Olympics.

The International Olympic Committee said any athletes who were doping will lose their medals.

Andrei Kolesnikov is an expert on the Russian government.

Sports are very important for Putin, he said.

Putin uses sports victories as a way to build support for his presidency.

Putin may not have known anything about the doping, Kolesnikov said.

Still, Putin has made sports officials feel like Russian athletes "must win everywhere."

The pressure to win may have led to the cheating, he said.

