Dressed in just a robe and flip-flops, Tatiana Poludnitsina fled her home in eastern Ukraine after artillery bombs hit it in mid-August.

With the help of strangers, she crossed the border into Russia, where she now lives in a temporary refugee camp outside the small border town of Donetsk.

"I have nothing anymore, nowhere to go, no apartment … and all my documents and personal belongings were burned," Poludnitsina, 25, said as she sat in a tent she shares with a family of four.

It is a story that echoes among the tens of thousands of Ukrainian refugees here.

They fled their homes when fighting grew worse in August between pro-Russia rebels and Ukrainian government forces.

The rebel fighters want sections of Ukraine to become part of Russia.

An estimated 814,000 Ukrainians have entered Russia since the beginning of the year, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Local humanitarian workers say that most of the refugees appeared to have ethnic or family ties to Russia.

The number of Ukrainians who have fled their homes but remained in the country doubled during three weeks in August, bringing the total to 260,000 since Jan. 1, the U.N. agency said.

The actual number, though, is probably higher.

The camp in Russia near Donetsk is one of four temporary shelters opened by the Russian government in Moscow since the rebels seized cities across Ukraine's eastern region and the Ukrainian military fought back.

At times, the tents, which were meant to house 1,000 people, have held 3,000.

Many refugees have found shelter with friends, relatives or host families or managed to rent apartments.

Most who remain in the camp lack passports or other official documents, which would allow them to move on or be resettled by the Russian government in cities elsewhere.

As they wait, flies swarm inside the stuffy tents, where the temperature can soar to nearly 90 degrees.

Wooden-board walkways crisscross the sand and dirt between the shelters.

But the oppressive heat and frequent wind gusts make it nearly impossible to stay clean.

"We wash our hair with cold water," said Yevgenia Melikyan, 35, who arrived at the camp from in early August with her 76-year-old father and teenage son and daughter.

"Mothers heat the water to bathe their children."

There are no books, no television, no Internet.

Children play in the dirt.

Many appear frightened by loud noises, camp administrators said.

"There's not a day that we don't hear explosions," Melikyan said.

Meals include porridge enriched with stewed canned meat.

Poludnitsina said she longed for a hot dog.

Melikyan, whose family shares a tent with Poludnitsina, said they left Luhansk after food became scarce, the water supply was shut off and electricity became irregular.

Most nights the family huddled in the basement of their home terrified by the sound of gunfire and bombs.

Melikyan said she feared for her husband, who chose to remain in Luhansk.

Many of the refugees in Russia blame Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko for their plight, or unfortunate situation.

They also blame President Barack Obama and leaders of other Western nations that have sided with the Ukrainian government.

"I wish they could live for one day like we lived, hiding from shelling in the basement," said Irina Pavlenko, 30, who arrived at the camp with her family.

"I wish their children would suffer the same way our children have suffered."

Many of the refugees claimed the pro-Russia fighters were ordinary citizens, volunteers who were fighting to protect the lives and interests of ethnic Russians who live in Ukraine.

They express gratitude to the government of Russian President Vladimir Putin, whom Ukraine blames for backing an invasion of the country.

"America and Ukraine did not take in any of us refugees or give us any humanitarian assistance.

It's only Russia that's helping us," said Poludnitsina, who wants to remain in Russia and become a citizen.

Adrian Edwards, a spokesman for the U.N. agency on refugees, said that more than 250,000 Ukrainians had applied to stay in Russia since the beginning of the year.

Many Russian citizens have stepped forward to help.

In the Russian town of Rostov-on-Don, about 100 miles south of Donetsk, Anatoly Kotlyarov started sheltering friends four months ago.

Word spread, and soon friends of friends and strangers were being sent his way.

Kotlyarov helped establish a volunteer organization that provides emergency help to refugees.

The group gives out baby formula, disposable diapers and other goods and has helped 5,000 refugees move to various parts of Russia by providing tickets for transportation, Kotlyarov said.

"The biggest problem for them is money and information," he said.

Refugees "arrive here and they've lost contacts —they don't know what they're going to do or where they're going to go."

On a recent afternoon at Rostov's central train station, dozens of refugees curled up in chairs or slept on the floor while they waited for trains to take them to destinations across Russia.

Marina Dolgopolova, 29, and her fiance, Constantine, were preparing for their Sept. 12 wedding when their home in the Donetsk region of Ukraine was bombed.

Dolgopolova said the couple sold their wedding rings to pay for bus tickets to Rostov.

She arrived with a pair of jeans, two T-shirts and a laptop computer.

Tears welled in her eyes as she spoke of the parents she left behind.

Her mother refused to abandon the family dog and seven cats, four of which belonged to a neighbor who fled.

The young couple was headed to Samara, about 650 miles from their hometown, where they don't know anyone.

But that didn't matter, Dolgopolova said.

"The main thing is to find a job and somewhere safe to live."

