Until now, U.S. and European agricultural products had no problems getting to dinner tables in Russia.

The Russians could buy cheese from France, chicken from the U.S. and fish from Norway at their supermarkets.

Russia announced this week it will now block many foods from Europe, the U.S., Canada, and Australia from entering Russia.

Russia will impose these trade sanctions for one year.

Foods facing the ban include all beef, pork, fish, fruit, vegetables and dairy products.

Russia imposed the sanctions after the U.S. and European Union imposed their own sanctions.

Their sanctions targeted Russian companies and high-ranking Russian individuals.

The U.S. and Europe initially were looking to punish Russia for taking Crimea from Ukraine.

They further tightened sanctions after the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17.

Both the U.S. and Europe blamed the crash on a Russian missile system used by pro-Russia rebels inside Ukraine.

The sanctions amount to roughly $1 billion in annual U.S. farm exports to Russia.

That figure is minor compared with the losses many Russian energy companies and banks are now suffering, experts said.

The blacklisting by both Europe and the United States has had a greater impact than Russia's sanctions will, they said.

Yet Russia's actions carry some bite.

They hurt everything from salmon roe exports from Washington state to almonds and pistachios grown in California.

It's especially true for chicken and turkey raised in the Carolinas, Mississippi and Texas.

"Fortunately, Russia is not as significant to us as an industry as they were," said Mike Cockrell, an executive at Sanderson Farms.

Sanderson is a large poultry producer in North Carolina, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.

He said that in 2008, Russia "represented about 20 percent of our industry's exports."

That's not to say Russian sales are inconsequential.

Sanderson Farms shipped 87.5 million pounds of poultry there last year, worth about $40 million.

"Forty million dollars is certainly a lot of money, but at the end of the day we and the industry will seek out alternative markets for our product," said Cockrell.

He noted that the $40 million represents about 1.5 percent of his company's total sales.

Tyson Foods is another major poultry and meat exporter to Russia.

Its website notes that Russia accounted for 3 percent of all its chicken exports in 2012.

Russia made up 9 percent of its pork exports in 2012.

Worth Sparkman, a company spokesman, said, "We're disappointed about the loss of the Russian market."

Yet, he does not expect the effect "to be significant."

Sparkman says "the volume we ship there can be absorbed by other global markets."

The U.S. and the European Union ratcheted up sanctions against Russia last month.

Retaliation by Russia was expected.

Sanderson Farms sought new markets for chicken and turkey meat for weeks before Wednesday's announced retaliation.

"You don't find alternative markets for 87.5 million pounds of chicken overnight.

It will take us some time to do that," Cockrell acknowledged.

The Russian ban on poultry is not a first.

U.S. poultry was banned during the Bush administration in 2003 and 2004 when Russia objected to trade penalties levied against Russian steel.

Poultry was again targeted briefly in 2010.

The poultry sanctions are painful for U.S. exporters.

Ultimately, however, they hurt the Russian consumer more.

Russian poultry is more expensive because the country has to import feed for its chickens.

"We don't sell chicken to Putin," Cockrell said, referring to Russian President Vladimir Putin.

"We sell chicken to Russian consumers, and they are going to be the ones that suffer from this," he predicted.

"If that's what Putin wants to do, it's his consumers suffering as a result."

The United States chose not to impose sanctions that could hurt ordinary Russians.

Russia's announcement Wednesday, however, does.

"What the Russians have done here is essentially to impose sanctions on their own people," said Treasury Department official David Cohen.

Russia's government is making food less available.

It's a move, said Cohen, "that the U.S. and our allies would never do."

Russia has previously used poultry imports as a political weapon.

Its earlier actions spurred other U.S. poultry companies to steer clear of that market.

"It was just such an up-and-down market," said Mitch Mitchell, vice president of sales for Case Farms in Morganton, North Carolina.

His company had already decided to avoid Russia.

"We just got tired of the roller coaster."

