Racism and extremism are growing in Russian soccer and threaten the safety of visitors to Russia for the 2018 World Cup, according to a new report.

In the report, researchers highlighted more than 200 cases of racist and xenophobic behavior — hateful acts against foreigners — linked to Russian soccer.

The report covers the 2012-14 seasons in Russian soccer, called football in Europe.

"It shows a really quite gruesome picture of a domestic league, which is full of aspects of racism, xenophobia," said Piara Powar, executive director of Football Against Racism (FARE) in Europe.

His group helps prosecute racism cases for the governing body of European football, UEFA.

The Russian research group SOVA Center also helped prepared the report.

"Russia needs to get to a point where people can be assured if they go (to the 2018 World Cup) they won't be attacked," Powar said.

The report listed dozens of cases where fans raised money for imprisoned neo-Nazis, who promote white superiority and are typically anti-black and anti-Jewish.

The report pinpointed 72 displays of neo-Nazi symbols at soccer games and 22 acts against ethnic people from the Caucasus region of Russia, which includes Dagestan and Chechnya.

It included just five instances of abuse against black people.

Yet, during the current soccer season, there seemed to be an increase of racist actions against black people.

The report — entitled "Time for Action"— expresses concern that the next World Cup will be held in Russia in three years.

"Our hope in Russia in the lead-up to 2018 is we get action taken to protect the safety of fans and of players," Powar said.

"Players have already said they will walk off if they hear racism.

That is a danger.

We want that to be addressed in advance."

The Russian Football Union and World Cup 2018 organizers both declined to comment.

The report was sent on Friday to Sepp Blatter, president of FIFA, the international soccer association that runs the World Cup.

On Friday, a post on Blatter's Twitter account said that in December, FIFA's anti-discrimination task force presented a plan to tackle discrimination before the 2018 World Cup.

In 2010, Russian President Vladimir Putin pledged to address the xenophobia, racism and religious intolerance at soccer games.

"We see it and we believe it is a problem and unfortunately we have quite a number of such problems," Putin said at the time.

"Russia is fighting it just like any other country in the world," he said.

"We will do it persistently in future."

But the report argues that not enough is being done by the Russian government and soccer authorities to fight racism.

The report says "it will be difficult to ensure the safety of visitors" to the World Cup unless Russia implements a series of measures to punish discriminatory conduct consistently, create a plan to take on racist groups, prioritize educating Russians about xenophobia, and promote diversity in Russian cities hosting World Cup matches.

Although some fans shout racist abuse for political reasons, many others use it as a tactic to distract the opposition's star players, according to Dmitry Dedkov.

He is a longtime fan of the Spartak Moscow soccer team.

"A good player on the team of your main or chief opponent is an irritant, like a red rag to a bull," he said.

"They can insult an African or any other player."

The report acknowledged that rules were put in place in 2011 to combat discrimination at games.

However, it pointed out that the number of incidents of racism around stadiums has not decreased despite the threat of sanctions.

These sanctions, or punishments, include fines and stadium closures.

"This is not surprising because the boundaries of what is accepted in the football fan scene are blurry," the report says.

"Well-known coaches and players have photos taken with fans wearing swastika tattoos or T-shirts with Nazi symbols."

Popular singers also sing songs with them in the stands.

The report particularly highlights offensive conduct by fans of five Russian soccer clubs.

Far-right, extremist fan groups use neo-Nazi symbols, including swastikas, and wave banners that read "White Pride World Wide."

The report says that none of this is surprising.

Hatred of foreigners has been growing more intense inside Russian society since the early 2000s.

The report does single out cases where UEFA, European football's governing body, ruled against Russian clubs.

In the 2013-14 season, CSKA Moscow fans made monkey noises at Manchester City midfielder Yaya Toure during a game.

The Russian team was fined for racism.

Toure, who is from Ivory Coast in Africa, said, "If we aren't confident at the World Cup, coming to Russia, we don't come."

Although only five cases of abuse against black people were listed in the report, Powar said the actual problem is far worse.

He said so far this season there has been increased abuse of black players — Africans and those from Latin America.

There also have been cases where the Russian Football Union punishes the victims.

In December, fans of the Moscow team Spartak made offensive racial comments to FC Rostov midfielder Guelor Kanga, who is from Gabon in Africa.

He responded with a rude gesture and was banned for three matches.

Spartak was only fined about $1,300.

A Russian coach, Igor Gamula, was even banned for five matches for making discriminatory comments about black players on his own team.

"Racist attitudes" are "widespread among Russian football fans," it concluded.

"It is unlikely that this situation will fundamentally improve in the near future."

