Tatiana Poludnitsina has nothing.

Her home in Ukraine was bombed last month.

Everything she owned was destroyed.

Poludnitsina had to leave the area.

She crossed the border into Russia.

Now she lives in a camp for refugees, people who have escaped war or other disaster in their homeland.

"I have nothing anymore, nowhere to go, no apartment," Poludnitsina said.

There are tens of thousands of people with similar stories.

A war in eastern Ukraine is forcing people to leave their homes.

The fighting is between the Ukrainian army and pro-Russia rebels.

The rebels want part of Ukraine to break off and join Russia.

About 814,000 Ukrainians have entered Russia since the beginning of the year, according to the United Nations.

Many of them have family in Russia.

The Russian government has opened four refugee camps near the border.

Inside tents in a camp, it can get as hot as 90 degrees.

Wind blows sand and dirt everywhere, making it impossible to stay clean.

"We wash our hair with cold water," said Yevgenia Melikyan.

She arrived at the camp in early August with her father and two children.

There are no books, no television, no Internet.

Children play in the dirt.

Many are frightened by loud noises.

The fighting is nearby.

"There's not a day that we don't hear explosions," Melikyan said.

Meals include hot cereal and canned meat.

Poludnitsina said she wished for a hot dog.

Melikyan explained why she and her family had to leave their home.

Food was hard to find.

The water was turned off.

The electricity sometimes stopped working.

The family huddled together in the basement, terrified by the sound of bombs and gunfire.

The refugees here mainly take Russia's side in the disagreement.

They blame the Ukrainian government and the U.S. government for their situation.

They say the rebels are just regular people who are fighting to protect Russians who live in Ukraine.

"It's only Russia that's helping us," Poludnitsina said.

She added that she wants to become a Russian citizen.

More than 250,000 Ukrainian refugees have asked to stay in Russia.

Many Russian citizens have stepped forward to help them.

Anatoly Kotlyarov started a group that provides emergency help to refugees.

It gives out baby food, diapers and other supplies.

The group helps the refugees pay for transportation to other parts of Russia.

On a recent afternoon at the train station, dozens of refugees waited for trains.

They curled up in chairs or slept on the floor.

Marina Dolgopolova, 29, was one of them.

She was preparing for her wedding when her home in Ukraine was bombed.

She and her fiance sold their wedding rings to pay for bus tickets.

She arrived with a pair of jeans, two T-shirts and a laptop computer.

The young couple was going to a town 650 miles from their home.

They don't know anyone there, but that does not matter, she said.

"The main thing is to find a job and somewhere safe to live."

