Until now, U.S. and European agricultural products had no problem getting to dinner tables in Russia.

The Russians could buy cheese from France, chicken from the U.S. and fish from Norway at their supermarkets.

Russia announced this week it will now block many European and U.S. foods from entering Russia.

It will impose these trade sanctions for one year.

Many foods from Europe, the United States, Canada and Australia will be banned.

They include all beef, pork, fish, fruit, vegetables and dairy products.

Russia's actions carry some bite.

They hurt salmon roe exports from Washington state.

Almonds and pistachios grown in California won't be allowed in Russia either.

Yet, chicken and turkey from the Carolinas, Mississippi and Texas are most affected.

Russia imposed the sanctions to get back at the U.S. and European Union.

They'd already imposed their own sanctions on Russia.

U.S. and European sanctions targeted Russian companies and Russian leaders.

The U.S. and Europe were looking to punish Russia's government.

Months ago, Russia took Crimea from Ukraine.

The U.S. and Europe added more sanctions after the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 in Ukraine.

Both the U.S. and Europe blamed it on a Russian missile fired by pro-Russia rebels inside Ukraine.

The rebels receive support from Russia.

The sanctions will cost U.S. farms roughly $1 billion a year.

That figure is small compared with the losses many Russian companies are now feeling, experts said.

European and U.S. sanctions have had a much greater effect on Russia, they added.

"Fortunately, Russia is not as significant to us as an industry as they were," said Mike Cockrell, a boss at Sanderson Farms.

Sanderson produces poultry in North Carolina, Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi.

Cockrell said that in 2008, Russia represented about 20 percent of the industry's exports.

Now, it is much less.

That's not to say Russian sales are unimportant.

Sanderson Farms shipped 87.5 million pounds of poultry there last year, worth about $40 million.

"Forty million dollars is certainly a lot of money," said Cockrell.

But, he says, Sanderson Farms "will seek out alternative markets for our product."

He noted that the $40 million represents about 1.5 percent of his company's total sales.

Tyson Foods is another major poultry and meat exporter to Russia.

The country accounted for 3 percent of all its chicken exports in 2012.

Russia made up 9 percent of its pork exports in 2012.

Worth Sparkman, a company spokesman, said, "We're disappointed about the loss of the Russian market."

Yet, he doesn't expect the effect "to be significant."

Sparkman says the poultry can be sold in other countries.

The U.S. and the European Union added more sanctions against Russia last month.

Russia was expected to get back at the U.S. and Europe by launching its own sanctions.

Sanderson Farms started searching for other countries to sell its chicken and turkey to weeks before Russia's decision.

"You don't find alternative markets for 87.5 million pounds of chicken overnight.

It will take us some time to do that," Cockrell said.

It is not the first time Russia has placed sanctions on U.S. poultry.

It banned U.S. poultry in 2003 and 2004 and briefly in 2010.

The sanctions are a small problem for U.S. exporters, the experts said.

For the average Russian, the poultry sanctions will hurt more.

Russian poultry is more expensive than American poultry.

Russia has to import feed for its chickens, driving up the price.

The Russian people "are going to be the ones that suffer from this," said Cockrell.

The United States chose not to impose sanctions that could hurt ordinary Russians.

Russia's sanctions, however, do.

"What the Russians have done here is essentially to impose sanctions on their own people," said U.S. government official David Cohen.

Russia's government is making food less available.

It's a move, said Cohen, "that the U.S. and our allies would never do."

