During the 2014 Sochi Olympics, Russia won more medals than any other nation.

It also received the largest number of gold medals.

The day after the Games ended, a beaming President Vladimir Putin presented his athletes with state awards.

He praised them for "defending the honor" of their country.

Their achievements, he said, showed the world that Russia's "great and glorious" sports traditions were still strong.

Now Russia's achievements at Sochi have been called into question.

On Monday, a report was released that claims cheating was widespread during the games.

The report accuses Russian track and field athletes of using banned performance-enhancing drugs to give themselves an edge.

Furthermore, it claims this doping was covered up by the Federal Security Service, Russia's version of the FBI.

Russians have long considered international sports a major way to measure their country's standing in the world.

From the 1960s to the 1980s the Soviet Union — which Russia was then part of — was a dominating force in sports.

Back then it was known as the "Big Red Machine."

That is why Moscow responded so angrily to Monday's cheating charges.

It will be an embarrassment to Russia if its athletes are kept out of next summer's Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

Russian officials have attacked the report, which was prepared by a commission from the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA).

They said that it lacked proof and that it suggests a plot to make Russia look bad.

As long as there is "no evidence," it is difficult to respond to the charges, said Putin spokesman Dmitry Peskov.

The charges do not appear to have any real basis, he added.

The report's conclusions appeared to have been "made to order," said Vadim Zelichenok, the head of the Russian athletics federation.

Monday's report not only claims that there was widespread doping of Russian track and field athletes, including several Olympic medalists.

It also claims that there were state-directed coverups.

The report says agents from the Federal Security Service interfered with the work of a lab that was supposed to test for doping.

The WADA commission said track and field's governing body should suspend the Russian federation from competition.

The governing body is called the IAAF.

Sebastian Coe, president of the IAAF, gave the federation until the end of the week to respond to the doping charges.

The International Olympic Committee said it will strip medals from athletes guilty of doping.

Russia also has been threatened with suspension from track and field competitions, including the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.

Zelichenok appealed to the IAAF to allow Russians to compete.

Russia has long been a track and field power, but it has been slipping in recent years.

Its main strengths are now in race walking, women's middle-distance running and the field events.

Yelena Isinbayeva, a Russian, is the world record-holder in the pole vault.

At the 2013 world track and field championships in Moscow, Russia won seven gold medals, the most of any nation.

Altogether, it won 17 medals.

This year at the Beijing World Athletics Championships, Russia won only two gold medals and four in all.

Until 1991, the Soviet Union enjoyed enormous international success, especially in sports such as hockey, figure skating and gymnastics.

It had a huge pool of talent from its 15 republics.

Its athletic training system was very well-funded.

Following the breakup of the Soviet Union, however, Russia went through a period of economic chaos.

Stadiums and gyms fell into disrepair.

Low salaries forced many athletes and coaches to compete abroad.

The post-Soviet athletic decline hit bottom at the 2010 Vancouver Olympics.

Russia left those games with only three gold medals.

It then faced the difficult task of rebuilding its team in time for the Winter Games in Sochi four years later.

The Sochi Olympics were overseen by Putin as part of a broader effort to restore national pride.

The games cost Russia a record $51 billion to put on.

They yielded huge success for Russia's athletes, who won 13 golds and 33 total medals.

For Russia, it was the best Winter Games ever.

When Putin congratulated the medalists, he said it was important for Russia to showcase its top athletes.

He praised the athletes for filling the Russian people with "pride in their fatherland."

Political analyst Andrei Kolesnikov said Putin uses sports victories to build support for his presidency.

In turn, this focus on achievements might put pressure on sports officials, he said.

"Maybe it was not the decision of Putin to use these medical means," Kolesnikov said.

However, the very atmosphere in Russia leads sports officials to resort to such solutions.

"They are trying to be victorious, they must win everywhere," he said.

