Twenty years ago in the African country of Rwanda, nearly one million people were killed.

Now, the country is at peace.

Many who killed their neighbors live side by side with relatives of the dead.

Rwanda is mainly made up of two peoples, the Hutus and Tutsis.

In 1994, Hutus killed more than 800,000 Tutsis — and even some Hutus.

It was one of the worst crimes of the past 100 years.

Rwanda has made stunning progress since then.

Courts have allowed many killers to be released from prison.

In return, they confess and express regret.

A generation of young people who grew up after the killings don't see themselves as Hutu or Tutsi.

They just see themselves as Rwandans.

Rwandans are living longer.

Now most people live more than 60 years.

Fewer children under 5 are dying.

Twenty years ago, 230 out of every 1,000 kids didn't live to see their 5th birthday.

Now, that number has dropped to 55 out of every 1,000.

Businesses have grown and there are more jobs.

Still, Rwanda has some problems.

Lately, human rights groups have criticized President Paul Kagame.

They think he is using his power in the wrong ways.

Kagame is working to improve education and end poverty.

He believes that is the best way to prevent a return to fighting.

The government spends almost half its yearly money on health and education, says the World Bank.

The news out of Rwanda has been good nowadays.

Yet, attempts to prevent killings in other countries haven't always succeeded.

After Rwanda, countries vowed that never again would they allow mass killings, known as genocide, to happen.

So, in 2002 the International Criminal Court was set up.

Its purpose is to try people for genocide and other crimes.

And in 2005, world leaders agreed to protect civilians in a country who are under attack.

But the United Nations still fails to protect people when wars break out.

In the Central African Republic, killings have been taking place for months.

The U.N. hasn't sent a force to halt the attacks.

Elsewhere in Africa, the U.N. has had mixed success.

U.N. troops have been criticized for not preventing attacks on civilians in the Democratic Republic of Congo.

In Sudan, U.N. troops failed to prevent 10,000 killings in December.

However, even more people might have been killed without the U.N. there.

The Rwandan genocide was triggered on April 7, 1994.

A plane carrying Rwandan President Juvenal Habyarimana, a Hutu, was shot down.

Who launched the attack is unknown.

Kagame had led a military group trying to push out the Habyarimana government since 1990.

But after nearly three years of war, a peace deal was signed.

Elections were supposed to follow.

The downing of the plane sunk the peace deal.

It set off the mass killing of Tutsis by Hutus.

They were spurred on by radio hosts who called Tutsis "cockroaches" that should be killed.

Neighbors killed neighbors and entire families were wiped out.

The U.N. did nothing to halt the attacks.

Bill Clinton was the U.S. president then.

He has since apologized.

Last year, he admitted that as many as 300,000 lives could have been saved had America acted.

The killings went on for three months.

Then Kagame's forces drove the Rwandan army from power.

Today, Rwanda is improving and businesses are growing.

The nation can grow enough crops without having to get food from other countries.

Children have more food to eat.

One Saturday a month, all citizens are required to help clean up Rwanda.

The country is neat and orderly.

"We must work hard because if we wait for others to develop our country, we will not make progress," Kagame said last month.

Help from other countries "must only come as an addition to our own efforts to better ourselves."

