SHINGTON, D.C. - Paul D. Ryan, a Republican from Wisconsin, was elected speaker of the House of Representatives Thursday.

Ryan, now the most powerful person in the House, immediately declared the House "broken" and in need of reform.

The problems Ryan referred to did not have that much to do with fighting between Republicans and Democrats.

Instead, they focused on disagreements within the Republican Party over tactics and ideas.

Those disagreements drove out former Speaker John A. Boehner, who announced in September that he would resign his seat in Congress.

Boehner's decision to leave led Ryan to promise to give more power to regular representatives from the Republican Party instead of keeping it in the hands of the leadership.

"We are not solving problems; we are adding to them," Ryan said in a speech after his election Thursday.

"I am not interested in laying blame.

We are not settling scores.

We are wiping the slate clean.

Neither the members nor the people are satisfied with how things are going.

We need to make some changes, starting with how the House does business."

There was already evidence that Ryan might help unite the Republicans.

Ryan got 236 votes, winning the support of all but nine of his fellow party members.

They voted instead for Representative Daniel Webster, a Republican from Florida, who is much more conservative, or traditional.

All but three Democrats, meanwhile, supported House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat from California.

Following the vote, Ryan began his remarks to the House with a call for unity, and he was not talking only about unity among the Republicans.

"Let's pray for each other, Republicans for Democrats, and Democrats for Republicans," he said.

"Pray for a deeper understanding."

Ryan paid attention to the demands of conservative members of the Republican Party.

They felt ignored by Boehner, who is more mainstream.

"We have nothing to fear from honest differences honestly stated," Ryan added.

"If you have ideas, let's hear them.

A greater clarity between us can lead to a greater charity among us."

Ryan, at 45, is the youngest speaker elected since 1869.

He took the oath of office from Democratic Representative John Conyers of Michigan, 86, who is the longest-serving House member.

Looking on were his wife, Janna, and children Liza, 13, Charlie, 12, and Sam, 10.

Also seated in the room was current Kansas Governor Sam Brownback, for whom Ryan once worked as an aide.

Brownback said Ryan will have a key role in pushing for the laws Republicans want, and he has the power to help decide what the next president will focus on, if a Republican wins the election.

"That's a very important spot to be in," Brownback said.

Boehner, on his last day in Congress on Thursday, cast the final vote for Ryan.

Boehner said he leaves the House as "the same regular guy that came here" from the Cincinnati suburbs 25 years ago.

"I leave with no regrets, no burdens," he said.

Boehner also left Ryan with an agreement worked out with President Barack Obama.

It would increase the amount of money the government can spend by $80 billion through 2017.

The agreement also raised the federal debt limit — the amount of money the government can owe as a result of previous borrowing.

The agreement enraged conservatives, who want the government to have as little debt as possible.

However, the agreement cleared away major obstacles from Ryan's path, and it will make his first 16 months as speaker a little easier.

Most Webster supporters voted for Ryan, who reassured them that they will have a more central role in making laws.

"I was voting my conscience," said Representative Louis Gohmert, a Republican from Texas and one of the Webster supporters.

Gohmert explained that he wished Ryan well, but he disagreed with him on key issues such as the 2008 financial bailout that gave banks extra money to keep them running.

There are clear pitfalls ahead for Ryan.

In the coming weeks, he will have to get the House to pass a major law ahead of a December 11 deadline.

The government has only enough money to keep running until then.

The law would give the government the extra money it needs to avoid a shutdown, but conservative Republicans are threatening not to vote for it unless the government stops giving money to the group Planned Parenthood, which provides health services to women and supports abortion rights.

Webster said Ryan is hoping the Conservatives will give him a pass and vote for the spending bill "because it's been sort of dumped on him."

Republican Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy of California had hoped to become speaker, but he dropped his plans because of opposition from conservative Republicans.

He said Ryan would be able to meet those challenges.

"The future looks brighter," he said Thursday.

"Yeah, there's work involved in that, but the hurdles are not as high as they were a week ago."

The Republican representatives are more united, McCarthy said, "and when we're united, we can accomplish big things."

