The crowd at the new movie theater didn't come to see a film.

They don't like a law that closes the theater during the Jewish Sabbath.

The Sabbath runs from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday.

It is the Jewish day of rest.

"Jerusalem, wake up!"

they chanted.

"Nonreligious people are equal too!"

Guards blocked them from entering the theater.

The demonstration was the latest battle in Jerusalem's "Sabbath wars."

For years, Jerusalem's nonreligious Jews have been fighting with the Jewish ultra-Orthodox community.

They argue over whether shops, theaters and restaurants can remain open on the Jewish day of rest.

Ultra-Orthodox Jews follow the most strict interpretation of Judaism.

This forbids Jews from working and driving on the Sabbath.

They also can't use money.

Nonreligious Jews are called secular Jews.

They don't like being forced to follow Orthodox laws.

"I don't tell people when to go to the synagogue, and they shouldn't tell me when to go to the" movies, said Laura Wharton.

She is a city councilwoman.

Her group led the protest outside the new 19-screen movie theater.

A small number of people are "telling the rest of the city what they should do," she said.

Wharton's group wants more businesses, like restaurants and shops, to be allowed to be open on the Sabbath.

By law, most businesses are closed on the Sabbath.

West Jerusalem is mainly Jewish.

It shuts down every Friday afternoon.

Stores are closed and bus service is stopped.

Cars are blocked from streets in and around Orthodox neighborhoods.

Sometimes the ultra-Orthodox throw stones at drivers who break the Sabbath.

"When I see a Jewish person in a car on the Sabbath, it hurts me," said Daniel Katzenstein.

He is an ultra-Orthodox father of nine.

He says driving on the Sabbath is a threat to his way of life.

The ultra-Orthodox tried to stop the building of a new pool where men and women could swim together.

They believe men and women should swim separately.

This year, the owners of a restaurant decided to open for Saturday brunch.

Ultra-Orthodox protesters yelled "Shabbat" at the people eating there.

That means Sabbath in Hebrew.

"There's a lack of tolerance here," said Elisheva Mazya.

She runs a nonprofit called New Spirit.

It works to keep nonreligious young people living in Jerusalem by helping them get jobs and pay for houses.

For years, many nonreligious young people have been leaving the city.

Housing prices are high and jobs are scarce.

The young people also don't like the religious rules.

There is a lot of anger against the ultra-Orthodox throughout Israel.

More than half of all ultra-Orthodox men study at religious schools.

They do not work.

Few of them serve in the army.

In Israel, most young people serve in the army.

Israeli families receive money from the government based on the number of children.

And the ultra-Orthodox tend to have many children.

The problems are worse in Jerusalem.

There, the percentage of ultra-Orthodox is more than three times higher than in the rest of Israel.

Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat is nonreligious.

For him, running the city has been a balancing act.

He has tried to attract nonreligious young people to Jerusalem.

He calls them "the engine for growth."

Barkat has begun programs to keep graduates of Jerusalem's universities in the city.

He also helped open trendy restaurants and stores in the city's train station.

The station is open on the Sabbath.

Rivka Yeruslavsky said that problems between the groups are based on fear.

She runs a training college for ultra-Orthodox students.

"We feel everyone's against us," Yeruslavsky said.

She added that cooperation is possible.

"I hope that we can be together not just in the workplace but everywhere," she said.

"But it's a process."

