A crowd chanted "Jerusalem, wake up!

Nonreligious people are equal too!"

Guards blocked them from entering a new movie theater.

The crowd was protesting a law that forces theaters to close during the Jewish Sabbath.

The Sabbath runs from sundown Friday to sundown Saturday.

The demonstration was the latest battle in Jerusalem's long-running "Sabbath wars."

For years, Jerusalem's nonreligious Jewish population has been fighting with the Jewish ultra-Orthodox community.

They disagree over whether shops, theaters and restaurants can remain open on the Jewish day of rest.

Ultra-Orthodox Jews follow the most strict interpretation of Judaism.

Orthodox law forbids Jews from working, driving or using money on the Sabbath.

Nonreligious Jews are called secular Jews.

They resent being forced to follow Orthodox laws.

There is no separation of church and state in Israel.

This means the Israeli government can pass religious laws.

"I don't tell people when to go to the synagogue, and they shouldn't tell me when to go to the" movies, said Laura Wharton.

Wharton is a city councilwoman.

Her secular political party led the protest outside the new 19-screen multiplex.

The theater was built on city land.

It may not show movies on the Sabbath, according to a rule written by an ultra-Orthodox lawmaker.

A small number of people are "telling the rest of the city what they should do," she said.

Wharton's group wants more businesses in Jerusalem to be open on the Sabbath.

Businesses, like stores and restaurants, are closed on the Sabbath.

Most of West Jerusalem, which is mainly Jewish, shuts down every Friday afternoon.

Stores are closed, bus service is stopped, and cars are blocked from streets in and around Orthodox neighborhoods.

Sometimes the ultra-Orthodox throw stones at drivers who break the Sabbath.

"When I see a Jewish person in a car on the Sabbath, it hurts me," said Daniel Katzenstein.

He is an ultra-Orthodox father of nine who moved to Jerusalem from New York.

He sees driving on the Sabbath as a threat to his way of life.

Crowds of ultra-Orthodox men have burned down bus stops with posters of women in bathing suits, which they say are not modest.

They tried to stop construction of a swimming pool where men and women could swim together.

This year, the owners of a cafe decided to open for Saturday brunch.

Ultra-Orthodox protesters yelled "Shabbat."

That means Sabbath in Hebrew.

"There's a lack of tolerance here," said Elisheva Mazya.

She runs a nonprofit called New Spirit.

It works to keep secular young people living in Jerusalem by helping them find jobs and housing.

For years, many nonreligious young people have been leaving the city.

Housing prices are high and jobs are scarce.

The young people also don't like the city's religious rules.

A few years ago, New Spirit started hosting parties on Saturdays to compete with cities like Tel Aviv.

Tel Aviv's beaches and night life are popular with young people.

Also, there are less ultra-Orthodox people there.

There is a lot of resentment against the ultra-Orthodox throughout Israel.

More than 60 percent of ultra-Orthodox men study at religious schools.

They do not work, and few of them serve in the army.

In Israel, most young people serve in the army.

Israeli families receive money from the government based on the number of children.

And the ultra-Orthodox tend to have many children.

Last month, the Knesset, the Israeli parliament, passed a law that forced the ultra-Orthodox to serve in the army.

Hundreds of thousands of ultra-Orthodox men demonstrated in the streets.

The problems are worse in Jerusalem.

There, the percentage of ultra-Orthodox is more than three times higher than in the rest of Israel.

For Jerusalem Mayor Nir Barkat, who is secular, running the city has been a balancing act.

He has tried to attract nonreligious young people to Jerusalem.

He calls them "the engine for growth."

Barkat has begun programs to keep graduates of Jerusalem's universities in the city.

He also helped open trendy restaurants and stores in the city's train station.

It operates on the Sabbath.

Rivka Yeruslavsky said that problems between the groups are based on fear.

She runs a training college for ultra-Orthodox students.

"We feel everyone's against us," she said, adding that cooperation is possible.

"I hope that we can be together not just in the workplace but everywhere," she said.

"But it's a process."

