American Indians across the Western U.S. are fighting to protect the grizzly bears that are so meaningful to their culture.

These Native American tribes are challenging attempts by federal wildlife officials to end protections for the bears, which roam the wilderness in and around Yellowstone National Park.

The tribes are concerned hunters will endanger the bears, which they believe are sacred.

The tribes' opposition marks the latest turn in the saga of these massive, ferocious predators.

Grizzlies almost became extinct in the early 1900s due to overhunting and trapping.

This opposition also adds a new, cultural aspect to a wildlife controversy that previously focused on disagreements over science and how many bears are enough.

Ben Nuvamsa, a former chairman of Arizona's Hopi Tribe, says his people view the grizzly as an "uncle" who possesses strong healing powers and plays a central role in traditional ceremonies.

He said tribes want to "keep it from being a trophy animal and prevent the industrialization of bear habitat."

"We regard him as part of our family, and it's really important to all of us natives to keep him around," Nuvamsa added.

"It doesn't matter where the bears are.

We pray to them when we see them."

U.S. wildlife officials, and wildlife officials for the states of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming, claim the 700 to 1,000 bears in the region are not endangered.

These government offices have been pushing for almost a decade to reverse the animal's threatened status.

The status of a species is its official description according to the law.

The government had the bears declared not endangered in 2007, only to have the decision reversed by a federal judge two years later.

Removing federal protections for the bears would allow state governments to be in control of how the bears are managed.

State governments might permit limited trophy hunting of the bears.

Trophy hunting is done for sport, not for food, and has become controversial in recent years.

Wildlife officials in Montana, Idaho and Wyoming have suggested such hunts might help to eliminate problem bears.

Since the 2009 court ruling, government biologists have sought to further prove their conclusions with new research.

They claim that the bears' food supplies are not threatened by climate change and other factors.

They have also pledged that some protections of the bears' territory would remain in place regardless of the animal's legal status.

A decision on whether to propose a rule to lift protections is expected in the next several months.

There is no such proposal pending for another group of about 1,000 grizzlies near Glacier National Park in northwest Montana and southern Canada.

Increasing numbers of conflicts between bears and humans in the 19,000-square-mile Yellowstone region make the upcoming decision even more complicated.

Since 2010, grizzlies have killed six people in and around Yellowstone.

They regularly attack hunters and domestic livestock outside the park.

These events have fueled opposition to continued protections within the ranching industry and among state officials.

U.S.

Fish and Wildlife spokeswoman Serena Baker says the agency will consider both the tribes' concerns, and scientific evidence.

The grizzly bear population has greatly increased in the Yellowstone region since protections were imposed in 1975.

Decisions regarding animals under the Endangered Species Act typically are guided by what is known under the law as the "best available science," but Baker said the tribes' views would also be considered.

"They have a very deep connection to the land and the animals and the environment," she said.

"We certainly want to respect that."

But leaders of dozens of tribes across the United States, most of them west of the Mississippi River, have called for a halt to the process.

They say they have not been formally consulted about the fate of the bears.

Long-standing treaties between the tribes and the U.S. government, as well as White House executive orders, require that the tribes be consulted about matters like this.

Grizzly bears lived across much of the West until hunting and trapping eliminated them from more than 98 percent of their historic range in the continental United States.

"These are our treaty lands, our ancestral homelands," said Lee Juan Tyler, vice chairman of the Shoshone Bannock Tribes.

"We want the grizzly bear protected with those lands, and the grizzly bear returned to areas where we can co-manage them."

Federal officials said they have consulted with five tribes in Montana, Idaho and Wyoming.

Discussions with two others are planned, and Baker said letters have been sent to more than 50 tribes inviting them to join the process.

"We need to hear from them on when and where we can meet, because we are ready to meet at any time," Baker said.

