In the 1690s, more than 200 people were accused of witchcraft.

Some of them lived in Salem, Massachusetts.

Others lived nearby.

It was a crime back then to be a witch.

The people were put on trial.

About 20 were found guilty and killed.

Bridget Bishop was the first person put to death.

She was not really a witch.

She talked too much about other people, though.

She also may have behaved badly.

Those were the only things she did wrong.

On June 10, 1692, she was taken to a spot near Salem.

She was hanged from a gallows, most likely a tree.

Others were killed there, too.

Until this week, no one knew where the place was.

A group of experts have been working to find where it was.

The group is called the Gallows Hill Project.

They discovered it was a ledge overlooking Salem.

At the time, people could have seen it from below.

Now, the spot overlooks a Walgreens drug store.

The city of Salem plans to put a marker there.

Officials also want money to clean up the area.

They expect many people to come and look at it.

Kimberly Driscoll is the mayor of Salem.

She said the witchcraft trials are part of the town's history.

Salem must be honest about what happened, she said.

Salem's witch trials started in January 1692\.

Two girls began to have strange fits.

They shook and made strange sounds.

Their names were Elizabeth Parris and Abigail Williams.

Elizabeth was 9 years old, and her cousin Abigail was 11\.

A doctor said that witches were attacking them.

The girls blamed three Salem women.

Not long afterward, 12 more girls began having these fits.

They accused more people of being witches.

Emerson Baker is a member of the Gallows Hill Project team.

They began looking through old writings, he said.

None of them said exactly where the hangings happened.

The team's best bet was the spot near the Walgreens.

It is now called Proctor's Ledge.

John Proctor was one of the "witches" killed there.

The team went to the ledge.

They took pictures from above.

They also used radar.

It sends sound waves into the ground.

The group made a map of the area.

It showed how the ledge would have looked 300 years ago.

They were sure they had found the right place.

The team solved the mystery.

