A number of U.S. states ban same-sex marriage, also known as gay marriage.

That means a marriage of two men or two women is against the law in those states.

Alabama has had a ban, but the situation there has just changed dramatically.

On Jan. 23, U.S. District Court Judge Callie Granade struck down Alabama's gay marriage ban.

Granade, a federal judge, declared that the state ban goes against the United States Constitution.

Judge Granade's ruling was immediately challenged.

Groups seeking to keep the marriage ban in place asked the Supreme Court of the United States to stop Judge Granade's order.

On Feb. 9, the Supreme Court declared that it would not stop Granade's order.

With that ruling the court has opened the way for gay marriage in Alabama.

The court's decision created outrage and celebration throughout Alabama.

It also split the state's judges into opposing camps.

Alabama has its own state Supreme Court, which is led by Chief Justice Roy Moore.

Judge Moore has ordered state probate judges not to obey Judge Granade's ruling.

Probate judges are in charge of issuing marriage licenses.

Many Alabama judges said they must follow Moore's order.

They have announced that they will refuse to issue same-sex marriage licenses.

Other judges agreed with the U.S. Supreme Court's decision and started marrying same-sex couples in the morning.

Then, there were those judges who tried to stand in the middle, or perhaps just stall for time.

Judge Tim Russell in Baldwin County said he would accept requests from same-sex couples looking to get married.

However, he added, he would not be willing to marry any gay couples at the moment.

Various overjoyed couples throughout the state did manage to get married.

"It's about time," said Shante Wolfe, 21.

She and Tori Sisson of Tuskegee had camped out in a blue and white tent and became the first in Montgomery County to receive a marriage license.

In Birmingham, a marriage license went to Dee and Laura Bush.

The two have been together seven years and have five children between them.

"It is great that we were able to be part of history," Dee Bush said.

After receiving the license, she and Laura walked outside to a park where a minister was performing wedding ceremonies.

However, many judges said they would refuse to issue same-sex marriage licenses.

"Right now we're not going to do it," Judge Jerry Powell said.

"We have direct orders from the state Supreme Court here in Alabama.

Powell said he would follow those orders.

However, judges who refuse to issue marriage licenses may risk being sued.

"I would really think long and hard before defying a federal court order," said civil rights expert Susan Watson.

Alabama Governor Robert Bentley said he was disappointed that the courts had overturned the gay marriage ban.

However, he added that he would not take action against any judge who issued a license to same-sex couples.

Statewide there were few public protests, and there seemed to be no disturbances in the major cities.

In Birmingham, a police spokesperson said about a dozen protesters stood outside the courthouse.

However, they did not interfere with gay couples seeking licenses.

Ministers across Alabama reacted in varying ways to the arrival of same-sex marriage in the state.

In Fairhope, the Reverend Jerry Henry expressed disapproval.

The Bible does not permit marriage between a man and a man or a woman and a woman, he said.

In Huntsville, Baptist minister Ellin Jimmerson had conducted two weddings by lunchtime.

"It's been a good day," Jimmerson said.

