Later this year, the Supreme Court of the United States will decide whether states should be allowed to ban gay marriage.

Right now, a number of states do ban same-sex marriage.

Alabama has been one of those states, but the situation there has just changed dramatically.

On Jan. 23, U.S. District Court Judge Callie Granade issued a ruling that struck down Alabama's gay marriage ban.

Granade, a federal judge for the Southern District of Alabama, called the state ban unconstitutional.

Her ruling was immediately challenged.

Opponents asked the U.S. Supreme Court to halt Judge Granade's order.

On Feb. 9, the federal Supreme Court declared that it would not delay her order.

With that ruling the court has opened the way for gay marriage in Alabama.

The court's decision created uproar, celebration, rebellion and, sometimes, bored shrugs throughout the state.

It also split the state's judges into opposing camps.

Some judges followed the prodding of Chief Justice Roy Moore, who heads Alabama's state Supreme Court.

He has ordered state judges not to obey Judge Granade's ruling.

Other judges agreed with the federal court's decision and started marrying same-sex couples in the morning.

Then, there were those judges who tried to stand in the middle, or perhaps just stall for time, as best they could.

"We are accepting applications for marriage but we are not processing any right now," said Judge Tim Russell in Baldwin County.

For many across the country, the Supreme Court's decision signaled that change had finally come to Alabama, which so often has seemed to resist it.

Fifty years ago, Alabama schools were still segregated and blacks could not attend "white" colleges.

When the federal government insisted that the University of Alabama must be desegregated, the state's governor, George C. Wallace, resisted.

Wallace stood on the steps of Foster Auditorium to stop two black students from enrolling at the university.

Wallace's angry call of defiance defined the state for decades as a stubborn holdout against social change.

This time, reaction included discussions of constitutional law, hesitation, opposition and celebration.

Various overjoyed couples received marriage licenses in scenes similar to those in other states that have legalized same-sex marriage.

"It's about time," said Shante Wolfe, 21.

She and Tori Sisson of Tuskegee had camped out in a blue and white tent and became the first in Montgomery County to receive a marriage license.

In Birmingham, a marriage license went to Dee and Laura Bush, who have been together seven years and have five children between them.

"It is great that we were able to be part of history," Dee Bush said.

After receiving the license, she and Laura walked outside to a park where a minister was performing wedding ceremonies.

However, many judges said they would refuse to issue same-sex marriage licenses.

"Right now we're not going to do it," Judge Jerry Powell said.

"We have direct orders from the state Supreme Court here in Alabama."

Powell said he would follow those orders.

Susan Watson of the American Civil Liberties Union said judges risk lawsuits for refusing to issue the licenses.

"I would really think long and hard before defying a federal court order," she said.

Alabama Governor Robert Bentley was not like the former Governor George Wallace in his reaction to the news.

Bentley said he was disappointed that the courts had overturned the gay marriage ban, but added that he would not take action against any judge who issued a license to same-sex couples.

"We will follow the rule of law in Alabama, and allow the issue of same-sex marriage to be worked out through the proper legal channels," Bentley said.

State Attorney General Luther Strange echoed the governor's disappointment: "I regret the Supreme Court's decision," he said.

Without the delay, "there will likely be more confusion in the coming months" before the federal court makes its final decision about the legality of same-sex marriage.

However, the most notable effect of the Supreme Court's action — in a state keenly aware of its past — is what did not happen.

There were few protests, and there seemed to be no disturbances in the major cities.

In Birmingham, a police spokesperson said "a dozen or so" protesters stood outside the courthouse, but they did not interfere with gay couples seeking licenses.

In Montgomery, a police spokesperson answered questions about protests and arrests with the puzzled response, "Protests about what?"

Pastors across Alabama reacted in varying ways to the arrival of same-sex marriage in the state.

At the southern end of the state, in coastal Fairhope, the Reverend Jerry Henry expressed disapproval and worry.

"We don't believe the Scripture condones marriage between two people of the same gender," he said.

At the other end of the state, in Huntsville, Baptist minister Ellin Jimmerson had presided over two weddings by lunchtime.

She had received no word, good or bad, from the Southern Baptist Convention, which opposes same-sex marriage, she said.

"It's been a good day," Jimmerson said.

