Many U.S. states allow a man to marry another man or a woman to marry a woman.

Some states do not.

They ban gay marriage.

A ban means gay marriage, also known as same-sex marriage, is against the law.

Alabama is one of the states that has banned same-sex marriage.

Suddenly, that has all changed.

In January, U.S. District Judge Callie Granade struck down Alabama's gay marriage ban.

The federal judge said the state ban goes against the U.S. Constitution.

The Constitution lists laws that govern the whole country.

Granade ordered that the state ban on gay marriage be removed.

Judge Granade's order was immediately challenged.

Groups who want to keep the ban went to the country's highest court, the Supreme Court of the United States.

They asked the Supreme Court to stop Judge Granade's order.

On Monday, the Supreme Court said it would not stop Granade's order.

Gay people in Alabama may now get married.

The news made many in Alabama very happy.

It made others very angry.

It also split the state's judges into two groups.

State probate judges are in charge of issuing marriage licences.

Some said they would obey Granade.

Others said they would not.

Alabama has its own state Supreme Court.

The court is led by Chief Justice Roy Moore.

Judge Moore ordered state judges not to obey Judge Granade.

Many Alabama judges said they must follow Moore's order.

They have announced they will not marry same-sex couples.

Other judges agreed with the U.S. Supreme Court and Granade.

They started marrying same-sex couples in the morning.

Across the state happy married couples celebrated.

"It's about time," said Shante Wolfe.

She and Tori Sisson of Tuskegee became the first gay couple in Montgomery County to marry.

Dee and Laura Bush of Birmingham also got married.

The two have been together seven years and have five children.

"It is great that we were able to be part of history," Dee Bush said.

However, many judges said they would refuse to marry same-sex couples.

"Right now we're not going to do it," Judge Jerry Powell said.

"We have direct orders from the state Supreme Court here in Alabama," he added.

He said he would be following those orders.

Experts say it may not be easy for judges to keep on refusing to marry gay couples.

Judges who refuse could get into trouble.

Robert Bentley is Alabama's governor.

Bentley said he is not happy about the end of the gay marriage ban.

However, he will not try to stop same-sex marriages, he said.

There were only a few protests across the state.

In Birmingham, police said "a dozen or so" protesters gathered in front of a courthouse.

However, they did not try to stop gay couples from getting married.

Ministers across Alabama reacted in different ways.

In Fairhope, the Reverend Jerry Henry was not happy.

The Bible does not allow gay marriage, he said.

In Huntsville, Baptist minister Ellin Jimmerson had married two people by lunchtime.

"It's been a good day," Jimmerson said.

