In an old notebook, there's a short note that is not much longer than a tweet.

It reads: "Coleman with his jumping frog — bet stranger $50 — stranger had no frog &amp; C got him one — in the meantime stranger filled C's frog full of shot &amp; he couldn't jump — the stranger's frog won."

Samuel Clemens wrote that story idea down after hearing fellow gold miners telling the tale about frogs.

Not long afterward, he turned that note into a famous story called "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County."

Samuel Clemens became famous, too.

He wrote under the name Mark Twain.

Twain was in the California mountains for only 88 days, but the rainy winter he spent there made a huge difference in his life.

He made new friends in California and they helped point him in a new direction.

Gold mining did not work out for Twain.

When he ran out of money, Twain finally decided to take his writing seriously.

His friend, Artemus Ward, was a well-known writer who gave Twain advice in those early days.

Ward asked Twain to write a short story for his new book about experiences out in the West.

Twain decided to use the frog tale he had heard about from the miners.

He wrote it a few different ways to get it just the way he wanted it.

The story was not finished in time for Ward's book, but Ward's boss liked it and sent it to a famous newspaper.

The frog story turned out to be a huge hit — Twain had finally struck gold.

Over the next 45 years, Twain continued to show the world a new kind of humor in stories like "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."

Twain called it "American" humor.

He said he did not just write about funny things.

He wrote about normal life in a funny way.

Twain first heard this kind of storytelling in California.

During his mining days, he stayed in a run-down cabin that belonged to Jim Gillis, a friend's older brother.

Gillis was well-educated and quite funny.

He was known for making up stories on the spot to entertain a crowd of his friends.

Twain wrote in his journal about how much he looked up to Gillis.

He liked the way he told his jokes with a serious voice and a straight face.

Later in his career, Twain started performing on stage and told his jokes in a similar style.

The mining town where Twain first heard about frog-jumping is called Angels Camp.

For four days each year, Angels Camp hosts a big event to celebrate Twain's time in California.

It is called the Calaveras County Fair &amp; Jumping Frog Jubilee.

The fair is the perfect time to show off the town's "Hop of Fame."

Three blocks of the Main Street sidewalk are decorated with special bronze plaques.

Each plaque says the name of the frog that won that year's prize.

There are plaques going back all the way to the 1920s.

Just under 4,000 people live in Angels Camp, but during the fair that number grows to 50,000.

This year, the fair was expected to be even bigger than usual because it is the 150th anniversary of Twain's frog story being published.

"People can explore gold mining in any number of places," said Jim Fletcher, a retired middle school English and history teacher.

"They come here because of Mark Twain."

Fletcher is known as the "official storyteller of Calaveras County."

He teaches audiences about Twain's life every Wednesday in the Mark Twain Library at a local restaurant.

"There is now a wonderful energy about Twain and his importance to our town," Fletcher said.

"The 150 celebration will change everything in our town for the better."

