In a humble-looking notebook a century and a half old, there's an important entry that's barely longer than a tweet: "Coleman with his jumping frog — bet stranger $50 — stranger had no frog &amp; C got him one — in the meantime stranger filled C's frog full of shot &amp; he couldn't jump — the stranger's frog won."

That passage was the literary skeleton of a wildly improbable story that introduced much of the 19th-century world to Samuel Clemens, better known by his pen name, Mark Twain.

Twain had journeyed west from Missouri with visions of making his fortune in the gold fields of California.

After hearing fellow miners' tales in Angels Camp, he sketched out "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" and reversed his luck.

Twain spent just 88 days in the mineral-rich mountains to the east of San Francisco.

Yet that rainy winter of 1864-65 is seen as a major turning point in his life — and his career.

Though unsuccessful at mining, he developed friendships that helped shape his decision to abandon youthful dreams of a paddleboating career on the mighty Mississippi River.

Instead, Twain decided he would "excite the laughter of God's creatures."

Robert H. Hirst, curator of the Mark Twain Project and Papers at the University of California in Berkeley, says that Twain's season in California brought him to a key fork in the road.

"Even when he's in Angels Camp, he still has not made up his mind to make his career in literature.

And he's not going to make that leap until he is forced to, economically."

Only when he had run out of money and other career options did Twain fully embrace his literary talent.

Twain's friend, Artemus Ward, was an established humorist who became something of a mentor to Twain.

Ward asked Twain to write a short story to include in Ward's new book of western experiences, so Twain resurrected the frog tale he'd heard in Angels Camp.

He didn't finish the story in time to make it into Ward's book, but Ward's publisher liked it and sent it on to the Saturday Press.

The frog tale turned out to be a huge hit — Twain had finally struck gold.

"I don't think he would have reached that conclusion quite the way he did if it hadn't been for this moment (in mining country) away from all the pressure," said Hirst.

"He's not having to worry about earning a living.

He's messing around with pocket mining, and he listens.

One of the key things about that notebook is that anecdotes he writes down in it appear in his work forever."

Over the next 45 years, Twain classics such as "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn" were rooted in a new and distinctly American approach to humor.

It's not something Twain discussed much in his own writing, though he did write one piece titled "How to Tell a Story" in 1899.

The work highlighted the difference between the new American brand of humor and that of its European counterparts.

"There are several kinds of stories, but only one difficult kind — the humorous," Twain wrote.

"The humorous story is American, the comic story is English, the witty story is French.

The humorous story depends for its effect upon the manner of the telling; the comic story and the witty story upon the matter."

Twain's influences can be traced back to his circle of friends in the mining camps of Northern California.

During his mining days, the author stayed in a ramshackle cabin owned by Jim Gillis, a friend's older brother.

Jim Gillis was well-educated and articulate.

He was also quite funny.

According to Twain's journal, Gillis was known for entertaining groups of friends with tales he fabricated on the spot.

He could also recite "Byron, Shakespeare, Bacon, Dickens &amp; every kind of only first class Literature" from memory.

Another entry says he and Gillis, who remained friends for life, goofed around during dinner one night "talking like people 80 years old &amp; toothless."

Twain marveled at Gillis' deadpan delivery.

Twain borrowed Gillis' seemingly serious style and made it all his own when he took to the stage in 1866.

Angels Camp, the mining town where Twain first encountered the frog-jumping story, continues to celebrate the Californian chapter of Twain's life with its annual Calaveras County Fair &amp; Jumping Frog Jubilee.

For four days each year, the town's resident population of 3,836 expands more than tenfold to reach an average attendance of 50,000.

This year's attendance was expected to surge.

This year marks the 150th anniversary of Twain's short story being published in the New York Saturday Press.

Guests can see the town's "Hop of Fame" — bronze plaques set into three blocks of the Main Street sidewalk with the names of prize-winning frogs all the way back to the 1920s.

"People can explore gold mining in any number of places — they come here because of Mark Twain," said Jim Fletcher, a retired middle school English and history teacher.

Fletcher has taken on the title of "official storyteller of Calaveras County."

He entertains and educates audiences about Twain's life every Wednesday in the warmly decorated Mark Twain Library at Camps Restaurant, a short drive from downtown Angels Camp.

He calls his weekly talk "88 Days in the Mother Lode."

He's using the same title for a short book he'll publish next month and a low-budget documentary about Twain he made with filmmaker John C. Brown.

Brown noted that Twain's experience at Angels Camp has sometimes been minimized in the past, but that is changing.

"There is now a wonderful energy about Twain and his importance to our town," Fletcher said.

"The 150 celebration will change everything in our town for the better and, hopefully, supply a much richer and educationally rewarding visit to our community."

