In an old notebook, there is a short note about two men betting on a frog.

It is only a couple of lines long, but it changed one man's life.

Samuel Clemens wrote that note down after he got home from working in a gold mine.

Some of the men at the mine had told him the story about betting on frogs.

Clemens thought it could be something funny — and he was right.

Soon afterward, Clemens turned that note into a famous story.

It was called "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County."

Samuel Clemens became famous, too.

When he wrote, he used the name Mark Twain.

Twain wrote that note during a short stay in California.

He had moved there from Missouri to try to find gold.

Gold mining did not work out for Twain, but he made some good friends.

When he ran out of money, they helped him decide to become a writer.

One of Twain's friends was already a well-known writer.

His name was Artemus Ward.

Ward wanted Twain to write a short story.

He planned to put in his new book about life out West.

Twain decided to use the frog tale he had heard from the miners.

He took his time to get it just the way he wanted it.

The story was not finished in time for Ward's book, but Ward's boss liked it.

He sent it to a famous newspaper.

It became a big hit.

Twain had finally struck gold.

Over the next 45 years, Twain continued to write popular stories like "Adventures of Huckleberry Finn."

He became known for a new kind of humor.

The things he wrote about were not really all that funny.

He just wrote about them in a funny way.

Twain first heard this kind of storytelling in California.

During his mining days, Twain stayed in an old cabin.

It belonged to Jim Gillis, his friend's older brother.

Gillis had read lots of books.

He was also very funny.

He was known for being able to make up stories in front of a crowd of people.

Twain wrote in his journal about how much he looked up to Gillis.

He liked the way he kept a serious face when he told his jokes.

When Twain started performing on stage, he told his jokes with a serious face, too.

The mining town where Twain first heard about frog-jumping is called Angels Camp.

Every year, the town holds a big event to celebrate Mark Twain.

It is called the Calaveras County Fair &amp; Jumping Frog Jubilee.

The fair shows off the town's "Hop of Fame."

Special bronze plaques decorate the Main Street sidewalk.

Each plaque says the name of a prize-winning frog.

There are plaques going back all the way to the 1920s.

About 4,000 people live in Angels Camp.

During the fair, about 50,000 people are in the town.

This year is expected to be the biggest fair ever.

It will be the 150th anniversary of Twain's frog story being published.

People can learn about gold mining in many different places, said Jim Fletcher, a retired teacher.

"They come here because of Mark Twain."

Fletcher is known as the "official storyteller of Calaveras County."

He teaches about Twain's life.

People come to hear him every Wednesday in the town's Mark Twain Library.

"There is now a wonderful energy about Twain and his importance to our town," Fletcher said.

He thinks this year's fair will help make Angels Camp the best it has ever been.

