 Attackers opened fire on a holiday party in San Bernardino, California, last Wednesday.

They killed 14 people.

Another 21 were wounded.

At first it seemed like just another shooting.

Such shootings happen often in the United States.

They have become very common.

President Barack Obama quickly called for tougher gun laws.

Guns must be kept out of the wrong hands, he said.

Donald Trump said guns are not the problem.

The problem is that the shooters are mentally ill.

They are just plain nuts, he said.

The country does not need tougher gun laws, Trump said.

He thinks it needs a better way to spot mental problems.

If they get the help they need, they might not get angry.

Obama is a Democrat.

Trump is a Republican.

These two political parties do not agree with each other.

They run against each other in elections.

Trump is now running for president.

On Wednesday, both Obama and Trump said what people expect to hear after a shooting.

What Obama said is the usual thing Democrats say.

What Trump said was usual for a Republican.

Then, the police discovered something.

The attackers might have been linked to Islamic militants.  Islamic militants are fighters who are trying to spread their own kind of Islam.

Islam is a religion, like Christianity.

Its followers are called Muslims.  There are many different kinds of Islam.

Most have nothing to do with fighting.

Most Muslims are peaceful.

There are some large groups of Islamic fighters, though. Among them are ISIS and the Taliban. Both are trying to push their own form of Islam on the Middle East.

The U.S. is fighting both groups.  Some people worry that some U.S. Muslims could become Islamic fighters.

They fear they could strike here in this country.

By Thursday, both Obama and Trump were talking differently about Wednesday's attack.  The president told Americans they were safe.  He did not call for tougher gun laws as strongly as usual, though.

Instead, he asked lawmakers to make getting guns "a little harder."

Trump also spoke differently about the attack.

On Thursday he said it was linked to "Islamic terrorism."

He did not talk about mental illness.  Many Republicans say Democrats do not do enough to stop Islamic fighters from attacking the United States.

Democrats say that is not true.

They say they are doing all they can to keep the country safe.

