 Attackers stormed a holiday party in San Bernardino, California, last Wednesday, killing 14 and wounding 21. At first it seemed to be just another mass shooting.

Such shootings seem to happen routinely and have become all too familiar here in the United States.

Bullets were still flying when President Barack Obama issued a now-familiar call for more gun control.

Around the same time Wednesday night, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump labeled such shootings a mental health problem.  By Thursday, both men were changing their position.

Details had emerged on the California killings that suggested a possible link to Islamic militants.

According to the government, one of the shooters had pledged allegiance to Islamic State, or ISIS, the extremist group that killed 130 people in Paris, France, last month.

The new information quickly forced Republicans and Democrats to back away from their typical responses to this country's all-too-frequent mass shootings.  The two rival parties' opposing responses to such shootings have become a predictable part of American politics.

Democrats call for tighter gun laws to prevent the wrong people from getting their hands on weapons.

Republicans counter by saying that guns themselves are not the problem, and that the right to bear arms is protected by the Constitution.

Following Wednesday's attack, investigators soon announced that the California attackers might have communicated with Islamic extremists.

In addition, they seem to have stockpiled large quantities of weapons.

To some, that suggested they had perhaps planned further attacks.  The new information quickly changed the usual conversation.

Familiar arguments about gun laws shifted to discussions of what could be done to stop homegrown militants from striking targets in the United States.

Republicans could seek to blame the California attack on the Democrats' failure to keep the country safe.

However, that position could backfire if Republicans do not offer a clear alternative.  For his part, the president has said he worries about the difficulties of preventing homegrown attacks on U.S. soil.

He has also said that measures to stop such attacks might not be enough.

On Thursday, the president chose his words carefully.

He asked for patience and assured Americans they were safe.

Most notably, he toned down his typically forceful call for a new gun control law.

Obama asked the American people and lawmakers to find a way to make it "a little harder" for people to get guns.

"We can take basic steps that would make it harder — not impossible, but harder — for individuals to get access to weapons," he said.

For his part, Trump initially cast mass shootings as "a mental health issue" in an interview on Wednesday night.

He offered another explanation for the California attack on Thursday.

"Our president doesn't want to use the term," he said.

"But it turns out it probably was related — radical Islamic terrorism."

Obama's comments were a far cry from the angry remarks he has made following other recent mass shootings.

Just last week, the president railed against loose gun laws that he said made possible the shootings at a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood office.

He angrily declared "enough is enough."

In October, after a mass shooting in Roseburg, Oregon, Obama promised to speak up every time such incidents occurred.

Nine people at Umpqua Community College were killed by a lone gunman in that attack.

"I'm going to talk about this on a regular basis," Obama said in October. "Because our inaction is a political decision that we're making."

Unless we start confronting the problem more actively, the president said, "we're not going to be able to make a big dent in this problem."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Thursday that Obama was not backing off his push to tighten gun laws.

White House lawyers are continuing to search for ways Obama can tighten gun laws on his own, without the approval of Congress.

Earnest argued that the shooters in San Bernardino could have been stopped if the gun laws had been changed.

However, Earnest admitted they might still have been able to mount the attack.

"This discussion is about what we can do to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn't have them," Earnest said.

Republicans are mostly opposed to tighter gun laws.

In the wake of mass shootings, they have focused on the mental health of the shooters.

The problem, they say, is not the guns themselves but that the shooters are mentally ill. Their claim is that rather than tighter gun laws, better mental health screening is the answer.

If someone with mental health problems is caught early enough, they say, they will not strike out.

Instead, they can get the treatment they need.

"That's one thing that really has to get addressed," Republican Paul Ryan said Thursday morning.

Ryan was cautious not to label the latest shooting a terrorist attack, before all the facts were known.

Some of his fellow Republicans were not as cautious, however.

Republican Senator Ted Cruz said the shooting was a reminder the United States is at war.

"This is yet another manifestation of terrorism, radical Islamic terrorism here at home," Cruz said.

Like Trump, Cruz is now running for president.

