At first it seemed to be just another mass shooting in America.

Gunmen had stormed a holiday party in San Bernardino, California.

Bullets were still flying when President Barack Obama issued a now-familiar call for more gun control.

Around the same time Wednesday night, Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump labeled such shootings a mental health problem.

By Thursday, both politicians were changing their position.

Details had emerged on the California massacre that pointed to a possible link to Islamic militants and raised questions about domestic extremism.

The new information quickly forced Republicans and Democrats to back away from their typical responses to this country's all-too-familiar mass shootings.

The two parties' contrasting reactions to such shootings have become a grim and predictable part of American politics.

Revelations that the suspects might have communicated with extremists and stockpiled weapons awkwardly shifted the conversation.

Reactions moved from familiar arguments about gun laws to discussions of what, if anything, could be done to block radicalized, homegrown attackers from striking targets in the United States.

That is a far more complex debate with fewer clear-cut answers.

The president has said he worries about the difficulties of preventing homegrown attacks on U.S. soil — and the limits of security measures to prevent them.

Republicans could seek to blame the California attack on the Democrats' failure to keep the country safe — but without offering a clear alternative, that position could backfire.

On Thursday, the president chose his words carefully, mindful of an ongoing investigation and shifting circumstances.

He asked for patience, assured Americans they were safe and, notably, toned down his typically forceful call for congressional action on gun control.

After a briefing from his national security team, Obama asked the American people and lawmakers to find a way to make it "a little harder" for people to get guns.

"We're going to have to, I think, search ourselves as a society to make sure that we can take basic steps that would make it harder — not impossible, but harder — for individuals to get access to weapons," he said.

For his part, Trump initially cast mass shootings as "a mental health issue, to a large extent," in an interview on Wednesday night.

He offered another explanation for the California attack on Thursday.

"Our president doesn't want to use the term," he said.

"But it turns out it probably was related — radical Islamic terrorism."

Obama's comments were a far cry from the angry remarks he has made following other recent mass murders.

Last week, the president decried the shooting and hostage-taking at a Colorado Springs Planned Parenthood facility with a statement that declared "enough is enough."

In October, after nine people were killed by a gunman at Umpqua Community College in Roseburg, Oregon, Obama promised to speak up every time such incidents occurred.

At the time he said he was not afraid of making the debate about politics.

"I'm going to talk about this on a regular basis.

And I will politicize this.

Because our inaction is a political decision that we're making," Obama said in October.

"Unless we change that political dynamic, we're not going to be able to make a big dent in this problem."

White House spokesman Josh Earnest said Thursday that Obama was not backing off his push to tighten gun laws.

White House lawyers are continuing to search for ways Obama can expand required background checks without congressional approval.

Earnest argued that the shooters in San Bernardino, regardless of their motivation, could have been stopped if the gun laws had been changed.

However, Earnest admitted that the proposals Obama has pushed would not necessarily have prevented this massacre.

Among other things, Obama has called for expanded background checks and for barring people from buying guns who have been placed on a federal no-fly list of suspected terrorists and aren't allowed to board planes.

"This discussion is about what we can do to keep guns out of the hands of people who shouldn't have them," Earnest said.

Searching for a rebuttal to the Democrats' case on guns, Republicans have zeroed in on mental health.

"All the themes we see underneath these events, that's one thing that really has to get addressed," House Speaker Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, said Thursday morning.

Ryan was cautious not to label the latest shooting, before all the facts were known.

Some of his fellow Republicans vying for the White House were not as cautious, however.

Along with Trump, Republican Senator Ted Cruz evoked the recent Paris attacks and said the shooting was a reminder the United States is at war.

"This is yet another manifestation of terrorism, radical Islamic terrorism here at home," Cruz said.

