Some people come to America without permission.

There are cities that protect them.

The cities help them so that they will not be sent home.

Lawmakers call these cities "sanctuary cities."

Sanctuary means a place of safety.

Some lawmakers are not happy about sanctuary cities.

They also want stronger laws against immigrants.

An immigrant comes from another country.

Some immigrants come to America without permission.

The lawmakers say that immigrants should not be protected in the sanctuary cities.

On July 23, some lawmakers passed a bill.

It would punish cities that refused to share information with immigration officials.

The officials are trying to find people who are living here without permission.

They want to send these immigrants home.

It is true that some cities ignore the immigration rules.

However, many other cities refuse to carry out these rules.

It is not that they care so much about the immigrants.

They do worry about getting taken to court.

San Francisco said it was a sanctuary city.

The city said it would protect all immigrants.

In 1989, the city said it would not follow government rules against immigrants who are in the United States without permission.

One rule lets these immigrants be held in jail.

The immigrants can be held for up to two days.

Last year, judges in Oregon decided that cities must stop following the rule about jail.

Cities cannot keep people in jail just because they are here without permission.

That is not a good enough reason, the judges said.

Huntington Beach is in California.

Last summer, it stopped holding in jail immigrants who were living there without permission.

It changed its rule because of the Oregon decision.

About 200 other places will not keep immigrants in jail.

One of them is Orange County in California.

It is not a sanctuary area.

Jail officials work closely with government immigration officials.

They tell immigration officials when a immigrant is in jail for a crime.

They tell the officials when that person will be released.

However, they will not put people in jail just because they are in the country without permission.

Steve Kea is an assistant sheriff.

Orange County does not want to get in trouble, he said.

It worries about having to go to court.

