Bernie Sanders is running for president.

He is a senator from Vermont.

He is popular with young people.

Until last week, he tried to win them over to his side with Twitter.

His posts are copied from his long speeches.

Sanders often talks about the large gap between rich and poor people in America.

He says that rich people are getting richer and poor people are getting poorer.

Sanders says this is unfair.

Then Sanders joined Snapchat.

On Snapchat, users can send photos and short videos to their friends.

The photos and videos later disappear.

About 100 million people are on Snapchat.

The company says that one-third of them are between 18 and 24 years old.

In the United States, people can vote when they are 18.

Sanders hopes that he can get more young people to like him through Snapchat.

If they like him, they might vote for him.

Sanders belongs the Democratic Party.

It is a political group.

President Barack Obama is a Democrat.

The Republican Party is the other big group.

Republicans and Democrats do not agree about much.

Sanders is running in the primary race for president.

He will go up against other Democrats.

They are called candidates.

The winning candidate will be in the national election.

That person will run against the Republican candidate.

The primary elections will be held in March.

If Sanders wins the Democratic primary election he will run for president against the winner of the Republican primary.

The main election will be in November 2016.

Kenneth Pennington works for Sanders.

He said Hillary Clinton is leading Sanders in the race for president.

She is another Democratic candidate.

Yet, Sanders is much more popular than her with young people.

Sierra Smith is 19 years old.

She is a student in Texas.

She tweeted that Sanders' Snapchat account is "the cutest thing ever."

There is just one reason she is voting, Sanders said.

That reason is Sanders.

If not for him, she probably would not vote at all.

Tad Devine also works for Sanders.

He said that candidates do not pay much attention to young voters.

Sanders will not make that mistake, he said.

To win the primary election, Sanders needs many young people to vote for him.

Devine thinks they will do it.

Young people can make all the difference.

