On Wednesday, Bernie Sanders announced he is running for president.

Sanders is a lawmaker from Vermont.

It's not so simple though.

Sanders will have to run against several Democrats first.

This first election is called the primaries.

Both Democrats and Republicans have primary elections.

The elections help them decide who they want to run for president.

Once the primaries are over, the Democrats pick a candidate to run against the Republican candidate in the big general election in November 2016.

Sanders is an unusual candidate because he is not a Democrat.

He is also not a Republican.

He is one of a small number of politicians who do not label themselves as belonging to the Democrats or Republicans.

Still, his views are similar to many Democrats.

Sanders will have a tough time in the Democratic primaries.

He is facing Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Clinton used to be the secretary of state.

She was in charge of relations between the United States and other countries.

Before that, Clinton was a lawmaker like Sanders.

She also used to be the first lady when her husband, Bill Clinton, was president.

Many people believe she will win the Democratic primaries.

Still, Sanders thinks he has a real chance to win.

"People should not underestimate me," he said.

Sanders said he has beaten both Republicans and Democrats in Vermont elections.

Voters in Vermont like his message, he said.

Voters all over the country will like it too.

Last month, Clinton said she was running for president.

Several other Democrats are likely to join the election soon.

Sanders said the country has grown less fair over the past 40 years.

"The average person is working longer hours" for less money, Sanders said.

At the same time, the rich are getting richer.

Life is good for the rich, but not for ordinary Americans, Sanders said.

Sanders is 73 years old.

He has fought for ordinary Americans for years.

Sanders was elected mayor of Burlington, Vermont, in 1981.

He then served as a lawmaker for 16 years.

In 2006 he became a senator.

Sanders thinks both Democrats and Republicans will like his message.

Rich Americans and big businesses should pay more taxes, he said.

The extra money would help pay for government services that the poor and middle class need.

It could also be used to send people to college for free, he said.

Most people in the country agree with his ideas, Sanders said.

Still, he says the rich are controlling politics these days.

It is the rich who are getting the candidates they want elected, he said.

Part of this is because candidates have to raise a huge amount of money to have any chance of winning.

Clinton could raise as much as a billion dollars.

Sanders will probably not get much support from the rich and big business.

After all, he wants to raise their taxes.

It might be hard for him to raise enough money.

He thinks it can be done, though.

Sanders said he is counting on a lot of ordinary people to give a little money to help him win.

