On Wednesday, Senator Bernie Sanders confirmed he is running for the Democratic nomination for president.

A Vermont independent, Sanders says he will do more than simply raise progressive issues or try to nudge Hillary Rodham Clinton to the left.

"People should not underestimate me," Sanders said.

"I've run outside of the two-party system, defeating Democrats and Republicans, taking on big-money candidates and, you know, I think the message that has resonated in Vermont is a message that can resonate all over this country."

Sanders, 73, is the first major challenger to enter the race against Clinton, who launched her bid for president last month and is considered the front-runner in the Democratic race.

He is likely to be joined in the coming months by former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, former Virginia Senator Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee.

Sanders harshly criticized the nation's economic system, which he said has grown less fair over the past 40 years, leading to the erosion of the nation's middle class.

"The average person is working longer hours for lower wages," Sanders said.

At the same time, he said, the rich are getting richer, leading to "a huge increase in income and wealth inequality, which is now reaching obscene levels."

"This is a rigged economy, which works for the rich and the powerful, and is not working for ordinary Americans," Sanders said.

"You know, this country just does not belong to a handful of billionaires."

The son of an immigrant from Poland who sold paint for a living in Brooklyn, New York, Sanders has for decades championed working-class Americans.

He was elected mayor of Burlington, Vermont, in 1981, and went on to represent the state in the U.S. House of Representatives for 16 years before his election to the Senate in 2006.

An independent who works closely with Senate Democrats, Sanders is likely to attract some interest from voters who have unsuccessfully sought to draft Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren to join the race.

However, Sanders rejected the idea that his appeal is limited to voters on the left.

He boldly predicted that his message would also appeal to more conservative independents and Republicans.

Sanders said he would release "very specific proposals" to raise taxes on wealthy Americans and corporations, as well as to offer tuition-free education at all public colleges and universities.

As a preview of his campaign, he touched on his past opposition to free-trade agreements and his support for heavier regulations of Wall Street and the nation's banking industry.

In addition, he pointed to his vote against the Keystone XL oil pipeline.

"So to me, the question is whose views come closer to representing the vast majority of working people in this country," he said.

"And you know what?

I think my views do."

Sanders starts his campaign as an undisputed underdog against Clinton.

He said he has known the former first lady, senator from New York and secretary of state for more than two decades.

"I respect her and like her," he said.

Sanders noted that he has "never run a negative ad in my life."

Nonetheless, he still drew a distinction with Clinton, promising to talk "very strongly about the need not to get involved in perpetual warfare in the Middle East."

"I voted against the war in Iraq," he said.

"Secretary Clinton voted for it when she was in the Senate."

Clinton is hosting a series of fundraisers this week, starting an effort that could raise more than $1 billion.

Sanders said he will make the influence of money on politics a central theme of his campaign.

Among other things, he promised to call for a constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court's 2010 Citizens United decision, which he blames for unleashing a torrent of money from wealthy donors into politics.

"What you're looking at here is a real disgrace," he said.

"It is an undermining of American democracy.

But can we raise the hundreds of millions of dollars that we need, primarily through small campaign contributions to run a strong campaign?

And I have concluded that I think there is a real chance that we can do that."

