On Wednesday, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders announced he is running for president.

Sanders is an independent, meaning he is not associated with the two major political parties of Democrats and Republicans.

Still, he will try to become the Democrats' pick to run against a Republican in the November 2016 election.

Before he can get to the general election, Sanders will have to run against a group of Democrats in an election called the primaries.

There are two primary elections: one for the Democrats and one for the Republicans.

The elections decide which main candidates will run against each other for the general election in November.

Sanders will have to be nominated, or picked, by the Democrats to run against the winner of the Republican primaries.

He will have to win against a lot of other Democratic candidates.

His main competitor is the likely front-runner, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Under President Barack Obama, Clinton was the secretary of state.

Before that she was a senator from New York and was first lady when her husband, President Bill Clinton, was in the White House during the 1990s.

Sanders says he is serious about running for President.

He says he is in it to win.

"People should not underestimate me," Sanders said.

He has defeated Democrats and Republicans, he said, and challenged candidates who raised a lot of money.

Sanders is the first major challenger to enter the race against Clinton, who some expect to win the Democratic nomination.

Last month, Clinton announced that she was running for president.

Several other people are likely to join the race sometime soon.

Many people expect Maryland's Governor Martin O'Malley to run.

Former Virginia Senator Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee are other possible candidates.

Sanders said the country has grown less fair over the past 40 years.

"The average person is working longer hours for lower wages," Sanders said.

At the same time, he said, the rich are getting richer.

The system "works for the rich and the powerful, and is not working for ordinary Americans," Sanders said.

"You know, this country just does not belong to a handful of billionaires."

Sanders, who is 73, has championed working-class Americans for years.

He was elected mayor of Burlington, Vermont, in 1981, then served as a congressman for 16 years before his election to the Senate in 2006.

Though an independent, Sanders often works closely with Senate Democrats — and rarely with Republicans.

Sill, he boldly predicted that his message would appeal to Republicans as well as Democrats and independents.

Sanders said he would like to see wealthy Americans and businesses pay more taxes.

The added money would help cover the costs of government programs and services that the poor and middle class depend on.

It could also be used to provide free education at all public colleges and universities, he said.

Sanders said he supports stronger rules for Wall Street and the nation's banking industry.

He also pointed out that he voted against the Keystone XL oil pipeline.

"So to me, the question is whose views come closer to representing the vast majority of working people in this country," he said.

"And you know what?

I think my views do."

Sanders starts his campaign as an underdog against Clinton, who he has known for more than 20 years.

"I respect her and like her," he said.

Still, he said he disagrees strongly with Clinton on some issues.

"I voted against the war in Iraq," he said.

"Secretary Clinton voted for it when she was in the Senate."

Sanders said the U.S. should not get involved in endless warfare in the Middle East.

Sanders also said that the rich are using their money to influence the political system.

They are getting the candidates they want elected, and the laws they want passed.

"What you're looking at here is a real disgrace," he said.

"It is an undermining of American democracy," he said.

To have a chance of winning, candidates now have to raise a huge amount of money.

Clinton is expected to raise as much as a billion dollars.

Sanders will likely not get much support from the wealthy and big business.

It might be hard for him to raise enough money to run a strong campaign.

Sanders believes it can be done.

Can his campaign raise all the money it needs through a lot of people giving just a little bit of money?

he asked.

"I think there is a real chance that we can do that."

