On Wednesday, Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders confirmed he is running for president.

Sanders is neither a Democrat nor a Republican, but an independent.

Nonetheless, he announced that he will try to become the Democrats' pick to run against a Republican in the general election next fall.

Before he can get to the general election, Sanders will have to run in the primaries, and then be nominated — or picked — by the Democrats to run against the winner of the Republican primaries.

He will face a tough field of Democratic candidates in the fight for the nomination.

Chief among them is the presumed front-runner, Hillary Rodham Clinton.

Clinton has been secretary of state under President Barack Obama, a senator from New York and was first lady when her husband, President Bill Clinton, was in office during the 1990s.

Sanders insists he is serious about seeking the Democratic nomination.

He says he is not running just to be able to raise certain issues, but is in it to win.

"People should not underestimate me," Sanders said.

"I've run outside of the two-party system, defeating Democrats and Republicans, taking on big-money candidates."

He added, "I think the message that has resonated in Vermont is a message that can resonate all over this country."

Sanders is the first major challenger to enter the race against Clinton, who announced last month that she was running for president.

Several others are likely to join the race for the Democratic nomination sometime soon.

Among them are former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, former Virginia Senator Jim Webb and former Rhode Island Governor Lincoln Chafee.

Sanders harshly criticized the nation's economic system, which he said has become less fair over the past 40 years.

"The average person is working longer hours for lower wages," Sanders said.

At the same time, he said, the rich are getting richer.

The shift has led to "a huge increase in income and wealth inequality."

"This is a rigged economy, which works for the rich and the powerful, and is not working for ordinary Americans," Sanders said.

"You know, this country just does not belong to a handful of billionaires."

Sanders, at 73 years old, has championed working-class Americans for years.

He was elected mayor of Burlington, Vermont, in 1981, then served as a congressman for 16 years before his election to the Senate in 2006.

Though an independent, Sanders often works closely with Senate Democrats — and almost never with Republicans.

Sill, he boldly predicted that his message would appeal to Republicans as well as Democrats and independents.

Sanders said he would like to see wealthy Americans and businesses pay more taxes, to help fund government programs and services the poor and middle class depend on.

He said the added money could provide free education at all public colleges and universities.

Sanders said he supports heavier regulations of Wall Street and the nation's banking industry.

He pointed out that he voted against the Keystone XL oil pipeline.

"So to me, the question is whose views come closer to representing the vast majority of working people in this country," he said.

"And you know what?

I think my views do."

Sanders starts his campaign as an undisputed underdog against Clinton.

He said he has known the former first lady for more than 20 years.

"I respect her and like her," he said.

Still, he said he has important areas of disagreement with Clinton.

"I voted against the war in Iraq," he said.

"Secretary Clinton voted for it when she was in the Senate."

Sanders promised to talk "very strongly" about the need not to get involved in endless warfare in the Middle East.

Sanders said he also will make the influence of money on politics a central theme of his campaign.

A torrent of money from wealthy donors is corrupting politics, he said, and it is now necessary to raise huge amounts of cash to run a campaign with a chance of winning.

Clinton is expected to raise as much as a billion dollars.

"What you're looking at here is a real disgrace," he said.

"It is an undermining of American democracy.

But can we raise the hundreds of millions of dollars that we need, primarily through small campaign contributions to run a strong campaign?

And I have concluded that I think there is a real chance that we can do that."

