Apple is putting a lot of money into sapphire.

The tech company isn't buying the precious gemstone.

Instead, it is working with a company to make artificial sapphire crystals.

Experts think the sapphire will be used in Apple's touch-screens.

Just like the real thing, man-made sapphire is almost impossible to scratch.

It also senses the touch of fingers very well.

Both are important in touch-screens.

Sapphire is one of the hardest minerals in the world after diamond.

It is also harder than the glass Apple uses now.

The iPhone 5s model already contains some sapphire.

Sapphire protects its camera.

It also protects the fingerprint scanner.

Tech experts believe Apple will use sapphire to make screens for its new iPhones and perhaps a smartwatch.

Apple is expected to announce its new iPhone next week.

Smartphone makers are all trying to outsell each other.

Eric Virey is a technology expert.

He said screens are one of the main ways for a smartphone to stand out.

Smartphone screens need to be hard and very clear.

In its pure form, sapphire is completely clear.

This makes it a top choice for touch-screens, said Andrew Hsu.

He runs a company that makes the screens.

Sapphire is expensive, Hsu said.

Other than that, "it's pretty much a better material than glass."

Sapphire's hardness would be popular with iPhone owners.

Nearly one out of 10 iPhone users have one with a cracked screen, said the company SquareTrade.

But sapphire has a softer side.

A sapphire touch-screen responds better to the touch of a finger, experts say.

Touch-screens are able to track the movements of a finger.

A sapphire screen might be able to sense fingerprints across the entire screen.

People could sign their signature more easily on their smartphones when they shop.

Typing could become easier.

Doctors could use phones with their gloves on.

A better screen also would make gaming more fun.

It would improve "gaming, typing and playing instruments in apps," said Carolina Milanesi.

She is a tech expert.

Sapphire could also help preschoolers use Apple devices more easily.

Many young children love technology.

Yet, their fingers are often too small for touch-screens to sense, Hsu said.

Apple may be able to make thinner phones using sapphire, he noted.

Experts say other smartphone makers will watch Apple.

If sapphire works for Apple, other makers will follow what the company does.

They will use it in their phones, too.

Of course, then Apple would have to find a new way to amaze customers.

Could a diamond screen be next?

"I wouldn't rule that out," Hsu said, laughing.

