The sardine fishing boat Eileen glided through moonlit waters as it traveled from San Pedro to Santa Catalina Island off the California coast.

Its tired-eyed captain had grown more desperate as the evening wore on.

But after 12 hours and $1,000 worth of fuel, Corbin Hanson and his crew returned to port.

The hadn't caught a single small, silvery sardine.

"Tonight's pretty reflective of how things have been going," Hanson said.

"Not very well."

To blame is the biggest sardine crash in generations, which has made schools of the fish rare on the West Coast.

The decline has caused steep cuts in the amount of fish fishermen are allowed to catch.

Scientists say the effects are probably radiating throughout the ecosystem.

Brown pelicans, sea lions and other predators that rely on the oily, energy-rich fish for food could be starving.

If sardines don't recover soon, experts warn, there could be serious problems.

The West Coast's marine animals, seabirds and fishermen could suffer for years.

Sardine populations are famously unpredictable.

But for reasons that are unclear, the decline is the steepest since the mid-20th century.

And their numbers are projected to keep sliding.

One reason is a natural climate cycle known as the Pacific Decadal Oscillation.

It brings cold, nutrient-rich water to the West Coast.

Those conditions have brought a boom in some species, but have caused sardines to die out.

If nature is responsible for the decline, history shows the fish will bounce back when ocean conditions improve.

But without a full understanding of the causes, the crash is raising alarm.

A study last fall found the population had dropped by almost three-fourths since its last peak in 2006.

Federal fishery managers have cut down fishing limits by more than two-thirds.

But some environmental groups have argued the catch should be stopped altogether.

"We shouldn't be harvesting sardines anytime the population is this low," said Geoff Shester.

He is a leader of a conservation group.

The group says that continuing to fish for them could speed their decline and stop them from coming back.

The Pacific sardine is the ocean's typical boom-bust fish.

They rise or decline in numbers in response to natural shifts in the ocean.

When conditions are poor, sardine populations dip, and when seas are better, they flourish in very large schools.

Their height in the 1940s transformed Monterey, Calif., into one of the world's top fishing ports.

But by mid-century sardines had practically vanished.

In the 1960s California established a moratorium on sardine fishing that lasted 18 years.

The population rebounded in the 1980s and fishing resumed, but never at the level of the 1940s.

Since the 1940s, scientists have debated what caused the decrease.

How much of it was because of ocean conditions?

And how much from overfishing?

Separate sardine populations off Japan, Peru and Chile have risen and fallen in the same 50- to 70-year climate cycle.

But they have been more heavily exploited.

West Coast sardines are considered one of the most cautiously fished stocks in the world.

The practice could explain why their latest comeback lasted as long as it did.

The West Coast's last sardine decline began in 1999, but the population shot back up by the mid-2000s.

In recent years, scientists have gained a deeper understanding of sardines' value in the ocean food web.

Like herring and market squid, they are small and packed with nutrition.

They funnel energy upward.

They eat tiny plankton and then are preyed on by big fish, seabirds, seals and whales.

Some ocean predators may be starving without sardines.

In early 2013, 1,600 malnourished sea lion pups washed up along beaches from Santa Barbara to San Diego, California.

Sharon Melin, a wildlife biologist at the National Marine Fisheries Service, said nursing sea lion mothers could not find fatty sardines.

They fed on market squid, rockfish and another fish called hake that had less nutrition.

The mothers produced less milk for their young.

The following year, their pups showed up on the coast in large numbers, stranded and underweight.

Biologists also suspect the drop is hurting brown pelicans.

The pelicans mate on California's northern Channel Islands.

The seabirds scoop up sardines close to the ocean surface.

They have shown signs of starving and have largely failed to breed or raise chicks there since 2010.

Hanson is an example of how fishermen have been affected.

Just a few years ago, Hanson didn't have to travel far from port to pull in nets bulging with sardines.

Not anymore.

If his crew catches sardines these days, they are larger, older fish that are mostly shipped overseas and ground up for pet or fish food.

Largely missing are the small and valuable young fish that can be sold for bait or canned and eaten.

Still, when he left for Catalina Island on a December evening, Hanson tried to be hopeful.

"We're going to get a lot of fish tonight," he told a fellow sardine boat over the radio.

But after cruising the island's shallow waters for hours, they heard another boat captain' s voice on the radio: "I haven't seen a scratch."

The boats turned around, hoping to net sardines in their usual hideouts.

No such luck.

Hanson piloted the hulking boat back to the docks with nothing in its nets.

