Can't make it to Brazil for the 2014 World Cup?

Watching matches in 3-D at your local movie theater could be almost as good.

With a huge screen, great sound, and other fans, the atmosphere could be electric.

Or maybe you would rather watch pro wrestling or mixed martial arts fighting.

These events could be coming to the big screen as well.

Movie theater owners are exploring the possibilities of showing more than movies in their movie houses.

Tim Warner is the CEO of a movie theater company called Cinemark that runs almost 500 theaters in the U.S. and Latin America.

He had never heard of the popular British TV show "Dr.

Who."

It's about a man who travels through time having adventures.

Businessmen from the BBC, a TV station in England, offered Warner the chance to show a special episode of the show live in his company's theaters.

He wasn't sure.

In the end, he agreed.

The episode, "Dr. Who: The Day of the Doctor," came to theaters in late November.

The fans came too.

They filled theaters from Los Angeles to New York to Brazil.

So many people bought tickets that the movie theaters had to add extra screens to make space for everyone.

Many of the fans came dressed as their favorite characters from the show.

"To be honest, many of us had never heard of 'Dr.

Who,'" said Warner.

"They told us it was going to sell out.

We said, 'Yeah, right.'

Not only did it sell out, but people showed up in costumes."

The event was a big success.

It convinced Warner that "Dr. Who" was only the beginning.

He thinks that there are many TV shows, sports games, and live concerts that could bring people into movie theaters.

Warner believes his company can make money by showing all these things on its screens.

For several years now, theaters have been trying out different things.

Popular programs include opera from New York City, boxing matches, and mixed martial arts fights.

Today, movie companies make only a tiny amount of their money from these new offerings.

But in three to five years, they could be making 10 times more than they are making now.

A new satellite network has made it possible to send live entertainment to most movie theaters in America.

The network was set up by a group of entertainment studios and movie theater companies.

The technology that movie theaters use is changing rapidly.

It is getting easier to send movies around the world.

In the past, movie theaters used spools of heavy, bulky film.

These large, round, metal things could weigh up to 25 pounds.

They were not very convenient.

More recently, movies were put on hard drives and sent to theaters.

This was still slow and expensive.

The new satellite system makes it much cheaper and easier to show movies and other content in theaters.

It used to cost $2,500 to deliver a film spool to a theater.

It costs about $250 to send out hard drives.

Using a satellite to send out the movies, however, costs only about $100.

Today, about three-fourths of the screens in the U.S. can hook up with the satellite network.

The new network makes many things possible.

For example, movie theaters could host video game tournaments where players compete with each across the country in a live event.

Warner hopes his company can use the expanding satellite network to show many different types of entertainment at movie theaters.

He imagines live "American Idol" or NCAA championship basketball.

Putting live sports on movie screens might not be easy, though.

Television sports networks spend millions of dollars on the rights to show games.

They may not want those games shown in theaters.

But Warner argues that theaters would work with networks, not work against them.

Theaters could be another place for people to feed their love of sports and other entertainment.

It's not competing with watching at home or in a sports bar, Warner said.

It just adds another way to watch those shows.

