Movie theater CEO Tim Warner had never heard of the popular science fiction TV show "Dr. Who," about a man who travels through time having adventures.

So he was skeptical when executives from BBC America told him they wanted to broadcast a special 50th anniversary episode of the British show in his theaters across the U.S. and Latin America.

"Dr. Who" is considered a "cult classic" -- a movie or TV show that isn't widely popular, but is adored by a group of fans.

In late November, "Dr. Who: The Day of the Doctor" came to theaters.

Fans did too.

Hundreds of "Whovians," many dressed as their favorite characters, showed up at more than 700 theaters from Los Angeles to New York to Brazil.

"To be honest, many of us had never heard of 'Dr.

Who,'" recalled Warner, who runs the nation's third-largest theater chain, Cinemark Holdings Inc. "They told us it was going to sell out.

We said, 'Yeah, right.'

Not only did it sell out, but people showed up in costumes."

Tickets sold so quickly that theaters showing the episode had to add more screens to keep up with demand.

The event convinced Warner that what happened with "Dr. Who" was just the tip of the iceberg.

There were many TV shows, sports programs and other "alternative entertainment" that could draw people to movie theaters to watch something other than movies.

Fred Medina, executive vice president of Latin America for BBC Worldwide, said the "Dr. Who" screenings demonstrated a new way to connect with fans of the show.

"It's about building a broader relationship with our audiences," Medina said.

Now, Warner is interested in showing TV shows, concerts and sporting events at his theaters.

A new satellite network makes it possible to send live entertainment to most theaters in America.

Although movies will always remain their main focus, theater executives such as Warner believe they can make money by showing something other than movies at the movie theater.

Currently, "alternative content" like TV shows or sports make up less than 1 percent of income for major movie theater companies.

But in three to five years, that could increase to 10 percent or more, Warner predicts.

"The technological barriers to doing this have really disappeared," Warner said.

"I would describe this as transformative."

Theaters have been experimenting for several years with alternative programming, helping to fill up normally empty theaters during slow midweek periods.

They've enjoyed success with sold-out screenings of the Metropolitan Opera from New York City, World Cup soccer games in 3-D, boxing matches and mixed martial arts fights.

Until recently, most theaters didn't have the technology to make live broadcasts possible.

That could change, thanks to a new satellite network launched in October by a group of entertainment studios and theater owners.

The digital delivery of movies has long been the goal of studios and theaters, most of which have already installed digital projectors.

For decades, most movies were delivered on heavy, bulky spools of actual film, which could weigh up to 25 pounds.

More recently, most movies were stored on digital hard drives and sent to theaters across the country, a costly and time-consuming process.

The new system significantly reduces the price of showing movies in theaters.

Ten to 15 years ago, it cost about $2,500 to deliver a film print to a theater.

By comparison, it costs about $200 to $250 to distribute digital hard drives to movie theaters.

Delivering movies and TV shows by satellite is even cheaper.

About 75 percent of the screens from major theater companies can show movies and other entertainment using the satellite network.

The new network opens up many possibilities.

For example, movie theaters could host video game tournaments where players compete with each across the country in a live event.

Warner hopes his company can use the expanding satellite network to show many different types of entertainment at the movie theater.

He imagines live "American Idol" or NCAA championship basketball.

Fox, Sony, Disney and other studios are discussing the possibility of showing their sports and TV shows in theaters.

"You literally have the largest premium pay-per view network in the world," noted Steve Bunnell, a co-worker of Warner's.

Bunnell recently attended a BBC conference in Liverpool, England, where he discussed other BBC shows that could be screened in his company's theaters.

Putting live sports on movie screens could be a challenge, however.

Networks and sports leagues are often quite protective of their games.

Traditionally, it has been difficult and costly for theaters to get permission from sports leagues to show big games in theaters.

Television sports networks, which spend millions of dollars on the rights to broadcast games, may also have problems with the idea.

But Warner argues that theaters would work with networks, not compete with them.

Theaters could provide another place to promote their shows and events.

"To me, it doesn't compete with TV or sports bars," Warner said.

