Muslims from across the world poured into a sprawling tent city in the Saudi desert on Sunday.

It was the start of the annual Islamic hajj, or religious journey, to this holy city.

But the number of pilgrims this year has been reduced, in part by concerns over a respiratory virus centered in the Arabian peninsula.

More than 2 million pilgrims streamed from the holy city of Mecca to a huge tent camp in Mina about three miles away.

There were about 1 million fewer than last year.

In Mina, they began preparations for the hajj with a day of prayer.

Saudi authorities sharply cut back on visas for groups such old people, pregnant women and those with long-term illnesses.

They were guarding against a new lung virus related to SARS.

It has killed more than 50 people in the kingdom this past year.

The Saudi health minister said late Saturday that no cases of the coronavirus infection have been detected among pilgrims.

Further visa restrictions were imposed.

But they had to do with massive construction projects underway in Mecca.

The hajj is a central pillar of Islam.

It is a four-day religious cleansing based on centuries of interpretation of the teachings of the Prophet Muhammad.

Able-bodied Muslims must make it once in their lives.

Muslims traditionally visit the mosque where the Prophet Muhammad is buried in the city of Medina.

They begin the hajj in Mecca with set of religious practices at the Kaaba.

It is a cube-shaped structure in the city's Grand Mosque that Muslims around the world face in prayer five times a day.

Muslims circle the Kaaba counterclockwise with their hearts tilted toward it.

"Labayk Allahuma Labayk," or "Here I am, God, answering your call.

Here I am," chant thousands of Muslims.

Individual voices are joined in a sea of worshippers all dressed in seamless white terrycloth robes and shoes.

People are required to wear the simple outfit.

It is meant to help them feel unity, equality and humility.

The pilgrims headed from Mina on Monday to the area of Mount Arafat.

It is located near a hill called Jabal al-Rahman, meaning Mountain of Mercy.

Muslims believe the Prophet Muhammad called on people to end their feuds and put aside their racial, economic and tribal differences at Mount Arafat.

The mountain is about 12 miles east of Mecca.

Even 1,400 years later, Muslims believe on that on this day and at this place, the gates of heaven are open for prayers to be answered.

Some pilgrims are wearing masks this year to protect against the Middle East respiratory syndrome.

It has sickened nearly 100 people.

Most of them are in Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.

The new virus is related to SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome.

SARS killed hundreds in a global outbreak in 2003.

It belongs to a family of viruses that most often causes the common cold.

Saudi authorities reduced the amount of pilgrims who can come by 20 percent because of fears that there could be an outbreak among the worhippers.

Each country will have fewer hajj visas given to them this year.

Ismail bin Mohammed is the head of the Medical Supply Directorate at the Health Department in Mecca.

He said there were eight hospitals and 24 health centers set up at points along the journey.

In recent years, the hajj also has reflected the concerns of unrest and bloodshed across the Arab world.

For instance, the civil war in Syria has claimed more than 100,000 lives and sent millions of people fleeing across borders.

"Syria is suffering and that means that the Arabs and the Muslims are also suffering," said Abdel-Karim Ahmed while in Mecca before heading to Mina.

"I ask God ... to lift the suffering of the Syrian people and stop the bloodshed."

Similarly, Egyptian pilgrim Essam Hassouna said he is praying for his country.

More than 1,000 people were killed there in August in clashes after the military ousted President Mohammed Morsi from power.

"As an Egyptian, it is more important for me to pray for Egypt rather than to pray for myself and my children," Hassouna said.

Though the hajj is an ancient custom, the way it is practiced has changed.

Pilgrims are often seen using touch screen technology to read the Quran, rather than carrying it in printed form.

The Grand Mosque in Mecca has also changed dramatically, expanding to hold the growing number of pilgrims.

The first phase of the mosque's new growth project is estimated to hold 450,000 worshipers this hajj.

