YADH - A group of Saudi women's rights activists posted online photographs and video clips of themselves on Thursday defying their country's ban on female driving.

Their action came two days after a member of the influential Shoura Council called for an end to the ban.

Saudi Arabia is the only country in the world where women are still barred from driving.

But debate about the ban, once confined to the private sphere and social media, is becoming increasingly public.

There is no specific law to prevent women from driving in the kingdom.

However, women cannot apply for driver's licenses.

Women who do get behind the wheel have been arrested on charges of disrupting public order or engaging in political protest.

The recently uploaded photos and footage showed various women driving on busy streets in the capital city of Riyadh.

One clip, dated Wednesday, showed a woman driving in the traditional veil, with only her eyes showing.

Passing motorists slowed and gave her a thumbs-up sign.

One of the women, posting on Twitter as Eman al-Najfan, tweeted a photograph of herself being stopped by police.

She was taken to a police station, activists said, though it was not immediately clear whether she would face further action.

One female activist said the publication of the video clips and photographs was the first part of a two-stage campaign designed to change attitudes.

She spoke on the condition that she would not be identified.

In the second stage, women with international driver's licenses will be asked to get behind the wheel on Oct. 26.

"To drive with a license should not be against the law," the activist said.

Many Saudis, including senior officials, have become more open to the idea of women driving, she added.

"The authorities, the country, how people think has changed," she said.

Supporters of the ban, including powerful religious figures, have said allowing women to drive will encourage the sexes to mix freely in public and thus threaten public morality.

Opponents of the ban say it means families have to employ expensive private drivers.

Not being able to drive also makes it difficult for women to work or carry out many other basic daily tasks.

They also point out that women in rural areas of Saudi Arabia frequently drive without being stopped by police.

A female member of the Shoura Council, which is a body appointed by King Abdullah to advise the government, was responsible for Tuesday's proposal to lift the ban on women drivers.

The Council's transport committee must now decide whether to accept her recommendation and submit it to the transport ministry.

The councilwoman's proposal was widely reported in more liberal parts of the Saudi press.

In a show of support, some newspapers also published opinion pieces arguing that women should be allowed to drive.

