Women in the kingdom of Saudi Arabia aren't allowed to drive.

A small number of men are trying to change that.

But those men risk losing their jobs - or worse.

Some of the men have been questioned by the government.

One man was even held.

That move scared people.

On Saturday, more than 60 women said they drove in protest of the ban on their driving.

The police seemed to do little about it.

Men played a big part in the protest.

They believe it is a right that their wives, sisters and female friends should be able to drive.

The campaign to let women drive started in September.

Since then, men have made videos of women driving.

They've put them on websites, like YouTube.

They have helped protect the female drivers by surrounding them with their cars.

The action should keep people from bothering them.

And some men have ridden as passengers with the women.

Some people think there's a problem in Arab countries "and that we are against women and that the West is on the side of women.

This is totally rejected," said Abdullah al-Bilassi.

He's a 23-year-old student in Saudi Arabia.

He is tired of hearing that Saudi men and Islam are against allowing women to drive.

That led him to help out.

The law doesn't prevent women from driving in Saudi Arabia.

But, the government won't give them drivers' licenses.

Many of the women who drove last weekend had licenses from other countries.

Not allowing women to drive comes from the kingdom's type of Islam.

Saudis practice a traditional form of Islam.

Religious leaders warn that women driving could hurt Saudi society.

Most of the men in the campaign are in their 20s and 30s.

They say their fathers and uncles tell them that it is not yet time to allow women to drive.

Ali al-Hattab is fighting for women's right to drive.

He said the king uses religion to keep women from driving.

"They don't want women driving because it opens the door to a flood of other demands," he said.

King Abdullah is the king of Saudi Arabia.

He has made some changes.

Women are now allowed to vote and run in some elections.

But, women must ask a male relative if they want to travel, get married, or go to college.

In 1990 and 2011, women were arrested for driving, which made people upset around the world.

Instead of arresting women, the government this time has gone after the males that help them.

A few men have been questioned since Saturday.

Other campaigners have had to sign pledges to say they won't allow their female relatives to drive again.

On Sunday, school teacher Tariq al-Mubarak was held by investigators, said his lawyer.

He has not been charged with a crime.

Al-Mubarak was targeted because his phone was used by activists.

He also wrote articles in an Arabic newspaper supporting women's right to drive.

He is healthy and well, said his lawyer.

The activists have been careful not to gather.

If they are seen as organizing a protest they could get in trouble.

Instead, they work independently in several cities.

Separately, they upload videos and help manage the campaign's website and Twitter and YouTube accounts.

Some campaigners have started to panic.

Two women said they were followed by undercover agents.

Five other women said they were contacted by the government and told not to drive.

A male campaigner said he is afraid he may be held before his wedding happens.

He said he closed his Twitter account.

His worried fiancé asked him to.

But he is staying in the campaign because women need the support of men.

"Because of the activism of men, sooner rather than later, women will drive," he said.

