In Saudi Arabia, there are many restrictions on what a woman can and cannot do.

Now, a group of women and girls in the kingdom are pushing back by playing basketball.

Women's basketball is becoming popular in the Middle East's largest country.

Women are using basketball to push for greater rights on and off the courts in Saudi Arabia.

"We are an activist team," said Lina Almaeena, who started the first women's basketball team here 11 years ago.

In 2006, Jiddah United became the first sports club in Saudi Arabia to include women.

The women promoted the sport at a time when the idea of women playing basketball was unthinkable.

For the players, basketball is not merely a sport.

It's also an act of rebellion.

In Saudi Arabia, ultraconservative people do not believe that women and girls should exercise.

Physical education is still not taught to girls in Saudi public schools.

Women are forced to follow strict rules about what they can wear.

They cannot be seen by men while jogging in sweat pants and they especially cannot be seen wearing tight or revealing shorts.

Most women in Saudi Arabia cover their hair and face with a veil known as the niqab and all women are required to wear a loose black dress known as the abaya in public.

Nevertheless, Saudi women's basketball is on the rise.

Women from the conservative kingdom are even playing in other Arab countries.

Hadeer Sadagah, who is 20 years old, started playing eight years ago with Almaeena at Jiddah United.

She now plays at the college level for the University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates.

"I wouldn't be the person I am today without the sport and the team," she said.

"It made me be more active in society, school and in studies.

It made me more social.

It made me confident."

At a recent afternoon basketball practice in Jiddah, girls as young as 4 years old jumped, took shots and ran on open-air basketball courts behind gated concrete walls.

Boys played in nearby courts.

The children and their coaches stopped for daily prayers.

Almaeena says basketball is becoming popular among Saudi girls because it offers the friendship that comes with joining a team sport.

Basketball is also seen by society as more acceptable than other girls' sports.

The girls can practice in loose, traditional clothes.

And the sport can be played indoors and outdoors.

The sport has grown into a network of teams in different cities.

No official league exists.

Women's teams play in privately organized tournaments against a handful of other private schools, universities and club teams.

Women's basketball in Saudi Arabia still faces many challenges, though.

For one, the kingdom has rules about keeping men and women apart.

Women's teams are not recognized by the government group that oversees sports.

Women often struggle to find places to train and are not allowed to attend games in stadiums.

In Jiddah, the older female players practice and play in a female-only gym.

They only play basketball games in front of other women, and even their male coaches do not attend games.

It wasn't until 2012 that Saudi Arabia sent its first female athletes to the Olympics — exactly two of them.

But two years later, the kingdom went back to sending only men.

After Almaeena's team played a tournament in Jordan in 2009, Saudi newspapers attacked them for not wearing traditional abayas.

They printed photographs of them in modest track suits.

They were labeled "immoral" and "satanic," Almaeena said.

It makes sense that Jiddah would become the home of women's basketball in Saudi Arabia.

The coastal city is easily the country's most liberal and worldly.

It is much more open than other Saudi cities like the capital, Riyadh.

People who live in Jiddah are a melting pot of ethnicities whose ancestors settled along an ancient trade route.

"Jiddah is where women are most physically active in society," said Sadagah, the Jiddah-born player.

Jiddah created public spaces where women and young girls walk alongside men in sporty black robes.

This is rare in Saudi Arabia, as Saudi women usually exercise in private.

However, even in Jiddah it is mostly rich women who play sports.

A club like Jiddah United costs around 600 riyals ($130) a month.

Women also have to pay for a driver to get there, because women are not allowed to drive in Saudi Arabia.

For now, women's basketball in Saudi Arabia is far from mainstream.

But for players and their parents, it is a welcome way for girls to exercise and build confidence.

Alaa AlShuwayer recently checked out a basketball practice in Jiddah.

She was considering enrolling her two young daughters.

"I know 100 percent there's nothing wrong with girls or boys playing sports," she said.

"I'd rather they play sports than buy them dresses and earrings."

