Linden Bateman is fighting to keep cursive writing in American classrooms.

Cursive writing, or script, has long been central to good penmanship.

And in the past, good penmanship, or handwriting, was important.

It separated those who could read and write well from those who couldn't.

But now we live in the digital age.

People are increasingly communicating by computer and smartphone.

Handwriting often isn't necessary anymore.

Recently, new educational standards were designed for public schools.

The standards are called the [Common Core](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Common+Core).

It focuses on skills students need for college and careers.

Penmanship lessons were not included in the standards.

But at least seven of the 45 states that adopted the new standards have changed their mind.

They are now trying to bring back cursive instruction.

Bateman, a 72-year-old state representative from Idaho, is just one supporter of cursive.

Cursive, he says, shows intelligence and grace.

It also involves creativity and builds brain cells.

He himself handwrites 125 letters each year.

Using a fancy cursive, of course.

"Modern research indicates that more areas of the human brain are engaged when children use cursive handwriting than when they keyboard," said Bateman.

"We're not thinking this through.

It's beyond belief to me that states have allowed cursive to slip from the standards."

Cursive was dropped from the Common Core for various reasons.

These days, there is an increasing need for children to master computer keyboarding.

And even most adults do not use classic cursive in everyday life.

Instead, they use some mixture of cursive and print.

"Stop and think for a second about what are the sorts of skills that people are likely to be using in the future," said education expert Morgan Polikoff.

"It's much more likely that keyboarding will help students succeed in careers and in school than it is that cursive will."

States are allowed to offer courses that were left off the Common Core list.

But in many schools these days, classroom time is limited.

And the pressure to get good grades is high.

Optional courses tend to get dropped in favor of what's required.

That's why seven states are making cursive required.

These states are California, Idaho, Indiana, Kansas, Massachusetts, North Carolina and Utah.

Cursive supporters point to recent brain science.

Research shows that the motion used when writing script improves motor skills.

This in turn improves reading, writing and thinking skills.

And scholars of the future, they add, will have a problem.

They won't be able to read important writing from the past if they can't read cursive.

Such writing includes ancestors' letters and journals, and historical documents.

"The Constitution of the United States is written in cursive.

Think about that," Bateman said.

Some 95 percent of teens use the Internet.

And teens send a lot of text messages: 60 a day on average.

But teachers don't think that's a bad thing.

Seventy-eight percent believe the Internet and cellphones encourage their students' creativity.

But that's not the whole story, says researcher Kristen Purcell.

Most teachers "encourage their students to do at least some of their writing by hand."

Teachers gave two main reasons, she said.

The first is that most standardized tests are still in paper-and-pencil format.

Teachers also believe that having students write by hand helps slow down their thinking.

This encourages deeper and fuller thinking as they write.

Many teens like to write on the computer more than on paper.

They find it faster and neater.

But many still use handwriting for notes, letters, journals, short stories or the words to songs — as well as for school.

"I find it hard to think creatively when I am typing," a high school boy from the Pacific Northwest said in 2008.

"So I like to handwrite everything, then I put it on the computer.

I don't know, that is just how I am."

Adults unable to write cursive might think back to the experiences of Jacob Lew.

In 2013, President Barack Obama nominated him as treasury secretary.

But there was a problem.

Lew's signature looked more like a series of loops than a name.

And as treasury secretary, his signature would be on U.S. money.

"Jack assured me that he is going to work to make at least one letter" readable, Obama said at the time.

That way, the president joked, he won't devalue our money.

