At Spring Valley High School in Columbia, South Carolina, a sheriff's deputy was summoned after a student refused to leave the class.

The officer, who was white, yanked the student, who was black, from her desk and threw her across the floor.

The incident was captured on other students' cellphone videos.

On Wednesday, Richland County Senior Deputy Ben Fields was fired from the department.

The FBI launched a civil rights investigation.

It is looking into whether Fields broke any laws during the fight inside the math class.

But the event also has many questioning why a police officer was needed in the first place.

Since the 1990s, educators and parents have demanded "zero tolerance" policies in response to school shootings, drugs and gang violence.

Under zero tolerance, students who break the rules are always punished.

School boards all say they want to create safe schools.

One result has been that an estimated 14,000 officers have been sent to schools across the country.

In many districts, common problems that were once the responsibility of teachers and school administrators are being handled by armed police officers.

Once these problems would have resulted in detention.

Now students may get criminal records.

Critics say this phenomenon affects African-American students far more than white students.

The girl in the math class incident faces a criminal charge under South Carolina's "disturbing school" law.

Janel George is an education policy lawyer at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP).

She said that school officials often confuse school safety with school discipline.

Nowadays, officers deal with misbehavior in the classroom, dress code violations and minor discipline problems, she said.

In the past these would have been handled by teachers.

In the 2011-2012 school year, African-American students represented about 16 percent of the student population.

But they made up 27 percent of all students sent to police and 31 percent of school-related arrests, according to the Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights, a government office.

Research shows that when police handle matters like fighting and theft, struggling students are more likely to drop out.

They also get in more serious trouble with the law later.

There are no national standards for training school police, according to Mo Canady.

He is the executive director of the National Association of School Resource Officers.

School police are usually called resource officers.

When they are well trained and work closely with school officials, arrests in schools go down rather than up, he said.

The Richland County Sheriff's Department says school resource officers have three roles: serve as police, provide a positive role model and counsel students with problems.

Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott has 86 deputies stationed at schools.

But even Lott said he wasn't comfortable when police get involved in minor classroom problems.

"I think sometimes our officers are put in uncomfortable positions when a teacher can't control a student," Lott said.

"We don't need to arrest these students.

We need to keep them in school."

Lott said his office will also look into when schools should call in a resource officer.

"Is it proper to call in a resource officer to discipline a student, or is that the job of the school?"

he asked.

At least three Spring Valley students said the teacher told the girl to leave the class because she was looking at her phone.

When the student refused, the teacher called in a vice principal.

When the student refused the vice principal's request to leave, officials called in Fields.

In one video, the deputy can be seen telling the student, "You either come with me, or I'm going to make you."

In a second video that was posted on Instagram, the deputy physically tries to remove her from her desk.

The deputy then wraps his arm around her neck from behind and tries to lift the student by one of her legs.

Her desk then flips backward onto the ground with the student still sitting in it, the video shows.

The deputy drags the student and throws her across the classroom, the two videos show.

Lott said there was a third video that showed the student hitting the deputy.

The girl was not injured, Lott said, and her parents came to school to get her.

Michael Harris is a lawyer for the National Center for Youth Law, an advocacy organization.

He said the Spring Valley incident is an example of what can happen when the police get involved in an everyday school matter.

The student was not threatening or putting anyone else in danger, he pointed out.

"Many schools over the last, I would say, two decades have shifted how they deal with student misbehavior," Harris said.

Now, he said, police play a major role in enforcing school rules.

