On Monday, a student in South Carolina was looking at her phone in class.

Her teacher told her to leave the room.

She refused, and the school called a police officer.

He grabbed the student from her desk.

He threw her across the floor.

The FBI is trying to figure out what happened.

It wants to know if the officer broke any laws.

The officer is named Ben Fields.

He is white.

The student is black.

On Wednesday, he was fired from his job.

Many people are asking another question.

Why did the school need a police officer in the first place?

Teachers and school officials used to deal with students who broke school rules.

Now, police officers often handle them.

For example, schools would punish students who got into a fight.

The students might stay in from recess.

Now police could arrest them.

Many people do not want police in schools.

They say black students get arrested far more than white students.

Police arrest them almost twice as often, the government says.

There are about 14,000 officers in schools around the country.

They are often called school resource officers.

The fight happened at Spring Valley High School.

The Sheriff's Department there says school police officers have three jobs.

First, they are police officers.

They also set a good example to students.

Last, they help students with their problems.

Sheriff Leon Lott has 86 officers in the county's schools.

Lott said that sometimes teachers cannot control their students.

When that happens, the school should not call the police, Lott said.

Students should not be arrested.

He thinks it is more important for them to stay in school.

Three students took video of Monday's fight with their phones.

They said the girl was looking at her phone.

The teacher told her to leave the class, but she refused.

The school called in a school official, but she still refused to leave.

Then Deputy Fields entered the class.

First he told her to come with him.

Then he grabbed her by her neck and tried to lift her up.

Finally he dragged her and threw her across the classroom.

Lott said one of the videos showed something else.

It showed the student hitting the officer.

The girl was not hurt, Lott said.

Her parents came to school to get her.

She might be charged with a crime for disturbing school.

