South Carolina law enforcement officer was called to a high school Monday after a student refused to leave a math class.

The police officer, Richland County Senior Deputy Ben Fields, who was white, yanked the student, who was black.

He pulled her from her desk and threw her across the floor.

The event was captured on other students' cellphone videos.

On Tuesday, the FBI launched an investigation.

It is looking into whether Fields broke any laws.

On Wednesday, Fields was fired from his job.

Many people are asking, though, why a police officer was needed in the first place.

School officials all say they want safe schools.

As a result, about 14,000 police officers have been put in schools across the country.

Teachers and school officials used to be responsible for dealing with students who broke school rules.

Now, in many districts, these problems are handled by police officers.

Once, students who got into fights, for instance, were punished by staying in from recess or sitting in the principal's office.

Now they might be arrested by police.

Some experts say this problem affects African-American students far more than white students.

In the 2011-2012 school year, about 1 of 6 students were black.

However, 2 out of 6 students arrested in school were black, says the government.

When police handle matters like fighting and theft, students who are not doing well are more likely to drop out.

They also are more likely to get in serious trouble.

There are no national rules for training school police, said Mo Canady.

He is the head of the National Association of School Resource Officers.

School police are usually called resource officers.

When they are trained well and work closely with school officials, arrests in schools go down rather than up, he said.

Richland County Sheriff Leon Lott has 86 officers in schools.

Even Lott said he did not feel comfortable when police get involved in small classroom problems.

"I think sometimes our officers are put in uncomfortable positions when a teacher can't control a student," Lott said.

"We don't need to arrest these students.

We need to keep them in school."

Lott said his office will look at when schools should call in a resource officer.

He also wants to determine who should punish a student — a resource officer, or the school.

At least three Spring Valley High School students took videos of the fight with their phones.

They said the teacher told the girl to leave the class because she was looking at her phone.

When the student refused, the teacher called in a vice principal.

When the student refused the vice principal's request to leave, officials called in Fields.

In one video, the deputy told the student, "You either come with me, or I'm going to make you."

In a second video, the deputy grabs her.

That video was posted on Instagram.

He wraps his arm around her neck and lifts her by her leg.

Her desk then flips backward onto the ground, the video shows.

The deputy drags the student.

He throws her across the classroom, the videos show.

Lott said a third video showed the student hitting the officer.

The girl was not hurt, Lott said.

Her parents came to school and to get her.

Michael Harris is a lawyer for the National Center for Youth Law.

The group provides lawyers and information for children in need.

He said the incident at Spring Valley is an example of what can happen when police are in schools.

He pointed out that the girl was not threatening or hurting anyone.

Many schools over the last 20 years changed how they deal with student problems, Harris said.

Police have become more responsible for making students follow school rules, he said.

