Parents in Charlotte, North Carolina, have a good reason to celebrate.

This fall, every public school there will have its own nurse.

The county government decided to give the schools $1.8 million to hire more nurses.

Right now, some schools have nurses only part of the time.

The decision came after two years of work by a parents group.

The group was started by Teri Saurer.

She has two daughters.

One of them just finished first grade and the other just finished third grade.

Her younger daughter, Hannah, has a serious medical problem and food allergies, but the nurse at her school was only there half the week.

Nurses, Saurer said, would make schools safer for all students.

"You want to know that if something happened to your child ... that there's going to be somebody with medical training who can" take care of them, Saurer said.

Several hundred parents asked the local government to hire more nurses, Saurer said.

Her group thinks nurses should be part of every school's safety plan.

Members of the group attended the local government meetings wearing bright orange T-shirts.

The shirts read, "Healthy children learn better.

School nurses make it happen."

Many parts of the country lack nurses in every school.

Some schools don't replace nurses who leave.

They are trying to save money.

But there's a bigger problem.

Schools are not adding new nursing jobs to keep up with the growing number of school kids.

Many school nurses who retire are replaced with aides or nurses with less training, said Erin Maughan.

She is with the National Association of School Nurses.

Much of the county doesn't have enough school nurses.

This means that one nurse might be responsible for several schools.

She spends part of her time in each one.

As a result, there are times a nurse won't be in the school building.

"So they rely on secretaries and ... even teachers and principals, to step in and do the daily duties a school nurse would do," Maughan said.

Sometimes that works.

But sometimes it doesn't.

Situations come up that only school nurses can handle.

Nurses help children with ongoing illnesses such as asthma.

They treat injuries and help students with physical and emotional issues.

It's difficult to know just how many schools have full-time nurses.

In 2007, almost half of the public schools had a full-time school nurse.

About one out of every three schools had nurses who were only there part of the time.

According to the U.S. government, there were 81,410 full-time and part-time school nurses in 2011-12.

There were about 90,910 in 2007-08.

The country has about 132,000 public and private schools.

In North Carolina, the state pays for 260 of the school nurses.

The state government wants to cut 70 of them.

North Carolina has about 1,200 school nurses.

Most of them are paid by local school districts.

And they care for students in more than one school.

There are more school nurses than 10 years ago.

But even more nurses are needed, said Cheryl Blake.

Blake serves as president of the School Nurse Association of North Carolina.

Students now have more complicated health problems and sicknesses, Blake said.

And there are more of them, she said.

This fall, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools will have one nurse for every 900 students, Saurer said.

This is because of the extra money to hire nurses.

Her group is called N.C. Parents Advocating for School Health.

"Sometimes a school nurse is a child's only health provider," said Tina Gordon.

She is the head of the North Carolina Nurses Association.

"They can catch things early and perhaps treat them in the school.

That's much less expensive than the emergency room."

