There is a lot of pressure on American schools to make students smarter and better prepared.

The global job market is more competitive.

Some education experts say students should go to school all year.

Others say we need longer school days.

Some schools have even added Saturday classes.

But a growing number of schools are doing the opposite.

They are taking Mondays off.

Students go longer Tuesday through Friday.

They still must meet state rules for classroom hours.

And teachers are still at school on Monday.

They are there to learn.

They plan lessons.

They train on technology.

The idea is either horrible or smart.

It depends on whom you ask.

Some say it hurts students' education.

Others say it makes teachers better.

"Our ACT scores are the best they've been in 10 years," said Chris Fine.

"Our teachers love it."

Fine is the superintendent of the Lathrop School District.

The district went to four days in 2010.

It was the first in Missouri to do so.

Most of these are small, rural districts.

One is Miami R-1.

It is about an hour south of Kansas City.

It is one school building is surrounded by corn.

It has so few students the boys play football for another school in a nearby town.

The Missouri law said that any district where performance got worse had to go back to five days.

No district has had to do that, yet.

"This is about making teachers better," Superintendent Frank Dahman in Miami said.

He says that giving teachers those Mondays revs them up.

Then they can do more with the new four days than the old five.

"Better-prepared teachers means better students," he said.

No one knows for sure how many districts have gone to four-day schedules.

One education group estimates the number at several hundred in 17 states.

They say it is going up.

Students going to school for four days is a big mistake, said Jennifer Davis.

She is president of the National Center on Time and Learning.

It is a Boston-based group that wants more classroom time.

Cutting classroom time "is absolutely the wrong direction," Davis said.

"We're past the time of graduating from high school and getting a middle-class job.

Those jobs are gone."

Those who favor the plan think it works best in a rural community.

Child care on Monday is less of a problem because a parent is at home or a grandparent is nearby.

You don't see the four-day week in large, city districts.

Parents there typically work outside the home.

Fine, the Lathrop superintendent, said child care was a major concern at first.

But a community survey conducted halfway through the first year showed that more than 70 percent of parents supported the four-day schedule.

Davis, with the National Center, thinks the child-care issue should stop the four-day week.

"What about the families that can't afford" extra activities, music lessons and really good child care on Mondays, she asked.

Kids in those districts would be left places where they are not safe, she said.

Superintendent Dahman wants to make sure people know that students have an extra week of school.

So they will be in class only 14 fewer hours over a school year.

But having teachers come in every other Monday is worth 14 hours.

It gives teachers time to catch up on technology, especially older teachers, he said.

"Give me this time because I need it," said fifth-grade teacher Jeanne Burgin.

"I can use an iPad, but my students use it better than me.

I have a family and my own kids.

I don't want to be in here at midnight or weekends learning to use this thing."

Students seem to be good with the change.

"I've got a job after school, and now I can use Monday to put in a good 10-hour day," senior David Weaver said.

Ashley Jellison is a senior volleyball player.

She said that because of Friday night games, athletes cannot do homework that day.

"Now we have Mondays for that," she said.

Dylan Good disagreed.

"I think it's a waste of a day.

We should be in school, and I think my parents would agree with me."

