Alex Wong, a junior at Mark Keppel High School in Alhambra, Calif., is working hard to get into a top college.

His resume boasts nearly straight A's in rigorous classes, a summer program at Stanford University, an Eagle Scout project, club soccer and the school choir.

But Wong hit an unexpected roadblock this year.

His school switched to a computer-based lottery to distribute spaces in college-level Advanced Placement (AP) courses in an effort to open the classes to more students.

He initially got shut out of all three courses he requested.

The new system caused an uproar among families whose children failed to get into AP courses.

Many consider the classes critical to develop advanced skills, boost grade-point averages and allow students to earn college credit, saving tuition dollars.

They complained to administrators, circulated a petition and launched a Facebook group to swap classes.

"IM DESPERATE ILL GIVE YOU FREE FOOD," student Kirk Hum posted on the AP Flea Market Facebook group.

The group has 210 members.

Long considered an elite track for the most talented and ambitious students, AP classes are now seen as beneficial for any students willing to push themselves.

Schools are increasingly viewing access to them as a basic educational right.

But that has come with challenges and controversy.

Downtown Magnets High School in Los Angeles has nearly doubled participation in AP classes over the last five years.

Miracle Vitangcol, a Downtown Magnets junior with average grades and test scores, is failing her AP U.S. history class; she said she is overwhelmed by the rapid pace and volume of material she needs to memorize.

But she said she intends to stick it out because the class is teaching her to manage her time, take good notes and develop perseverance.

"I'm struggling to adjust," Vitangcol said.

"But I keep telling myself, 'It's OK. You can do it.

Just push yourself.'"

Some critics worry that the open-access movement is pushing too many unprepared students into AP classes.

They also fear that open enrollment policies are prompting teachers to weaken courses and inflate grades.

"While expanding access is generally a good thing, we need to make sure we're not watering down the experience for the high achievers," said Michael Petrilli, who writes about education.

He works at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, a Washington-based organization focused on education policy.

The College Board, which runs the AP program and is encouraging open access, said the effort has generally been successful.

Even though national participation has doubled in the last decade to 2.1 million students last year, exam failure rates have increased only slightly, officials said.

At the same time, access to AP courses remains uneven.

Low-income students are twice as likely as others to attend schools without a full array of AP courses, according to one study.

Downtown Magnets, whose students are overwhelmingly low-income, offers 15 different AP courses.

The school's 61 percent exam pass rate far outpaces Los Angeles Unified's average of 40 percent.

Teachers are one reason behind the school's success, said Lynda McGee, the school's college counselor and AP coordinator.

In Daniel Jocz's AP U.S. history class, for instance, about 90 percent of students pass the exam.

The national rate is about 54 percent.

Jocz enlivened an otherwise dry lesson on Henry Clay's "American System" national economic plan with music clips from Bruce Springsteen and Queen and amusing factoids about the Erie Canal during a recent class.

He flagged content likely to appear on the AP exam, such as the Tariff of 1816, and directed students to work in groups on an AP-type essay question about the contributions of Thomas Jefferson.

Jocz sees both pros and cons of open access.

"The good thing is giving people the chance to challenge themselves … but some kids are not ready, and are we setting them up for failure?"

he said.

At Jordan High School in Watts, Evan Dvorak confronted that question head-on last year when he allowed any student to take his AP physics class.

But he found that those who had not acquired the necessary calculus skills could not handle the work; all 20 students failed the exam.

"As a teacher, you want to think you can reach every student and perform miracles to get them where they need to be," he said.

"But it proved to be too much for everyone."

This year, Dvorak made sure that students knew how difficult the course was; only six have enrolled and are doing much better, he said.

Overall, L.A. Unified has increased AP participation to 17.7 percent of high school students this year from 12.5 percent in 2009, when it adopted a districtwide open enrollment policy.

The exam pass rate has stayed about the same, at 40 percent, although it varies from 62.4 percent for whites to 25.7 percent for African-Americans.

The district has received more than $1 million in federal funds to support students and give teachers in 20 schools the AP training required by the College Board.

Long Beach Unified opened its AP classes a decade ago; the district has boosted the percentage of students taking the spring exams to 21 percent of its sophomores, juniors and seniors this year, from 10 percent in 2003.

The exam pass rate has remained steady at 54 percent.

"We're preparing more students for college and helping parents in the pocketbook when it comes time for college tuition," said Long Beach Unified spokesman Chris Eftychiou.

At Keppel, some parents whose children were shut out of AP classes say they support the goal of open access — but not the random selection for limited spaces.

"It's a delicate balancing act," said Shelly Tan, whose son, Douglas, failed to get into an AP biology class after doing the summer work during a family vacation.

"Yes, you want to give all kids opportunity — but not at the expense of kids who can do the honors work."

