Christopher Gray couldn't afford to go to college.

His single mother didn't have a job, and there were two younger children to think about — then ages 2 and 3.

But the Birmingham, Ala., student loved [entrepreneurship](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) — that is, he loved starting new businesses.

He dreamed of attending college somewhere in the Northeast, where many big businesses are.

So the burden was on Gray.

"I had to deal with it myself," Gray recalled.

Gray is now 21 and about to start his junior year at Drexel University in Philadelphia.

Gray didn't have a computer at home, so he had to go to the library for hours every day.

For three months, he looked for college scholarships he might be able to get.

Scholarships are awards that help pay for school.

Gray, an A–B student in high school who had started his own nonprofit company, had astounding success.

He received 34 scholarships worth $1.3 million.

This was enough to pay for years and years of school.

There was even some left over to to start building a nest egg.

Gray was soon given the nickname "Million Dollar Scholar."

Now, Gray has found a way to help other teens get scholarship money.

He and two friends have developed a mobile-phone app called Scholly.

The name Scholly is short for "scholarship."

The app works on both the iPhone and Android phone.

The app has been available for only about a month, but several thousand downloads have already sold.

Gray and his friends decided to keep the price at just 99 cents.

That's because they're more interested in helping students than in making money.

Gray did very well when he was in high school in Birmingham.

He graduated with an A average while leading the local Bible club.

He also ran a company called Genesis which helped students find volunteer opportunities.

Because it did not try to make extra money, or profit, it was what is called a nonprofit company.

Gray wanted to apply to Harvard and other top schools, but the application fees were out of his reach.

His guidance counselor suggested he apply for six scholarships.

He got all six of them, but knew he needed more.

Gray looked at hundreds of Web sites, checking to see what different scholarships wanted.

He did not qualify for many of them.

"It was frustrating," he said.

But many looked for excellent grades combined with leadership and community service.

Gray had all three.

"I had 600 volunteer hours," he said.

"And because I started a nonprofit, that made me stand out."

Gray's biggest prize was the Gates Millennium Scholarship, which pays for all four years of college, plus graduate school after college.

It was followed by a $20,000 scholarship from Coca-Cola Co.. Gray also received a $20,000 Horatio Alger Scholarship and the $10,000 Axa Achievement Scholarship.

Smaller awards came from Wal-Mart and Lowe's.

And they just kept coming.

"My mom was elated.

I did a little jumping around," Gray remembered.

Gray is now an entrepreneurship major at Drexel.

He uses the money he was awarded to pay for classes, housing, food, supplies at the Apple store, clothing, and everything else he needs while he's a student.

Gray has appeared at national conferences and in newspapers and magazines, including _U.S.

News &amp; World Report_.

As a result, hundreds of students and parents have emailed and called him for advice.

He has also gone to classrooms to talk to students at Philadelphia public high schools.

"That's what inspired me to make the app," he said.

"It was taking hours of my day trying to help.

It just became too much."

Gray has uploaded 500 scholarships on the app and continues to add more.

Gray wants to make it easier for the other children in his family than it was for him.

"I'm trying to save up," he said.

He aims to get them into a private school by fifth grade.

Gray will graduate from college in two years.

His goal is to have his own business by then.

That way, he won't have to worry about looking for a job.

