To get children to eat healthier in school, hire a trained chef, a new study found.

When the cooks prepared a tasty lunch, children ate more fruits and vegetables.

Getting them to drink plain milk instead of chocolate milk was a bigger challenge.

In the study, researchers at Harvard University studied the eating habits of more than 2,600 students in the third through sixth grades.

The students attended schools in poorer areas.

Most of the children were Hispanic and their average age was 11 1/2.

Trained chefs were randomly assigned to some schools to prepare tasty lunches with low-fat, low-salt recipes.

In some schools, the project also experimented with how the food was presented to the children in the food line.

The researchers weighed the amount of food the students took.

They also weighed the food left over on their plates when the kids  were finished eating.

The food was collected before children tossed it into the trash.

Not surprisingly, when children were offered sauteed broccoli in garlic and olive oil or vegetable soup, they ate more, said Juliana Cohen.

She is a researcher in Harvard's nutrition department.

Also, the study found that schools ended up saving money.

The study was released online Monday in JAMA Pediatrics, a magazine for doctors and health professionals.

"What this study is showing is that this is an effective method to reduce plate waste," Cohen said.

Plate waste is the uneaten food left over after lunch.

Children "are going to like the foods and they're going to eat the foods," Cohen said.

This is no small matter.

As the study points out, 30 million children eat meals at school each day and it matters what they eat.

Many of them rely on those meals for as much as half of their calories.

The study said that eating junk food for lunch leads to children becoming overweight or even obese — overweight to the point of causing health problems.

Nearly one-third of children in the United States are overweight or obese.

Too much body fat is unhealthy.

Being obese can lead to diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol.

"When choosing what to eat, children are particularly influenced by the environment in which food is presented," it said.

President Barack Obama and first lady Michelle Obama have focused on healthy school lunches.

In the study, researchers found that kids ate about the same amount of the main course as before.

That didn't bother the researchers, since the chefs were cooking healthier meals.

After three months, the researchers did not see much change.

The students still were not choosing more fruits and vegetables prepared by the chefs.

However, after seven months students began taking more fruits and vegetables.

They also chose more fruit when it was displayed more attractively in the lunch line and placed where students could easily see it.

When the food tasted and looked better, the amount of fruits and vegetables the kids ate went up.

"We didn't see the increase in consumption immediately," Cohen said.

"Schools shouldn't abandon healthy foods if students don't instantly" go for it.

The experiment's only failure came  when the researchers pushed plain milk.

To persuade children to choose it over chocolate milk, researchers put the plain milk where kids could more easily see it.

That just did not work.

Cohen said that if schools want children to drink more plain milk, they might have to remove chocolate milk from cafeterias.

Trained chefs can be expensive.

However, Cohen said that they actually saved money for the districts in the study.

The chefs go to cooking school to learn tasty recipes and how to display food nicely.

Also, chefs who have worked in restaurants know how much food to order and how avoid waste.

This cut down on costs for the districts.

