Students, parents and teachers complain that kids spend too much time taking tests.

Just how many hours do they spend each year?

A.

Between 10 and 15 hours.

B.

Between 20 and 25 hours.

C. Between 30 and 35 hours.

The correct answer is "B," a new study found.

The Council of the Great City Schools looked at the amount of testing in 66 of the nation's big-city school districts.

The council is a group made up of districts in big cities.

!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/SCHOOL_TESTING_Edit.png) The study found that the average public school eighth-grader spends about one out of every 43 hours of classroom time on testing.

Between preschool and 12th grade, students took about 112 standardized exams.

These tests were required by the federal government, states or local districts.

The study looked at the time spent actually taking the tests.

It did not include the time students spent preparing for them.

It also did not include regular day-to-day classroom quizzes and tests in subjects like reading or math.

The study was released Saturday.

President Barack Obama responded to the study's results.

Schools should limit testing, he said.

Students should spend no more than about one out of every 50 school hours on it.

The president said the government was partly responsible for making testing such a big deal.

Government officials would work with states, schools and teachers to "make sure that we're not obsessing about testing," he said.

The government still says yearly tests are necessary.

The tests make sure that schools are teaching correctly and that students are learning what they need to.

Also, testing would continue under the No Child Left Behind law.

It was written in 2002, but now lawmakers in Washington, D.C., are updating it.

No Child Left Behind was intended to improve all schools, and required students to be tested each year in math and reading.

In a video, Obama said that "learning is about so much more than" just getting the right answer.

The video was posted on Facebook.

How much testing is too much is hard to answer, said Michael Casserly.

He runs the group that did the study.

It looked at testing for more than 7 million students last year, in about three dozen states.

Casserly said the study found another problem.

Kids can be tested on the same subject by the state and by the school district.

Testing students twice is a waste of teaching and learning time, he said.

Casserly suggested that states and school districts sit down and compare tests.

It would prevent unneeded testing, he said.

Over the weekend, the government's Education Department released a "testing action plan."

It said too many schools make kids take unnecessary tests.

The department promised to work with states and schools to cut down the time spent on testing.

This past spring, students spent even more time taking tests.

These were based on what are called the Common Core standards.

They outline what a child should know and be able to do in each grade.

The council also found that the most tests were required in 8th and 10th grades.

Preschoolers, kindergartners and first-graders took the fewest tests.

Also, 4 in 10 districts had to wait several months for test results.

They waited between two and four months before getting test results.

The delay meant that teachers began the new school year not knowing where a student was having a problem.

