Parents in Charlotte, North Carolina, are celebrating because every public school will have its own nurse this fall.

The local government recently agreed to spend $1.8 million to hire the extra nurses.

The agreement came after two years of work by a parents group started by Teri Saurer.

Her younger daughter, Hannah, has a serious medical problem and food allergies, but the nurse at her school was only there half the week.

Nurses, Saurer said, would make schools safer for all students.

"You want to know that if something happened to your child ... that there's going to be somebody with medical training who can attend to them," Saurer said.

Several hundred parents had written to the Mecklenburg County government urging them to approve the money for school nurses, Saurer said.

Charlotte is in Mecklenburg County, which pays for the schools.

A sample letter on her group's website argued that nurses should be part of every school's safety plan.

Members of the group attended the county government meetings wearing bright orange T-shirts.

The shirts read: "Healthy children learn better.

School nurses make it happen."

Many other areas of the United States don't have nurses in every school.

Some places have lost school nurse jobs because they are trying to save money.

But the bigger problem has been that full-time nurse positions aren't being added to keep up with the growing number of school children.

Also many school nurses who retire are replaced with aides or nurses with less training, said Erin Maughan.

She is the director of research at the National Association of School Nurses.

"Much of the country does not have" enough school nurses, she said.

This means that one nurse will be responsible for several schools.

There are times a nurse won't be in the school building.

So they rely on secretaries and other school staff members, "even teachers and principals, to step in and do the daily duties a school nurse would do," Maughan said.

Sometimes that works.

But sometimes it doesn't and situations come up that only a school nurses can handle.

Children have died in schools where no nurse was on duty.

Some people in Philadelphia are urging the government to spend more money on the schools.

They want to re-hire nurses, teachers and other school staffers whose positions have been cut.

Nurses help children manage ongoing conditions such as asthma and diabetes so they don't miss school.

They also treat injuries and help students with physical and emotional issues.

It's difficult to know just how many schools have full-time nurses.

The nurses association's last survey was in 2007.

At that time, it found that 45 percent of public schools have a full-time school nurse who is in the building every day.

An additional 30 percent have nurses who work part time in one or more schools.

According to the U.S. Department of Education, there were 81,410 full-time and part-time nurses in all U.S. schools in 2011-12.

That is the latest year the information was available.

There were nearly 10,000 more nurses in 2007-08 — a total of 90,910.

The nation has about 132,000 public and private schools.

Last month, a report said that many schools district have cut or reduced nursing services in schools in recent years.

In Massachusetts, the report found that for every dollar spent for the school health program, society got back $2.20.

The savings came from less work time lost by parents and teachers.

Also, students needed fewer medical services outside the schools.

The National Association of School Nurses says that a school nurse saves teachers about 20 minutes per day.

The teachers can spend that time teaching children, instead of trying to take care of them.

In North Carolina, the state pays for 260 of the school nurses.

The state Senate wants to cut 70 of them.

North Carolina has about 1,200 school nurses.

Most of them are paid by local school districts, and they care for students in more than one school.

There are more school nurses than 10 years ago, but even more nurses are needed, said Cheryl Blake.

Blake serves as president of the School Nurse Association of North Carolina.

"The students have more medically (complicated) conditions and (on-going) illnesses in schools," Blake said.

She said the nurses are dealing with a huge number of students with problems like food allergies.

This fall, because of the extra money to pay for more school nurses, Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools will have one nurse for every 900 students, Saurer said.

Her group is called N.C. Parents Advocating for School Health.

"Sometimes a school nurse is a child's only time" to be seen by someone who knows medicine, said Tina Gordon, the head of the North Carolina Nurses Association.

"They can catch things early and perhaps treat them in the school.

That's much less expensive than the emergency room."

