On Wednesday the Obama administration asked the nation's schools to abandon what it described as overly aggressive discipline policies that send students to court instead of the principal's office.

Even before the announcement, school districts around the country had begun changing certain policies that disproportionately affect minority students.

Attorney General Eric Holder said problems often stem from well-intentioned "zero-tolerance" policies.

These can inject the criminal justice system into school matters.

"A routine school disciplinary infraction should land a student in the principal's office, not in a police precinct," Holder said.

But it's about race, too, the government said in a letter accompanying the new guidelines it issued Wednesday.

"In our investigations, we have found cases where African-American students were disciplined more harshly and more frequently because of their race than similarly situated white students," the Justice Department and Education Department said.

"In short, racial discrimination in school discipline is a real problem."

The federal school discipline recommendations are nonbinding.

They encourage schools to ensure that all school employees are trained to manage a classroom and solve conflicts — and understand that they are responsible for administering routine student discipline instead of security or police officers.

Still, Education Secretary Arne Duncan has acknowledged the challenge is finding the proper balance to keep schools safe and orderly.

The administration said that it would attempt to work out voluntary settlements if school disciplinary policies are found to violate civil rights laws.

That happened in Meridian, Miss., where the Justice Department spearheaded a settlement with the school district to end discriminatory disciplinary practices.

The black students in the district were facing harsher punishment than white students for similar misbehavior.

Without a voluntary agreement, the department could go to court to try to get relief for individual students, among other things.

Zero-tolerance policies became popular in the 1990s and often have been accompanied by a greater police presence in schools.

The policies often spell out uniform and swift punishment for offenses such as truancy, smoking or carrying a weapon.

Violators can lose classroom time or even end up with a criminal record.

In Akron, Ohio, Superintendent David W. James said a recent analysis found higher percentages of black students being disciplined in almost every category.

He said he's been criticized for not suspending African-American kids in cases where he didn't think action was warranted.

"If we're supposed to be here for these kids, what we want to try to do is work with them to find alternatives," he said.

Educators need "to really drill down and find out what it is we're doing that's not meeting their needs."

But Jim Hinson, superintendent of the Shawnee Mission school district in Kansas City, said the school system already does most of the things the Obama administration recommends.

He said the district doesn't have a zero-tolerance policy, except for students caught carrying weapons to schools.

"For carrying a weapon to school, yeah, you should probably be in serious trouble," Hinson said.

"We have a zero-tolerance policy for weapons coming in."

Overall, he described the recommendations as "highly offensive."

"This blanket statement that educators are discriminating against kids across the country, and law enforcement officers are discriminating as well, is inappropriate," Hinson said.

"If there are problem areas that need to be addressed, you address those areas."

Nonetheless, in many parts of the country there already has been a shift toward recognizing that school discipline polices can be discriminatory.

Associations representing teachers, principals, school superintendents and school board members agree that race-based differences do exist.

"Numbers don't lie.

They are there," said former high school principal Beverly Hutton.

A recent government study offers support for her position.

It showed that black students were more than three times as likely as whites to be expelled or suspended.

Although black students made up 15 percent of the students studied, they made up more than a third of students suspended once and 44 percent of those suspended more than once.

More than a third of students who were expelled were black.

And more than half of students involved in school-related arrests or referred to law enforcement were Hispanic or black.

Hutton said an earlier study of 1 million Texas students had been a turning point in the debate.

It suggested that too many students were being severely punished.

In Texas nearly six of 10 public school students had been suspended or expelled at least once during middle school or high school.

In response to these findings there have been changes in individual districts around the country.

The school district in Buffalo, N.Y., adopted a new code of conduct to reduce suspensions after a 15-year-old, Jawaan Daniels, died in a drive-by shooting in 2010.

He had just left school to begin serving a suspension for wandering the halls.

In Fairfax County, Va., the school board voted in 2012 to soften punishments for possession of marijuana.

The changes followed a yearlong review that was prompted in part by the suicides of two students who had faced discipline.

And in Miami, Broward County Public Schools last November reached an agreement with law enforcement and the NAACP to create an alternative to zero-tolerance discipline policies.

The goal was to shut off what some see as a school-to-prison pipeline.

"Superintendents recognize that out-of-school suspension is outdated and not in line with 21st-century education," said David A. Domenech.

He is head of the School Superintendents Association.

But, he said, federal funding for programs that address school discipline issues has been scarce.

