"We have some of the healthiest trash cans in the nation," Brad Kramer said.

Nothing frustrates him more than watching students dump fruits and vegetables in the cafeteria trash.

Kramer is in charge of a Kansas City, Missouri, school district's food services.

He isn't just upset about wasteful students.

He is also frustrated about the 2012 national standards for healthy school lunches.

He says the rules are costly and hard to follow, so he wants Congress to change them.

Kramer wants to serve healthy food, but he also knows that it does not do any good unless the students will actually eat it.

Ronda McCullick feels the same way.

McCullick is in charge of another school district's food services in Kansas City.

She wants to go back to having the flexibility to make decisions at a local level.

McCullick and Kramer belong to the School Nutrition Association.

Their group represents school cafeteria workers and the companies that supply their food and equipment.

About 1,000 of the group's members went to Washington, D.C., this week.

They asked lawmakers to change the school lunch standards.

They want them to get rid of a rule that says students have to eat fruit or vegetables as part of every meal.

They also want to make restrictions on salt and whole grains more realistic.

This food fight has been going on since the Healthy Hunger-Free Kids Act was passed in 2010.

Now, the timeline for that law is coming to an end and the law must be renewed.

"It's not about government standards," Pat Roberts, a Republican Senator from Kansas, said in a speech to the association's members.

"It's about taking the opportunity to make government programs work for the people and not the other way around."

Roberts recently took over the Senate Agriculture Committee, which is responsible for the lunch program.

Helping school districts is now more important to him than ever before.

Roberts has been visiting schools in Kansas to sample meals.

He has also been talking to students and administrators to learn about what makes their programs different.

With so many school districts in the United States, Roberts says it's clear that a one-size-fits-all approach will not work.

Roberts and other Republican lawmakers have a tough challenger in the battle over school lunches.

They are going up against First Lady Michelle Obama.

The rules they are trying to change are part of Obama's "Let's Move" campaign.

Let's Move is all about keeping children from becoming overweight.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) says the new rules are working.

The agency says that a new study from the University of Connecticut proves its point.

The study shows that children have been eating more healthfully at school and tossing out less food since the rules took effect.

The study found that 66 percent of students added fruit to their lunch trays last year.

Only 54 percent added fruit in 2012.

Students also ate 20 percent more vegetables and 13 percent more of their lunch entrees.

U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack says that the new rules for schools were based on what doctors said would be good for kids.

He doesn't want Congress to make changes to what the doctors suggested.

"(Going) back to less-healthy meals now would not be in the best interest of our children," Vilsack said.

Republican Senator John Hoeven represents North Dakota.

He has plans to introduce a new bill.

The bill has been endorsed by the School Nutrition Association.

It would make some of the rules easier to follow, but still ensures that schools provide healthy meals.

Hoeven says it will help schools "serve meals that are not only well-balanced but also appealing to students."

USDA spokesman Cullen Schwarz said the department has shown flexibility in the timing and implementation of the school lunch rules.

He also said the USDA has done so without the need for legislation.

Schwarz is concerned about the new bill.

He does not want to let politicians have more say over the standards than doctors do.

He worries about reaching "the point where these standards are no longer meaningful and helping kids to be healthy."

Roberts has concerns as well.

In his speech, Roberts said he wanted this to be a calm, productive debate, but he knows everyone has strong feelings about this issue and sometimes things can get out of hand.

"We don't need that," Roberts said.

"We need solutions."

