There is a lot of pressure on American schools to make students smarter and better prepared.

The global job market and scientific research areas are more competitive.

Some education experts say students should go to school all year.

Others say we need longer school days.

Some schools have even added Saturday classes.

But a growing number of schools across the country are doing the opposite.

They're taking Mondays off.

Students go longer Tuesday through Friday.

They still must meet state rules for classroom hours.

And teachers still are at school on Monday.

They are there to learn, to plan lessons and to train on technology.

The idea is either horrible or smart.

It depends on whom you ask.

Some say it hurts students' education.

Others say it makes teachers better.

"Our ACT scores are the best they've been in 10 years, and our teachers love it," said Chris Fine.

He is the superintendent of the Lathrop school district in Clinton County, which went to four days in 2010.

It was the first district in Missouri to do so.

Most of these are small, rural districts, such as Miami R-1, about an hour south of Kansas City.

Its one school building is surrounded by head-high corn this time of year.

It has so few students the boys play football for another school in a nearby town.

The Missouri law said that any district where performance got worse had to go back to five days.

It is early, but no district has had to do that.

"This is about making teachers better," Superintendent Frank Dahman in Miami said.

He is convinced that giving teachers those Mondays revs them up.

Then they can do more with the new four days than the old five.

"Better-prepared teachers means better students," he said.

No one knows for sure how many districts have gone to four-day schedules.

The Education Commission of the States estimates the number at several hundred in 17 states — and going up.

Cutting back to four days is a big mistake, said Jennifer Davis, president of the National Center on Time and Learning.

It is a Boston-based group that argues for more classroom time.

"The idea of narrowing the educational structure is absolutely the wrong direction," Davis said.

"We're past the time of graduating from high school and getting a middle-class job.

Those jobs are gone."

Those who favor the plan think it works best in a rural community.

Child care on Monday is less of a problem because a parent is at home or a grandparent is nearby.

You don't see the four-day week in large, city districts, where parents typically work outside the home.

Fine, the Lathrop superintendent, said child care was a major concern at first.

But a community survey conducted halfway through the first year showed that more than 70 percent of parents supported the four-day schedule.

Davis, with the National Center, thinks the child care issue should stop the four-day week.

"What about the families that can't afford enrichment activities, piano lessons and high-quality child care on those Mondays?"

she asked.

Kids in those districts would be left places where they are not safe, she said.

Superintendent Dahman says students will come to school an extra week.

They will be in class only 14 fewer hours over a school year.

But having teachers come in every other Monday is worth 14 hours.

It gives teachers time to catch up on technology, especially older ones, he said.

"Give me this time because I need it," said fifth-grade teacher Jeanne Burgin.

"I can use an iPad, but my students use it better than me.

I have a family and my own kids.

I don't want to be in here at midnight or weekends learning to use this thing."

Students seem to be good with the change.

"I've got a job after school, and now I can use Monday to put in a good 10-hour day," senior David Weaver said.

Ashley Jellison, a senior volleyball player, said that because of Friday night games, athletes can't do homework that day.

"Now we have Mondays for that," she said.

Dylan Good disagreed.

"I think it's a waste of a day.

We should be in school, and I think my parents would agree with me."

