Christopher Gray is a 21-year-old student.

This fall he will be a junior at Drexel University in Philadelphia.

When he was younger, Gray didn't know if he would be able to go to college.

His single mother didn't have a job.

There were also two other young children to worry about.

One was 2 and the other was 3.

This meant there just wasn't enough money to send Gray to college.

But the Birmingham, Ala., student dreamed of going to a college anyhow.

He loved to think of new ideas that would help businesses.

He also hoped to [start his own business](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur).

College would help him learn to do those things better.

He wanted to go to school somewhere near New York City.

This is because there are many businesses in and around that city.

Gray was a very good student in high school.

He also led the local Bible club.

Gray even started his own non-profit company, called Genesis.

This company helped students to volunteer.

Because he was an excellent student, his teachers tried to help Gray.

His guidance counselor told him about college scholarships.

These offer good students money to pay for school.

Not every student can get them, though.

Students apply for a scholarship — they ask for it and hope they are lucky.

Gray got six of them, but that still wasn't enough.

Gray wanted to go to Harvard or another top school.

He knew his mother couldn't help him.

So he decided to raise the money for college by himself.

Gray didn't have a computer at home.

For three months he went to the local library to use its computers.

He looked for college scholarships to help pay for him to go to school.

When he found a good scholarship, he applied for it.

Gray had astounding success.

He received 34 scholarships worth $1.3 million — enough to pay for years and years of school.

The biggest one was the Gates Millennium Scholarship.

He also got a $20,000 scholarship from the Coca-Cola Co., plus a $20,000 Horatio Alger Scholarship.

There were lots of smaller scholarships too, from Wal-Mart, Lowe's, and others.

His mother was very happy and he "did a little jumping around."

Now, Gray has a new nickname: "the Million Dollar Scholar."

Gray uses the scholarship money he got to pay for school.

He also uses it to buy food, clothes and supplies, and to travel.

Gray has visited high school classes to talk about what he did.

He has also been interviewed.

Many students and parents email him with questions.

Gray has found a way to help other teens get scholarship money.

With two friends he invented a mobile-phone app called Scholly.

This app makes it easy for students to find scholarships.

So far, Gray and his friends have uploaded 500 scholarships on the app.

They plan to keep adding more.

The app has been available for about a month.

Already several thousand downloads have sold.

Gray and his friends decided to keep the price low — only 99 cents.

This was because they want to help people, not just make money.

Gray also wants to make life easier for the younger children in his family.

He is saving up money for them now.

That way they will be able to go to a good school by the time they are in the fifth grade.

Gray hopes that when he graduates college he won't have to look for a job.

His dream is that he will already have his own business.

