When Shelby Valley High School opened in 1990, it was a boom time for Kentucky coal country.

The school had so many students that it built an addition the next year.

Now that the coal mines are closing, the school is half empty.

When the families leave, Principal Greg Napier asks them why.

"Gotta have a job," they say.

In the last 15 years, eastern Kentucky's schools have lost more than 12,000 students.

State officials blame the 9 percent drop directly on the crumbling coal industry.

It's bad next door in the southern coalfields of West Virginia, too.

That state has lost 26 percent of its public school student population since 1979.

Of the state's 55 counties, 42 have lost students.

Districts have combined or closed schools without enough students.

Families that stay put must send their kids on longer bus rides along mountain highways to the next-closest classroom.

Fences now surround empty schools.

In some small communities, schools used to be gathering places, hosting local dinners and pancake breakfasts.

Some of them even doubled as support centers during mining disasters.

School districts in Kentucky have less money.

The state, like many, gives schools money partly based on how many students attend each day.

It all adds to the hardship in a region already struggling with poverty and too few jobs.

More than 10,000 people have left eastern Kentucky since 2010, according to the state.

Money is an issue across the state, but when schools lose students, the problem becomes much worse, said Stu Silberman, who runs the Prichard Committee.

The group wants to make Kentucky one of the top 20 states in reading scores and teacher salaries.

Kentucky lawmakers and groups are studying how the state pays for education.

In part, they want to get more money for districts that are losing students.

Governor Steve Beshear said he would consider changes after the studies are completed.

In the meantime, Napier has put many of his empty classrooms to other uses.

One classroom is now an office for a teacher who works with students who are homebound or in the hospital.

Others are computer labs.

But at least two still sit vacant.

No district has lost more students in Kentucky than Pike County.

Its enrollment has declined by more than 1,000 students since 2001.

When the district's average daily attendance fell by 270 students from 2013 to 2014, it lost $1.1 million in funding from the state.

Silberman said if a district has fewer students, it should have fewer expenses.

But it doesn't always work that way.

Pike County Superintendent David Lester said schools can afford one teacher for about every 25 students they have.

But even if a district loses 25 students, that does not mean it can cut a teacher.

What if the students who leave are not all from the same class?

It is difficult to cut teachers without combining grade levels.

Lester has combined schools instead.

Last school year, the district closed three schools and merged them into a new one.

"It's just very difficult emotionally to have a school (close) that is sort of the center of a community," Lester said.

That's especially true in a small rural community.

"The school seems to be a (center) for them and when they lose it, it's not an easy thing."

In West Virginia, the practice of combining two or more schools has become common.

For that to end, McDowell County schools Superintendent Nelson K. Spencer said more jobs are needed in the area.

He said bringing in jobs starts with building better roads and good homes that people can afford.

There have been few new jobs in McDowell, Spencer said.

"Coal is still one of the things that we're relying on.

From talking to citizens who work in the mines, it's not boding well right now."

The West Virginia Department of Education limits the amount of time students can be on the bus to school.

Elementary students cannot ride more than 30 minutes.

For middle school students, the limit is 45 minutes and for high school, it is an hour.

Rides that long are common, especially in the southern part of the state.

Mona Laxton lives in Lashmeet, a tiny spot tucked about 12 miles off a major highway.

She has three children, ages 11, 14 and 16.

They wake at 5 a.m. and get picked up at 6:25 a.m. for the 35-minute ride to school.

In the mornings, the bus goes up the mountain past their house to the first stop farther up the road, then comes back to pick them up.

The long ride makes for a long day.

One of her sons plays football and on some nights doesn't get home until after 9 p.m. "He's exhausted," Laxton said.

Except for moving away, there's not a lot that can been done.

