Most children on big yellow school buses ride for free.

The money for the driver and the bus comes from the government.

So does the money for the gas to run the bus.

Things are changing.

Some schools are having trouble with money.

The government is not giving them as much money as it did a few years ago.

Schools are starting to ask parents to pay for students to ride the bus.

These new bus fees have made parents in some places angry.

Some school workers are also worried.

They think the fees might be unfair.

Fees could even make students less safe.

Kids might walk across busy streets instead of paying for the bus.

Bus fees are different all over the country.

In Colorado, some families pay $150 a year for each child.

Some Massachusetts schools charge $325 for each student.

Some schools will only charge so much for a whole family.

In California, some families pay $575 for each child.

They never have to pay more than $1,437.

Even if they have more than three children, their bill is just $1,437.

Charging parents for bus rides is not a new thing.

Some schools have had bus fees for a long time.

They charged families that lived close enough to walk or ride in a car.

Those families just used the bus because it was easier.

Free bus rides were only for families who lived farther away.

Now schools are charging families no matter where they live.

Bus fees help schools.

They make up for money the government does not give them anymore.

But sometimes the fees cause trouble.

Parents are complaining about having to pay.

Many have stopped sending their kids on the bus.

They are driving them to school instead.

It is causing big traffic jams.

There are too many cars in one place at the same time.

Some school workers agree that bus fees are unfair.

The fees are too high for families who do not make much money.

Some families do not have cars.

They might live too far away to walk.

Officials are worried about how their children will get to school.

Safety is important for children getting to school.

