On Wednesday the Obama administration asked the nation's schools to bring about an important change.

It called on them to stop sending misbehaving students to court.

Attorney General Eric Holder said well-intentioned "zero-tolerance" rules are often the problem.

These rules can bring the criminal justice system into school matters.

Misbehaving students should end up in the principal's office, Holder said.

They should not end up in a police station, he added.

But the problem isn't just about rules that are too strict, the government claims.

It's about race, too.

African-American students are punished "more harshly and more frequently" than white students, the government said.

Discrimination is a real problem when it comes to punishing students, it said.

All school employees, the government said, should be trained in how to manage a classroom.

They also need training in how to solve conflicts.

And employees, not the police, should take care of ordinary student disciplinary problems.

Zero-tolerance rules became popular in the 1990s.

Since then, they have led to a greater police presence in schools.

The rules often spell out uniform and swift punishment for offenses such as truancy, smoking or carrying a weapon.

Violators can end up with a criminal record.

David W. James is the superintendent in Akron, Ohio.

He said a recent study found higher percentages of black students being disciplined.

He said he's been criticized for not suspending certain African-American kids.

But in their cases he didn't think such punishment was called for.

"If we're supposed to be here for these kids, what we want to try to do is work with them to find alternatives," he said.

Educators need to "find out what it is we're doing that's not meeting their needs."

But Kansas City superintendent Jim Hinson sees things differently.

He said his school system already does most of the things the government recommends.

Hinson said the district doesn't have zero-tolerance rules, except for students caught carrying weapons to schools.

"For carrying a weapon to school, yeah, you should probably be in serious trouble," Hinson said.

"We have a zero-tolerance policy for weapons coming in."

Overall, he described the government's claims as highly insulting.

Saying "that educators are discriminating against kids across the country" is "inappropriate," Hinson said.

"If there are problem areas that need to be addressed, you address those areas."

Nonetheless, in many parts of the country, there already has been a change.

People recognize that school rules can be discriminatory.

Many teachers, principals, school superintendents and school board members agree that race-based differences do exist.

"Numbers don't lie.

They are there," said former high school principal Beverly Hutton.

A recent government study offers support for her position.

It showed that black students were more than three times as likely as whites to be kicked out of school or suspended.

Black students made up 15 percent of the students studied.

But they made up more than a third of students suspended once and 44 percent of those suspended more than once.

More than a third of students who were kicked out were black.

And when it came to school-related arrests or police visits the differences were sharp.

In more than half the cases where police were called, the students were Hispanic or black.

Hutton said an earlier study of 1 million Texas students had been a turning point in the debate.

It showed that too many students were being severely punished.

Nearly six in 10 Texas public school students had been suspended or kicked out at some point during middle or high school.

In response to these findings there already have been changes around the country.

For example, the Buffalo, N.Y., school district adopted new rules aimed at reducing suspensions.

It did this after an African-American 15-year-old died in a drive-by shooting in 2010.

He had just left school after being suspended for wandering the halls.

In Fairfax County, Va., the school board voted in 2012 to soften punishments for possession of marijuana.

This was partly in response to two students who had been severely punished killing themselves.

And in Miami last November, Broward County Public Schools agreed to create an alternative to zero-tolerance rules.

The goal was to stop kids from ending up in prison.

