When 11-year-old Ronan Schuelke was shoved and called names in his school lunchroom last year, he wasn't sure what to do.

This year, he is the star of a music video designed to teach respect through a catchy parody of a Katy Perry song.

After students watch the video, Ronan and other student leaders at his school, Stratford Middle School in Bloomingdale, Ill., will hand out tokens to classmates who try to stop bullying or reinforce good behavior.

Students can receive a token for telling a classmate to stop picking on someone, for instance, or by sitting with a new student at lunch.

The tokens are called "Stallion Medallions" after the school's mascot.

They can be redeemed for small prizes, like school supplies or tickets to plays.

"I think this is something the kids will pick up … and maybe try it," Ronan said of the idea.

The new approach at Stratford underscores an ongoing shift in how educators deal with bullying.

In the past, attempts to combat bullying were haphazard.

Administrators spoke with individual students or brought in speakers.

But in recent years, media attention, state mandates and research on bullying have prompted dozens of school districts across Illinois to more comprehensively address the subject and instill a broader message of respect, educators say.

At least 10 of those districts are in Chicago suburbs.

"Teaching them to show respect to each other is more effective than saying 'Don't be a bully,'" said Brian Meyer.

He serves as operations director for the state's Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports network.

The organization provides Illinois schools with information on the latest anti-bullying techniques.

Under the program, schools acknowledge that all students are capable of bullying and being bullied.

Administrators survey students on problem areas.

Then faculty and students are trained in a schoolwide approach called "Stop, Walk and Talk."

The idea is to give students strategies for halting bullying instantly.

For instance, a student could tell or signal an aggressor to stop and then report it to a teacher.

Many educators and researchers applaud the effort as a way to lower bullying rates.

Others worry that rewarding good behavior with prizes sends the wrong message to students and doesn't work in the long run.

Reports estimate that 20 to 30 percent of school-age children are either bullied or engage in bullying.

"Extrinsic motivation has limited availability to really promote a love of learning and to promote a moral compass," said Jonathan Cohen, president of the National School Climate Center.

Internal motivation is more powerful, he said.

Two decades ago, bullying was seen as rare, and few parents asked the school district to protect their children.

But as bullying was blamed for shootings and suicides, parents started lobbying for help and legislators got involved, said Dorothy Espelage.

She is a professor of educational psychology at the University of Illinois and is known for her research on bullying.

Since the shootings at Colorado's Columbine High School in 1999, 49 states have passed laws requiring schools to have anti-bullying policies and programs, Espelage said.

Research showed that prevention was most effective when addressed schoolwide.

Principals began turning to the Positive Behavior Interventions and Supports network, funded by the U.S. Department of Education.

Initially, when the network began 15 years ago, it focused on students with special needs or severe disciplinary problems.

Over the next decade, it expanded to include all students.

By 2011, more than 250 school leaders from across Illinois attended a meeting to learn how to tackle bullying by building on techniques already used to encourage good behavior in school.

After the meeting, all eight schools in Bloomingdale's Community Consolidated School District 93 adopted a multi-tiered plan that includes Expect Respect clubs, anti-bullying tokens and the Katy Perry video, said Julie Augustyn.

She is the prevention coordinator for the district.

Augustyn knows that critics question how effective these efforts will be when students no longer receive prizes for good behavior.

The district isn't doing everything perfectly, she said.

"But to see this many middle schoolers come out and are enthusiastic — the kids get it," she said.

Officials at nearby Schaumburg District 54 hope to teach the approach at the library, the park district and in law enforcement offices.

They want to make it a community-wide effort, said Dolly Mandrelle, a positive behavior network coach for the district.

A couple of years ago, when students reported bullying, the district failed to respond consistently, said Lynn Owens, the district's other network coach.

"Now we're being proactive and not reactive," she said.

Researchers say it will take time before these approaches can be measured.

A 2012 report in a journal on children's medicine showed that 37 schools in Maryland using PBIS saw discipline problems drop by a third.

The study also showed significant drops in bullying within two years, said co-author Catherine Bradshaw of the Johns Hopkins Center for the Prevention of Youth Violence.

"There aren't any quick, easy solutions that are going to happen after one hour or an afternoon," she said.

Chintan Dave, an eighth-grader at Stratford, had a more immediate goal when he accepted a teacher's invitation to join the school's Expect Respect Club.

Two years ago, Chintan, 13, switched to a different bus route after he was mocked for his Indian accent.

When school started this month, he wore his neon-orange "Expect Respect" T-shirt with high hopes.

"I don't want anyone to go through what I went through," he said.

