When Shelby Valley High School opened in 1990, coal mining was growing fast.

The school had so many students it built more classrooms the next year.

Now that the mines are closing, the school is half empty.

When the families leave, Principal Greg Napier asks them why.

"Gotta have a job," they say.

In the last 15 years, schools in Kentucky's coal mining towns have lost more than 12,000 students.

That equals about one in 10 students.

State officials blame the dropping numbers on the failing coal mines.

It is also bad next door in the coalfields of West Virginia.

That state has lost more than one in four students since 1979.

Many families have moved away from the area.

The kids who stay have to ride along mountain highways to the next-closest classroom.

Fences surround empty schools.

In Kentucky, fewer students mean less money for schools.

The state gives schools money partly based on the number of students who attend.

The lack of money adds to the hardship.

The area is already struggling with poverty and fewer jobs.

More than 10,000 people have left eastern Kentucky since 2010.

Money is an problem across Kentucky.

However, when schools lose students, it makes the problem much worse, said Stu Silberman.

He is the head of a group that wants to make Kentucky one of the top 20 states in reading scores and teacher salaries.

Kentucky lawmakers and others are studying how the state pays for education.

They want to get more money for districts that are losing students.

Governor Steve Beshear said he would consider changes.

In the meantime, many of Napier's empty classrooms are being used in other ways.

One classroom is now an office.

Others are computer labs.

At least two are still empty.

No Kentucky school district has had more students leave than Pike County.

Since 2001, it has lost more than 1,000 kids.

In the 2013-2014 school year, daily attendance fell by 270 students.

It lost $1.1 million from the state.

Silberman said if a district has fewer students, it should not have to spend as much.

But it does not always work that way.

David Lester is the head of the Pike County school district.

He said it is difficult to save money without combining grade levels.

Lester has combined schools instead.

"It's just very difficult emotionally to have a school (close) that is sort of the center of a community," Lester said.

That is especially true in a small community.

"When they lose it, it's not an easy thing."

In West Virginia, many schools have combined.

To stop closing schools, there must be more jobs to keep families in town, said Nelson K. Spencer.

He is the head of the McDowell County school district.

To bring in more jobs, better roads must be built, he said.

People also need homes they can afford.

There have been few new jobs in McDowell, Spencer said.

"Coal is still one of the things that we're relying on."

West Virginia limits how long students can be on a school bus.

Grade school students cannot ride more than 30 minutes to school.

For middle schoolers, the limit is 45 minutes.

For high school students, it is an hour.

Rides that long are common, especially in the southern part of the state.

Mona Laxton lives in the West Virginia mountains, far from the main road.

She has three children, ages 11, 14 and 16.

They must wake up at 5 a.m.

The school bus picks them up at 6:25 a.m.

The ride to school is 35 minutes.

In the mornings, the bus goes up the mountain to the first stop.

It then comes back to pick them up.

The long bus ride means a long school day for her children.

One of Laxton's sons plays football.

On some nights does not get home until after 9 p.m. "He's exhausted," Laxton said.

Except for moving away, there's not much they can do.

