Grades don't mean much to teacher Lynn Barrett.

An A-plus in reading doesn't mean a child can pronounce words with silent letters.

An F doesn't say what a child understands.

"Just because they got an A or a 92 on their report card in no way tells a parent exactly what they did," she said.

"All that tells you is a number."

It doesn't really tell you what they know, she said.

On a recent day, Barrett's young students work in groups on their iPads.

They talk softly about a story.

Her students, who are in kindergarten through second-grade, help one another work the iPad.

They explain tough ideas.

There is no pressure to earn an A.

They have no fear of receiving an F. Barrett has taught at Seminole Springs Elementary School in Eustis, Fla., for nearly 25 years.

She has never given out letter grades.

She is the only teacher in Lake County who does not.

Education experts say she is unusual.

Most teachers give out grades.

Barrett's students are grouped based on skills — not their grade level.

Barrett knows how they are doing based on their school work, not her grade book.

Students spend three years in her classroom.

This lets her to get to know them more personally.

She doesn't spend too much time on testing.

This, she said, gives her more time to see where each student needs help.

"I take a good, hard look at sometimes how they're working.

And I watch them as they're doing math, watch them as they're reading," Barrett said.

She pays attention to see what they need help on.

Barrett's approach dates back to the one-room schoolhouse.

One-room schoolhouses are schools where different grades learn in the same room.

They used to be common in small towns and farming areas.

The no-grade approach became popular with school systems in the 1990s, said Sandra J.

Stone.

She is an education expert.

She has studied classrooms such as Barrett's for more than 20 years.

John Fischetti is an education expert.

He said teachers, like Barrett, usually pay more attention to how their students are doing.

Grades make it easy for teachers to see who understands, Stone said.

In ungraded classes, students become more focused on learning.

"They're not being judged," Stone said.

"They're just engaged in the process."

It's not known whether students in ungraded classrooms perform better or worse.

Stone thinks they perform as well or better.

Barrett's room is stocked with iPads, storybooks, fish tanks and snacks.

It even has hula hoops.

Her students do well, she said.

Her second graders are able to read fourth-grade-level books.

Barrett still teaches the school standards.

She gives all the tests required by the state.

Once a week she assigns a graded spelling assignment.

She even rates students "satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" depending on how hard they try.

But because grades aren't that important, her students can concentrate on what interests them.

They don't have to worry about failing.

"Make mistakes — you're going to make mistakes," she said.

If students make mistakes, they're going to learn more.

This is because they can identify the mistakes and avoid them the next time.

In Barrett's class, older students help younger students.

They help them with school work.

They also help them with social skills.

The older students show the younger students how to behave.

Jennifer Zamfino's two children were students in Barrett's class.

When Zamfino's daughter was in second grade she would help the kindergartners.

"She kind of took them under her wing," Zamfino said.

"It brought her such confidence."

