new study compared the lunches students ate at school.

It looked at packed lunches students brought from home and lunches they bought at the school cafeteria.

Surprisingly, the study found that on average, school lunches were healthier than packed lunches.

Researchers observed 337 kids in Houston.

They watched what the kids ate for lunch each day.

The students were in elementary school and middle school.

The researchers found that packed lunches did not include enough vegetables, fruit, meat or whole grains.

They also included too much salt, soda and dessert.

School cafeterias have to follow certain health rules.

These guidelines say how much of each kind of food a cafeteria lunch has to include.

The rules make sure that school lunches are healthy.

There are no rules for home-packed lunches, though.

The new study found big differences between cafeteria food and packed lunches.

For example, cafeteria lunches had much more fruit than packed lunches.

They also had more vegetables and meat.

In other words, home-packed lunches were missing a lot of important food groups.

What did they include instead?

The answer: junk food.

Average packed lunches for elementary school students included large amounts of sugary drinks.

They also included chips and dessert.

Cafeteria lunches do not come with these treats.

Sugary drinks, chips and dessert are not served in most schools.

Children's nutrition is an important topic.

More American children are overweight than ever before.

Being overweight can cause a number of health problems.

The meals that children are eating could be a big cause of the problem.

Much of the cheapest and tastiest food these days is also the unhealthiest.

That is why there are rules about what kind of food cafeterias can serve.

Students might love it if a cafeteria served pizza every day, but it would not be healthy.

Cafeterias must serve balanced and healthy meals.

Parents do not always follow the same rules, though.

Cafeteria lunches seem to be healthier than packed lunches.

Are the lunches cheap enough for students to buy?

According to the new study, the answer is yes.

Cafeteria lunches for elementary school students were actually cheaper than packed lunches.

In middle school, cafeteria lunches were only slightly more expensive.

The new study raises interesting questions.

Schools have improved the quality of lunches they serve.

What should be done about unhealthy packed lunches?

It may not be easy to change what kind of food parents pack for their kids.

The government was able to change cafeteria food by passing new rules.

Changing packed lunches might be more challenging.

The new study may be a good starting point.

Not much is known about the nutritional value of packed lunches.

Studies like this one can help educate parents about their food choices.

