State lawmakers around the United States are taking a harder line on threats against schools.

Although once seen as childish pranks, lawmakers are proposing tougher penalties on school threats.

In mid-December, Los Angeles schools were shut down after someone sent a threat by email.

The incident showed how threats can disrupt schools and scare students.

Most states already have laws that make threats against schools a felony, which is a serious crime.

Recently, though, there have been proposals across the United States to increase punishments, said Michael Dorn.

He is the executive director of the school safety nonprofit group Safe Havens International.

"These things keep happening, and they're happening too often," said Wisconsin state Representative Ed Brooks, a Republican.

"This isn't child's play anymore.

This is serious stuff.

Every threat is real until it's disproved.

There's a high level of anxiety."

Brooks has proposed legislation that would make a public death threat a medium-grade felony.

There would be more severe consequences if anybody is hurt while the school is being evacuated.

He suggested the proposed law after hearing from a police chief about a case in which a threat on Facebook caused the evacuation of a school.

The suspect, though, could not be charged with anything more serious than disorderly conduct, which does not carry much of a punishment.

Threats can be especially upsetting in areas that have recently been attacked, such as Southern California.

A couple killed 14 people at a holiday luncheon in San Bernardino.

No one knows who sent the email that led Los Angeles to cancel classes in December.

The district's decision shows that it is concerned about terrorism.

In Connecticut, Republican state Senator Tony Hwang said that he intends to introduce a bill that would strengthen the state's threatening laws.

The bill would make them more serious felonies.

His son's high school was locked down in October by a threat.

"As we were kids growing up — I'm 51 — we always had the notion that it was a childish prank," Hwang said.

He added he thought that schools have progressed since then.

National School Safety and Security Services analyzed school threats.

It found a 158 percent increase in the number of threats in a five-month period in 2014 compared with the same period the previous year.

About 37 percent of the threats were sent electronically, and nearly one-third resulted in schools being evacuated.

Nearly 10 percent of the threats closed school for at least one day.

Some states have laws that specifically address threats at schools.

These include Arkansas, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Virginia and Washington, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.

Other states have laws that do not mention schools specifically but would cover threats to schools.

Other states have seen recent proposals to increase penalties.

They include New York, Pennsylvania and Maine.

A bill passed by the California Legislature would have made it a crime to threaten to fire a gun on school property.

But Governor Jerry Brown declined to sign it into law.

He said that threatening to fire a gun on school property was already illegal.

He said there were too many criminal laws, and he did not want to add another one.

Dorn said school threats are often made by people who want to cause trouble.

Dorn is a former school district police chief in Georgia.

He said he has seen that prosecuting threats has a discouraging effect.

However, this works better to discourage a copycat who hears about a school threat somewhere else.

It does not have as as much effect on terrorism.

