Schools used to think Advanced Placement (AP) classes were special courses for top students.

But that thinking has changed.

Now more and more schools say any student who wants to take an AP class should be allowed in.

But the change has brought problems.

One example is the case of Alex Wong, a junior at Mark Keppel High School in Alhambra, Calif.

He has nearly straight A's in tough courses.

He also has participated in a number of extra activities.

He took a summer program at Stanford University and did an Eagle Scout project.

But this year, his school switched how it assigns places in AP classes.

Now they are awarded by lottery.

More students would have a shot at the classes that way.

Alex initially got shut out of all three courses he requested.

Families whose children failed to get into AP courses were angry.

They complained to school officials and started a petition.

They even created a Facebook group to swap classes.

"IM DESPERATE ILL GIVE YOU FREE FOOD," student Kirk Hum posted on the AP Flea Market Facebook group.

The group has 210 members.

More than twice as many students are taking AP classes at Downtown Magnets High School in Los Angeles than five years ago.

Miracle Vitangcol is a junior at Downtown Magnets.

Her grades and test scores are average but she is failing her AP U.S. history class.

She called the fast pace and large amount of material she needs to memorize overwhelming.

But she said she intends to stick it out.

The class is teaching her to manage her time, take good notes and keep trying, she said.

"I'm struggling to adjust," Vitangcol said.

"But I keep telling myself, 'It's OK. You can do it.

Just push yourself.'"

Some people worry that too many unprepared students are being pushed into AP classes.

They also fear that teachers are making the courses less challenging and giving good grades too easily.

"While expanding access is generally a good thing, we need to make sure we're not watering down the experience for the high achievers," said Michael Petrilli.

He works at the Thomas B. Fordham Institute.

The College Board runs the AP program.

It is encouraging opening classes to more types of students.

It said the effort has generally been successful.

National participation has doubled in the last 10 years to 2.1 million students last year.

But the rate of students failing the exams is up only a bit, officials said.

Downtown Magnets students mostly come from poor families.

The school offers 15 different AP courses.

The school's 61 percent exam pass rate is much better than L.A. Unified's average of 40 percent.

Teachers are one reason behind the school's success, said Lynda McGee.

She is the school's college counselor and AP coordinator.

In Daniel Jocz's AP U.S. history class, for instance, about 90 percent of the students pass the exam.

The national rate is about 54 percent.

Jocz was recently teaching a complicated lesson on tariffs and trade.

It could have been dull.

But Jocz included music clips from Bruce Springsteen and Queen and amusing facts about the Erie Canal.

He pointed out content likely to appear on the AP exam and directed students to work in groups on an AP-type essay question.

Jocz sees both good and bad in giving all students a chance at AP classes.

"The good thing is giving people the chance to challenge themselves … but some kids are not ready, and are we setting them up for failure?"

he said.

At Jordan High School in Watts, Evan Dvorak  allowed any student to take his AP physics class last year.

But not everybody knew enough math to handle the work; all 20 students failed the exam.

"As a teacher, you want to think you can reach every student and perform miracles to get them where they need to be," he said.

"But it proved to be too much for everyone."

This year, Dvorak made sure that students knew how difficult the course was; only six have enrolled and are doing much better, he said.

At Keppel, some parents whose children were shut out of AP classes say they support the goal of open access to AP classes.

But they do not like choosing students for the classes by lottery.

"It's a delicate balancing act," said Shelly Tan.

Her son, Douglas, failed to get into an AP biology class after doing the summer work during a family vacation.

"Yes, you want to give all kids opportunity — but not at the expense of kids who can do the honors work."

