As the school year neared a close last April, officials in Georgia issued an urgent plea: add 30 minutes of exercise into the school day.

State Superintendent John Barge and Georgia Department of Public Health Commissioner Brenda Fitzgerald made their case for more exercise in a letter to school superintendents across the state.

They pointed to the staggering results of a statewide fitness assessment: Only 16 percent of the state's students passed five tests of physical fitness.

The tests measured flexibility, body/mass index, aerobic capacity (in a one-mile run/walk or in an interval run) and the ability to do push-ups and curl-ups.

One in five students could not pass any of the tests conducted last year.

With so many children in the state [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) — that is, extremely overweight — and also weak, the message was simple: Find a way to get kids moving more.

But Georgia did not want schools to replace recess or physical education (PE), though.

School systems instead were asked to develop new and innovative cardio programs to weave into an already time-pressed day.

State officials also asked for pledges for what they coined "Power Up for 30."

Just weeks into the new school year, Georgia schools have responded, with more than 100 committing to incorporating 30 or more minutes of exercise into the daily routine.

The new activities include everything from zumba and yoga classes before the first bell rings to walking and running clubs after school and 10-minute "deskercize" and brain breaks.

At Stonewall Tell Elementary in College Park, Lisa Sinon, a PE teacher, got a grant to get pedometers for every student.

The pedometers will be used to encourage kids to take 10,000 steps every day.

Georgia's fitness problem grew over the years.

As schools came under pressure to show academic progress, they slashed or even eliminated PE.

Even recess was no longer a given.

But exercise is now moving up the priority list as officials try to reduce obesity.

And Jennifer Powell, health and physical education coordinator for DeKalb County Schools, said there's another reason to focus more on exercise: A growing amount of research suggests that children who exercise tend to perform better in school.

Recently the state has been making slight progress in reducing child obesity, particularly among the most overweight children.

The childhood obesity rate in Georgia has fallen to 16.5 percent, according to one report.

That's down from 21.3 percent in 2007.

Huntley Hills Elementary School in Chamblee, one of the schools taking the pledge, has offered a morning program called "Tiger Tune Up," letting kids play in the gym before class starts, with everything from hula hoops to plastic balls.

On "Walking Wednesdays" PE teacher Elisabeth Spaulding plays Kidz Bop.

Students walk laps inside the gym to the recordings of kids performing current pop hits.

But it's a new after-school bike program on Thursdays that has kids asking "Is it Thursday yet?"

every day of the week.

Some kids bring their bikes to school, and Spaulding also bought 10 bikes for kids who don't have one.

She conducts an exercise program that lets kids ride around an empty parking lot or field by the school.

Not only did kids work up a sweat, a handful, including several fifth-graders, learned how to ride a bike through the program.

Exercise is also a high priority at Stonewall Tell.

The school is one of 51 across the state that recently received a gold SHAPE Honor Roll medal, part of a new program designed to fight childhood obesity.

PE teacher Sinon has organized several activities promoting healthy living, including an annual family fitness night complete with rock climbing and three-bean-salad tastings.

She has also teamed up with Radio Disney and Children's Healthcare of Atlanta's Strong4Life assemblies that emphasize the importance of being active and healthy.

In PE class, Sinon encourages kids to invent their own games.

She often brings out a cart with plastic balls and lets kids develop their own twist on a chase and tag game.

A group of youngsters recently came up with a "Diary of a Wimpy Kid tag," named after the popular children's book series.

Now the kids play the game at recess.

After school, a Fitness Enrichment Club mixes a variety of cardio from dance to basketball to exercise circuit stations.

Sinon is not alone in her efforts to encourage healthy living.

Other teachers, administrators and even parents help enforce a ban on junk food snacks that includes not allowing cupcakes, even on birthdays.

"If a parent brings cupcakes, he or she will be stopped at the front desk," said Sinon.

"But what is happening is parents are bringing beautiful and delicious fruit platters and the kids like them."

Jennifer Thompson, a Stonewall Tell Elementary School parent of fourth-grader Makenzie, is a big supporter of the growing attention given to health and wellness.

"It's very important that we instill the importance of 30 minutes of exercise every day," said Thompson.

"I am OK with breaks during the school day for kids to get exercise.

It's so good for them.

It's stimulating for the brain and helps with learning to get those breaks during the day."

Makenzie said she loves all of the opportunities she gets to exercise at school.

And she's noticed it is making a difference in her life.

"If I exercise after school and then do my homework, it only takes me 30 minutes," she said.

"But if I don't exercise and just go directly to do my homework, it takes me an hour."

