Grades don't mean much to Lynn Barrett, a teacher in Lake County, Fla. An A-plus in reading, for instance, won't tell parents how well their child can pronounce words with silent letters, she believes.

And a C or an F can't explain how well a child understands vowels.

"Just because they got an A or a 92 on their report card in no way tells a parent exactly what they did," she said.

"All that tells you is a number.

It doesn't really give you any kind of depth of knowledge as to what they know."

Barrett's young students chatter softly while huddled in groups over their iPads, explaining the cause and effect of events in a story.

The kindergarten through second-graders help one another work the iPad and explain tough ideas — without the pressure to earn an A or fear of receiving an F. Barrett has taught at Seminole Springs Elementary School in Eustis, Fla., for a quarter-century without giving letter grades.

She began teaching the class in 1990 shortly after the school opened.

Several of the school's other teachers at the time also didn't give grades, but through the years they changed.

With special permission from the School Board, she is the only one in Lake County who doesn't give out grades.

Education experts say this goes against the trend of high-stakes tests and rigid learning standards.

In contrast, Barrett's students are grouped based on skills — not their grade level.

And instead of giving A-to-F grades, Barrett relies on portfolios of school work to track how they are doing.

Students spend three years in her classroom, allowing her to get to know them more personally.

She doesn't emphasize testing, giving her more time to focus on where each student needs help.

"I take a good, hard look at sometimes how they're working and watch them as they're doing math, watch them as they're reading," she said.

"I pick up cues on things that they need to work on."

Barrett's approach dates back to the one-room schoolhouse, but it became popular with school systems in the 1990s, said Sandra J.

Stone.

She directs the National Multiage Institute at Northern Arizona University and has studied classrooms like Barrett's for more than 20 years.

Researchers say that because of the federal No Child Left Behind law, teachers lost interest in the no-grades approach.

The 2001 law required schools to follow certain educational standards.

The standards set what each grade is supposed to know and understand, and requires a lot of testing to make sure students are learning what they are supposed to.

John Fischetti heads the Consortium for Research on Educational Assessment and Teaching Effectiveness.

He said teachers like Barrett usually end up evaluating students more than teachers in typical classrooms.

They just do it in a different form.

A teacher not using grades may rely on observation and detailed records about students instead.

Letter or number grades make it easy for teachers to see which students understand a lesson, Stone said.

But grades can be used almost as a "threat" against bad performance.

On the other hand, in classes without grades, students become more focused on learning rather than achieving a good grade.

"They're not being judged as to what that learning is or how far along that learning is," she said.

"They're just engaged in the process."

There's no hard-and-fast answer about whether students in ungraded classrooms perform better or worse than those in typical classes.

Stone said they perform as well or better than their peers.

Fischetti said research shows students in ungraded classes are not worse off, but teachers have to be well-prepared.

Barrett has a master's degree in early-childhood education and is constantly adjusting her teaching based on how students are doing.

Her room is stockpiled with iPads, storybooks, fish tanks, snacks — even hula hoops.

Her students enter the class at or above grade level and finish second grade able to read fourth-grade-level books, she said.

She still teaches the educational standards, which are required by the state, and gives state-mandated tests.

Once a week, she assigns a graded spelling assignment and even rates students "satisfactory" or "unsatisfactory" depending on how hard they try.

But because she doesn't emphasize grades, her students can focus on what interests them without fear of failure.

"Make mistakes — you're going to make mistakes," she said.

"If you make mistakes, you're going to learn more because we identify what are those mistakes, and that in itself is going to help them learn the next step.

And I didn't have to put a bad grade on there to give them that message."

Researchers say Barrett's students also benefit because older students can help younger students.

They help the younger ones not just with school work, but also with social skills.

Barrett said that because she keeps students for longer, older students already know her classroom and show the younger students how to behave.

This means she spends less time at the start of the school year establishing rules.

Parent Jennifer Zamfino's two children have been through Barrett's class.

When her daughter was in second grade the girl would help kindergartners, which in turn boosted her confidence, Zamfino said.

"She kind of took them under her wing," Zamfino said.

"It brought her such confidence."

Barrett will be retiring this year after 36 years of teaching, but another teacher at the school will be taking over.

