Black students are much more likely to be suspended from public schools than white kids.

The unequal treatment starts as early as preschool.

A study looking at racial differences in schools was released Friday.

It was written by the government's Education Department.

Racial differences in education have been known for a long time.

Minority children cannot get into as many high-level classes as white children.

And the classes minorities take might be taught by less experienced teachers.

On top of this, minority children are disciplined more strictly when they act up.

The study found that suspensions begin in the earliest school years.

One out of 5 children in preschool programs are black.

However, blacks make up almost half of the preschoolers suspended more than once, the report said.

School experts say suspensions and arrests in schools lead to a "school-to-prison" pipeline.

Minority students get snagged more regularly in the pipeline.

They are removed out of schools.

Then they often end up in court or jail.

The Obama government is asking schools to not discipline students so harshly.

Some schools send students to court when they misbehave.

The government says they should be sent to the principal's office instead.

The study shows that black students are three times more likely to be suspended and expelled than white children.

Those numbers are the same for black students of all ages.

Boys receive more than two-thirds of suspensions.

Black girls are more likely to be suspended than girls of any other race.

They're even suspended more often than most boys.

The study does not explain why these differences exist between whites and minorities.

And it does not say why the students were suspended.

Arne Duncan is the top education official in the U.S. government.

He says that the United States "has a great distance to go."

Much has to be fixed before schools can provide "opportunities for every student to succeed."

Nationally, about 1 million children were in public preschool programs in the 2011-2012 school year.

That's the period the study looked at.

Nearly 5,000 preschoolers were suspended once that year, says the study.

At least 2,500 were suspended more than once.

Hispanic children made up nearly one-third of all preschoolers.

They accounted for one-quarter of the preschoolers suspended once.

Then they made up one out of every five preschoolers suspended more than once.

Daniel Losen of the University of California said the findings are disturbing.

The suspended preschoolers are unlikely to be dangerous, he says.

Teenagers might bring guns to school.

But, preschoolers probably won't.

"Just kicking them out of school is denying them access to educational opportunity at such a young age,"  Losen said.

"Then, as they come in for kindergarten, they are just that much less prepared."

Losen said it's fair to discipline 4-year-olds.

It might be better, however, to move them to a different type of class, he says.

Then they can be given extra help.

"Most preschool kids want to be in school," Losen said.

"Kids just don't understand why they can't go to school."

Kimbrelle Lewis is the principal of Raleigh-Bartlett Meadows Elementary School in Memphis, Tenn. She's never suspended a preschooler.

Only in a very serious case would she consider it.

If kids act up, her school has them meet with behavior experts.

Dennis Van Roekel is the president of the National Education Association.

It's a group that represents teachers.

He said the study shows that too many children aren't taught by "experienced and fully licensed teachers."

Van Roekel blames the people who decide how education is run in the U.S.

He says they allow too many "under-prepared and under-supported" young teachers.

Many leave before they're experienced enough "to truly make a difference."

Judith Browne Dianis runs the Advancement Project.

It's a group that aids minority communities.

The findings didn't surprise her.

"While we think our children need a head start, schools are kicking them out instead," she said.

