Parents in Charlotte, North Carolina, are celebrating.

This fall, every public school will have its own nurse.

School nurses help children who are sick.

They treat cuts and scrapes.

They help students with physical and emotional problems.

The schools are getting almost $2 million for more nurses.

The county government voted to give the money.

The decision came after two years of work by a parents group.

The group was started by Teri Saurer.

Her younger daughter is going into second grade.

Her daughter's name is Hannah and she has a serious medical problem and food allergies.

Even though Hannah needed help, the nurse at her school was there only half the week.

Her mother was worried.

She said nurses make schools safer for students.

"You want to know that if something happened to your child ... that there's going to be somebody with medical training" there, Saurer said.

Saurer's parent group has bright orange T-shirts.

The shirts read, "Healthy children learn better.

School nurses make it happen."

Much of the country doesn't have enough nurses.

Other school workers sometimes have to take care of sick kids.

Sometimes secretaries have to care for kids.

Sometimes teachers, or even principals must act like a nurse.

There are times when this works.

Still, sometimes you need a school nurse.

No one really knows how many schools have full-time nurses.

In 2007, about half of the public schools had a nurse who was there all day.

About one in three schools had nurses who only worked there part of the time.

In 2011-12, there were 81,410 school nurses.

The United States has about 132,000 schools.

There weren't nurses at every school.

North Carolina has more school nurses than 10 years ago.

Still, more nurses are needed, said Cheryl Blake.

She runs a North Carolina school nurse group.

Tina Gordon also runs a nurse group.

She said the only medical care a child gets may be from a school nurse.

Nurses can catch problems early.

They can "perhaps treat them in the school."

Nurses can also save them a trip to the hospital.

