Black students are more likely to be suspended from public schools than white kids.

Even tiny preschoolers get more suspensions than their white classmates.

The racial differences in American education were highlighted in a report released Friday by the government's Education Department.

It's long been known that minority children can't get into as many high-level classes as white children.

And the classes minorities do take are often taught by less experienced teachers.

On top of this, minority children are disciplined more strictly.

The surprising finding of the study was that the suspensions begin at the earliest school years.

Black children represent about 18 percent of children in preschool programs.

However, they make up almost half of the preschoolers suspended more than once, the report said.

Six percent of the nation's districts with preschools reported suspending at least one preschool child.

School supporters say suspension and arrest policies in schools contribute to a "school-to-prison" pipeline.

Minority students get snagged more regularly in the pipeline.

They are funneled out of schools and into the criminal justice system.

Until now, reformers have focused on middle school and high school.

This was the first time the department reported numbers on preschools.

Earlier this year, the Obama government encouraged schools to discipline students less strictly.

Instead of just sending kids to the principal's office, some schools go as far as sending students to court.

Overall, the study shows that black students of all ages are three times more likely to be suspended and expelled than white children.

Boys receive more than two-thirds of suspensions.

Black girls are more likely to be suspended than girls of any other race.

They're even suspended more often than most boys.

The study doesn't explain why differences exist between whites and minorities.

And it doesn't say why the students were suspended.

"It is clear that the United States has a great distance to go to meet our goal of providing opportunities for every student to succeed," Education Secretary Arne Duncan said.

Nationally, 1 million children were in public preschool programs during the 2011-2012 school year, says the study.

Nearly 5,000 preschoolers were suspended once.

At least 2,500 were suspended more than once.

Hispanic children made up nearly one-third of all preschoolers.

Yet, they made up 25 percent of the preschoolers suspended once.

They made up 20 percent of preschoolers suspended more than once.

Reggie Felton helps run the National School Boards Association.

He called the situation "unacceptable."

He said there's more training going on to ensure teachers are aware of the importance of keeping students in school.

Daniel Losen of the University of California at Los Angeles said the findings are disturbing.

The suspended preschoolers are unlikely to present a danger, he says.

The threat of them bringing a gun to school is far less than with teenagers.

"Just kicking them out of school is denying them access to educational opportunity at such a young age," Losen said.

"Then, as they come in for kindergarten, they are just that much less prepared."

He said it's appropriate to discipline 4-year-olds.

A more appropriate response, however, might be moving them to a different educational setting where they can be helped.

"Most preschool kids want to be in school," Losen said.

"Kids just don't understand why they can't go to school."

Kimbrelle Lewis, principal of Raleigh-Bartlett Meadows Elementary School in Memphis, Tenn., said she's never suspended a preschooler.

Only in an "extreme" case would she consider it.

She said her district provides behavior experts and other services to children with discipline problems.

This allows for plans to be worked out with teachers and parents if preschoolers need additional support.

Dennis Van Roekel is the president of the National Education Association, a union which represents teachers.

He said that the findings show that too many children aren't taught by "experienced and fully licensed teachers."

Van Roekel said bad education policies are to blame.

He says they create a revolving door of "under-prepared and under-supported" young teachers.

Many "leave before they've reached the levels of mastery required to truly make a difference."

Judith Browne Dianis co-directs the Advancement Project, a group that specializes in social issues affecting minority communities.

The findings came as no surprise to her.

"While we think our children need a head start, schools are kicking them out instead," she said.

