Mathematician Eugenia Cheng had just cut a bagel into a strange twisted shape known as a Mobius strip.

She began explaining why a liquid could not possibly take the same shape.

Then a student asked a question: "That bagel looks like water coming from a waterfall," Nico Camargo said.

"What if you froze water?"

Cheng was delighted by the idea.

"A frozen Mobius strip," she said with excitement.

"Why didn't I think of that?"

A grinning Camargo suggested that he had come up with the unusual idea because he is an art student.

Camargo attends the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC).

His school has begun offering classes that explore the similarities between art and science.

SAIC already had science and math classes, but now the school is offering a new class that connects those subjects to art.

It was this class that Cheng was invited to speak to.

Around the country, other schools and museums are also trying to bring art and science closer together.

Some teachers feel that art could help them teach math and science.

Perhaps pictures might make complicated ideas easier to understand.

Art and science were not always as separate as they are today.

Through much of history, many artists were also scientists.

For example, Leonardo da Vinci was an inventor as well as being one of the most famous artists ever.

Over the past 200 years, science and art have grown far apart.

SAIC and other schools feel it is time to start bringing them closer together again.

SAIC has begun inviting well-known scientists to spend time at the school.

The first scientist they invited was David Gondek.

He helped build a supercomputer that beat two champions on the "Jeopardy!"

quiz show.

The second scientist the school invited was Cheng.

She gives talks to students and the public and also teaches math classes.

Cheng is not just a mathematician.

She is also a concert pianist.

For her, math and art have many similarities.

Both work with things that are only ideas, not objects in the real world.

Teaching at SAIC is just one of the ways Cheng is bringing math to wider audiences.

She posted short math videos on YouTube that have been viewed more than 800,000 times.

Cheng does not expect SAIC students to master complicated math.

However, she thinks they can still get a sense of some of the ideas that makes math so exciting.

"I always say you can appreciate listening to music even if you can't play it yourself," she said.

The same is true of math, she feels.

