The language of the United Nation's most recent international report on climate change is not exactly what you'd call poetic.

The report is crammed with technical details about greenhouse gases, rising sea levels and our atmosphere.

And it's not only dense, it's also extremely long: some 2,200 pages.

Seattle oceanographer Gregory Johnson helped write the chapter on marine measurements.

But even he was having a hard time wrapping his head around the huge work.

So when a bad cold kept him in the house one weekend, Johnson decided to distill the report down to its essential meaning.

He did this by turning to a centuries-old Japanese art form: haiku.

Then, he added his own watercolor paintings.

With a bit of encouragement, Johnson decided to post his finished booklet on the Web.

It is now getting a lot of attention.

"I was surprised that as many people responded as positively as they did," said Johnson.

"It's been tweeted a thousand times, or something."

Online commenters have written verses to go along with it.

Several teachers plan to use the booklet in their classrooms.

And fans are planning to translate Johnson's work into a range of languages: Hindi, Italian, German, French and even Luxembourgish, the language of Luxembourg.

Mother Jones blogger Chris Mooney praised Johnson for summing up climate change in an "understandable, and even moving, way."

Take [global warming's effects](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) on ice and snow.

Some scientists say that when we burn things like oil, gas, and coal, it heats up the earth, causing ice in the Arctic to melt.

The report spends more than 100 pages on that subject, but Johnson boils it down to 17 syllables.

Here's how Johnson expressed it: _Glaciers and ice sheets melt worldwide, speed increasing Sea ice, snow retreat_ Johnson also illustrates the poems with simple watercolors.

These range from a sunlit iceberg to smokestacks and a swing set on a grassy slope.

The second goes along with the verse: _Forty years from now children will live in a world shaped by our choices_ Haiku is a traditional three-line Japanese poetic form, which alternates 5- and 7-syllable lines in a familiar 5-7-5 pattern.

It might seem like an odd choice for a scientist.

But Johnson had already been writing haiku in his Facebook posts for a few years.

He sees this as a way to keep his messages brief and positive.

Like most scientists, Johnson's professional life is all about complexity, and that's what made the haiku exercise appealing.

"It does make you focus," he said.

"Another nice thing about haiku is that it generally took me away from technical language."

He never intended anyone except family and friends to see the finished product.

But they were so enchanted they urged him to make it more widely available.

Johnson was unsure about it putting it out there, and a little nervous too.

"It took me a little while to get up the courage to put this out there," he said.

"It's a highly personal interpretation."

Eventually, he agreed to allow the Seattle environmental group Sightline to post the booklet on its website.

Within two weeks of going up last month, the post received nearly 40,000 hits.

It was reposted by Salon, Huffington Post and Yes!

Magazine.

"I think there's a hunger for a simple and clear" explanation of global warming, said Sightline's Anna Fahey.

It's a subject, she said, that usually is presented through complicated technical language and impossible-to-grasp numbers.

And in combination with Johnson's paintings, the simple verses are also moving, Fahey added.

Which scientific reports are certainly not.

What's striking, Fahey pointed out, is how Johnson managed to provide both information and deeper meaning.

"Greg got the facts in there," she said.

But at the same time, he "made this beautifully elegant and emotional case for why it matters."

The Sightline post has already attracted comments from global warming skeptics.

Johnson, though, prefers not to get involved in what he considers a political debate.

In any case, his own mind is made up.

His work has convinced him that some changes caused by global warming are detectable now, and more are certain in the future.

Haiku and watercolors won't change that.

Nor are they likely to change the minds of those who don't believe climate change is real.

But if his booklet inspires some people to at least read part of the U.N. report, Johnson says he'll be happy.

