When Tom Cruise starred as a hotshot Navy pilot in the hit 1989 movie, "Top Gun," military recruitment booths popped up in movie theaters.

The military was eager to attract young Americans who had just seen Cruise's character, Maverick, tell his female instructor, Charlie, about a risky upside-down dive he had flown at four Gs.

"Top Gun" was great for recruitment.

That year, the Navy signed up 16,000 more people than it did the previous year, according to Richard Parker, a writer for Proceedings, the U.S.

Naval Institute's monthly magazine.

Other estimates suggest there was a 500 percent increase among naval aviators alone.

"Top Gun" did not just impress thousands of would-be sailors and airmen.

For a long time the military and entertainment industries had worked together.

However, the release of "Top Gun" led the mutually helpful relationship to new heights.

Now the film industry is rediscovering another ally.

Enter NASA, whose fictional adventures in outer space are the subject of the new movie, "The Martian."

Directed by Ridley Scott, "The Martian" earned more than $100 million its opening weekend.

Matt Damon stars as an astronaut stranded on the Red Planet.

More and more people are becoming excited about space-related events.

The movie taps into that interest.

With "The Martian," NASA has the same opportunity U.S military officials had in the 1980s.

Only now it has extra social-media superpowers.

NASA is using every tool to make the most of its time in the spotlight.

On Twitter and Facebook, for example, NASA is writing about the real-world technologies shown in "The Martian" and explaining the science behind Martian dust storms.

They are also encouraging young women to take after the fictional Ares III mission commander, Melissa Lewis.

NASA hopes to turn moviegoers into the nation's next generation of scientists, technologists and the other tough-as-nails eggheads shown in the movie.

Before the movie's release, NASA even announced the discovery of liquid water on Mars.

"The Martian" begins with a huge fictional embarrassment for NASA.

After a storm, Mark Watney is thought to be dead by his fellow crew members.

They leave Mars without him.

Back at NASA it's discovered that Watney is alive.

NASA works to rescue him.

The movie turns what would be a big mistake for NASA into a massive success for science and humanity.

The story of "The Martian" was adapted from the novel by Andy Weir.

NASA is portrayed in a flattering way.

Even if it weren't, a spokesperson told the Guardian newspaper, the agency does not usually change movie scripts.

That is very different from the long and controversial history of the close association between the armed forces and Hollywood action movies.

Newspaper writer David Sirota said after "Top Gun," the military began to cooperate with filmmakers only on their own terms.

If a script did not show war and the U.S. troops favorably, for example, filmmakers were not allowed to use real ships, tanks and bases in their movie.

As a result there were very few antiwar movies — and dozens of blockbusters that celebrate the military, Sirota wrote.

Over the last 10 years Americans were faced with the painful costs of two unpopular U.S.-led conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan.

They struggled to understand why war in movies often appeared so differently than what was happening in real life.

NASA's involvement in Hollywood carries little of this political worry.

It mostly helps filmmakers with scientific accuracy.

Its primary mission is education.

Notably, NASA does not have any guns or tanks to bargain with.

Indeed, military types might be confused by "The Martian."

A key plot point involves an unlikely but inspiring bit of international cooperation with a U.S.

"frenemy."

"The Martian" filmmakers were treated not to displays of weapons systems but a behind-the-scenes tour of NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston.

They interviewed real NASA scientists and astronauts who answered hundreds of questions.

Considering the relationship between the military and entertainment industry, a deeper relationship between NASA and the film industry seems relatively non-threatening.

The agency isn't a stranger to the film industry, of course.

It has played a part in such movies as "Armageddon," "Men In Black III" and the Transformers series.

But none of those films did much to inspire young people to go into careers in the STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) fields.

Tech experts say we need more people in STEM jobs if the United States expects to remain a world leader.

"The Martian" is different.

Moviegoers are getting to see a scientific government agency as a leading character — a hero, even.

Thirty years after Cruise's Maverick buzzed the tower against orders, NASA is finally catching up to the Pentagon.

