Frank Lloyd Wright was one of this country's greatest architects.

The buildings he designed are widely considered to be both beautiful and groundbreaking.

Among many other projects, Wright designed a set of buildings for the S.C. Johnson company in Racine, Wis.

Naturally, Wright fans have been visiting them for years.

One particularly beautiful S.C. Johnson building has always been off-limits, though: a glass tube–enclosed tower that glows like a candle.

It was here that company scientists did their research — that is, where they experimented in hopes of finding useful new products.

Visitors were free to admire the outside of the building, but were not allowed inside.

The tower is now open to the public for the first time.

The opportunity to see one of the few surviving Wright-designed offices from inside has created much excitement.

The 15-floor tower rises 153 feet from the ground.

It is encased by glass tubes, which let in a great deal of natural light.

Wright rebelled against the idea that workplaces had to be boxy and boring.

Why, he asked, couldn't workers be in attractive-looking offices and factories?

Perhaps beautiful surroundings might even encourage creativity.

It seems Wright's thinking wasn't so crazy.

Within eight years of the tower opening in 1950, many products were created there that are still famous today.

Among them are Glade air freshener, Pledge furniture polish and the insecticides Off!

and Raid.

Many great products "came out of this tower," said S.C. Johnson's Greg Anderegg.

Something about the tower, he said, really encouraged bold new ideas.

The tower was used by researchers for 32 years before closing in 1982.

In recent years, the company has been carefully restoring it.

At some point, it decided to open two floors to the public.

The opening is creating quite a stir.

This is partly because of the tower's beautiful design, but also because it has never been open for tours.

"People have been waiting for" years.

"It's this masterwork they've never been able to experience," said Frank Lloyd Wright expert Sean Malone.

"They've seen photos and can see it from outside, but they've never been able to come inside."

Wright's buildings, he said, are meant to be experienced directly, from inside as well as outside.

The two floors opening for tours have been set up to look like they did back in the old product-development days.

Cabinets have been restored to the original Cherokee Red color.

Lab equipment has been set out on counter tops as if the folks who invented Off!

had just stepped out for a coffee break.

Much of the equipment was found in company storerooms and closets.

Other things were bought on eBay.

Still others, such as original 1956 cans of Glade air freshener, were loaned by retired workers.

There's even a coat tree adorned with several lab coats.

The coats are embroidered with the names of real researchers, now retired.

Copies of original notes and letters are displayed on the two open floors of the tower.

Among them are a memo recommending that sunglasses be worn inside the tower.

Workers' eyes needed to be protected from all that sunlight.

Brady Roberts of the Milwaukee Art Museum called the tower "mind-blowing."

"It's such an enlightened idea," he said of Wright's design.

"The purpose was to inspire scientists."

And it's striking, he said, that many of the products invented there are still well known in the 21st century.

"That's sort of incredible."

