Frank Lloyd Wright was one of this country's greatest architects.

The buildings he designed are both beautiful and unusual.

Among many other projects, Wright designed a set of buildings for the S.C. Johnson company in Racine, Wis.

Naturally, Wright fans have been visiting them for years.

One particularly beautiful S.C. Johnson building has always been off-limits, though: a glass tube–enclosed tower that glows like a candle.

It was here that company scientists did their research — that is, where they experimented in hopes of finding useful new products.

Visitors were free to admire the outside of the building, but were not allowed inside.

But now the tower is open to the public for the first time.

The opportunity has created much excitement.

The 15-floor tower rises 153 feet from the ground.

It is encased by glass tubes, which let in natural light.

Wright rebelled against the idea that workplaces had to be boring.

Why, he asked, couldn't workers be in attractive-looking offices and factories?

Perhaps beautiful surroundings help workers be more creative.

It seems Wright's thinking wasn't so crazy.

Within eight years of the tower opening in 1950, many products were created there that are still famous today.

Among them are Glade air freshener, Pledge furniture polish and the insecticides Off!

and Raid.

Many great products "came out of this tower," said S.C. Johnson's Greg Anderegg.

Something about the tower, he said, really encouraged bold new ideas.

The tower was used by researchers for 32 years before closing in 1982.

In recent years, the company has been carefully restoring it.

At some point, it decided to open two floors to the public.

The opening is creating quite a stir.

This is partly because of the tower's beautiful design.

It is also because it has never before been open for tours.

"People have been waiting for" years.

"It's this masterwork they've never been able to experience," said Frank Lloyd Wright expert Sean Malone.

"They've seen photos and can see it from outside," he said.

"But they've never been able to come inside."

The two floors opening for tours have been set up to look like they did back in the old days.

Cabinets have been restored to the original Cherokee Red color.

Lab equipment has been set out on counter tops.

Everything looks as if the folks who invented Off!

had just stepped out for a coffee break.

Much of the equipment was found in company storerooms and closets.

Other things were bought on eBay.

Still others were loaned by retired workers: for example, original 1956 cans of Glade air freshener.

There's even a coat tree with several lab coats hanging from it.

The coats are embroidered with the names of retired scientists.

Copies of original notes and letters are displayed on the two floors of the tower.

Among them is an odd company memo: It recommends that sunglasses be worn inside the tower.

Workers' eyes needed to be protected from all that sunlight.

Art expert Brady Roberts called the tower "mind-blowing."

"The purpose was to inspire scientists," he said.

So it's striking that many of the products invented there are still well known in the 21st century.

"That's sort of incredible."

