The Supreme Court on Thursday preserved the health insurance of millions of Americans.

The court upheld a part of President Barack Obama's health care law that makes insurance affordable for many people.

About 8.7 million people receive help from the government in paying their insurance bills.

Otherwise they would spend too much of their paychecks on health care.

The justices voted that this financial help does not depend on where people live.

Their vote was 6 to 3.

Obama declared that the health care law "is here to stay."

He said the law is no longer about politics, but the benefits millions of people are receiving.

Representative John Boehner is a Republican lawmaker from Ohio.

He said Republicans will continue their efforts to reverse the law.

The Republicans oppose Obama's Democratic Party.

They do not think the government should require people to have health insurance or make health insurance cheaper.

Republicans have voted more than 50 times to undo the law.

It is also known as Obamacare.

This first major challenge to the Affordable Care Act came in 2012.

The latest challenge argued only people in certain states could get money from the government.

At the court, Chief Justice John Roberts voted with the majority in support of the law.

"Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them," Roberts declared in the majority opinion.

The court often explains its decision in a majority opinion.

The justices who do not agree may issue a minority opinion outlining their objections.

Roberts wrote that government help should not go only to people in states with their own insurance marketplaces.

These marketplaces let people without insurance shop for health plans.

Some states do not have their own insurance marketplaces.

Justice Antonin Scalia strongly disagreed.

He had harsh words for his opponents on the court who support the law.

Scalia said "the Supreme Court of the United States favors some laws over others."

He also said it "is prepared to do whatever it takes to uphold and assist its favorites."

Nationally, 10.2 million people have signed up for health insurance under the law.

About 8.7 million people receive an average of $272 a month to help pay their insurance bills.

Of those receiving help, 6.4 million were at risk of losing that aid.

They live in states that did not set up their own health insurance marketplaces.

The health insurance industry breathed a big sigh of relief over Thursday's decision.

A group said the court's decision will mean that prices should not rise that much.

The Supreme Court ruling was especially important for hospitals.

It meant that they would not have to deal with a flood of sick people without health insurance.

Experts had worried that many patients would cancel their insurance if they no longer had help paying for it.

The health care law was 900 pages long.

In the Supreme Court challenge, opponents relied on four words found in the law — "established by the state."

In the challengers' view, this meant that people could only get help in states that set up their own insurance marketplaces.

About three dozen states decided against creating their own health insurance marketplaces.

Instead, they rely on the federal government marketplace to help people find health insurance.

Democrat lawmakers in Congress and 22 states told the Supreme Court that it would make no sense to interpret the law that way.

The law was passed to increase the number of people with health insurance.

The law requires almost everyone to be insured.

The point of the government help is to make sure enough people have insurance.

If there are too few people with health insurance through the marketplaces, the price would go up for everyone.

Several parts of the law say that people can get the help no matter where they live.

Some states told the court that they had no idea they had to set up their own health insurance marketplaces for their residents to get help.

