On Thursday, Scotland will vote on whether it should become an independent country.

For more than 300 years, Scotland has been part of the United Kingdom.

The U.K. also includes England, Wales and Northern Ireland.

Now, Scotland may separate.

Scottish families are talking about how they will vote.

Families are divided over the question.

Most people older than 60 years old support staying in the United Kingdom.

They worry about what will happen to their health care and the money they have saved.

Young people are more likely to support independence.

It looks like the vote will be very close.

So the two sides have asked their supporters to persuade their own families.

The Yes camp is telling the younger people to visit their parents and grandparents to explain why they should support separation.

The No camp is asking older people to convince young people with their wisdom.

"I was so proud of my grandpa when he told me he was voting Yes that I burst into tears," said 23-year-old Miriam Brett.

"A Yes vote means so much to my generation."

The Yes camp is ahead in almost every age group.

But it is behind among people who are older than 60.

Six out of 10 older people are expected to vote to stay in the United Kingdom.

This matters.

Older people are usually more likely to vote.

So the Yes camp has been working hard to get young people to vote.

Interest in the vote is sky high.

Eight out 10 people may vote.

That's a lot.

In the last U.K. elections in 2010, more than a third of the people stayed home on voting day.

Among the voters are 124,000 16- and 17-year-olds.

They will be voting for the first time.

Many of these new voters are expected to support independence.

Two out of five families don't agree on how to vote.

And about one in five families said they have had angry disagreements about it.

"My Dad stopped talking to me when I said I was going to vote Yes," said 21-year-old student Laura Brown.

"He even blocked me as a friend on Facebook."

The No camp says older voters have a lot of experience to pass on to younger ones.

Former Prime Minister Gordon Brown once ran the United Kingdom.

He is an important person in the No camp.

Brown urged older voters to remind their families of how the countries worked together.

They found ways to provide money for older people and health care for everyone in the U.K. Brown asked older voters to talk to their children and grandchildren about what the U.K. has suffered and achieved together.

"Tell them how we fought and won two world wars together," he said.

It's a message that appeals to older voters.

"They haven't lived long enough to see what we have," said 68-year-old Liz Mullen.

"A lot of young people think independence is going to be some sort of miracle cure," she said.

"They think it is some kind of adventure without any risks, but this is not a video game."

