In November 2014, President Barack Obama announced a far-reaching new government plan.

The plan is known as the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans program, or DAPA.

It would allow up to 5 million immigrants living in the U.S. illegally to work legally.  DAPA was immediately challenged by 26 states, led by Texas.

Texas and the other states succeeded in getting lower-level federal courts to temporarily block the plan.

So far, DAPA has not gone into effect anywhere.

The stalemate could soon be over.

On Tuesday, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to consider the matter.

The justices said they will consider undoing lower-court orders that blocked the plan from taking effect.

Their announcement comes in the midst of a presidential campaign that has been heavily focused on immigrants.

The case will be argued in April.

It will be decided by late June, about a month before both Democrats and Republicans gather to pick their candidate for this year's presidential elections.

Right now, many candidates from both parties are competing to become their party's pick.

Once the final two are selected, they will then fight it out until Nov. 8.

On that day, Americans will pick a new president.

If the justices side with Obama, he would have seven months left in his presidency to realize his plans.

White House spokeswoman Brandi Hoffine said she is confident the Supreme Court will find DAPA lawful.

On first introducing DAPA in 2014, Obama said it would allow people to "come out of the shadows and get right with the law."

The plan mainly covers immigrants who have been in the U.S. more than five years and who have children who are in the country legally.

Texas quickly led a legal challenge to the program.

It has won every round in court so far.

Most recently, in November, the 5th U.S.

Circuit Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the states.

It was that latest ruling that prompted the government to ask the Supreme Court to consider the case.

Solicitor General Donald Verrilli Jr. filed the appeal.

Allowing the lower-court rulings to stand would leave millions of people unable to seek "lawful employment to provide for their families," he said.

The U.S. government said Texas and the other states do not even have the right to challenge the plan in federal court.

The lower courts decided that Texas does have the right, because DAPA would be very expensive for the state.

At least 500,000 people living in Texas would qualify for work permits under DAPA and would thus be able to get a driver's license.

The cost of driver's licenses are covered by the state.

Texas would thus end up having millions of dollars in new expenses.

The justices also said they would consider whether Obama exceeded his authority under federal laws and the Constitution.

Some have argued Obama should not have tried to introduce DAPA on his own.

Instead, they say, he should have first gotten the approval of Congress. Obama has said he acted on his own because Congress failed to address the problem.  Texas asked the Supreme Court not to hear the case.

However, Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton said he was pleased the justices will examine the president's constitutional power to act without congressional approval.

"In deciding to hear this case, the Supreme Court recognizes the importance of the separation of powers," Paxton said.

Democratic officials and those fighting for immigrant rights praised the Supreme Court's decision to take up the case.

Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid of Nevada said "law-abiding men and women continue to live in constant fear of being separated from their children.

These families must be allowed to step out of the shadows."

They should be able to "fully contribute to the country that they love and call home."

The future of the 11 million immigrants living in the country illegally has been much discussed during this year's presidential elections.

Democratic front-runner Hillary Rodham Clinton has pledged to protect large groups of immigrants from being deported, or sent back to their country of origin.

Many critics of U.S. immigration policy believe deportation is unfair in cases where immigrants have children born in the United States.

They say it is cruel to break up families.

Deported immigrants can also face dangers when returned to their home countries.

Republican candidate Donald Trump has proposed deporting all people who are living in the United States illegally.

His idea has been embraced by some of his fellow Republican candidates and dismissed by others.

