The Supreme Court on Thursday rejected a major challenge to the Affordable Care Act in a ruling that preserves health insurance for millions of Americans.

The high court upheld the nationwide tax subsidies underpinning President Barack Obama's health care law.

About 8.7 million people receive the subsidies in the form of an income tax credit to make insurance affordable.

The justices said in a 6-3 ruling that the subsidies do not depend on where people live, as opponents contended.

The outcome was the second major victory for Obama in politically charged Supreme Court tests of his most significant domestic achievement.

It came the same day the court gave him an unexpected victory by preserving a key tool the administration uses to fight housing discrimination.

Obama greeted news of the decision by declaring the health care law "is here to stay."

He said the law is no longer about politics, but the benefits millions of people are receiving.

Refusing to give up, House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio said Republicans will "continue our efforts to repeal the law and replace it with patient-centered solutions."

He said these "meet the needs of seniors, small business owners and middle-class families."

Republicans have voted more than 50 times to undo the law, also known as Obamacare.

At the court, Chief Justice John Roberts, who is considered conservative, again voted with his liberal colleagues in support of the law.

Roberts also was the key vote to uphold it during a previous challenge in 2012.

Justice Anthony Kennedy, who objected to the law in 2012, was part of the majority on Thursday.

"Congress passed the Affordable Care Act to improve health insurance markets, not to destroy them," Roberts declared in the majority opinion.

When the court rules on an issue, it often explains its decision in a majority opinion.

The justices who do not agree may issue a minority opinion outlining their objections.

Roberts wrote that subsidies should not be limited only to individuals in states with their own health insurance marketplaces where people without health insurance may buy it.

People in states without their own marketplaces use the federal insurance exchange.

Limiting the subsidies could well push insurance markets in the other states "into a death spiral," Roberts wrote.

Justice Antonin Scalia strongly disagreed.

"We should start calling this law SCOTUScare," he said, using an acronym for the Supreme Court.

His comment drew a smile from Roberts.

Roberts wrote the majority decision in 2012 that upheld the law, as well as the opinion on Thursday.

Scalia said these "will publish forever the discouraging truth that the Supreme Court of the United States favors some laws over others, and is prepared to do whatever it takes to uphold and assist its favorites."

Justices Samuel Alito and Clarence Thomas joined the dissent, as they did in 2012.

Nationally, 10.2 million people have signed up for health insurance under the law.

That includes the 8.7 million people who are receiving an average subsidy of $272 a month to help pay their insurance bills.

Of those receiving subsidies, 6.4 million were at risk of losing that aid.

They live in states that did not set up their own health insurance exchanges.

The health insurance industry breathed a big sigh of relief over Thursday's decision.

A national organization representing state officials from both political parties said the court's decision will mean stable prices for consumers.

Stock shares of publicly traded hospital companies soared after the ruling relieved those companies of the possibility of having to deal with a flood of uninsured people.

Investors had worried that many patients would drop their coverage if they no longer had tax credits to help pay.

The latest challenge to the health care law by die-hard opponents relied on four words — "established by the state" — in the more than 900-page law.

The law's opponents argued that these words make the vast majority of people who now get help paying for their insurance premiums ineligible for the federal aid.

About three dozen states decided against creating their own health insurance marketplaces,  and instead rely on the federal marketplace to help people find coverage.

In the challengers' view, the phrase "established by the state" meant that people could only get subsidies in states that set up their own exchanges.

The administration, Democrats in Congress and 22 states responded that it would make no sense to interpret the law that way.

The idea behind the law was to decrease the number of uninsured and increase the number of insured.

It requires almost everyone to be insured and provides financial help to consumers who otherwise would spend too much of their paychecks on insurance bills.

The point of the last piece, the subsidies, is to make sure enough people have insurance.

If there are too few people who participate in the program -- especially too few healthy people -- insurance companies would raise prices.

Several portions of the law indicate that consumers can claim tax credits no matter where they live.

No member of Congress said that subsidies would be limited.

Several states told the court that they had no indication they had to set up their own exchange for their residents to get tax credits.

