At Scottish dinner tables, families are arguing over whether Scotland should become an independent country.

There's a generation gap: younger voters are more likely to be for independence.

Older voters tend to want to remain in the United Kingdom.

The U.K. also includes England, Wales and Northern Ireland.

Scotland is voting on Thursday on whether to separate from it.

People older than 60 are most likely to support staying in the U.K.

They worry about what will happen to their health care and savings if Scotland breaks free.

The pro-independence movement is largely being driven by under-40s.

It looks like the vote will be very close.

The two sides have asked their supporters to make a last-minute attempt to persuade family members.

The Yes camp is urging young people to visit their parents and grandparents to explain why they should support separation.

The No camp is asking seniors to win young hearts and minds with their wisdom.

"I was so proud of my grandpa when he told me he was voting Yes that I burst into tears," said 23-year-old Miriam Brett, a campaigner for Generation Yes.

"A Yes vote means so much to my generation.

We want to let all our grandparents know that their future is secure in our hands, and with a Yes we can build a better future for ourselves and for our children."

The No camp is behind in every age group except the over-60s.

More than 63 percent of that age group is expected to vote against independence.

Older people are more likely to vote.

The pro-independence campaign has been working hard to get young people involved.

Interest in the vote is sky high.

Ninety-seven percent of people old enough to vote are registered.

More than 85 percent of people are expected to actually vote.

Just 64 percent voted in the 2010 U.K. election.

Among the voters are 124,000 16- and 17-year-olds.

They will be voting for the first time.

Many of these new voters are expected to support independence.

Generally, older voters are more likely to actually cast their votes, though.

That could help the No campaign.

Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said the Generation Yes campaign was 'inspired.'

He said young voters now have a great excuse to visit their grandparents' house for meals.

However, as many as 40 percent of families are divided over the vote.

And at least 20 percent say the debate has led to heated family arguments.

"My Dad stopped talking to me when I said I was going to vote Yes," said 21-year-old student Laura Brown.

"He even blocked me as a friend on Facebook."

The No camp says older voters have a lot of experience to pass on to younger ones.

Former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown once ran the U.K.

He is from Scotland and is an important voice in the No camp.

He urged older voters to remind their families of the power of working together.

Brown mentioned how the countries set up health care across the U.K. "I urge you to use both your vote and your voice to remind your children and grandchildren of suffering endured together, sacrifices made together and achievements earned together with friends, neighbors and relatives in England, Wales and Northern Ireland," Brown said.

"Tell them how we fought and won two world wars together."

It's a message that appeals to older voters.

"They haven't lived long enough to see what we have," said Liz Mullen, a 68-year-old retired office worker.

"A lot of young people think independence is going to be some sort of miracle cure," she said.

"They think it is some kind of adventure without any risks, but this is not a video game."

