U.S. passports are documents issued by the government.

They allow U.S. citizens to travel to other countries.

Passports list a person's place of birth.

Say, for example, you were born in Paris.

Your passport would list your country of birth as France.

It is not as simple for Americans born in Jerusalem.

The problem is that Israelis and Palestinians have long argued over Jerusalem.

Israel controls the city now, and says it should always be part of Israel.

Palestinians do not yet have their own country, but hope to one day.

They say East Jerusalem should belong to them.

In 2002, Congress passed a law allowing Americans born in Jerusalem to list their birthplace as Israel on their U.S. passports.

On Monday, the Supreme Court struck that law down.

The Supreme Court is the country's top court.

There are nine judges, called justices, on the Supreme Court.

The court ruled 6-3 that Congress went too far when it approved the law in 2002.

The law went against the White House's position on Jerusalem.

For years, the White House has said Israel should not be listed as the birthplace for Americans born in Jerusalem.

The White House has refused to recognize any nation's control over Jerusalem.

It wants to wait until Israelis and Palestinians settle their disagreement.

Justice Anthony Kennedy was one of the six judges who voted to strike down the law.

He said that the president has the sole power to recognize foreign nations.

Recognition of a country involves accepting that country's right to control a particular territory.

Part of the president's power of recognition is the right to determine what a passport says.

"Recognition is a topic on which the nation must speak with one voice.

That voice must be the president's," Kennedy wrote.

The ruling ends a 12-year-old court case.

The case was brought by a Jerusalem-born American, Menachem Zivotofsky, and his U.S. citizen parents.

The Zivotofskys wanted Menachem's passport to say he was born in Israel.

Three of the justices dissented from — disagreed with — the court's ruling.

Justice Antonin Scalia declared that both Congress and the president should be able to make decisions about how to deal with foreign countries.

Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito joined Scalia in dissenting.

Roberts said the court's decision sets a very bad example.

The court has taken a dangerous step "for the first time in our history," Roberts wrote.

He said it is unjustly allowing the president to overrule an act of Congress concerning a foreign country.

Israelis and Palestinians have argued over Jerusalem for years.

Israel has controlled all of Jerusalem since the Six-Day War in 1967, when it took East Jerusalem.

It has said that a united Jerusalem will be Israel's capital forever.

The Palestinians have declared that East Jerusalem will be the capital of the new country they hope to form.

Not surprisingly, the court mentioned that long-standing disagreement.

"A delicate subject lies in the background of this case," Justice Kennedy said on Monday.

"That subject is Jerusalem."

Congress and the White House have also argued over Jerusalem for years.

The White House has not been willing to recognize Israel's control over Jerusalem.

It believes the United States should wait until Israelis and Palestinians settle their differences.

Congress has often sided with Israel, however.

For years, it has tried to push various presidents to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

In 2002, Congress pushed through the passport law, which for the first time allowed Americans born in Jerusalem to list Israel as their place of birth.

However, since then the law has not been used.

President George W. Bush approved the 2002 law but said that the U.S. position on Jerusalem "has not changed."

President Obama has said the same thing.

