The Supreme Court on Thursday protected the health insurance of millions of Americans.

In 2010, lawmakers passed the Affordable Care Act.

The law made health insurance cheaper for many people.

Insurance pays for medical care if a person gets sick.

About 8.7 million people receive help from the government to pay for insurance.

These people don't make enough money from their job.

Without the government help, they would not be able to afford healthcare.

This part of the law was challenged in court.

People against the law said that people in only certain states should get help paying for care.

The Supreme Court justices voted that it does not matter where people live.

The vote was 6 to 3.

President Barack Obama worked hard to get lawmakers to pass his law.

On Thursday, he declared that the health care law "is here to stay."

The law is also known as Obamacare.

Representative John Boehner is a Republican lawmaker from Ohio.

He said Republicans will continue to try to get the law reversed.

Republicans already voted more than 50 times to cancel the law.

The Republicans oppose Obama's Democratic Party.

They do not think the government should force people to have health insurance.

They also do not think the government should make health insurance cheaper.

Chief Justice John Roberts is the head of the Supreme Court.

He voted in favor of the law.

He said lawmakers passed the health care law to help people get health care.

Lawmakers do not want to prevent people from getting it.

Justice Antonin Scalia strongly disagreed.

He had strong words for justices who supported the law.

Scalia said the Supreme Court of the United States plays favorites.

Across the country, 10.2 million people signed up for health insurance.

About 8.7 million people are getting help to pay their insurance bills.

They receive an average of $272 a month.

The Supreme Court decision was important.

About 6.4 million were in danger of losing that aid.

The Supreme Court decision was especially important for hospitals.

It meant that they would not have to deal with a lot of sick people without health insurance.

Experts were concerned what would happen if the court voted no.

They worried that many people would stop their insurance if they did not have help paying for it.

The law is 900 pages long.

The opponents of the law relied on four words to challenge it.

These words were "established by the state."

The law set up health insurance marketplaces.

The marketplaces let people shop for health plans.

About three dozen states decided against creating their own marketplaces.

Instead, they let people use the national government's marketplace.

The challengers argued that the national government could only give money to people in states with their own marketplaces.

Democrat lawmakers in Congress and 22 states disagreed.

They told the Supreme Court that the law made no sense that way.

The law is supposed to increase the number of people with health insurance.

It is not supposed to decrease the number.

Also, the law requires almost everyone to be insured.

If there are too few people getting insured, insurance bills will go up for everyone else.

