U.S. passports are documents issued by the government that allow U.S. citizens to travel to other countries.

Passports list the passport holder's place of birth.

If you were born in Paris, for example, your passport would list your country of birth as France.

It is not as simple for Americans born in Jerusalem.

The problem is that Israelis and Palestinians both claim Jerusalem.

Israel controls the city now, but Palestinians, who do not yet have their own country, say East Jerusalem should belong to them.

In 2002, Congress passed a law that allowed Americans born in Jerusalem to list their birthplace as Israel on their U.S. passports.

On Monday, the Supreme Court struck that law down.

There are nine judges, or justices, on the Supreme Court.

The justices ruled 6-3 that Congress overstepped its bounds when it approved the law in 2002.

The law contradicted the government's long-standing policy of not listing Israel as the birthplace for Jerusalem-born Americans.

The U.S. government has refused to recognize any nation's control over Jerusalem, until Israelis and Palestinians settle their dispute.

Justice Anthony Kennedy said in his majority opinion that the president has the sole power to recognize foreign nations — to formally recognize their right to exist.

Part of that authority is the power to determine what a passport says.

"Recognition is a topic on which the nation must speak with one voice.

That voice must be the president's," Kennedy wrote.

The ruling ends a 12-year-old lawsuit by a Jerusalem-born American, Menachem Zivotofsky, and his U.S. citizen parents.

The Zivotofskys wanted their son to have Israel listed as the birthplace on their son's passport.

Three of the justices dissented from — disagreed with — the majority opinion.

Justice Antonin Scalia declared that the Constitution "divides responsibility for foreign affairs between Congress and the president."

Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito joined Scalia in dissenting.

Roberts said the court's decision is dangerously groundbreaking.

"The court takes the perilous step — for the first time in our history — of allowing the president to defy an act of Congress in the field of foreign affairs," Roberts wrote.

Disagreement over Jerusalem has for years been among the most difficult problems in Israeli-Palestinian relations.

Israel has controlled all of Jerusalem since the Six-Day War in 1967 when it captured East Jerusalem, and it has proclaimed a united Jerusalem as its eternal capital.

The Palestinians have declared that East Jerusalem will be the capital of the independent nation they hope to create.

Inevitably, those tensions played a part in the court's decision.

"A delicate subject lies in the background of this case," Justice Kennedy noted on Monday.

"That subject is Jerusalem."

Congress and the White House have argued for years over support for Israel's position on Jerusalem.

U.S. government policy has long been to not recognize any nation's rights over Jerusalem until the dispute is resolved through negotiations.

Congress has often sided with Israel.

For years, it has tried to push presidents to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital.

In 2002, Congress managed to push through the passport law, which for the first time allowed Americans born in Jerusalem to have their place of birth listed as Israel.

Since then, however, the law has not been enforced, so Jerusalem-born Americans have not been able to list it as their birthplace on their passports.

President George W. Bush signed the 2002 law but said that "U.S. policy regarding Jerusalem has not changed."

Obama has taken the same position.

Israel's government declined to comment on Monday's decision.

An Israeli government spokesman said Israel does not comment on rulings by foreign courts.

