Hurricane and Jordan are a pair of Secret Service dogs.

On Thursday, they returned to duty after being injured as they helped take down a White House fence jumper.

The two quickly became stars.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest praised the duo.

The Secret Service released their pictures and some details about them on Twitter: "Jordan — black/tan Belgian Malinois, brown eyes, age 5, enjoys walks around (the) White House."

Jordan and Hurricane, age 6, were taken to a veterinarian.

The two were treated for minor bruising.

They were later released and "cleared to return to duty," Secret Service spokesman Brian Leary said.

News video of the incident showed the intruder kicking and wrestling with the dogs.

Dominic Adesanya, age 23, was charged with attacking police officers — the dogs.

He was also charged with resisting arrest, unlawful entry and making threats.

Adesanya was unarmed at the time of his arrest.

He was treated at a local hospital for dog bites.

His capture after jumping the fence was a bit of good news for the agency.

The Secret Service has been much criticized since last month, when a man with a knife in his pocket managed to climb over the fence.

The intruder ran across the lawn and got inside the White House before being caught.

President Barack Obama had just left moments before the man scaled the fence.

When last month's break-in occurred, the dog teams that protect the White House were not released.

Fans of Hurricane and Jordan quickly suggested that they be awarded a presidential medal.

Earnest made it clear the two dogs are working animals.

They are unlikely, he said, to mix with the president and his family, or with Bo and Sunny, the Obama family's pets.

Bo and Sunny are both Portuguese water dogs and often greet visitors to the mansion.

"The animals that performed so bravely last night," Earnest said, do not normally mix with White House staff and visitors.

"I think the individual last night probably saw pretty vividly why we all keep our distance."

For its guard dogs, the Secret Service uses Belgian Malinois, which are full of energy and are very fast.

The dogs are trained for 20 weeks before they begin working, then go through eight hours of retraining each week.

The dogs stay with their handlers 24 hours a day and "become members of the family," the service said.

They stay with their handlers after retirement, which is usually at about 10 years old.

According to Animal Planet, the Belgian Malinois is an "ideal watchdog and guard dog."

It is very "protective of its home and family."

It a serious crime to kill or injure a federal police dog.

Adesanya faces from one to 10 years in prison for attacking the two dogs.

