Hurricane and Jordan, a pair of Secret Service dogs who were injured as they helped take down a White House fence jumper, got the all-clear to return to duty Thursday.

Back on the job, they quickly became stars.

Their success was a welcome change for the Secret Service, which has been much criticized for its poor performance during another recent incident.

White House press secretary Josh Earnest hailed the canine duo at a daily press briefing Thursday.

The Secret Service tweeted out their service pictures and mini-bios: "Jordan — black/tan Belgian Malinois, brown eyes, age 5, enjoys walks around (the) White House."

Jordan and Hurricane, age 6, were taken to a veterinarian Wednesday and treated for "minor bruising," Secret Service spokesman Brian Leary said.

They were later released and "cleared to return to duty by the veterinarian," Leary said.

News footage of the incident showed the intruder wrestling and kicking the dogs on the North Lawn of the White House.

Dominic Adesanya, 23, of Bel Air, Maryland, was charged with two felony counts of assault on a police officer — the dogs.

He was also charged with four counts of resisting arrest and unlawful entry and one count of making threats.

Adesanya, who was unarmed at the time of his arrest and was treated at a local hospital for dog bites, was in custody with the U.S.

Marshals Service for previous outstanding warrants, and a court date was pending.

His capture after vaulting the fence was a bit of good news for the agency, which has come under heavy criticism since last month, when a man with a knife in his pocket managed to scale the fence.

The intruder ran across the lawn and got inside the White House before he was apprehended.

President Barack Obama had just left for Camp David moments before the man climbed over the fence.

When last month's break-in occurred, the dog teams that protect the White House were not released.

Fans of Hurricane and Jordan quickly suggested that the doggy duo be awarded a presidential medal.

During the daily press briefing, Earnest hailed Adesanya's takedown.

Reporters, however, noted that Adesanya had made it over two layers of fence: the permanent fence, plus a shorter temporary fence installed after the September breach.

The latest fence jumping came hours after Obama, in the Oval Office, warned of the importance of vigilance in the wake of a shooting at the Canadian Parliament building.

Earnest said the apprehension "underscores the professionalism of the men and women of the Secret Service."

As for Hurricane and Jordan, Earnest made it plain they are working animals and are unlikely to mix with the first family.

They also probably won't be spending any time with the Obama family pets, Bo and Sunny, the Portuguese water dogs who often greet visitors to the mansion.

"The animals that performed so bravely last night are not something that we come into regular contact with here," Earnest said.

"I think that there's probably a good reason why these animals are kept at some remove from employees and others who frequent the grounds of the White House.

I think the individual last night probably saw pretty vividly why we all keep our distance."

The Secret Service uses Belgian Malinois, a short-haired breed that packs considerable speed and energy into its small frame.

The service began its dog program in 1975 because it was found to be the most effective way of detecting explosives.

The dogs, which the service says are "very sociable," undergo 20 weeks of training with a handler before they begin working.

After graduating from basic training, each dog retrains eight hours a week during its career.

The dogs stay with their uniformed division handlers 24 hours a day and "become members of the family," the service said.

They stay with their handlers after retirement, generally at about 10 years of age.

The breed is an "ideal watchdog and guard dog," Animal Planet says, and is "protective of its home and family."

The Humane Society of the United States said it backed Adesanya's prosecution under a law that makes it a felony to kill or seriously injure any federal police dog or horse.

Penalties range from one to 10 years in prison.

