Hurricane and Jordan are a pair of Secret Service dogs.

Their job is to protect the U.S. president and his family.

On Thursday, they returned to work after being injured.

They had helped take down a White House fence jumper.

The two dogs quickly became stars.

Josh Earnest works for the White House.

On Thursday, he called the two hero dogs.

The Secret Service released their pictures.

They also described the dogs a bit: Jordan, for example, "enjoys walks around (the) White House."

He is 5 years old, has black and tan fur and brown eyes.

Jordan and Hurricane, age 6, were taken to an animal doctor.

The two were treated for a bit of bruising.

They were later released and "cleared to return to duty," the Secret Service said.

The intruder was 23-year-old Dominic Adesanya.

He kicked and wrestled with the dogs.

Adesanya was charged with attacking police officers — the dogs.

Adesanya was unarmed at the time of his arrest.

He was treated at a hospital for dog bites.

His capture was a bit of good news for the Secret Service.

Many have been angry with the service over something that happened last month.

In September, another man managed to climb over the White House fence.

He had a knife in his pocket.

The intruder got much farther than he should have.

He ran across the lawn and got inside the White House before being caught.

President Barack Obama had just left moments before the man climbed over the fence.

No guard dogs were let loose during last month's break-in.

Hurricane and Jordan now have many fans.

Some suggested that the president should give each dog a medal.

Earnest explained that the two dogs are working animals.

They are unlikely, he said, to mix with the president and his family.

They also will not be playing with Bo and Sunny, the Obama family's pets.

Bo and Sunny are both Portuguese water dogs.

The two often greet visitors to the White House.

The Secret Service uses Belgian Malinois as its guard dogs.

Belgian Malinois are full of energy and very fast.

The dogs are trained for 20 weeks before they begin working.

Then they go through eight hours of training each week.

The dogs stay with their handlers 24 hours a day.

They "become members of the family," the service said.

They stay with their families after retirement too.

Usually they stop working when they are about 10 years old.

Animal Planet calls the Belgian Malinois the perfect guard dog.

It is very "protective of its home and family."

It a serious crime to hurt or kill a police dog.

Adesanya could spend up to 10 years in prison for attacking the two dogs.

