Svalbard is a very special island.

It sits in the Arctic Ocean.

The Arctic Ocean is far north, near the North Pole.

The island is between the North Pole and a country called Norway.

It is very cold and parts of it are covered in snow.

On the island there is a giant safe dug into a mountain.

It is called the Svalbard Global Seed Vault.

A vault is a safe that is big enough to walk around in.

The seed vault has huge rooms.

Giant doors keep out the wind and cold.

Inside there are many boxes on shelves.

Each box is full of packets of seeds.

The seeds are kept there to make sure that humans will always be able to grow food.

A seed vault is also called a seed bank.

There are seed banks all around the world.

The one in Svalbard is a backup for the others.

It keeps extra seeds just in case.

The vault is strong like the boat in the story of Noah's Ark.

Yet this is not a boat.

It is a giant safe that stores seeds instead of animals.

The builders say it is strong enough to last 1,000 years.

The Svalbard Global Seed Vault keeps seeds for a few reasons.

One is to grow new food.

If some types of plants disappear, farmers can get seeds from Svalbard.

Cary Fowler works at the seed vault.

He says it also saves examples of plants.

Some are not grown at all anymore.

Fowler said that the vault is "a library of life."

Farmers only grow plants that a lot of people like.

Scientists say that is not enough.

Years ago, farmers grew more types of plants.

For instance, farmers used to grow thousands of types of apples.

Now they only grow a few hundred types.

Scientists are worried about that.

Sometimes plants get diseases.

The diseases can wipe out plants.

Scientists say farmers should grow more kinds just in case.

The seed vault has seeds for many of the older crops.

Storing seeds is not new.

Farmers used to save seeds after every season.

They made sure that they could grow food the next year.

Scientists still save seeds.

Now they are kept in seed banks like the Svalbard Global Seed Vault.

The seeds will be there if we need them.

