There is something unusual on a remote island in the Arctic Ocean, between Norway and the North Pole.

It is a vault, dug into a mountain, under several hundred feet of rock and a blanket of snow.

Huge steel doors keep out the wind and bitter cold.

A long tunnel leads to several concrete rooms.

There, harsh, bright bulbs shine on thousands of black boxes.

The containers are crowded on to rows and rows of shelves.

Each box is stuffed with dozens of tightly sealed, silver packets.

They are actually handfuls of seeds that serve as insurance.

The seeds are there to make sure that we will always have food in the future.

The Svalbard Global Seed Vault opened in 2008 as backup for seed banks scattered around the world that might someday be threatened.

It is isolated from earthquakes, heat waves, human interference and other disasters.

The vault is a sort of Noah's Ark for plants, surrounded by miles of sea and acres of ice, and made to withstand all sorts of threats.

The hope is that the vault is built well enough to survive 1,000 years, and any event that might wipe out a plant species.

The vault has only been open for seven years, but one of its customers is already making a withdrawal.

The International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) donated 325 seed boxes originally, and now is taking 130 back.

ICARDA had its own seed vault in Aleppo, Syria.

Two years ago, the group had to move because of the country's civil war.

It then sent the boxes of seeds to Svalbard for safekeeping and searched for a new home base.

Now it is resettled in Beirut, Lebanon, and wants some of its seeds back.

Though the Svalbard Global Seed Vault is often thought of as a storage center built to protect against global famine, it was also made for problems like ICARDA's.

Cary Fowler, who helps run the vault, does not like the doomsday description.

He says, "We're not people who run around with signs saying 'Repent, the end is near.'"

Fowler goes on to say that crops are losing biodiversity, or variety.

Fewer types of plants exist, but not because of an environmental problem.

He points to a made-made reason.

Farmers all over the world are abandoning many crop varieties for the ones they know will sell.

Why bother growing a type of apple that is really only good in pie?

Instead, they grow millions of bushels of the popular Red Delicious every year.

The United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that for this reason, 75 percent of plant diversity has been lost in the past century.

According to the FAO, there are now more than 250,000 species of plants that humans can eat.

Some have hundreds or even thousands of different varieties.

However, those numbers are decreasing.

For example, 100 years ago there were more than 7,000 kinds of apples in the United States.

In a recent TED Talk video, Fowler said all but 300 of those are now gone.

Luckily, some still exist in seed banks.

"I guess I see it as a library, a library of life, that gives the history and culture of agriculture and protects it, but it's also a resource for the future" Fowler said.

The FAO and Fowler both argue that having limited plant variety options puts humankind at risk.

If farmers are only growing a few types of apples, what happens if a disease wipes them all out?

The FAO also notes that wheat, rice and corn make up nearly two-thirds of all food consumed today.

It would be devastating if a disease destroyed those crops.

A wheat rust, or fungus, is currently destroying crops in Africa and the Middle East.

By one estimate, about 90 percent of the world's wheat varieties are at risk.

Scientists are trying to stop the fungus from spreading.

The world's food supply could be badly hurt if they cannot.

Storing and preserving seeds is not new.

In an area in the Middle East called the Fertile Crescent, during agriculture's very beginning, farmers would save seeds each harvest.

Then they could guarantee a crop the next year.

The seeds were buried underground in baskets full of ash, or sealed in adobe containers and stored in thatched huts.

If the seeds did not make it through the year, the community itself might perish.

For all of these reasons, researchers continue to save plants in seed banks all over the world.

They are also saving replacement seeds at The Svalbard Global Seed Vault.

These seeds just might save humans if disaster or global warming threatens the world's crops.

Maybe that long-gone apple variety could survive hot summers better than the Red Delicious.

If so, the Svalbard Global Seed Vault will have it.

