On a remote Arctic island, beneath several hundred feet of rock, and a blanket of snow, is a unique kind of vault.

It sticks out of the side of a mountain, and has two imposing steel doors that lock out the wind and bitter cold.

A long tunnel leads to a number of concrete rooms behind the doors.

There, harsh, fluorescent bulbs illuminate thousands of black boxes crowded upon row after row of shelves.

Each box is full of dozens of heat-sealed silver packets.

Each one holds a handful of seeds serving as insurance that humankind will always have food in the future.

The Svalbard Global Seed Vault opened in 2008 as backup for seed banks around the world, whose own stores of seeds might someday be threatened by disaster.

Svalbard is isolated from the possibility of earthquakes, heat waves, human menace and other kinds of calamity, by miles of sea and acres of ice.

The seed storage unit is a sort of Noah's Ark for plants.

It is made to withstand all cataclysmic possibilities, such as war, crop-disease, climate change and asteroid impact.

The expectation is that the vault is built well enough to survive 1,000 years, and anything that might wipe out plant species.

The global seed vault has only been operating for seven years, but one of its seed bank customers is already making a withdrawal.

The International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) is taking 130 of its storage boxes back.

According to the Reuters news service, until two years ago, the ICARDA organization stored thousands of seeds in its own vault in Aleppo, Syria.

Like so many other important institutions there, ICARDA was displaced by the devastating civil war.

It sent 325 boxes of duplicate seeds to Svalbard for safekeeping while it searched for a new home base.

Now that it is resettled in in Beirut, Lebanon, the organization wants some of its samples back.

Though the Svalbard Global Seed Vault is often thought of as a storage facility built to protect against global famine, it was also made for situations like that of ICARDA.

Cary Fowler, an adviser who helps in caring for the vault, does not like the doomsday description.

He says, "We're not people who run around with signs saying 'Repent, the end is near.'"

He continues, "We're losing biodiversity right now, and it isn't necessarily because of some global catastrophe."

Fowler also says there is another good reason the vault is needed.

Certain types of crops are going extinct.

Farmers all over the world are abandoning many crop varieties for the ones they know will sell.

Why bother growing a blush-colored Tenderskin apple, which is really only good in pie, when millions of bushels of the popular Red Delicious sell every year?

The United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimates that 75 percent of plant genetic diversity has been lost in the past century.

The act of storing and preserving seeds dates back to the very beginnings of agriculture, in an area in the Middle East called the Fertile Crescent.

By saving some seeds each harvest, farmers could guarantee the next year's crops.

According to one magazine, the seeds were buried underground in baskets full of ash, then sealed in adobe containers and stored in thatched huts.

If the seeds did not make it through the year, the community itself would likely perish.

During the 10,000 years after agriculture's start, careful cultivation created a vast array of edible plants.

The FAO says there are now more than 250,000 species, and hundreds or even thousands of varieties of each.

Even so, those numbers are dwindling.

For example,100 years ago there were more than 7,000 kinds of apples grown in the United States, yet Fowler said in a recent TED Talk video that all but 300 are now extinct.

Those that vanished are kept alive only in seed banks like the one in Svalbard.

He further explained the seed vault in an interview the Atlantic magazine: "I guess I see it as a library, a library of life, that gives the history and culture of agriculture and protects it, but it's also a resource for the future."

The FAO and Fowler both argue that fewer options put us at risk.

If farmers are only growing a few types of apples, what is to be done if a crop disease wipes them all out?

They also note that wheat, rice and corn account for nearly two-thirds of all food consumed today.

It would be even more frightening if disaster struck those crops.

In fact, a similar situation is happening right now.

Plant pathologists are anxiously investigating a wheat rust, or fungus, known as Ug99.

It started 10 years ago, and has destroyed countless acres of crops in Africa and the Middle East.

According to The Scientist Magazine, about 90 percent of the world's wheat varieties are threatened by the rust.

If the disease spreads globally, it could ravage the world's food supply.

For all of these reasons, researchers have begun tucking away all varieties of plants in seed banks around the world.

Should rust, blight, rising seas, or even a changing climate threaten the world's essential crops, these seeds just might save humankind.

The extinct Tenderskin apple could possibly survive hotter summers better than the Red Delicious.

An ancient strain of Syrian wheat might even one day be what is needed to keep agriculture going, and the Svalbard Global Seed Vault will have it.

