We may not own cars in the future, much less drive them.

Self-driving cars, ride-sharing companies like Uber, and traffic jams are all on the rise.

New environmental laws to limit gasoline use in cars are coming.

As a result, personal transportation is at the point of major change.

A glimpse of the coming revolution can be seen in the cars on display this week at the Los Angeles Auto Show.

Hidden under their hoods and dashboards are sensors.

The sensors are the first steps toward self-driving cars.

Already, cars can park themselves, slam on the brakes to avoid crashes and adjust steering to stay centered in a lane.

The change will go well beyond who is — or isn't — at the controls.

For a century, cars have been symbols of freedom and wealth.

Passengers of the future may someday view vehicles as just another form of public transportation, like buses.

Buying fast cars for garages could turn into buying trips in cars, piloted by robots and parked in public stalls.

"There will come a time when driving the car is like riding the horse," said Peter Schwartz, who writes about how businesses might look in the future.

"Some people will still like to do it, but most of us won't."

Automakers will find themselves fighting off new challengers.

Google is already building a fleet of experimental self-driving cars.

Schwartz believes that California may set aside lanes for self-driving vehicles within 10 years.

This transformation will change how cars are designed, said Harald Belker, a former Mercedes-Benz designer.

Belker now creates cars for movies set in the future, including "Iron Man 2" and "Total Recall."

"You can have a two-seater where the passengers face each other," Belker said.

Gasoline may give way to hydrogen, batteries or both.

Or there could be some new power source.

Certainly, there are doubters.

"You have to be careful about one of those predictions for the future that we will all be wrong about," said Beau Boeckmann, who runs car dealerships.

The automobile, Boeckmann said, is one of the "few mechanical objects that people fall in love with."

He believes there will always be people who want to own a car and drive it.

However, they are likely to let the car drive itself in heavy traffic and other situations, he said.

People still will want to own vehicles for various needs, said James Lentz, who runs Toyota's North American operations.

They might travel long distances daily.

Some might have a big family to haul around.

Others might need to move supplies if they own a business.

In the future, Lentz thinks self-driving cars will act "more as a co-pilot."

It will allow people to drive well into their 90s, longer than previous generations.

Doubters of self-driving cars, however, should consider how many people felt about the horseless carriage — what they first called cars — more than a century ago, said Adam Jonas, an auto expert.

Then, he said, many asked: Why would anyone want to replace a horse "trustily pulling your comfortable carriage with an unreliable, oil-spurting heap of gears, belts and chains?"

The increased use of computers in transportation will open the industry to new companies.

And automakers will move to create transportation companies, or sell their vehicles to them.

These new companies will allow people to rent cars for short trips.

"Selling us trips will be where the profits are — not making cars," said Geoff Wardle, who runs a transportation program at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena.

Currently, most cars sit idle at least 22 hours a day.

"What else do we buy for so much money and then not use it?"

asked Wardle.

Meanwhile, regulations are increasing in the United States and globally.

This is forcing automakers to make more environmentally friendly cars that burn less gas.

As automakers adapt, its going to be harder to find the types of fast cars to satisfy your dreams of being a race car driver.

Cars will slowly, steadily take over more of the driving, Schwartz said.

"You surrender a little control in stages," he said.

"You don't have to make one big leap."

Over time, people's emotional feelings toward their cars will fade away.

"The robot will take over," Wardle said.

"In the end, people will think: Why am I even bothering to drive at all?"

