We may not own cars in the future, much less drive them.

Self-driving cars, ride-sharing, traffic jams and environmental regulation are all on the rise.

As a result, personal transportation is on the cusp of its greatest transformation since the invention of the gas engine.

A glimpse of the coming revolution can be seen in the models debuting this week at the Los Angeles Auto Show.

Hidden under their hoods and dashboards are sensors that take the first steps toward self-driving cars.

Already, cars can park themselves, slam on the brakes to avoid crashes and adjust steering to stay centered in a lane.

The change will go well beyond who is — or isn't — at the controls.

For a century, cars have been symbols of freedom and wealth.

Passengers of the future may well view vehicles as just another form of public transportation, to be bought by the trip.

Buying flashy, fast cars for garages could turn into buying time slots on driverless cars, piloted by robots, parked in public stalls.

"There will come a time when driving the car is like riding the horse," said Peter Schwartz, a futurist who writes about how businesses may look someday.

"Some people will still like to do it, but most of us won't."

Companies such as Enterprise Rent-A-Car and Uber will compete with car dealers, taxi companies and even automakers.

Automakers will find themselves fending off new challengers.

Google is already building a fleet of experimental self-driving cars.

Schwartz believes that California may set aside lanes for self-driving vehicles within 10 years.

This transformation will change how designers style cars, said Harald Belker, a former Mercedes-Benz designer.

Belker now creates cars for science fiction movies including "Iron Man 2" and "Total Recall."

"You can have a two-seater where the passengers face each other," Belker said.

Gasoline may give way to hydrogen, batteries or both — or some as-yet-unimagined power source.

Certainly, there are skeptics.

"You have to be careful about one of those predictions for the future that we will all be wrong about," said Beau Boeckmann, president of Galpin Motors, which owns the largest Ford dealership in the country.

The automobile, Boeckmann said, is among the "few mechanical objects that people fall in love with."

He believes there will always be people who want to own a car and drive it, though they are likely to take advantage of autopilot in heavy traffic and other situations.

James Lentz, head of Toyota's North American operations, also questions a future of completely driverless cars.

"You will still have people who have the passion for driving the cars and feeling the road," Lentz said.

"There may be times when they want the cars to drive them, but they won't be buying autonomous-only cars."

People still will want to own vehicles for various needs, he said.

Some might live in a rural area and travel long distances daily.

Others might have a big family to haul around.

Small business owners might need a car to transport supplies.

In the short term, self-driving cars will improve safety, Lentz said.

Longer term, automation will act "more as a co-pilot" than a chauffeur, he said.

This will allow the current generation of baby boomers to drive well into their 90s, longer than previous generations.

Skeptics, however, should consider the cynicism that greeted the horseless carriage — what they first called cars — more than a century ago, said Adam Jonas, an auto analyst.

He said that doubters asked why anyone would want to replace a horse "trustily pulling your comfortable carriage with an unreliable, oil-spurting heap of gears, belts and chains?"

The increased use of computing power in transportation will open the industry to new entrants.

Automakers that survive will shift most of their business to create transit companies, or to selling their vehicles to those who do.

"Selling us trips will be where the profits are — not making cars," Wardle said.

Currently, most cars sit idle, requiring storage, at least 22 hours a day.

"What else do we buy for so much money and then not use it?"

Wardle asked.

Meanwhile, regulations are increasing in the United States and globally.

This is forcing automakers to make more environmentally friendly cars that get more miles per gallon of gas.

As automakers adapt, it is going to be harder to find a car that satisfies your dreams of being a race car driver.

Cars will slowly, steadily take over more of the driving, Schwartz said.

"You surrender a little control in stages," he said.

"You don't have to make one big leap."

Over time, the emotional link drivers feel with their cars will continue to fade away.

"The robot will take over," Wardle said.

"In the end, people will think: Why am I even bothering to drive at all?"

