Where some Senate candidates live could matter in the next election as much as how they vote.

Some of the candidates list Washington, D.C., not the states where they are running, as their home address.

Others moved into their states just before the election.

Some argue that they're just using the states as a way to get into the Senate.

Election rules say that Senate candidates have to live in the states they want to represent.

The rules can be fuzzy.

The issue is heating up in several states with important Senate races.

These include Alaska, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana and New Hampshire.

The outcome of these races could determine whether the Republican Party or the Democratic Party controls the Senate.

Members of each party have more or less the same ideas about running the government and tend to vote in the same way.

Right now, it's not popular for elected officials to look or sound too much like Washington politicians.

Many people think politicians will do anything to get into power and say what they think people want to hear.

Just about 14 percent of voters have positive thoughts about Congress.

About 70 percent of voters think the country is on the wrong track.

Sarah Binder is an expert on Congress.

She works at the Brookings Institute, which researches government policies.

Binder said that many people worry that lawmakers are out of touch with the people in their home states.

"Voters don't like to be forgotten," she said.

Also, challengers are always eager to find something to attack the current office holders.

Already this year, the out-of-touch charge helped defeat House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Republican from Virginia.

To many, he seemed more interested in Washington than in Virginia.

Two years ago, the same thing helped end the 36-year Senate career of Richard Lugar.

He was a Republican from Indiana.

Senator Pat Roberts is a Republican from Kansas.

He has struggled to answer questions about where he lives.

He once said he returns to Kansas whenever someone runs against him.

The senator does not own a home in Kansas.

He registered to vote at the home of a person in his Senate district.

Roberts said he paid rent to the owner of the home.

The issue came up again last week.

"I suspect, senator, I've been to Dodge City more times this year than you have," said Greg Orman.

He is running against Roberts as an independent candidate.

Dan Sullivan, the Republican who's challenging Democratic Senator Mark Begich, moved to the state 17 years ago.

Sullivan went to Washington in 2002 to work for the government.

He kept his home in Alaska and returned there in 2009.

Now Begich is attacking Sullivan for spending so much time away from Alaska.

Republican Representative Tom Cotton is running against Democratic Senator Mark Pryor.

Cotton does not own property in the state.

He points out that he is a sixth-generation Arkansan and lives in his father's home.

Cotton filmed a commercial in front of that house, where he promises, "I'll stay connected to my roots."

Pryor also put his father in an ad.

His father is David Pryor, a former Arkansas governor and senator.

Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu listed her Washington address as her home when she registered her Senate candidacy.

Republicans tried without success to get her off the ballot.

They said she lived in Washington, not Louisiana.

Landrieu said she still lived in Louisiana, and that she and her family own the family home in New Orleans where she grew up.

When Republican Senator Thad Cochran registered as a candidate, he said he lived in Washington.

In February, he changed that to Oxford, Mississippi, where he owns a home.

Republican challenger Chris McDaniel said Cochran was spending too much time in Washington.

McDaniel promised he would return to the state frequently.

He lost the Republican primary election to Cochran.

Scott Brown represented Massachusetts in the Senate from 2010 until 2013.

Now he's running for the Senate in New Hampshire.

Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen is reminding voters of his recent switch.

"This is my home.

This is where my kids grew up," she has said.

"My goal has been to serve the people of New Hampshire, not to serve myself."

Back in Kansas, Roberts spent 97 days from July 2011 to August 2013 in Kansas.

Clay Barker is the head of the Kansas Republican Party.

He said this should not be an issue for voters.

"If you send a guy to Washington, D.C., to work for you there, do you want him always back in Kansas watching TV?"

Barker said.

"His workplace is D.C."

