In the upcoming elections, where some Senate candidates live could matter as much as how they vote.

Some of the candidates list Washington, D.C., not the states where they are running, as their home addresses.

Others moved into their states just before the election, prompting criticism that they're just using the states as a way to get into the Senate.

Election rules say that Senate candidates have to live in the states they want to represent.

The rules can be fuzzy.

The issue is heating up in several states with key Senate races.

These include Alaska, Arkansas, Kansas, Louisiana and New Hampshire.

The outcome of these races could determine whether Republicans or Democrats control the Senate.

This comes at a time when it's not popular for elected officials to look or sound too much like Washington politicians.

Many people think politicians only say what they think people want to hear.

Just about 14 percent of voters have a favorable view of Congress, while roughly 70 percent of voters think the country is on the wrong track.

Sarah Binder is an expert on Congress and politics.

She works at the Brookings Institute, a Washington think tank that researches government policies.

Binder said that many people worry that lawmakers are out of touch with the people in the states they represent.

"Voters don't like to be forgotten," she said.

Also, challengers are always eager to find issues on which to attack incumbents, which means the current office holders.

Already this year, the out-of-touch charge helped defeat House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Republican from Virginia.

To many, he seemed more interested in Washington than his district.

He lost a primary election this year to a little-known opponent, David Brat.

Two years ago, a similar controversy helped end the 36-year Senate career of Richard Lugar, a Republican from Indiana.

Republican Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas, who faces re-election this year, has struggled to answer questions about where he lives.

He told an interviewer he returns to Kansas whenever someone runs against him.

The senator does not own a home in Kansas.

He was registered to vote at the home of a person in his Senate district, where, Roberts said, he paid rent.

The issue surfaced again last week during a debate.

"I suspect, senator, I've been to Dodge City more times this year than you have," said challenger Greg Orman, who is running as an independent candidate.

Similar controversies have surfaced elsewhere.

Dan Sullivan, the Republican who's challenging Democratic Senator Mark Begich, moved to the state 17 years ago.

Sullivan went to Washington in 2002 to work for the National Security Council.

He kept his home in Alaska and returned there in 2009.

Now Begich is attacking him for spending so much time out of the state.

Republican Representative Tom Cotton, who's running against Democratic Senator Mark Pryor, doesn't own property in Arkansas.

Cotton does point out that he is a sixth-generation Arkansan and lives in a home his father owns.

Cotton is running a television ad, filmed in front of that house, where he pledges, "I'll stay connected to my roots."

Pryor also features his father, David Pryor, a former governor and senator, in an ad to highlight his own connection to the state.

Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu is in a close re-election fight and has been criticized for her luxurious home in Washington.

She listed the Washington address as her home when she registered to run for office with the Federal Election Commission.

Republicans tried without success to get her off the ballot, saying that she lived in Washington, not Louisiana.

Landrieu said she still lived in Louisiana, and that she, her siblings and their mother own the family home in New Orleans where she grew up.

When Republican Senator Thad Cochran registered as a candidate, he listed his address as 218-A Maryland Ave. in Washington.

In February, he changed it to Oxford, Mississippi, where he owns a home.

Republican challenger Chris McDaniel based his campaign on Cochran spending too much time in Washington.

McDaniel promised he would return to the state frequently if he got elected.

Cochran won the Republican primary election.

Republican Scott Brown represented Massachusetts in the Senate from 2010 until 2013.

Now he's running for the Senate in neighboring New Hampshire.

New Hampshire incumbent Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, who is running against Brown, is reminding voters of his recent switch.

"This is my home.

This is where my kids grew up," she has said.

"My goal has been to serve the people of New Hampshire, not to serve myself."

Back in Kansas, Roberts spent a total of 97 days from July 2011 to August 2013 in the state, according to Senate records.

Clay Barker, the Kansas Republican Party executive director, said this shouldn't be an issue for voters.

"If you send a guy to Washington, D.C., to work for you there, do you want him always back in Kansas watching TV?"

Barker said.

"His workplace is D.C." The controversy lingers.

"I think the residency will haunt him all the way up through Election Day," said Bob Beatty, a political science professor at Washburn University in Topeka.

"It's just like a ghost that won't go away."

