Fake service-dog certificates, vests and harnesses for use on ordinary pets are showing up all over.

Supporters of the disabled say this is creating big headaches for those who truly need the animals' help.

The problem has gotten so bad that the nation's largest breeding and training service-dog program launched an online petition last week asking the U.S. Department of Justice to take action.

"Unfortunately, people are trading on the fact these harnesses and vests have become distinguishing marks of service dogs," said Paul Mundell, national director of Canine Companions for Independence.

Now there are shady businesses that sell the items to people who want to take their dog into a store, a restaurant or the passenger cabin of an airplane.

"It happens all the time," he said.

Mundell was on a recent flight to Orlando.

He said he saw a man with a tiny dog.

The man walked off their flight to the baggage area, removed the dog's "service animal" vest, and left the airport.

"It was quite clear that he was simply using the vest to get cabin privileges," Mundell said.

Under the federal Americans With Disabilities Act, any building or organization that serves the public generally must allow service animals.

They can accompany those with disabilities in all areas of the facility where the public is normally allowed to go.

And questions are limited.

When it's not obvious what service an animal provides, workers may only ask if the service animal is required because of a disability, and what tasks the dog has been trained to perform.

Legally, they can't ask for documentation.

Some say that fact is being exploited.

"There's no penalty for people in Florida who fraudulently claim their dog is a service animal," said Paul Edwards, president of the Florida Council of the Blind.

"There are some of us who feel it isn't unreasonable to ask folks to carry identification for dogs that shows them to be a trained service animal.

Most legitimate service-dog organizations do issue those.

The danger is that you may throw the baby out with the bathwater."

Some advocates are worried that doing so may put a burden on those with disabilities to prove their dog is genuinely a service dog.

But others say that because of the widespread fraud, humans are already facing more hassles.

"It has become an epidemic," said Kris Baker, 63, who lives in Orlando.

"Somebody will take Fluffy with them into a restaurant, and the dog will bark or snap at someone, or poop on the floor.

So when we come in with a legitimate dog, we get the questions and the resentment.

It's harder for us."

Baker had polio as a child and has used a wheelchair for 30 years.

Her dog pulls her along when she gets tired, opens and closes doors.

The dog picks up things Baker drops and assists in other ways.

Baker is sometimes asked by people where they can get a service-animal vest for their dog.

"This is not something that is for pets," she said.

"This is an indication of training that my dog and I have been through.

These dogs are the brain surgeons of the canine world."

Luke McGregor also has to do his share of educating.

On a flight home from New York last week, the 48-year-old saw a woman who claimed to have an "emotional-support dog."

But it whined and scratched at its cage throughout the trip, behavior considered unacceptable in a legitimately trained service dog.

He could do little more than roll his eyes at the scene.

But McGregor, who uses a wheelchair and CCI dog, knows he'll be left to deal with the fallout from such stunts.

"I'm already stopped in restaurants and grocery stores sometimes.

Workers say (wrongly), 'You can't bring that dog in here,'" McGregor said.

"There will be a time when the public is going to reach critical mass regarding all of the alleged service dogs out there.

And we will suffer for it."

In 2011, the Department of Justice specified dogs as the only legally protected assistance animals.

Before that, some people were claiming monkeys, snakes and other creatures were helping them cope with disabilities.

The department also clarified the definition of a service dog as one that is "individually trained to do work or perform tasks for a person with a disability."

Some states have laws against residents pretending to have a legally protected disability in order to gain access for their dogs.

But most do not.

And there is no law against the sale of collars or harnesses printed with phony "service-dog" logos.

A search of eBay under "service-dog patches," for instance, revealed more than 22,000 sellers.

While some can certainly be used for legitimate purposes, advocates for the disabled say many are not.

CCI.org is seeking to get 10,000 signers in the next week to say the problem needs to be stopped.

"That's the exact purpose of our petition," said Martha Johnson, a CCI spokeswoman for the Southeast region.

"We want to go to the Department of Justice and say: 'Look at how many people agree this is a problem, and something needs to be done.'"

