Julia is Sesame Street's newest Muppet.

She has bright orange hair and big green eyes.

Sometimes, it takes her a long time to answer questions.

Julia has autism.

And in case you hadn't guessed already, she is also a girl.

Some people might find that strange.

That is because boys are almost five times more likely than girls to be autistic.

Should Sesame have made its new character a boy?

Sherrie Westin works at Sesame.

Sesame talked to many experts before making Julia.

At first, Westin was surprised that experts recommended a girl.

Then she thought more about it.

It started to make sense to her.

Sesame wanted to show that girls have autism, too, Westin said.

Not long ago, Sesame Street showed off its newest project.

It is called "Sesame Street and Autism: See Amazing in All Children."

Sesame's website introduces Julia and several videos about autism.

Julia will not be on TV just yet.

At first, Sesame just wanted to help families who have children with autism.

Then Sesame realized that many children do not understand what it really is.

Often, they bully kids with autism.

Children with autism can look and act very differently from one another.

Some can talk, while others cannot.

Many of them are uncomfortable with noise.

Some autistic kids have trouble looking other people in the eye.

Many like to touch different objects to see how they feel.

Even the experts do not agree about autism.

Some say it should be treated.

Others do not think it should be treated.

These experts say autism is just a different way that kids express themselves.

Their brains are just different.

After working with experts, Sesame decided what Julia would be like.

She can talk.

She cannot look people in the eye for very long.

She flaps her arms when she gets excited.

"We chose things we thought would be most helpful and most typical," Westin said.

Julia is also very curious and smart.

The website does not explain everything about autism.

Instead, it shows Julia playing with Elmo.

It says that when she plays with a toy bus, "she especially likes spinning the wheels around and around."

Sesame also shows Julia's autism in the way she communicates with other Muppets.

In one scene, she is swinging with Elmo.

Elmo introduces her to his friend Abby, but Julia does not look in Abby's direction.

This causes Abby to say, "Your friend doesn't like me."

That is not true, Elmo responds.

"It's just hard for her to talk when she's swinging," he explains.

Once Julia finishes swinging, Abby tries again, and asks if they can play together.

Julia just looks down.

Again, Elmo has the answer.

"Elmo's daddy told Elmo that Julia has autism," he says.

"So she does things a little differently.

Sometimes Elmo talks to Julia using fewer words and says the same things a few times."

Sesame says it will be keeping an eye on the new website.

It wants to see how easy it is for kids to use.

