Julia is Sesame Street's newest Muppet.

She has bright orange hair, big green eyes, and sometimes takes a long time to answer questions.

Julia has autism.

And in case you hadn't guessed, she's also a girl.

That might seem odd, because many more boys have autism than girls.

The full name of the disorder is Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD).

It affects 1 in 68 American children, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a health agency of the government.

However, 1 in 42 boys are diagnosed with autism, compared with 1 in 189 girls.

That's about five times as many boys as girls.

The term "spectrum" refers to the wide range of symptoms, skills, and levels of difficulties that children with ASD can have.

If Sesame wanted to to be truly accurate, wouldn't its new character be a boy?

Sherrie Westin, a top official at Sesame, has considered that question.

Julia took three years to create, and after discussing the new muppet extensively with researchers, Westin was at first surprised that they recommended a girl.

Yet the more she thought about it, the more it made sense to her.

"We made sure she was a girl namely because autism is seen so much more often in boys," she said.

"We wanted to make it clear that girls can be on the autism spectrum, too."

Recently, Sesame Street Workshop unveiled its newest project, called "Sesame Street and Autism: See Amazing in All Children."

On Sesame's website Julia is introduced along with several videos about autism.

As of now, Julia will not be appearing on the Sesame Street TV broadcast, a spokesperson said.

Westin felt the subject of autism should be tackled because of the sheer number of children who have it.

She also received letters from parents of children with autism.

They spoke of their kids' love of Sesame Street and the Muppets.

The project "really grew from being something to help families with children on the spectrum," Westin said.

The goals shifted when she learned how few kids without autism understood anything about it.

Children with autism can look and act very differently from one another.

Some can talk, while others can't.

Many of them are uncomfortable with noise.

Some have trouble keeping eye contact, and many experience the world differently, so they'll touch different objects to explore how things feel.

Perhaps because of this range, autism is still much debated.

Some groups, such as Autism Speaks, consider autism a syndrome that should be treated.

Others, such as the Autism Self-Advocacy Network, believe autistic people should just be accepted as they are, because their brains are just different.

By choosing the characteristics Julia would have, Sesame risked angering some people.

Ultimately, both autism groups said they support Sesame's program.

Westin said Sesame isn't trying to answer some of the tougher questions about autism, such as its cause.

"We don't pretend that every child who is on the spectrum is the same," she said.

Sesame is trying to tackle a critical problem: Autistic children are five times as likely to be bullied than their peers.

After working with experts, Sesame decided on these characteristics for Julia: She can talk.

She cannot make eye contact for long.

She flaps her arms when she gets excited.

"We chose things we thought would be most helpful and most typical," Westin said.

On top of these markers of autism, Julia is very curious and smart.

The website doesn't explain autism in detail but rather shows Julia playing with Elmo.

It mentions things like how she plays.

For example, when she plays with a toy bus, "she especially likes spinning the wheels around and around."

Sesame also shows Julia's autism in how she communicates with other Muppets.

In one scene, as she swings with Elmo, Elmo introduces her to his friend Abby.

However, Julia doesn't look in Abby's direction, prompting Abby to say, "Your friend doesn't like me."

That's not true, Elmo responds.

"It's just hard for her to talk when she's swinging," he explains.

Once Julia finishes swinging, Abby tries again, and asks if they can play together, but Julia just looks down.

Again, Elmo has the answer.

"Elmo's daddy told Elmo that Julia has autism," he says.

"So she does things a little differently.

Sometimes Elmo talks to Julia using fewer words and says the same things a few times."

Sesame says it will be keeping an eye on the project to see how successful it is.

