Most Americans born since the mid-1960s have a favorite "Sesame Street" story.

Jennifer Kotler Clarke watched her favorite show on a black-and-white TV.

She was a child at the time.

There were two aliens.

One of them had long arms that did not move.

The other had short, moving arms.

The aliens wanted to eat apples from a tree.

They succeeded, after a couple of minutes, by working together.

"Let's call this cooperation," one of them says.

"No," the other replies, "let's call it Shirley."

Later Clarke became one of the show's bosses.

She has always believed that the program's laughs and lessons stick with children.

Now, an important study appears to back her up.

The biggest study ever done on "Sesame Street" was just finished.

It found that the famous show has helped educate millions of American children.

The study says the show can be as important for learning as going to preschool.

The study was done by Melissa Kearney and Phillip Levine.

They are professors.

They think the show has helped children stay at the correct grade level for their age.

Children living in places where they could watch the show started doing better at school.

The chance of a student falling behind in class dropped.

Levine and Kearney also thought about Head Start, the pre-kindergarten program for poorer Americans.

They said Head Start does the same thing for kids.

They think the way "Sesame Street" adds schoolwork into stories was important, too.

The TV show has helped prepare children for school.

It seems strange that a TV show could really help kids do better at school.

Yet many other studies say the same thing about "Sesame Street."

That brings up a question.

Do kids need preschool if a TV show works just as well?

Yes, say the experts.

The "Sesame Street" educational team agrees.

Levine and Kearney believe Head Start does more than just teach.

Kids also get family support, doctor and dentist services.

Also, most of the time people watch TV on their own.

Head Start is important because kids get to learn with other students.

Levine and Kearney think "Sesame Street" is a good way to teach lots of kids before preschool.

"Sesame Street" started in 1969.

Back then it had a mixed cast of humans and brightly colored fuzzy Muppets.

The cast included Oscar the Grouch, Bert and Ernie, and, of course, Big Bird.

It was the first educational children's program in the U.S., and it was a big hit.

In the early 1970s, one-third of all American toddlers watched it.

It's also interesting because another third of the nation's toddlers didn't watch the show.

They didn't have the right kind of antenna to tune in to their public television station.

So there could have been lots more people watching if they all had the right antenna.

From the start, the program used school lessons to help children.

They particularly tried to help poorer kids living in cities who were preparing for school.

At first they just taught letters, numbers and cooperation.

Then they added more subjects.

Kearney grew up loving "Sesame Street."

She remembers running through her house with her sisters, singing a Big Bird song about the alphabet.

Her favorite character was the Count.

