Everyone has a favorite "Sesame Street" story.

Jennifer Kotler Clarke watched her favorite on a black-and-white TV in New York.

It was a long time ago.

There were two aliens.

One of them had long arms that didn't move.

The other had short, moving arms.

The aliens wanted to eat apples from a tree.

They succeeded, after a couple of minutes, by working together.

"Let's call this cooperation," one of them says.

"No," the other replies, "let's call it Shirley."

When Clarke grew up she became one of the show's bosses.

She thinks the program's laughs and lessons stick with children.

Now, a new study is saying the same.

An important study on "Sesame Street" was just finished.

It says the famous show has helped teach millions of American children.

The study says the show can be as important for learning as going to preschool.

The study says the show helped children do better at school, too.

Learning is a big part of "Sesame Street."

It helps prepare children for school.

It seems strange that a TV show can help kids do better at school.

Many studies say the same thing about "Sesame Street."

It helps kids learn.

They keep up with classes better.

So do kids even need to go to preschool?

Yes, say the experts.

They say preschool programs do more than just teach.

Kids also get family support and doctor services.

Most of the time people watch TV on their own.

So preschool is good because kids get to learn with other students.

"Sesame Street" is a good way to teach kids before preschool, too.

"Sesame Street" started in 1969.

Back then it had a mixed cast of humans and brightly colored fuzzy Muppets.

The cast included Oscar the Grouch, Bert and Ernie, and, of course, Big Bird.

It was the first educational show for children.

It became a hit immediately.

In the 1970s, one-third of all American toddlers watched it.

From the start, the program used learning stories to help children.

They wanted to help poor kids living in cities who were about to start school.

At first they just taught letters, numbers and cooperation.

Then they added more things to learn about.

The key is that they always tell stories to make learning fun.

