Experts say there is a technology that could help ease the strain caused by California's long-running drought.

However, there is one big problem — the "yuck factor."

For a fourth straight year, California's drought is steadily decreasing the state's water supply.

In response, California water managers and environmentalists are urging adoption of a water recycling policy known as direct potable reuse.

Direct potable reuse takes sewage — wastewater, much of it from toilets — and purifies it so it can be used as drinking water.

It is a process that might make some people wince, but it has been used for decades in Namibia.

More recently, it has also been used in drought-stricken Texas cities, including Big Spring and Wichita Falls.

In California, however, such plans have run into heavy opposition.

Los Angeles opponents mockingly named it "toilet to tap" in 2000 before torpedoing a plan to filter purified sewage water into an underground reservoir.

In 1994, a San Diego newspaper cartoon shaped the debate over a similar proposal.

It featured a dog drinking from a toilet bowl while a man ordered the animal to "Move over."

Despite those defeats, proponents say the time has finally arrived for Californians to accept direct potable reuse as a partial solution to their growing water shortage.

With Governor Jerry Brown ordering a 25-percent cut in water use in some areas, the solution makes sense, they say, particularly for large coastal cities such as Los Angeles.

Coastal cities flush hundreds of billions of gallons of treated sewage into the Pacific Ocean each year.

They could instead capture that wastewater, clean it and convert it to drinking water.

"That water is discharged into the ocean and lost forever," said Tim Quinn, executive director of the Association of California Water Agencies.

"Yet it's probably the single largest source of water supply for California over the next quarter-century."

The advocates' hunch that severe drought has changed long-held attitudes on potable reuse may be on the mark.

Recently, a leader in the effort to stop the Los Angeles project more than a decade ago said he might consider a new plan if officials made a solid case for it.

"You know, toilet to tap might be the only answer at this point," said Van Nuys activist Donald Schultz.

"I don't support it, but we're running out of options — in fact, we may have already run out of options."

To be sure, it will be years before direct potable reuse systems begin operation in California — if they ever do.

Potable reuse advocates insist the public's distaste for the idea is based on ignorance.

They note that more than 200 wastewater treatment plants already discharge sewage into the Colorado River, which is a primary source of drinking water for Southern California.

"That's what I call de facto potable reuse," said George Tchobanoglous, a water treatment expert and professor at the University of California, Davis.

Tchobanoglous estimates that by 2020, potable reuse could yield up to 1.1 million acre-feet of water annually.

The newly available water would be enough to supply 8 million Californians, or one-fifth of the state's projected population.

In potable reuse systems, sewage from a wastewater treatment plant is sent to an advanced treatment facility.

There it undergoes a three-step purification process.

First, the water is passed through a microfilter that blocks particles, protozoans or bacteria that are larger than 1/300th the thickness of a human hair.

Next, it undergoes even finer filtration via a process called reverse osmosis: water is forced through a membrane that blocks fertilizers, pharmaceuticals, viruses and salts.

In the third step, ultraviolet light and hydrogen peroxide are used to break down any disease-causing bacteria or organic compounds that escaped the first two steps.

The result is a purified substance that is cleaner than most bottled waters, according to WateReuse California, a group that advocates for water reuse.

However, it is still sent to a traditional water treatment plant afterward.

There it is blended with other sources of water, processed and pumped to household taps.

Although potable reuse advocates say opposition is often driven by the so-called yuck factor, opponents say they have a variety of other reasons for their resistance.

Cost is one.

Another is concern over the potential long-term effects of the trace quantities of drug compounds, hormones and personal care products found in wastewater.

"Personally I would not drink water that has been recycled through the toilet to tap process," said Steven Oppenheimer, a biology professor at Cal State Northridge.

However, Oppenheimer said he would use such water for irrigation, and even household cleaning and bathing.

The presence of so-called "contaminants of emerging concern" may prove to be one of the main barriers to direct potable reuse.

Because of limited scientific knowledge, these compounds are unregulated, meaning there are no government-required methods for monitoring or removing them.

Tchobanoglous and others insist these substances exist in such small quantities that they do not pose a significant threat.

For some, the solution to the contaminant issue is to use so-called indirect potable reuse systems.

These involve storing the purified water underground or in surface reservoirs for a period of time before using it as drinking water.

Such a system has been operating since 2008 in Orange County.

There, purified wastewater is pumped into an aquifer — an underground layer of rock and sand — and held for six months before being treated again, then used as drinking water.

Allison Chan, an expert on potable reuse projects, said education and outreach generally increase support for such programs.

However, she added, they also have the effect of hardening people's positions.

In other words, supporters become even more supportive, while opponents become even more opposed.

"This just goes to show how the yuck factor can stick with some people," said Chan.

