Dozens of Sherpa guides packed up their tents and left the Mount Everest base camp Wednesday.

The walkout came a week after 16 Sherpas were killed in an avalanche on Everest.

The deadly disaster, the worse in the Himalayan mountain's history, put in doubt whether any climbers will scale the mountain this year.

It also exposed the Sherpa's hidden resentment over their pay and treatment.

Climbers rely on the Nepalese mountaineers to guide them to the top of Everest and carry their equipment.

Without the Sherpas, it's not known whether there will be a climbing season this year.

The government quickly announced that top tourism officials plan to encourage the Sherpas to return to work.

Nepal's government has been heavily criticized for not doing enough for the Sherpas.

But one top official blamed the walkout on troublemakers.

"It was crowd behavior — some (troublemakers) were creating problems, but things are getting back to normal," said Sushil Ghimire.

He is with Nepal's Tourism Ministry.

It was unclear just how many of the 400 or so Sherpas on the mountain had joined the walkout.

But many expedition companies have already canceled their climbs.

Most attempts to reach Everest's summit are made in mid-May, when the weather is better.

Sherpas at base camp said their walkout was for different reasons, including to honor their dead friends.

Immediately after the avalanche, the government said it would pay the families of each Sherpa who died 40,000 rupees, or about $415.

But the Sherpas said they want more insurance money, more aid for the victims' families and new rules to ensure their safety.

Without the help of the Sherpas, it would be nearly impossible for climbers to scale Everest.

If the expeditions cancel, many climbers will have to give up most or all of the money they have spent to go up the mountain.

Climbing the mountain can cost $75,000 or more in climbing fees.

Sherpas receive only a small fraction of that, typically $3,000 to $5,000 per climbing season.

Thirteen bodies were recovered after Friday's avalanche.

Three Sherpas were still missing and are assumed to be dead.

"It is just impossible for many of us to continue climbing while there are three of our friends buried in the snow," said Dorje Sherpa.

He is an experienced Sherpa guide.

American climber Ed Marzec said that Sherpas were loading their equipment onto a helicopter.

"There are a lot of Sherpas leaving this morning, and in the next two days there will be a huge number that will follow," said Marzec.

He decided to abandon his climb.

Tusli Gurung, a guide at base camp, estimated that nearly half the Sherpas had left.

A number of companies announced they were calling off their expeditions.

"We have all agreed the best thing is to not continue this season's climb.

So that all can mourn the loss of family, friends and comrades in this unprecedented tragedy," said Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International.

Family members of the dead Sherpas said they are angry at the government and worried about their future.

Ang Kaji left behind three sons, three daughters and elderly parents.

"Our father was the only one who earned in our family.

We live in a rented apartment, our grandparents need regular medication, and all of us are still in school.

We have no idea how we are going to support the family," said 17-year-old Phinjum, Kaji's second daughter.

Dali, 28, lost her husband Pen Tenji, 27, in the avalanche.

She has a 4-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter.

They have no other source of income to support them.

Friday's avalanche was triggered when a massive piece of glacier fell from the mountain.

The avalanche occurred along a dangerous section known as the Khumbu Icefall that is filled with shifting ice and deep cracks in the ground.

The disaster has restarted a debate over the tremendous risks the Sherpas take on Everest.

Most climbers are wealthy amateurs with little or no experience at high altitudes.

They need Sherpas to lay miles of rope, carve steps in the ice and snow, and carry nearly all the climbers' equipment.

At times, weak climbers are tied to Sherpas, who pull them up the mountain.

On Tuesday, the Nepalese government said it would put 5 percent of the Everest climbing fees into the fund to help Sherpas who are killed or injured.

That comes to about $175,000 each year.

However, this is well below the 30 percent, or $1 million, the Sherpas are demanding.

Nepal earns about $3.5 million annually in Everest climbing fees.

The government will also increase a $10,400 insurance payout for those killed in the avalanche to $15,620, the Ministry of Tourism said.

Again, that is far less than the Sherpas' demand for $20,800.

Nearly 30 climbers have died on the Khumbu Icefall since 1963.

Most were killed in avalanches or by huge chunks of ice.

More than 4,000 climbers have reached the top of the world's highest mountain since 1953, when it was first conquered by New Zealander Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay.

Hundreds of people have died trying.

