Sherpas packed up their tents and left the Mount Everest base camp Wednesday, throwing the entire climbing season into doubt.

Their walkout came less than a week after 16 Sherpas were killed in an avalanche on Everest.

The deadliest disaster in the Himalayan mountain's history exposed an undercurrent of resentment by the Sherpas over their pay, treatment and benefits.

The government quickly announced that top tourism officials would fly Thursday to the base camp, where climbers begin their hike to Everest's summit.

The officials plan to speak with the Sherpas and encourage them to return to work.

Nepal's government has been heavily criticized for not doing enough for the Sherpas, the Nepalese mountaineers who guide climbers and haul their gear up the mountain.

But one top official blamed the walkout on "hooligans."

"It was crowd behavior — some hooligans were creating problems, but things are getting back to normal," said Sushil Ghimire, secretary of Nepal's Tourism Ministry.

It was unclear just how many of the 400 or so Sherpas on the mountain had joined the walkout.

But many expedition companies have already canceled their climbs.

Most attempts to reach Everest's summit are made in mid-May, when a brief window normally offers better weather.

Sherpas at base camp said their walkout was for a variety of reasons, including to honor their dead friends.

It was not known whether they would return to work if the government accepts all their demands.

Immediately after the avalanche, the government said it would pay the families of each Sherpa who died 40,000 rupees, or about $415.

But the Sherpas said they deserved far more.

The want more insurance money, more financial aid for the victims' families and new rules to ensure their safety.

Without the help of the Sherpas, it would be nearly impossible for climbers to scale Everest.

If the expeditions cancel, many climbers will have to forfeit most or all of the money they have spent to go up the mountain — $75,000 or more.

Thirteen bodies were recovered after Friday's avalanche.

Three Sherpas were still missing and are assumed to be dead.

"It is just impossible for many of us to continue climbing while there are three of our friends buried in the snow," said Dorje Sherpa, an experienced Everest guide from the tiny Himalayan community that has become famous for its high-altitude skills and endurance.

"I can't imagine stepping over them."

American climber Ed Marzec said by phone from the base camp that Sherpas were loading their equipment onto a helicopter.

"There are a lot of Sherpas leaving this morning, and in the next two days there will be a huge number that will follow," said Marzec, who has decided to abandon his climb.

Tusli Gurung, a guide who was at base camp Wednesday, estimated that nearly half the Sherpas had left.

A number of climbing outfits announced they were calling off their expeditions.

"We have all agreed the best thing is to not continue this season's climb, so that all can mourn the loss of family, friends and comrades in this unprecedented tragedy," said Seattle-based Alpine Ascents International on its website.

Family members of the dead Sherpas said they are angry at the government and worried about their future.

Ang Kaji left behind three sons, three daughters and elderly parents.

"Our father was the only one who earned in our family.

We live in a rented apartment, our grandparents need regular medication, and all of us are still in school.

We have no idea how we are going to support the family," said 17-year-old Phinjum, Kaji's second daughter.

Dali, 28, lost her husband Pen Tenji, 27, in the avalanche.

She has a 4-year-old son and 2-year-old daughter and no other source of income to support them.

Friday's avalanche was triggered when a massive piece of glacier fell from the mountain along a section of constantly shifting ice and open cracks known as the Khumbu Icefall.

It is a treacherous area where overhanging ice can be the size of office buildings.

The disaster has restarted a debate over the tremendous risks the Sherpas take on Everest, where most climbers are wealthy amateurs with little or no experience at high altitudes.

That means Sherpas are needed to lay miles of ropes for the climbers, carve steps in the ice and snow, and carry nearly all the climbers' equipment.

At times, they are also tied directly to weak climbers to pull them up the mountain.

Because of their additional work, many have to pass through the Khumbu Icefall dozens of times, exposing themselves to the treacherous conditions there.

Nepal's government appeared to agree Tuesday to some of the Sherpas' demands.

The government said it would set up a fund to help those who are killed or injured in climbing accidents, but the proposal fell far short of the demands.

The government said it would put 5 percent of its earnings from Everest climbing fees into the fund -- about $175,000 year year -- although that is well below the 30 percent, or $1 million, the Sherpas are demanding.

Nepal earns about $3.5 million annually in Everest climbing fees.

The $10,400 insurance payout for those killed in the avalanche will also be increased to $15,620, the Ministry of Tourism said.

Again, that is far less than the Sherpas' demand for $20,800.

Nearly 30 climbers have died on the Icefall since 1963, most killed in avalanches or when they were crushed by huge chunks of ice.

More than 4,000 climbers have reached the top of the world's highest mountain since 1953, when it was first conquered by New Zealander Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tenzing Norgay.

Hundreds of people have died trying.

