The cruise ship Costa Concordia crashed against a reef on Jan. 12, 2012.

It remained partly sunk for the last 20 months near an Italian island.

Crews finally pulled the wrecked boat up from the rocks on Tuesday.

The ship is expected to be removed by the middle of 2014, experts said.

Straightening the ship took 19 hours.

The ship is very big.

It is longer than three football fields.

It weighs more than 28,000 elephants.

Engineers had hoped it could be straightened in 10 to 12 hours.

But getting it right was more important that doing it fast.

"I am relieved and I am a bit tired.

I will have a beer and go to sleep.

I am sending a kiss to my wife," said Nick Sloane.

He is a South African in charge of pulling the wreck out of the sea.

The body of the ship was lifted using steel cables and tanks.

They were attached to the side that was above water.

The tanks were filled with water.

The weight of the tanks helped pull up the wreck.

Engineers planned to inspect the side that came out of the water.

It was covered in brown mud.

Its shape had been badly deformed.

The idea is to attach tanks on that side.

Then the tanks will be filled with air.

The air-filled tanks should help the ship float again.

The Concordia was expected to be towed to a port to be taken apart.

Franco Porcellacchia is an engineer keeping track of operations for Costa Crociere.

Costa is the company that owns the ship.

Porcellachia was sure it could all be done in the first half of next year.

Work cannot be done faster because it is difficult to operate during the winter.

Straightening the Concordia was a big deal.

The risk was that the rusting ship could snap or sink entirely.

Then the ship could not be saved.

The waters around the ship could have been polluted.

It would have been a disaster.

"It could not have gone any better," Porcellacchia said.

Some thought a lot of sewage would have been spilled from the ship during the operation.

But poisonous liquids were not released.

Fuel was removed from the Concordia two months after its shipwreck.

Still, leftover fuel, chemicals and rotting food were thought to have dirtied the seawater inside the body of the ship.

Salvage team members hugged as the ship was straightened.

Sirens in the port of Giglio blared in celebration.

Giglio is a tiny port city.

It is where the Concordia ran aground.

All those working on the rescue "are a great (source) of Italian pride," Prime Minister Enrico Letta wrote.

He invited Gabrielli and others to Rome.

The sinking of the Concordia has been a national shame.

It was blamed on the irresponsible behavior of its Italian captain, Francesco Schettino.

The image of the half-sunken ship became a symbol of the country.

Italy has had bad money problems.

Insurers for Costa are paying for the operation to remove the ship.

The cost is estimated at more than $800 million.

More than 500 people from 26 nations are working on salvaging the ship.

Costa is an Italian company.

It is owned by Carnival, a U.S.-based cruise line company.

Thirty-two of the 4,229 people on board died when the Concordia wrecked.

Two victims are still missing.

Rescuers were expected to board the vessel to look for their bodies.

Schettino is being tried for serious crimes.

He was due to next appear in court on Sept. 23.

He is accused of having taken the ship dangerously close to the shore to perform a stunt.

He also is accused of badly mishandling the evacuation.

He abandoned the Concordia before all passengers had left the ship.

