On Thursday, California workers poked hollow tubes into Sierra Nevada meadows to measure the amount of snow.

They did not find much.

Scientists expect they will see less and less snow in California in the future.

The climate is expected to keep becoming warmer.

Many scientists blame humans.

When we burn fossil fuels like gas, oil or coal, it releases gasses, known as greenhouse gasses.

They get trapped in the atmosphere and heat up the Earth.

Scientists say the state's snowpack could shrink as a result.

Snowpack is the layers of snow that build up over time.

Melted snow is a big source of water in California.

By the end of the century, scientists think more than half of the snowpack could disappear.

But nature will not be providing less water to California.

The overall amount of precipitation is not expected to change much.

Precipitation means rain, sleet and snow.

The amount may even increase across much of California.

However, scientists think there will be more rain and less snow, which would force the state to change how it handles its water system.

On Thursday, the snowpack was just 25 percent of the average for this time of year.

A dry January is partly to blame.

Also, heavy storms in December dumped rain on the state, not snow.

At its peak, California snowpack holds about 15 million acre-feet of water — enough water to fill Shasta Lake more than three times.

Shasta Lake is California's largest reservoir.

A large lake or pool that stores water is called a reservoir.

Normally, the snow melts gradually over several months.

It trickles down mountains into rivers and water reservoirs in the spring and early summer.

The need for drinking water, and water for irrigating farmland, goes up about that time.

Rain, on the other hand, comes down all at once and "has to be dealt with immediately.

You can't wait," said Kelly Redmond, with the Western Regional Climate Center in Nevada.

Rains can cause flooding, unlike snow which melts gradually.

In December, storms drenched California with almost twice the average precipitation for the month.

The extra rain did not cause a problem.

California has suffered three years of severe drought, so the big reservoirs had plenty of room for the rainwater.

The water level of the Shasta Lake reservoir, for instance, rose by nearly 60 feet.

In the future, there could be more rain in winter than California's water system could handle, said Dan Cayan, a climate scientist at Scripps Institution of Oceanography.

Cayan said the temperature in California has risen by 1 degree Fahrenheit since the 1950s.

Even the extra degree increase has already affected California's snowpack.

The state would have to ask Congress to change reservoir rules.

Each reservoir and its dam are run according to a set of rules developed by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, so Congress has to approve any changes.

The state may also use weather forecasts to plan.

If heavy rains were headed for the Sierra, for instance, water levels in reservoirs could be lowered to make room for them.

None of this is simple.

California cannot just let water out of reservoirs.

Making room for rain that never comes would mean less water for the state.

Yet, filling up reservoirs in the winter may lead to flooding during spring storms.

"Who wants to be the responsible person for not having that flood space in the reservoir?"

asked Iris Stewart-Frey, who teaches environmental studies at Santa Clara University.

Many experts say an obvious solution is to build more water storage.

The question is should California build new reservoirs or increase groundwater storage, or both?

Groundwater is water located beneath the Earth's surface.

Another question is who would pay for all the digging and storage?

The loss of snowpack is "definitely going to be a problem," said Jay Lund, the director of the Center for Watershed Sciences at University of California, Davis.

But if it's managed well, Lund said it should not be a disaster.

