The rain wouldn't stop.

Water streamed down Dennis Jenkins' glasses.

It was the type of weather that would have canceled a space shuttle launch.

Space shuttles were like airplanes that took astronauts into space and back.

NASA used them for its space program for nearly 30 years.

But now the shuttle program is over.

Jenkins surveyed the scrap yard.

He was not far from where the shuttles once blasted into orbit.

A small mountain of cardboard boxes was falling apart in the rain.

Each box had a sticker with the blue NASA logo.

Jenkins spent 30-plus years sending the shuttles into space.

Now the shuttle program is over.

So the 57-year-old works for the California Science Center.

He is helping officials figure out how to store their own orbiter, Endeavour.

The museum wants to show off its crown jewel as if it's on the launch pad.

But this exhibit will take thousands of pieces to pull off.

Parts are scattered at NASA buildings, museums and other places across the U.S.

Most are one of a kind and impossible to copy.

So for the past year, Jenkins has traveled all over the country.

He searches through NASA scrap yards.

He calls old co-workers to see if they have what he needs to rebuild the shuttle launch stack, piece by piece.

Even before the shuttles flew their final missions in 2011, museums across the country began trying to get one of the four orbiters NASA would give away.

Dozens submitted requests to the agency.

It became a fierce competition.

But it wasn't just the orbiters that NASA no longer needed.

With no space shuttle program, there would be no need for more than a million space shuttle parts.

NASA kept about half the parts for use on future programs.

But with the government facing money problems, the agency didn't want to have to pay to store the rest.

Bob Sherouse is in charge of sending out NASA's shuttle leftovers.

"We would rather find someone that wanted something than sell it off for scrap," he said.

The California Science Center planned to display its shuttle standing upright, to look just as it was when it launched.

California officials realized they would need many of those same leftover parts.

The problem: There were few records of where the pieces were.

Jenkins was only 24 when he helped launch America's first shuttle into space.

It soared into orbit on April 12, 1981.

Jenkins was watching from a TV in the firing room.

By 26, Jenkins was a head engineer on the project.

He spent years developing a launch pad site in California.

But it was scrapped after a shuttle called Challenger exploded on Jan. 28, 1986.

The loss of another shuttle, Columbia, 17 years later was the beginning of the end of the shuttle program.

The orbiter fell apart while re-entering Earth's atmosphere.

So government officials decided it was time for a new way to get to space.

The shuttles were retired in 2011.

Then it came time to transfer the orbiters.

They had to move from Kennedy Space Center to the museums that would become their new homes.

Jenkins took what he thought would be his final job before retiring.

One by one, he helped move the orbiters across the country.

But then the California Science Center hired Jenkins for one more gig: leading the construction of its shuttle display.

At the top of Jenkins' to-do list is tracking down the pieces he needs for Endeavour's display.

Many are the last ones in the world.

Only six space shuttles were ever built, so there weren't many spare parts.

Sometimes, he said, he has to try to find the people who personally packed the parts away.

"Fortunately, these guys have great memories," he said.

"They packed millions of parts, probably, but frequently they could tell you what box they put something in."

He's found pieces in five different states.

A few ended up at other museums.

Some are so large they had to be shipped across the country on the back of a giant truck.

Others were a lot smaller and buried in the bottom of a box.

"It's always hard for me personally to come out here to do this because I'd much rather be coming out here to launch space shuttles.

But we don't do that anymore," Jenkins said.

"I'm one of the few fortunate ones who gets to still play with the space shuttles, so I'm happy about that."

