The rain was nonstop.

Water poured down Dennis Jenkins' glasses, dripping off the tip of his nose.

It was the type of weather that would have canceled a space shuttle launch.

Jenkins surveyed the scrap yard not far from where the shuttles once blasted into orbit.

A small mountain of cardboard boxes was falling apart in the rain.

Each box had a sticker with the blue NASA logo.

"Critical space item," the stickers read.

"Handle with extreme care."

Jenkins directed his team to a pair of 7-foot-tall objects next to a chain-link fence.

These were escape baskets.

They once sat near the top of the shuttle, ready to slide astronauts to safety if something were to go wrong before launch.

It took all four men to carefully move the baskets.

They had to use a forklift to raise each up and set it into a trailer.

Once they were settled, Jenkins circled the trailer, pausing to tuck a cloth flap back into place.

He turned and gave his crew a thumbs-up.

"Perfect," he said.

Jenkins spent 30-plus years — his entire career — working on sending the shuttles into space.

Now, with the shuttle program over, the 57-year-old works for the California Science Center.

He is helping officials figure out how to display their own orbiter, Endeavour.

The museum wants to show off its crown jewel as if it's on the launch pad, a display that will take thousands of pieces to pull off.

Parts are scattered at NASA buildings, museums and other places across the U.S.

Most are one of a kind and impossible to replicate.

So for the past year, Jenkins has crisscrossed the country.

He searches through NASA scrap yards and asks old co-workers if they have what he needs to rebuild the shuttle launch stack, piece by piece.

Even before the shuttles flew their final missions in 2011, museums across the country began trying to get one of the four orbiters NASA would give away.

But it wasn't just the orbiters that NASA no longer needed.

With no space shuttle program, there would be no need for more than a million space shuttle parts.

There were enormous engines that powered the orbiters above Earth, the machinery used to safely move them, the specialized nuts and bolts that attached them to a fuel tank.

NASA stashed about half the parts for use on future programs.

But with the federal government facing money problems, the agency didn't want to have to pay to store the rest.

"As we're trying to minimize costs to the agency, we're trying to give up facilities, we're trying to empty out facilities," said Bob Sherouse.

He is in charge of sending out of NASA's shuttle leftovers.

"We would rather find someone that wanted something than sell it off for scrap."

When the California Science Center finalized plans to display its shuttle upright, officials there realized they would need many of those same parts.

The problem: There were few records of where the pieces were.

Jenkins was only 24 when he helped launch America's first shuttle into space.

When Columbia soared into orbit on April 12, 1981, he watched from a 9-inch black-and-white TV in the firing room.

By 26, Jenkins was a senior lead engineer on the project, troubleshooting and finding ways to improve the shuttle system.

He spent years developing a launch site in California — scrapped after Challenger exploded on Jan. 28, 1986.

It was the first launch Jenkins had missed.

The loss of the Columbia shuttle 17 years later was the beginning of the end of the shuttle program.

After the orbiter fell apart while re-entering Earth's atmosphere, federal officials decided it was time for a new approach to space exploration.

The shuttles were retired in 2011.

Then it came time to transfer the orbiters from Kennedy Space Center to the museums that would become their permanent homes.

Jenkins took what he thought would be his final job before retiring.

One by one, he helped move the orbiters across the country — including Endeavour's 12-mile journey through the streets of Los Angeles.

But then the California Science Center hired Jenkins for one more gig: overseeing the construction of its shuttle display.

At the top of Jenkins' to-do list is tracking down the pieces he needs for Endeavour's display.

Many are the last ones that exist.

Only six space shuttles were ever built, meaning there weren't many spare parts.

Sometimes, he said, he has to resort to finding the people who personally packed the parts away.

"Fortunately, these guys have great memories," he said.

"They packed millions of parts, probably, but frequently they could tell you what box they put something in."

He's found pieces in Utah, New Orleans, Alabama and Washington, D.C.

Some are so large they had to be shipped across the country on the back of a flatbed truck.

Others were smaller and buried in the bottom of a box.

"It's always hard for me personally to come out here to do this because I'd much rather be coming out here to launch space shuttles.

But we don't do that anymore," Jenkins said.

"I'm one of the few fortunate ones who gets to still play with the space shuttles, so I'm happy about that."

