Republican and Democrats are battling in Washington.

Two of the victims of their bitter fight are Clare Cogan and Daniel Mohally.

They just got married.

The highlight of their honeymoon was supposed to be a visit to Yosemite National Park.

But the park was closed.

In fact, all the National Parks are shut.

So are many other services run by the government.

The government has shut down because Republicans and Democrats failed to come to an agreement on a spending plan.

Republicans are using the spending plan as a way to delay President Barack Obama's health care law.

The fight has disappointed many tourists like Cogan and Mohally.

"We grew up seeing pictures of it in books," said Cogan, a 31-year-old receptionist.

"You know, the cars underneath those huge sequoia trees.

That was America."

The park was nearly empty on Wednesday.

Abraham Lincoln signed papers to set the park up in 1864.

But this year has been different than any other for Yosemite.

First, there was the big Yosemite Rim fire.

The blaze was one of the largest fires in California's history.

It burned through more than 120 square miles of the park.

Many of the tourists had to leave.

Visitors generate $370 million in business a year.

"Now this," Yosemite spokesman Scott Gediman said of the shutdown.

"The double whammy.

Right on the heels of it.

The timing is horrible."

Yosemite was a sad place on the second day of the shutdown.

Six hundred park workers were sent home.

They do not know when they will return to work.

They have no idea whether they will get paid for the time they miss.

About 150 people were still working.

Most spent their day clearing out the park.

Visitors with reservations got their money back.

They were told that they could no longer enter the park.

Anybody already in the park had to leave by 3 p.m. Thursday.

Mohally had long wanted to place his hand on El Capitan, one of the park's famous big walls — "just to be able to say I did."

Instead, he and Cogan spent a dreary day Tuesday sleeping at their hotel.

It is located just outside the park.

They also watched television.

At least they still had tickets to the San Francisco 49ers football game this weekend, Mohally said.

"The NFL — that's not run by the federal government, is it?"

he asked.

There aren't as many visitors in early October as in the height of the summer.

Still, it is normally a busy time at Yosemite.

As many as 20,000 people a day would normally be in the park.

Many of them are foreigners who plan their trips long in advance.

"They don't understand it," said Jan Quistad, who works at the front desk of the visitors bureau in Oakhurst.

The bureau usually gets 60 visitors a week.

This week, there were 200 a day.

Many of them were foreign visitors.

They didn't know where else to turn.

"We are spending a lot of time apologizing for what the government has done," Quistad said.

Gediman said he had just met a couple from Israel.

"Their entire vacation was based on national parks," he said.

All of them are now closed.

Yosemite tourism provides 5,000 jobs.

There were already signs that an extended shutdown could represent a wave of trouble.

"My staff's very apprehensive," said Bill Putnam.

He manages a Best Western hotel near Yosemite.

If  the hotel doesn't have guests, his staff doesn't have work.

"We are watching the situation very closely, and hoping that our friends in Washington get their act together."

The closure of Yosemite feels particularly significant and painful to some.

Congress approved a bill in 1864 that protected Yosemite.

It was the first time the federal government had put aside a piece of wilderness for the public's use and enjoyment.

"Yosemite was the seed of the national park idea," former park superintendent Mike Tollefson said.

He noted that Abraham Lincoln signed the bill when more than 500 Americans were being killed each day in the Civil War.

"Makes our little gridlock seem pretty silly," he said.

