If you think U.S. lawmakers behaved badly during the recent government shutdown, you are not alone.

People in Europe are also surprised at how U.S. leaders have acted.

But one German newspaper writer asked why.

After all, people in Germany had seen this sort of thing before.

The Republicans insisted on scaling back the Affordable Care Act.

That led to the shutdown.

It wasn't so different from German leader Angela Merkel's insisting that Greece cut back on its spending.

A crisis followed in Greece, hurting businesses and people there.

The writer nicely summed up how Europeans seemed to view the United States during the fight: broken, like Greece, and bossy, like Germany.

No one was amused, however.

The United States, after all, is not a small country like Greece.

It is the unquestioned global leader.

And sure, Europeans may express anger at the United States because of wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

But many were shocked to see how mean Americans seem to be to one another.

They also didn't understand how little Americans seemed to care about how the fight might affect the rest of the world.

Some say the fighting will matter years from now.

Willem Post is an expert on U.S. politics at The Clingendael Institute in the Netherlands.

He warned about the standoff in the United States.

He also cautioned about divisions within Europe.

Neither power is doing what they need to to remain the most important forces in the world.

Meanwhile, there is talk of China rising and power shifting to Asia.

The United States will long remain the world's most powerful nation, he noted.

And Europe, troubled as it may be, remains a big force in business.

This is the time for the two continents to work together to make sure they will stay strong, Post said.

Instead, they can't even cooperate within their own governments.

And failing to cooperate will lead to trouble, he said.

"For us, failure to make progress now is an issue, but only one of many," he said.

"For our children and grandchildren, it is a looming disaster."

The American problems are harder for Europeans to understand.

To people in Europe, their own fights make sense.

After all, the European Union is made up of 28 nations.

Those countries all have competing goals.

But the United States is a single nation.

"Europeans really don't understand," Post said.

"The United States is the model democracy; it should be leading by example.

Instead, there is no talking, there is no compromise.

The lesson to the rest of the world is that the United States these days can't be relied upon."

The official Chinese news agency Xinhua made a comment about the U.S. political battle.

The writer suggested that it might be time to think of  "building a de-Americanized world."

It may be time to stop using the dollar for international business, the article said.

Doing that would be a disaster for American shoppers used to low prices on products from other countries.

The piece goes on in even stronger language to criticize the United States for how it acts around the world.

The United States is not using its power to end conflicts.

It is instead introducing more trouble into the world, the writer said.

The language of the piece is harsh, but the thoughts are not new.

They won't go away just because the shutdown has ended.

Earlier this year, French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius gave a speech in Indonesia.

He talked about recent global history and the end of "The American Century."

The world had two powers with the United States and the USSR.

Then, for a short time, there was one big power, the United States, he said.

In the future, there will be several big powers.

For the moment, Fabius said, there is no power in control.

Because of this, the global cost of this government shutdown shouldn't be measured in dollars as much as in how important the United States is, some analysts say.

And in those terms, the losses were steep.

Joerg Wolf, editor in chief  at the Atlantic Community, a Berlin-based group, noted that "it is mind-boggling that politicians are so slow to see the costs of their actions."

