The rain wouldn't stop.

Water poured down Dennis Jenkins' glasses.

It was the type of weather that would have canceled a space shuttle launch.

Space shuttles were like airplanes that took astronauts into space and back.

They were used for nearly 30 years.

But now the shuttle program is over.

It was shut down by NASA, the government agency that runs the U.S. space program.

Jenkins looked at the scrap yard.

He was not far from where the shuttles once blasted into orbit.

He spent more than 30 years working on the shuttle program.

Now the program is over.

So the 57-year-old works for the California Science Center.

He is helping officials figure out how to store their own space shuttle, Endeavour.

Jenkins helped launch America's first shuttle into space when he was only 24.

It soared into orbit on April 12, 1981.

Jenkins was watching from a TV in the firing room.

By 26, Jenkins was a head engineer on the project.

He spent years planning to make a launch pad.

But a shuttle called Challenger exploded in 1986.

Jenkins' program was shut down.

Then the shuttle Columbia fell apart while re-entering Earth's atmosphere in 2003.

So government officials decided it was time for a new way to get to space.

The shuttle program was ended in 2011.

Then it came time to move the shuttles.

They had to move from Kennedy Space Center to the museums that would become their new homes.

Jenkins took what he thought would be his final job before retiring from working.

One by one, he helped move the shuttles across the country.

But then the California Science Center hired Jenkins for one more job.

He is in charge of building its shuttle display.

The museum wants to show off its shuttle as if it's on the launch pad.

But this exhibit will take thousands of pieces to pull off.

Parts are scattered all over the U.S.

Most are one of a kind and impossible to copy.

So for the past year, Jenkins has traveled all over the country.

He searches through NASA scrap yards.

He calls old co-workers to see if they have what he needs.

The shuttles flew their final missions in 2011.

But before that, museums across the country began trying to get one of the shuttles.

NASA wanted to give away its last four.

The California Science Center got Endeavour.

It plans to display its shuttle standing upright.

That's how the shuttles were launched into space.

California officials realized they would need many of those same parts used to launch it.

The problem: There were few records of where the pieces were.

At the top of Jenkins' to-do list is tracking down the pieces he needs for Endeavour's display.

Many are the last ones in the world.

Only six space shuttles were ever built.

That means there weren't many spare parts.

Sometimes he has to try to find the people who packed the parts away.

"Fortunately, these guys have great memories," he said.

"They packed millions of parts, probably.

But they could tell you what box they put something in."

He's found pieces in five different states.

A few ended up at other museums.

Some are huge.

A few had to be driven across the country on the back of a large truck.

Others were much smaller and buried in the bottom of a box.

"It's always hard for me personally to come out here to do this.

I'd much rather be coming out here to launch space shuttles.

But we don't do that anymore," Jenkins said.

"I'm one of the few fortunate ones who gets to still play with the space shuttles.

I'm happy about that."

