Sick and abandoned sea lion pups are showing up in alarming numbers on California beaches.

Rescuers are finding record numbers of stranded sea lions for the third year in a row.

"Their growth is stunted," said Shawn Johnson, director of veterinary science at the Marine Mammal Center in Sausalito, California.

"They're basically starved to death — no muscle, no fat, just skin and bones."

But pups are not the only ones in trouble.

California marine mammal rehabilitation centers in January treated record numbers of sea lions of all ages.

"We've had 67 strandings of sea lions of all different ages," said Johnson.

In a normal year, his rehabilitation center would see one, maybe two, sea lions in the entire month of January.

"The whole population is getting hit hard."

He added, "It's a real shock to us."

The story's much the same in Southern California.

"It's shaping up to be a very, very bad year as far as rehabilitation," said David Bard.

He is the operations director at the Marine Mammal Care Center in the San Pedro community of Los Angeles.

There were 75 animals at the center as of the end of January.

The San Pedro center has seen "double the numbers we saw in the middle of January 2013," he said.

In 2013, the National Marine Fisheries Service declared an Unusual Mortality Event (UME).

The phenomenon is marked by a large number of strandings and deaths of a marine mammal population.

Scientists thought the huge number of strandings in 2013 was a one-time event, Johnson said.

"But then it happened again last year, and now it's happening again," he said.

Marine mammal centers in Northern and Southern California were not affected equally by strandings in 2013 and 2014, he added.

In 2013, Southern California centers saw a huge number of sea lions, and then in 2014, Northern California centers were swamped.

Sausalito's Marine Mammal Center in Northern California averages 600 animals a year.

Last year, it responded to 1,030 animals, Johnson said.

Of those, 711 were sea lions, mostly pups, but the sea lions were spread equally across different ages.

January 2015, however, has been "extremely unusual" for the Northern California center, he said.

In winter, the sea lion population is concentrated in Southern California, then shifts northward in late summer, Johnson said.

For the center to see so many animals is cause for further concern, he said.

What's going on?

Experts have various theories, including illness or an environmental cause.

There have been 60 UMEs declared in the United States for various marine mammals since 1991.

A cause was found in 29 of those cases, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

Some are chalked up to infection.

But since 1996, biotoxins from harmful algae blooms — rapidly growing populations of algae — have caused the majority of the UMEs, NOAA said.

The poisons from the algae build up in the fish that the sea lions eat.

Another reason could be that "the sea lion population is reaching carrying capacity," Bard said.

Carrying capacity is the maximum number of a species that can live in an environment.

California sea lions were killed in the 19th and early 20th centuries for their hides and blubber and continued to be hunted for sport later in the 20th century.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 led to dramatic increases in the populations of sea lions, Johnson said.

There are now about 300,000 California sea lions, said NOAA Fisheries spokesman Jim Milbury.

About 50,000 baby sea lions are born each year.

The environment just may not be able to support a larger sea lion population.

It's also possible the sea lions' prey has moved, Johnson said.

"Maybe the fish have all left, and that's why this is happening.

We're hoping for some answers in coming weeks."

A team from NOAA Fisheries is at Channel Islands in California now, looking for clues to help solve the mystery, Milbury said.

Although sea lions range from Mexico to Canada, most of America's sea lions breed in the Channel Islands.

Scientists have spent time on the islands in the last two years, but this year may bring extra urgency.

This is the third year in a row that such a large number of sea lions are dying off, Johnson noted.

"They're working really hard to try to answer those questions."

After the 2013 UME, the Marine Mammal Care Center in San Pedro stepped up its fund-raising efforts in order to expand the center.

It now has two new pens for the animals.

"I'm not sure even that is going to be enough," operations director Bard said.

In 2014, his center spent $100,000 on herring fish alone to fee the seals.

The center is also recruiting volunteers, which it relies on.

"I hope that we have some answers soon," Johnson said, "so that we can prepare for the future."

