Rescuers are finding a huge number of baby sea lions stranded on California beaches.

The sick pups are hungry and too small, said Shawn Johnson.

He is a top veterinarian at the Marine Mammal Center in Sausalito, California.

"They're basically starved to death — no muscle, no fat, just skin and bones."

The pups are not the only ones in trouble.

In January, California animal rescue centers treated record numbers of sea lions of all ages.

"We've had 67 strandings of sea lions of all different ages," said Johnson.

In an normal year, his rescue center would see one, maybe two, sea lions in the entire month of January.

"The whole population is getting hit hard."

He added, "It's a real shock to us."

The story is much the same in Southern California.

"It's shaping up to be a very, very bad year," said David Bard.

He is with the Marine Mammal Care Center in Los Angeles.

At the end of January, there were 75 sea animals at the center.

This is the third straight year that so many sea lions have become stranded.

Bard's center has seen twice as many stranded sea lions.

In 2013, the National Marine Fisheries Service declared an Unusual Mortality Event (UME).

The emergency is declared because of a large number of strandings and deaths.

Scientists thought the big number of 2013 strandings was a one-time event, Johnson said.

"But then it happened again last year, and now it's happening again," he said.

Sausalito's Marine Mammal Center helps about 600 animals a year.

Last year, it was called out to help 1,030 sea animals, Johnson said.

Of those, 711 were sea lions, mostly pups.

Experts are worried to see so many stranded sea lions.

What's going on?

Experts have different theories.

There have been 60 UMEs declared in the United States for marine animals, since 1991.

A cause was determined in 29 of those cases, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).

Some are caused by illness from infections.

Since 1996, though, poisons from algae blooms have caused most of the UMEs, said NOAA.

Algae blooms are rapidly growing groups of algae, which are sea plants.

The poisons build up in fish, which the sea lions eat.

Another reason could be that there are too many sea lions and not enough food.

California sea lions were killed in the 1800s and early 1900s for their hides and blubber.

They continued to be hunted for sport in the late 1900s.

The Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 protected sea lions from being hunted.

The numbers of sea lions have increased, Johnson said.

There are now about 300,000 sea lions.

About 50,000 baby sea lions are born each year.

The ocean may not be able to support such a large sea lion population.

"Maybe the fish have all left, and that's why this is happening," Johnson said.

"We're hoping for some answers in coming weeks."

A NOAA team is at Channel Islands in California now to try to figure out what is going on.

Most sea lions give birth there.

This year may be especially urgent.

"They're working really hard to try to answer those questions, Johnson said.

After the 2013 UME, the Marine Mammal Care Center in San Pedro raised money to make its center bigger.

It now has two new pens for the animals.

"I'm not sure even that is going to be enough," Bard said.

"I hope that we have some answers soon," Johnson said, "so that we can prepare for the future."

