It's a Friday night.

High in the snow-peaked Eastern Sierra Mountains, a pack of huskies is howling.

Ten teenage members of the science club Earth to Sky Calculus take a break from their work to gather on a cabin deck to listen.

All live in and around Bishop, a mountain town surrounded almost entirely by wilderness.

A brand-new meteor shower is supposed to peak tonight.

In just a few minutes these teens will release a high-altitude balloon to the edge of space, hoping to photograph a shooting star.

As the first stars emerge, the students secure the payload — a soft, insulated lunchbox — to the bottom of the balloon.

A low-light camera to record the meteors is inside.

Two GPS trackers are mounted on the outside to help them find the payload later.

Over the last four years, this tight-knit group has launched 53 balloons.

It's a long-running science project with a twist — part science experiment, part backcountry adventure.

Aaron Lamb lies flat on his back and inflates the balloon with a tank of helium.

Eventually, it grows to the size of a small car.

As launch time nears, some are concerned that the balloon is lopsided.

Finally, though, everything checks out OK and it's time for liftoff.

"Five, four, three, two, one," they chant, and the balloon begins to rise.

There is quiet, and a feeling of wonder.

Then, the balloon disappears into the night.

The balloon project would not have happened if it hadn't been for one of the student's parents.

That parent is scientist Tony Phillips, who works for NASA.

Phillips is not only a scientist, he's also a dog lover — those 10 howling huskies are his.

Earth to Sky Calculus began seven years ago, after Phillips decided to give students a hands-on experience of science.

So far they've tried sending a balloon into a thunderstorm to photograph lightning (that didn't work out).

They've sent a balloon with bacteria attached to the outside of the payload to see if they would be killed off by the high levels of radiation at the top of the atmosphere.

(They weren't.)

They also have tried to measure changes in the ozone layer during a solar storm.

In honor of the historic 1977 Voyager I spacecraft launch, they sent a rubber chicken into space.

The balloon is almost always launched with a lightweight camera that captures soaring images of its journey.

It also captures the destruction of the balloon once it gets too high.

As the balloon journeys up and up, the air pressure lessens and the balloon expands until it's almost the size of a house.

Then it pops in a breathtaking explosion.

A parachute attached to the insulated lunchbox helps the equipment inside land safely back on Earth.

The students find it using the GPS trackers.

And that's when things get crazy.

Recovering the payload is never simple.

There is little inhabited land around Bishop, so the balloon almost always lands in the middle of nowhere.

Early on Saturday, Phillips checked the payload's GPS.

The payload had landed 52 miles west of Bishop.

The hiking would be beautiful, through sequoia groves and past waterfalls.

Things could turn perilous, though, if the payload had landed on a high peak.

Sometimes in the past when a payload landed in an easy-to-get-to spot, half a dozen people had collected the lunchbox.

This time, though, it was just Phillips and student Michael White.

Of all the experienced hikers in the group, White is the most skilled.

White and Phillips thought the retrieval might not be too bad.

It appeared that the payload had fallen in a canyon less than 2 miles from a marked trail.

The pair marched briskly up a 3.7-mile trail that ascended 2,500 feet.

They turned left and followed a marked trail for 1.7 more miles — and then things stopped being easy.

The last half-mile to get to the payload took Phillips and White five hours.

The slopes were steep, and when they weren't covered in rock, they were covered in decayed pine needles.

"You are digging your fingers as deeply as you can into the dirt and pulling yourself up," Phillips said.

Finally, White spotted the payload, high on a flat rock, in the middle of a cascading waterfall.

They had entered the forest at 11 a.m.

They emerged 11 hours later, payload in hand.

