On a Friday night, high in the Eastern Sierra Mountains, a pack of huskies is howling.

Drawn by their song, 10 members of Earth to Sky Calculus, a teen science club, stop their work and gather on a cabin deck.

All live in and around Bishop, a mountain town surrounded almost entirely by wilderness.

A brand-new meteor shower is supposed to peak tonight.

In just a few minutes these teens will release a high-altitude balloon to the edge of space, hoping to photograph a shooting star.

As the first stars emerge, the students secure the payload — a soft, insulated lunchbox — to the bottom of the balloon.

A low-light camera to record the meteors is inside, while two GPS trackers are mounted on the outside to help them find the payload later.

Over the last four years, this tight-knit group has launched 53 balloons.

It's a long-running science project with a twist — part astronomy experiment, part backcountry adventure.

Aaron Lamb lies flat on his back and inflates the balloon with a tank of helium.

Eventually, it grows to the size of a small car.

As launch time nears, some are concerned that the balloon is lopsided.

Finally, though, everything checks out OK and it's time for liftoff.

"Five, four, three, two, one," they chant, and the balloon begins to rise.

There is quiet, and a feeling of wonder.

Then, the balloon disappears into the night.

The balloon project would not have happened if it hadn't been for one of the student's fathers.

That father, Tony Phillips, is an astrophysicist.

He's also a dog lover — those 10 howling huskies are his.

Earth to Sky Calculus began seven years ago, after Phillips decided to give students a hands-on experience of science.

So far they've tried sending a balloon into a thunderstorm to photograph lightning (that didn't work out), and a balloon with bacteria attached to the outside of the payload to see if they would survive the high levels of radiation at the top of the atmosphere.

(They did.)

They also have tried to measure changes in the ozone layer during a solar storm.

On the anniversary of the Voyager I spacecraft launch, they sent a rubber chicken into space.

The balloon is almost always launched with a lightweight camera that captures soaring images of its journey.

It also captures the spectacular destruction of the balloon once it gets too high.

As the balloon journeys up and up, the air pressure lessens and the balloon expands until it's almost the size of a house.

Then it pops in a dramatic explosion.

A parachute attached to the insulated lunchbox helps the equipment inside land safely back on Earth.

The students find it using the GPS trackers.

And that's when things get crazy.

Recovering the payload is never simple.

There is little inhabited land around Bishop, so the balloon almost always lands in the middle of nowhere.

Members of the group share their tales of recovering past payloads, sounding like veterans rattling off war stories.

There was that time when Carson Reid and Phillips got caught in a sandstorm just outside Death Valley.

There was the time Phillips, Reid and Michael White hiked for 20 hours straight, ascending some 7,000 feet.

Then there was the payload that fell directly in the path of a young hiker from Alaska.

The camera was still running when the hiker picked it up, so the students saw him tell everyone he met that a lunchbox had fallen out of the sky.

Their longest retrieval was when a lunchbox landed in Nevada's Area 51, a highly restricted area used for weapons and aircraft testing.

It took them six months to get that one back from the government.

Early on Saturday, after the latest launch, Phillips checked the payload's GPS.

The payload had landed 52 miles west of Bishop.

The hiking would be beautiful, through sequoia groves and past waterfalls.

Things could turn perilous, though, if the payload had landed on a high peak.

At times, in the past when a payload landed in an easy-to-get-to spot, half a dozen people had collected the lunchbox — but this time it was just Phillips and White.

Of all the experienced hikers in the group, White is the most skilled.

White and Phillips thought the retrieval might not be too bad.

It appeared that the payload had fallen in a canyon less than 2 miles from a marked trail.

The pair marched briskly up a 3.7-mile trail that ascended 2,500 feet.

They turned left and followed a marked trail for 1.7 more miles — and then things stopped being easy.

The last half-mile to get to the payload took Phillips and White five hours.

The slopes were steep, and when they weren't covered in rock, they were covered in 100 years of decayed pine needles.

"You are digging your fingers as deeply as you can into the dirt and pulling yourself up," Phillips said.

Finally, White spotted the payload, high on a flat rock, in the middle of a cascading waterfall.

They had entered the forest at 11 a.m.

They emerged 11 hours later, payload in hand.

