On Sept. 11, 2001, a group of Islamic extremists attacked different places in the United States.

After, Pardeep Kaleka spent several days at his father's gas station in South Milwaukee.

He feared that his family would be attacked by people who thought they were Muslim.

Followers of the Islamic religion are called Muslims.

No, Kaleka explained to customers, the family was Sikh, a southeast Asian religion.

Sikhism has nothing to do with Islam.

Recently, Islamic extremists have attacked Paris, France, and San Bernardino, California.

Some people are blaming all Muslims.

Now Kaleka is vowing to do things differently.

"For us it does not matter who they're targeting," said Kaleka.

He is a former Milwaukee police officer and teacher.

His father was one of six people killed in 2012 when a white supremacist opened fire at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.

A white supremacist thinks that white people are superior to everyone else.

Kaleka said the Sikhs should not tell people they are not Muslims.

When people are using hate speech, "we cannot be on the sidelines," he said Across the United States, Sikhs and Muslims are working together.

They want to help one another to defend their religions.

They plan protests and educational sessions about their religions.

They also pushed the FBI to track hate crimes against Sikhs.

In this case, a hate crime is an attack against a person because of his religion.

"We are in this fight together," said Gurjot Kaur.

She is a lawyer at The Sikh Coalition, which began the night of the Sept. 11 terror attacks.

Sikhism believes in one god, like Christianity, Judaism and Islam.

It was founded more than 500 years ago in Southeast Asia.

The religion has about 27 million followers worldwide, most of them in India.

There are more than 500,000 Sikhs in the United States.

Male Sikhs often cover their heads with turbans and do not shave their beards.

Reports of bullying and attacks against Sikhs have gone up recently.

Last week, a Sikh temple in California, was attacked.

A truck in the temple's parking lot was also damaged by someone who tried to write the word "Islam" on it.

Former basketball player Darsh Singh was the first Sikh in the NCAA to play in a turban.

He said he has heard insults throughout his life.

Then last week, a photo on Facebook showed Singh.

It said, "Nobody wants to guard Muhammad, he's too explosive."

It referred to Muhammad, Islam's prophet.

One of Singh's friends posted a response.

It said, "Do the world a favor and educate yourself," and got tens of thousands of likes.

"A lot of people act out of fear or ignorance," said Singh.

"I don't know who started it, but whoever they are, I forgive them."

Rajinder Singh Mago is with the Sikh Religious Society of Chicago.

He said Sikh schoolchildren are sometimes bullied.

Madihha Ahussain is a lawyer at the national group Muslim Advocates.

She said some people have wrong information about different religions.

They blame many different groups for the violent actions of a few people.

As a result, some Sikhs have been the victims of violence.

A Chicago-area teenager was charged with a hate crime.

He called a Sikh taxi driver "Bin Laden," after terrorist leader Osama Bin Laden.

The teenager also hit the driver in the face, breaking his cheekbone.

In 2013, a Wisconsin, man was charged with a hate crime.

He was accused of setting fire to a store owned by a Sikh-American.

In 2012, a white supremacist killed six people and wounded four others at the Oak Creek temple.

Kaleka said his father, Satwant Singh Kaleka, was the last person killed inside the temple.

Kaleka said the Muslim community reached out to Sikhs after the attack.

Members of both faiths — along with Christians, Jews and others — work together to fight hate speech.

Last weekend, Kaleka spoke at a Muslim women's group.

"I think this is just another test," Kaleka said.

