After the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, Pardeep Kaleka spent several days at his father's South Milwaukee gas station.

He feared that his family would be targeted by people who assumed they were Muslim.

No, Kaleka explained to customers, the family was Sikh, a southeast Asian religion based on equality.

It is not related to Islam.

But there has been a new wave of anti-Islamic feeling since the terror attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, California.

Now Kaleka is vowing to take an entirely different approach.

"For us it does not matter who they're targeting," said Kaleka.

He is a former Milwaukee police officer and teacher whose father was one of six people killed in 2012 when a white supremacist opened fire at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.

A white supremacist thinks that white people are superior to other races.

Kaleka said the Sikhs should not separate themselves from Muslims.

When people are using hate speech, "we cannot be on the sidelines."

Across the United States, Sikhs and Muslims are banding together to defend their religions.

Someone bent on harming Muslims wouldn't understand — or care about — the difference between the two faiths.

Both deserve to live in peace.

So they plan educational sessions and rallies.

They also successfully pushed the FBI to track hate crimes against Sikhs and talk to lawmakers.

"We are in this fight together," said Gurjot Kaur.

She is a lawyer at The Sikh Coalition, which was started the night of the 2001 terror attacks.

Sikhism believes in one god, like Christianity, Judaism and Islam.

It was founded more than 500 years ago in Southeast Asia, and has about 27 million followers worldwide, most of them in India.

There are more than 500,000 Sikhs in the United States Male Sikhs often cover their heads with turbans, which are considered sacred, and do not shave their beards.

Reports of bullying, harassment and vandalism against Sikhs have risen in recent weeks.

Last week, a Sikh temple in Orange County, California, was vandalized.

A truck in the temple's parking lot was also damaged by someone who tried to write the word "Islam" on it and made a reference to the Islamic State extremist group, which was responsible for the attacks in Paris and California.

It is also known as ISIS and ISIL.

Most Sikhs have not been attacked, but they have been subjected to stares or comments and online insults.

Former NCAA basketball player Darsh Singh said he has heard insults throughout his life.

Then last week, a photo on Facebook showed Singh — the first Sikh in a turban to play in the NCAA — with the caption, "Nobody wants to guard Muhammad, he's too explosive."

It referred to Muhammad, Islam's prophet.

A friend came to his defense with a post that said, "Do the world a favor and educate yourself," which got tens of thousands of likes.

"A lot of people act out of fear or ignorance," said Singh.

"I don't know who started it, but whoever they are, I forgive them."

Rajinder Singh Mago, with the Sikh Religious Society of Chicago, said Sikh schoolchildren are sometimes bullied.

Madihha Ahussain is a lawyer at the national group Muslim Advocates.

She said people who are badly informed about both religions are blaming many different groups for the violent actions of a few people.

As a result, some Sikhs have been the victims of violence.

A Chicago-area teenager was charged with a hate crime.

He called a Sikh taxi driver "Bin Laden," after terrorist leader Osama Bin Laden, and repeatedly hit him in the face, breaking his cheekbone.

In 2013, a Green Bay, Wisconsin, man was charged with a hate crime.

He was accused of setting fire to a convenience store owned by a Sikh-American.

That was less than a year after white supremacist Wade Michael Page killed six people and wounded four others at the Oak Creek temple.

Kaleka said his father, Satwant Singh Kaleka, was the last person killed inside the temple.

Page broke into an office where the elder Kaleka was calling 911.

Kaleka said the Muslim community reached out to Sikhs after the attack.

Members of both faiths — along with Christians, Jews and others — are continuing to work together to fight hate speech.

Last weekend, he spoke at a Muslim women's coalition.

"I think this is just another test," which has brought to the surface some problems the community has not dealt with, Kaleka said.

