Sweet Briar and Deep Springs colleges are single-gender schools.

Sweet Briar only lets women enroll, while Deep Springs allows only men.

Like the few other remaining single-sex colleges, they are struggling to survive.

The reasons for their problems are quite different.

Still, their situations have raised questions about how important single-gender education has been for their students.

There are also questions about how far people will go to either keep or end the single-sex tradition.

Over the last 50 years, women's colleges have been disappearing as they either let men in or close altogether.

There were 230 women's colleges 50 years ago, according to a group that supports women's colleges, called the Women's College Coalition.

Now there are 46.

Much of that decline occurred in the late 1960s and early 1970s, when many men-only schools started to admit women.

The people who run 114-year-old Sweet Briar said in February that the school would close this summer.

The announcement stunned the school community and surprised other educators.

Administrators said the number of students was falling.

They also noted the difficulty of getting high school graduates interested in a single-sex college.

Another problem was the location of the campus.

President James F. Jones said the school was "30 minutes from a Starbucks."

Later, word came out that the school owed large amounts of money.

Its leaders were concerned about not being able to pay those loans.

They said that even letting men enroll in the school would not help.

The teachers and local county government in Virginia are taking the school to court to stop it from closing.

Graduates of the school also are protesting.

They may join in court cases to save the school.

Some single-sex colleges have problems, according to David L. Warren.

But they are not doomed, he said.

Warren is president of a group that represents colleges and universities.

Many of the schools will be able to do well in the coming years, he said.

However, the people who run the schools will need to show good leadership.

They will also need smart business plans and interesting classes, Warren added.

The survival of women's colleges is important, said Michele Ozumba.

She is president of a group that supports women's colleges.

The schools can help women become leaders, she said.

Minorities and students who are the first in their families to go to college may especially need women's colleges, she said.

Unlike Sweet Briar, Deep Springs is not in danger of closing, but there is a plan for the school to change.

The tiny two-year school has been around since 1917 and its 28 male students do not pay for classes.

They follow an unusual program that combines reading famous books and pitching hay on the 120-square-mile ranch.

Many go on to attend top colleges for four-year degrees.

The all-male college had considered letting in women.

It finally decided in 2011, that it would start admitting women in 2013.

Maintaining a men-only school was no longer good preparation for the students' futures, officials said.

Those plans, however, have been stalled by a legal challenge from graduates of the school.

They argue that enrolling women would go against the school's original mission, as well as the legal papers that set up the school.

The school was formed to educate "promising young men."

In November, a judge ruled that the school's legal papers could be changed.

The school's mission could be expanded to educating "promising young people."

Deep Springs "would offer a far more effective program" if women could also attend, the judge wrote.

The case will now be heard by a higher court, and there are no immediate plans to enroll women, according to the school.

Some officials at the few remaining men's colleges defend their programs.

In the last 10 years, the percentage of men enrolling in college and graduating has fallen behind that of women.

Men-only colleges, they argue, can help close that gap by giving special attention to those students.

