First came the cracking sounds.

Then windows started blowing out.

And before they knew it, guests felt the ground beneath their Lake County hotel near Disney World in Florida sink into the ground.

A large sinkhole opened in the earth at the Summer Bay Resort late Sunday, Aug 11.

The sinkhole was 60 feet round -- about the distance from home plate to the pitcher's mound on a baseball field.

It was 15 feet deep, about the size of an adult giraffe.

Guests had only 10 to 15 minutes to escape.

No one was injured.

"My heart sunk.

I was sick to my stomach," said resort president Paul Caldwell after getting a call about 10:30 p.m. from his staff that the 15-year-old buildings full of guests were sinking into the ground.

Sinkholes are common in land where the rock below the surface can be dissolved by water flowing through it, according to the U.S. Geological Survey.

That type of land is called "karst terrain."

It is found in about one-fifth of the country, the earth science group said.

The states with the most damage from sinkholes tend to be Florida, Texas, Alabama, Missouri, Kentucky, Tennessee and Pennsylvania.

A guest ran into the street to flag down resort workers after the windows began to shatter, Caldwell said.

Firefighters arriving on scene immediately went door-to-door of building 104, which is three stories tall, to help guests escape.

The building was sliced nearly in half.

About 20 men, women and children left behind everything they brought to their vacation home.

The American Red Cross came to help the displaced guests.

Building 104 is connected to a center building, said Lake County Fire Chief Tony Cuellar.

The building buckled into the ground minutes after firefighters got the guests out through the center building, he said.

A building next door was also evacuated.

All guests had been accounted for, and no one was injured.

Caldwell said they were moved to other buildings on the property.

The east side of the property lost power, but none of the other units were otherwise affected, he said.

Firefighters are waiting for engineers to decide what damage the gaping hole caused.

Part of Florida sits on soft limestone.

When acidic rain water runs through the soil, the limestone dissolves and a sinkhole forms.

Construction, groundwater pumping and drought followed by heavy rain can speed up the erosion.

When the water dissolves limestone, sands move through and form a hole on the surface.

It looks like the sand is going through the neck of an hourglass.

Sinkholes cost people in Florida millions of dollars each year.

Sinkholes hapen a lot in Florida's Tampa Bay area.

One man there suffered a terrible end in March.

A 50-foot-deep sinkhole swallowed 37-year-old Jeffrey Bush while he was sleeping inside his home.

The house was condemned, and Bush was declared dead.

Officials investigated a possible sinkhole at another Florida home in June.

The homeowner's pool cracked and shifted in the ground.

The hole — 40 to 50 feet wide and 30 to 40 feet deep — stabilized.

An infamous sinkhole swallowed a car dealership and home in its 320-foot-wide and 90-foot-deep opening in 1981.

