A San Jose State undergrad has made what could prove to be a remarkable discovery: a system of stars so dense, his professor said, astronomy has no word for it.

After only a week of looking, 21-year-old Michael Sandoval stumbled upon what he and his professor have named a hypercompact cluster.

They believe it is the intensely starry remains of one galaxy that has been consumed by another.

Astrophysics professor Aaron Romanowsky said it's astounding how quickly his student discovered something so important.

"Some people take years and never find" anything significant, he said.

The stellar search was a welcome distraction for Sandoval: His mother, Holly Houser, died of cancer in October.

In the last years of his mom's life, the physics major lived at home, juggling her care with his education.

At times he had to rush her to the emergency room at night, then drag himself to class the next day.

Several months after his mother died, Sandoval enrolled in his first astrophysics course.

He soon learned that classmate Richard Vo had discovered an unusual stellar object — possibly the densest ever found.

His response was immediate: "I want to find one too."

With free, publicly available data from the Hubble Space Telescope and the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, Sandoval set to work on his laptop.

He began combing the universe for unusual objects, using some of Vo's research methods.

"I didn't want to be sitting home, feeling sorry for myself," said Sandoval.

"That's not what she would have wanted anyway."

Instead, he and Vo are rushing to publish their findings with Romanowsky.

Romanowsky was on a team of astronomers that was among the first to discover a dense galaxy like the one Vo found: an ultracompact dwarf galaxy.

They published their findings in September.

But Sandoval's search for a similar object turned up something "weird," Romanowsky said, that was unlike anything he had ever seen.

Think of a dwarf galaxy as being like an apple core, Romanowsky said.

What Sandoval found is like the seeds — in other words, it is even smaller and denser.

They are keeping the names and locations of both findings secret until they have been published.

Until recently, astronomers hadn't even thought to look for these dense stellar systems.

"It's something that's been hiding in plain sight," Romanowsky said.

If verified, the new discoveries could lead to breakthroughs in our understanding of the universe.

They may increase our understanding of the so-called black holes within galaxies.

Black holes have a gravitational pull so powerful they are thought to trap light, making them difficult to spot.

Both students were so passionate about the project, Romanowsky said, that they were pushing him, not the other way around.

"They're sending me emails at midnight: 'Professor, will you send me more data?'"

he said.

Experiences like theirs could bring more students into the sciences, said astronomer Natalie Batalha.

Glimpsing something no human has ever seen feels like "all the mysteries of the universe are right there for us to discover," she said.

"Not very many young people are choosing to pursue scientific careers," she added.

"I wonder how much of that is because of stereotypes and a poor understanding of what it means to be a scientist."

Vo certainly doesn't fit the image of the boring scientist.

His forearms are decorated with tattoos, and his sense of humor is boyish and outspoken.

Recalling the start of his research project, he described the task ahead of him then as "basically finding Waldo."

The youngest of 10 children of Vietnamese immigrants, Vo graduated from San Jose State on Saturday with a physics degree.

He hopes to continue his research at San Francisco State.

As for Sandoval, his discovery makes him think of his mom.

It always embarrassed him when she bragged about his physics studies, he said, because he felt he had done nothing special.

"After this has happened," he said, "I'm pretty sure she's proud."

