Boys in tattered coats zoom straight down Malam Jabba's powdery slope on homemade pine skis.

Galoshes nailed to the planks suffice as ski boots.

Bamboo sticks serve as poles.

A few hundred yards away, jobless men trudge to the top of a snowy ridge.

They are scavenging scrap metal from the mounds of rubble at the country's only ski resort.

Wealthy businessmen and European diplomats once flocked to the rugged northwestern region known as "the Switzerland of Pakistan."

That changed five years ago, when Taliban fighters temporarily took control of the Swat Valley.

During its brutal reign, the Islamist militant group beheaded its opponents, burned down schools and stopped girls from attending classes.

The militants regarded skiing as un-Islamic, so they set fire to the resort's 52-room hotel and destroyed its chairlift, snow-making machine and ski-rental shops.

The government regained control of the valley in 2009, but Malam Jabba is still nearly dormant.

It remains a symbol of Pakistan's floundering attempts to bring tourism back to Swat's velvet-green mountainsides and murmuring streams.

When the Taliban attempted to kill 15-year-old education activist Malala Yousafzai in October, it brought world attention to Swat.

People feared a return of Taliban violence to the valley.

"The government has been telling us for years that they're going to rebuild the hotel, and it never happens," said Sabz Ali, 18, trudging up the slope with his skis over his shoulder.

His family owns a small hotel nearby which pulls in about $20 a month, on average, from a smattering of guests.

"The [big] hotel is the main thing.

If they build it, people will come."

Pakistan is more than just a land of religious fundamentalists and car bombers.

It is home to the world's second-highest peak, K2, which beckons to mountaineers.

In the south, the ancient city of Mohenjo-daro is home to ruins that have survived for 4,600 years.

But the crown jewel of Pakistani tourism has been the 91-mile Swat Valley.

Some of the country's best trout fishing can be found in the winding Swat River and its network of creeks and streams.

And then there's Malam Jabba, Swat's own little Aspen.

In its heyday, the resort hosted thousands of people each day; now, the number is usually in the dozens.

The ruined hotel welcomed visitors with a white modernist facade and sweeping concave roof, a refreshing change from the boxy style typical of most Pakistani buildings.

Inside the lobby were fireplaces, thick wood paneling and dark red carpeting.

Skiers taking a break from the slope could skate at the ice rink or browse through a souvenir shop stocked with jars of Swat-made honey.

"It was a beautiful, huge hotel, and it was always full," Ali said.

He and his family fled Swat while the military was fighting the Taliban.

They returned four months later to find the hotel destroyed.

"When I saw it, my heart sank.

It was so beautiful, but it also meant we had jobs."

The military keeps bases and checkpoints to ensure the Taliban does not return, and hopes to one day give back control to the local government.

Government leaders in Swat say it is vital to revive tourism for the local economy.

"Swat is now totally cleared of the Taliban," said Syed Aqil Shah, tourism minister for Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, where Swat is located.

"What happened to Malala was just one incident that made people start talking again about Swat security.

"But I assure you that Swat is as safe as any other place in Pakistan right now."

Nonetheless, tourism is a shadow of what it once was.

The Swat Valley region now attracts about 50,000 tourists annually, said Zahid Khan, president of the All-Swat Hotels Association.

Before the Taliban takeover there were 300,000 visitors a year.

The decline hurts the life of almost every resident because four-fifths of wages in Swat come from tourism, Khan said.

Among those affected are hotel workers, cooks, taxi drivers and handicraft artisans.

Reviving tourism in Swat is a low priority for the government, according to Khan.

His requests to meet with top officials are largely ignored, he said.

So are his pleas for funding.

Making matters worse, the region was hit by the epic floods in 2010.

More than 120 hotels in Swat were damaged or destroyed.

Only 20 have been rebuilt, with the owners paying for the work themselves.

Shah said that the local government will oversee the hotel's reconstruction, which should begin this summer.

People in Swat say they have heard such promises before.

Many scrape by on whatever money they can earn teaching skiers or renting out their own equipment to the few visitors who arrive daily.

For all its drawbacks, the resort brings joy to residents who long ago fell in love with skiing and have nothing else to fill their days.

On a recent cloudless afternoon, a few dozen people spent hours on the mountain, using ledges along the slope as mogul jumps.

One skier in an overcoat and Ray-Ban sunglasses whizzed down without poles.

Another, Saeed Alam, took a break from scavenging to don a pair of skis.

"It's such a beautiful sport that I can't help but ski every day," said Alam, 22.

"But when God has given us this beautiful place and the government doesn't do anything with it, it's just so disappointing."

He pushed off down the slope.

On the back of his jacket were the words "Ski and Smile in Swat!"

