Boys in worn-out coats zip down the powdery slope.

They wear homemade pine skis.

They have no ski boots–just galoshes nailed to the planks.

Bamboo sticks work as poles.

Nearby, jobless men climb a snowy ridge.

They are looking for scrap metal.

This is Malam Jabba.

It was once the country's only ski resort.

Now it is strewn with rubble.

Malam Jabba is in the Swat Valley.

In 2008 the Taliban took control of the valley.

Taliban fighters believe in an extreme form of Islam.

They terrorized the people of Swat.

Anyone who opposed them was killed.

They set schools on fire.

Girls were banned from classes.

The fighters said skiing was against Islam, their religion.

So they set fire to the resort's hotel.

They broke the chairlift and the snow-making machine.

The ski rental shops were destroyed.

In 2009 the army beat back the Taliban.

The government now controls the valley.

But Malam Jabba remains ruined.

"The government has been telling us for years that they're going to rebuild the hotel, and it never happens," said Sabz Ali.

The 18-year-old climbs the slope carrying his skis.

His family owns a small hotel nearby.

It only earns about $20 a month.

"The [big] hotel is the main thing," Ali says.

"If they build it, people will come."

Thousands of people used to come to the resort each day.

Now, the number is usually in the dozens.

The hotel was a white, modern building.

Inside was a rich-looking lobby.

Guests skated on the ice rink.

The souvenir shop sold local Swat honey.

"It was a beautiful, huge hotel, and it was always full," Ali said.

He left Swat while the army was fighting the Taliban.

He returned four months later to find the hotel destroyed.

"When I saw it, my heart sank.

It was so beautiful, but it also meant we had jobs."

The army has bases and checkpoints to keep out the Taliban.

Still, tourism is not what it used to be.

About 50,000 tourists come per year, said Zahid Khan.

He speaks for the hotel owners in the valley.

Before the Taliban came there were 300,000 visitors a year, he said.

Fewer visitors means less money for everyone.

Hotel workers, cooks, taxi drivers and handicraft makers are all suffering, Khan explained.

The government is not doing enough to help tourism in Swat, Khan said.

Top officials ignore him when he asks for meetings and money.

Making matters worse, the region was flooded in 2010.

More than 120 hotels in Swat were damaged or destroyed.

Only 20 have been rebuilt.

The government said it will oversee the rebuilding of the hotel at Malam Jabba.

Officials say the construction should start this summer.

People in Swat say they've heard such promises before.

Meanwhile, they are just scraping out a living.

The resort still brings some joy to residents.

They fell in love with skiing long ago.

Besides, there's nothing else to do in Malam Jabba but ski.

A few dozen people spent hours doing jumps on the mountain.

One skier in an overcoat and sunglasses whizzed down without poles.

"It's such a beautiful sport that I can't help but ski every day," said Saeed Alam, 22.

"God has given us this beautiful place and the government doesn't do anything with it," Alam said.

"It's just so disappointing."

He pushed off down the slope.

On the back of his jacket were the words "Ski and Smile in Swat!"

