In South Korea's capital this week many people are wearing facemasks in public.

They are trying to avoid catching the disease Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).

An outbreak of the disease began here in May after an infected man returned to Seoul from the Middle East.

South Korea's outbreak is the only one so far to have happened outside the Middle East.

The country now has 108 cases of MERS.

Many questions — and fears — surround the virus.

How contagious is it?

Has the virus developed into new forms?

Will the number of cases in Seoul continue to rise or will the outbreak be controlled?

South Korean scientists Kee-Jong Hong and Sung-Han Kim met with journalists to discuss what is known so far about the virus and its spread.

There is no vaccine or drug to fight the virus, and up to 40 percent of people infected by it die, they said.

Nonetheless, the two had some promising news.

It is still unclear exactly how MERS spreads among people, the scientists said.

However, it is common for many viruses to mutate — to develop into new forms — and become increasingly contagious.

So far, tests indicate that the virus has not mutated, said Hong.

Still, the virus could mutate at any time, he added.

Nearly all outbreaks of the virus worldwide have occurred within hospitals.

So far in South Korea there have been no known cases of the disease spreading in homes, said Kim.

Apparently, the virus takes some time to replicate — to spread within an infected person by making copies of itself.

About 25 percent of people infected never show symptoms.

For the rest, symptoms arise only after the virus has replicated extensively in their bodies, by which point they are usually very ill and likely to seek treatment.

Experts do not think the virus spreads through the air.

However, infections in hospitals have occurred in patients that shared the same room or waiting room, even if they were up to 6 1/2 feet apart.

Doctors suspect that the use of the same medical instruments on infected and uninfected patients might be responsible for those cases.

While between 30 and 40 percent of MERS patients do not survive, most of those who have died so far were already hospitalized with another illness.

Their pre-existing illness may have weakened their resistance to the virus, Kim said.

Fewer than 10 percent of infected hospital workers with no other illness have died.

If the virus is not airborne and is not contagious until a person shows symptoms, and is therefore likely to be under medical care, why have authorities in Seoul closed schools?

And why do some city dwellers insist on using facemasks?

Kim said these measures are wise precisely because scientists have not pinned down how the virus spreads.

He advised that people with cold-like symptoms should wear a facemask to avoid spreading any infection, be it a common cold or MERS.

Even though all known infections here have occurred in hospitals, closing schools to be on the safe side is a sensible idea, he said.

So far, 2,474 South Korean schools have been closed.

As for the future, Hong's views were encouraging.

He predicted that cases and deaths from MERS in South Korea will decline in the next week or two.

