Many people in South Korea's capital are wearing facemasks this week.

They are trying to protect themselves from a deadly disease: Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).

An outbreak of the disease began here in May.

A man who caught MERS in the Middle East brought it with him when he returned to Seoul.

So far, South Korea is the only country outside the Middle East to have a MERS outbreak.

The country now has 108 cases of MERS.

Many questions — and fears — surround the disease.

How easy is it to catch?

Has the disease developed new forms?

Will the number of cases in Seoul continue to rise?

South Korean scientists Kee-Jong Hong and Sung-Han Kim met with journalists to discuss what is known about the disease and its spread.

There is no known medicine to fight off the disease, they said.

Up to four out of every 10 people who catch it die.

Still, the two scientists did have some good news.

It is not clear how MERS spreads among people, the scientists said.

However, it is common for many diseases to mutate — to develop into new forms.

Once they mutate, diseases can become much easier to catch.

So far, tests show that MERS has not mutated, Hong said.

Still, the disease could mutate at any time, he added.

Nearly all outbreaks of the disease worldwide have happened within hospitals.

So far in South Korea, MERS has not been spread within homes, Kim said.

The disease takes some time to replicate — to spread within a person's body by making copies of itself.

Around 1 in 4 people who catch MERS never become sick.

As for the rest, they only begin to show signs of sickness after the disease has replicated through much of their bodies.

By that point, they are usually very ill.

They are likely to end up going to a hospital.

Experts do not think the disease spreads through the air.

However, it has been passed from one hospital patient to another, even when the patients were more than 6 feet apart.

Doctors think they have an explanation: They believe the disease is spread when the same hospital tools are used to treat both MERS patients and those with other illnesses.

It is true that up to 4 out of every 10 people with MERS have died, Kim said.

However, most of those who died already had another illness.

Their illness may have made their bodies less able to fight off MERS.

Fewer than 1 in 10 healthy hospital workers who caught MERS have died.

If the disease has only been spread in hospitals why have schools been closed in Seoul?

If it is not airborne why are some people wearing facemasks on the street?

Kim said both things are wise.

They are a good idea precisely because scientists do not know how the disease spreads.

Facemasks should not only be worn to avoid catching MERS, Kim said.

People who feel sick should wear a facemask even if they think they only have a cold.

Closing schools to be on the safe side is a good idea too, he said.

So far, 2,474 South Korean schools have been closed.

Hong thinks things will start to get better soon.

He said the number of new cases of MERS in South Korea will probably start to go down in the next week or two.

