In South Korea's capital this week it is not unusual to see people wearing facemasks as they walk the streets and ride the subway.

They are taking this precaution due to an outbreak of the disease Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS).

The outbreak began in May after an infected man returned to Seoul from the Middle East.

South Korea's outbreak is the only one so far to have occurred outside the Middle East.

The country now has 108 confirmed cases of MERS.

Many questions — and fears — surround the virus.

How contagious is it?

Has the virus developed into new forms?

Will the number of cases in Seoul continue to rise or will the outbreak be controlled?

During a special meeting on MERS at the World Conference of Science Journalists — taking place in Seoul — two South Korean scientists shared what is known about the virus and its spread to date.

There is no vaccine or drug to fight the virus, and up to 40 percent of people infected by it die.

Nonetheless, the researchers had some promising news.

It is still unclear exactly how MERS spreads among people, but it is common for many viruses to mutate — to develop into new forms — and become increasingly contagious.

So far, genetic tests indicate that the virus has not mutated, said Kee-Jong Hong, director of the Pasteur Institute Korea.

Still, the virus could mutate at any time and become more easily transmissible.

Nearly all outbreaks of the virus worldwide have occurred within hospitals.

So far in South Korea no transmission within households has been documented, said Sung-Han Kim, an expert on disease transmission at the Asan Medical Center in Seoul.

Apparently, the virus takes some time to replicate — to spread within the body by making copies of itself — once it has infected an individual.

About 25 percent of people infected never show symptoms.

For the rest, symptoms arise only after the virus has replicated extensively in their bodies, making them very ill and likely to seek treatment.

Experts do not think the virus spreads through the air.

However, infections in hospitals have occurred in patients that shared the same room or waiting room, even if they were up to 6 1/2 feet apart.

Doctors suspect that the use of the same medical instruments on infected and uninfected patients might be responsible for these transmissions.

Kim noted that while the death rate for those infected with MERS is between 30 and 40 percent, most deaths so far have been among patients who were already hospitalized with another illness.

The pre-existing illnesses these patients were suffering from may have weakened their resistance to the virus, Kim said.

The death rate among infected hospital caregivers with no other illness is less than 10 percent.

If the virus is not airborne and is not contagious until a person shows symptoms, and is therefore likely to be under medical care, why have authorities in Seoul closed schools?

And why do some city dwellers insist on using facemasks?

Kim said these measures are wise precautions precisely because researchers have not pinned down how the virus spreads.

He advised that people with cold-like symptoms should wear a facemask to prevent transmitting any infection at this point, be it a common cold or MERS.

Although available data show that MERS infections in this region occur almost exclusively in hospitals, 2,474 schools have been closed due to an abundance of caution.

As for the future, Hong predicted that cases and deaths from MERS in South Korea will decline in the next week or two.

