A grand jury confirmed a murder charge on Monday against a white former North Charleston police officer.

Michael Slager had been charged with shooting an unarmed black man in the back after a traffic stop.

The April 4 shooting was captured on a video by a person standing nearby.

It showed Officer Slager firing eight times as 50-year-old Walter Scott ran away from him.

The shooting stirred up a national debate about how black people are treated by white police officers.

Slager was charged with murder by state law enforcement authorities.

He was fired from the police force immediately after the video became public.

Prosecutor Scarlett Wilson announced the indictment, or charges, against Slager.

It represented at least the fourth time in less than six months that a grand jury in South Carolina agreed that white officers should stand trial in the shootings of black men.

In South Carolina, a grand jury is made up of 18 people.

They decide what charges should be filed.

"The jury will make up its own mind after it sees the video and hears the other testimony," Wilson said.

No trial date has been set.

Walter Scott's brother Rodney Scott said the family is "very happy and pleased" with the indictment of Slager.

In South Carolina, investigators typically present a case to a grand jury.

Wilson said the investigating officers had the video when they went before the grand jury but she could not say for certain if they saw it.

The 33-year-old Slager, who has been jailed since his arrest, faces 30 years to life in prison if convicted.

Wilson said he probably would not face the death penalty.

For a person to be eligible for the death penalty, state law requires aggravating circumstances, such as robbery or kidnapping.

Wilson said it does not seem that anything like that was involved in Scott's death.

Slager's lawyer did not want to comment on the indictment.

Chris Stewart is a lawyer for Scott's family.

He said the family plans to file a wrongful death lawsuit in court against North Charleston and its police force.

"Today was just an example of if you keep the faith, even in the darkest times, you will see the light," Stewart said after the indictment.

"We are going to patiently wait for the criminal trial in this case," he said.

"And we are going to patiently wait to see if the city, the police department and the chief are going to take responsibility."

Slager told authorities he initially tried to stun Scott with his Taser after the traffic stop, but it did not work.

He said that as both men fought over the electric stun gun, Slager fired his handgun at Scott in self-defense.

The video shows the men briefly scuffling over what appears to be a Taser before Scott runs away and the officer begins firing at Scott's back.

Another video was taken from a camera in the officer's car.

It shows Slager running and chasing Scott down after the traffic stop.

Family members think that Scott may have tried to flee because he worried about returning to jail.

He had owed about $18,000 to support his children.

As word of the shooting spread in South Carolina, many feared police would not take any action.

Days later, Scott's family made public the cellphone video, and his death instantly became international news.

Slager's arrest and firing eased tensions in the community.

The video added fuel to the national debate about race and aggressive police tactics.

Many people in the black community think that police treat black people too harshly.

The debate was made more intense in August with the shooting death of 18-year-old Michael Brown, who was black, in Ferguson, Missouri.

In that case, there was no video of the shooting and the white officer, who fired the fatal shots, was not indicted.

In Baltimore, six officers were indicted in the death of Freddie Gray, who was badly injured during an arrest there.

He later died at a hospital.

In South Carolina, charges have been brought against Slager and three other officers for shooting at unarmed black men.

Three of the men were killed, and a fourth was seriously injured.

Only one of the cases has gone to trial, ending in a mistrial because the jury could not come to a decision.

A retrial is set for next week.

In South Carolina, grand juries usually hear from the investigating officer and then decide whether to indict a defendant.

Defense attorneys said it is rare for a grand jury not to indict.

Just 12 of the 18 jurors have to agree that the accused person probably committed the crime.

