A grand jury affirmed a murder charge on Monday against a white former North Charleston police officer who shot and killed an unarmed black man.

The April 4 shooting was captured on video by a bystander.

It showed Officer Michael Slager firing eight times as 50-year-old Walter Scott ran away from him during a traffic stop.

The shooting inflamed a national debate about how black people are treated by white police officers.

Slager was charged with murder by state law enforcement officers.

He was fired from the police force immediately after the video surfaced.

Prosecutor Scarlett Wilson announced the indictment.

It represented at least the fourth time in less than six months that a sitting grand jury in South Carolina has agreed that white officers should stand trial in the shootings of black men.

"The jury will make up its own mind after it sees the video and hears the other testimony," Wilson said.

No trial date has been set.

Walter Scott's brother Rodney Scott said the family is "very happy and pleased" with the indictment of Slager.

In South Carolina, the law enforcement agency investigating a case typically presents it to a grand jury.

Wilson said the investigating officers had the video when they went before the grand jury but she could not say for certain if they saw it.

The 33-year-old Slager, who has been jailed since his arrest, faces 30 years to life in prison if convicted.

Wilson said the death penalty does not seem to apply because there were no aggravating circumstances such as robbery or kidnapping as required under state law.

Slager's lawyer did not want to comment on the indictment.

Attorney Andy Savage said he first wanted "an opportunity to fully evaluate the state's case and to compare it with our own investigation."

Chris Stewart, a lawyer for Scott's family, said they plan to file a wrongful death lawsuit against North Charleston and its police force.

"Today was just an example of if you keep the faith, even in the darkest times, you will see the light," he said during a news conference after the indictment.

"We are going to patiently wait for the criminal trial in this case and we are going to patiently wait to see if the city, the police department and the chief are going to take responsibility in the civil suit."

Slager told authorities he initially tried to stun Scott with his Taser after a traffic stop, but it didn't work.

As both men fought over the electric stun gun, Slager said he fired his handgun at Scott in self-defense.

The video shows the men briefly scuffling over what appears to be a Taser before Scott runs away and the officer begins firing at Scott's back.

Another video, from the officer's dashboard camera, shows Slager running and chasing Scott down after the officer pulled him over and checked his identification.

Family members have speculated that Scott may have tried to flee because he feared returning to jail over about $18,000 he owed in late child-support payments.

As word of the shooting spread in South Carolina, many worried that police would close the case without taking any action.

Days later, Scott's family publicized the bystander's video, and his death instantly became international news.

Slager's arrest and firing eased tensions in the community.

The cellphone video added fuel to the national debate about race and aggressive police tactics, which intensified in August with the shooting death of 18-year-old Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri.

In that case, there was no video of the shooting and Officer Darren Wilson, who fired the fatal shots, was not indicted.

In Baltimore, six officers were indicted in the death of Freddie Gray, who was critically injured during an arrest there and later died at a hospital.

In South Carolina, charges have been brought against Slager and three other officers for shooting at unarmed black men.

Three of the men were killed, and a fourth was seriously injured.

Only one of the cases has gone to trial, ending in a mistrial because the jury could not come to a decision.

A retrial is set for next week.

Grand juries in South Carolina are made up of 18 people picked at random who typically serve from several months to a year.

They usually hear from the investigating officer and decide whether to indict a defendant.

Prosecutors cannot try anyone for a serious crime in the state without an indictment, unless the defendant waives the grand jury hearing.

Defense attorneys said it is rare for a grand jury not to indict because just 12 of the 18 jurors have to agree the person probably committed the crime.

