Last week, a huge food company made an unusual announcement.

It told the world that it sold fish caught by slave workers in Thailand.

The workers are poor migrants who have moved to Thailand to find work.

Once there, they are tricked into working under terrible slave-like conditions.

The company is Nestle.

Its headquarters are in Switzerland.

Nestle makes many different kinds of food products, including Nestle Crunch chocolate bars.

It also makes Purina pet food, which uses fish.

Last year, Nestle asked a group called Verite to investigate.

Nestle does not use slave workers.

However, its fish comes from Thai food companies that do.

Nestle uses the fish to make its own products.

Verite found that just about all U.S. and European companies that buy seafood from Thailand might have the same problem.

Nestle is one of the biggest food companies in the world.

Its investigation came after reporters and others had already found out about the terrible working conditions in the Thai seafood business.

Earlier this year, The Associated Press (AP) news service discovered slavery at Thai fisheries.

That report led to the rescue of more than 2,000 fishermen.

The workers come from Thailand's neighbors Myanmar and Cambodia.

They want to work in Thailand, which is a richer country.

People, called middlemen, illegally charge the workers money to get them jobs.

The workers then become trapped working on fishing boats and at ports, mills and seafood farms in Thailand.

They cannot leave until they pay back the money.

The middlemen charge them so much money that they can never pay back what they owe.

"I have been working on this boat for 10 years.

I have no savings.

I am barely surviving," a worker from Myanmar said.

"Life is very difficult here."

Nestle said it was angry about the slave labor and would take action to ensure that workers are treated fairly.

It said it would post the Verite reports online and come up with a plan to try to solve the problem.

All of its suppliers will have to follow tougher rules on how they treat workers.

Nestle also said it will teach boat owners and captains about human rights.

Boat captains and workers spoke of the dangers at Thai fishing businesses.

Boat captains rarely checked the ages of workers.

Verite found children who were forced to fish.

Many workers said they do their jobs without rest, and hardly get any food and water.

Fishing companies did not allow them to speak with their families or friends.

It is rare for a company like Nestle to make such an announcement.

From time to time, it comes out that products are made with slave labor or by people working in terrible conditions.

The companies investigate, but if the claims are true, they usually do not tell anyone.

Mark Lagon runs Freedom House, a group working to end slave labor.

He said that Nestle's announcement was unusual and he praised it.

Usually companies will not even say they are looking into a problem.

Often, they are too concerned that people will take them to court.

In fact, Nestle is already being sued.

In August, pet food buyers filed a lawsuit in court against the company.

It claimed that fish in Fancy Feast cat food was caught with slave labor in Thailand.

It is one of several lawsuits against U.S. companies bringing seafood in from Thailand.

Some of the lawsuits mention reports from the AP.

The news service connected slave-caught fish with giant food sellers.

Some that were mentioned include Wal-Mart, Sysco and Kroger.

It also found the fish in popular brands of canned pet food, including Fancy Feast, Meow Mix and Iams.

The seafood can turn up as calamari at expensive restaurants, or as fake crab in a sushi roll.

It can also be found in packages of frozen fish that people buy in grocery stores.

The U.S. companies all said they are working to prevent it.

