The United Nations on Wednesday remembered the millions of victims of slavery with the unveiling of a memorial at its headquarters in New York.

The memorial, titled The Ark of Return, commemorates the estimated 15 million African men, women, and children who died during the trans-Atlantic slave trade, the largest forced migration in history.

It also remembers the millions of others forced into slavery on plantations in the Americas.

Ambassadors from many countries and Jamaica Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller were at the ceremony.

The memorial was designed by Haitian-American architect Rodney Leon.

He competed against 310 architects and designers for the chance to design the memorial on the United Nation visitors plaza.

Leon said the triangle-shaped marble structure was inspired by the theme, "acknowledge the tragedy, consider the tragedy, lest we forget."

He and his team drew inspiration from maps of the slave trade, which are etched in the structure.

Leon was also inspired by the ships that ferried Africans to Europe and the Americas on a triangular journey, and the experiences people underwent through the "door of no return."

This door refers to a castle on Goree Island in Senegal where many slaves were kept before they were shipped to the Americas.

"We felt it was very important for us to counteract that experience and pay homage to their legacy," Leon said.

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said the memorial stands as a reminder of the brutal crossing across the Atlantic Ocean.

It also recognizes "the significant contributions that slaves and their descendants have made."

"This poignant and powerful memorial helps us to acknowledge the collective tragedy that befell millions of people," he said during the outdoor ceremony.

"It encourages us to consider the historical legacy of slavery and above all, it ensures that we never forget."

The U.N. has declared 2015 to 2024 as the International Decade for People of African Descent.

Ban called slavery "a stain on human history."

He said the monument allows everyone a chance to reflect on the causes and consequences of racism so they might wipe out prejudice and intolerance.

"I hope The Ark of Return will also serve as a call to action against the many contemporary manifestations of slavery," Ban said.

Modern-day slavery includes sexual enslavement and forcing people to work involuntarily to pay off debts.

The memorial project began more than five years ago and was led by African and Caribbean nations.

Several nations, along with UNESCO, helped raise more than $1.7 million for it.

Jamaica is a member of the 15-member Caribbean Community, which is pursuing reparations against European nations that were involved in the slave trade.

The group of Caribbean island nations is seeking reparations, which are payments to compensate them for slavery.

Simpson Miller did not raise the reparations issue in her remarks at the ceremony but spoke of slavery's enduring legacy.

She pointed out that even after Britain passed a law on March 25, 1807, abolishing the slave trade, slavery continued.

In the United States, slavery was not finally abolished until the Civil War ended in 1865.

"For us, freedom came after a long journey," she said.

"Freedom was not gifted to us but rather earned by the sweat, blood, and tears of millions of our forebears on whose back the economic foundations of the New World was built."

Speaking at an earlier news conference, professor Jean Crusol of Martinique said the memorial stood as a tribute to the many freedom fighters who struggled to end slavery.

Among them were Louis Delgres and a woman named Solitude, who fought against slavery in the French Caribbean.

He also singled out Queen Nanny in Jamaica and Toussaint L'Ouverture of Haiti, who led a slave revolt.

In 1804, Haiti became the first nation to break the shackles of slavery and declare itself free.

Recalling France's 2001 recognition that slavery was a crime against humanity, Crusol said it was time for international recognition of slavery as a crime against humanity and the entire world.

"This is our challenge," he said.

"This should be the test, the collective goals of the near future for this family of nations."

