Nearly 30 million people remain enslaved around the world, a new report said on Thursday.

African countries dominated the Global Slavery Index.

It showed that 38 of the 50 countries where the practice is at its worst are found on the continent.

But slavery was also found elsewhere, including in the United States.

Mauritania has the poorest record.

Some 150,000 people in a population of 3.8 million are held captive in the country in West Africa.

Many were born into slavery to parents who were also slaves.

Other African countries with high rates of slavery also are located in West Africa: Benin, Ivory Coast, Gambia, Gabon and Senegal.

West Africa has a somber place in the history of transatlantic slavery.

It was the departure point for many slaves who were seized from other parts of the continent.

Then they were shipped to the New World.

Today children are bought and sold around the region.

They are forced into domestic service, farm labor or sold into the sex trade.

The index was created by anti-slavery group Walk Free Foundation.

"In 2013, modern slavery takes many forms, and is known by many names," the report said.

Whatever the name, "victims of modern slavery have their freedom denied, and are used and controlled and exploited by another person for profit, sex or the thrill of domination," the report said.

In many African countries, children are sold into labor by poor rural parents.

Some are sent to Islamic schools where they are forced to beg on the streets by religious leaders.

They are also recruited as unpaid porters or child soldiers by armed militias.

Girls are often married off young and denied an education, or forced to be sex slaves, porters and cooks by armed groups.

More than 16 percent of slaves are in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the report.

The risks of becoming a slave are high in many African countries, the report said.

Extreme poverty, wars and government corruption are some of the reasons people fall victim to slavery.

The world's hunger for Africa's natural resources such as gold and diamonds also puts people at risk.

Forced marriages and the marriage of children are still tolerated by some traditional legal systems, the report said.

As many as 20 percent of the population in Mauritania is enslaved, according to an organization there interviewed by the Walk Free Foundation.

A 2013 U.S. report on human trafficking gave a similar estimate.

Slavery in Mauritania goes back generations.

The country has banned the practice and signed international conventions against slavery and child labor.

But slavery still has deep roots.

Adults and children from slave social classes in Mauritania usually cannot read.

They do not know their rights and are enslaved in domestic labor and as cattle herders.

They are regarded as the property of their masters.

Slaves can see their children sold to other masters, or given away as gifts.

They do not have education or access to a different way to survive.

So "many believe that it is God's wish for them to be slaves," the report said.

The report called on Mauritania to conduct a nationwide investigation into continuing forms of slavery.

It also called on the country to do more to support slaves leaving their masters and to help them mount legal action to be paid back for their work as slaves.

In Ivory Coast, many children work without pay in fishing, farming, building, domestic service and the cocoa industry, one of country's major exports.

Up to 800,000 children work on small family farms.

Their working conditions are "akin to the worst forms of child labor," according to the report.

Of the countries that have the highest rates of slavery, the United States is ranked 134th.

Nearly 60,000 people are estimated to be in modern slavery in the U.S.

The Walk Free Foundation was founded last year by a wealthy Australian businessman, Andrew Forrest.

Its goal is to campaign against slavery and pay for programs to end the practice.

One of its campaigns focuses on pressing companies to ensure their suppliers do not use slave labor.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the report was not a perfect measure of global slavery but was a good starting point.

"I urge leaders around the world to view this index as a call to action, and to stay focused on the work of responding to this crime," she said.

