African countries dominate a global index on slavery released Thursday that estimated that nearly 30 million people remain enslaved around the world.

The Global Slavery Index showed that 38 of the 50 countries where the scourge is at its worst are found on the continent.

Mauritania has the poorest record.

Some 150,000 people in a population of 3.8 million are held captive there.

Many of them inherited their status from their parents.

Other African countries with a particularly high prevalence of slavery are located in West Africa: Benin, Ivory Coast, Gambia, Gabon and Senegal.

West Africa has a somber place in the history of transatlantic slavery.

It was the departure gateway for slaves seized in raiding expeditions before they were shipped to the New World.

Today children are trafficked around the region and forced into domestic service, farm labor or sexual exploitation.

The index was created by Walk Free Foundation, an anti-slavery organization.

"In 2013, modern slavery takes many forms, and is known by many names," the report said.

Those names include "human trafficking, forced labor, slavery or slavery-like practices" such as "debt bondage" forced marriage and the sale of children into armed conflict.

Whatever the name, "victims of modern slavery have their freedom denied, and are used and controlled and exploited by another person for profit, sex or the thrill of domination," the report said.

In many African countries, children are sold into labor by poor rural parents or sent to Islamic schools where they are forced to beg on the streets by religious leaders.

They are also recruited as unpaid porters or child soldiers by armed militias.

Girls are often married off young and denied an education, or forced to be sex slaves, porters and cooks by armed groups.

More than 16 percent of slaves are in sub-Saharan Africa, according to the report.

Wars, extreme poverty, high levels of corruption and the world's hunger for natural resources like gold and diamonds all contribute to the risk of enslavement in many African countries.

Forced marriages are still tolerated by informal or "traditional" legal systems in many countries, the report said.

In Mauritania, as many as 20 percent of the population is enslaved, according to an organization there interviewed by the Walk Free Foundation.

A 2013 U.S. report on human trafficking gave a similar estimate.

Slavery in Mauritania goes back generations.

It is deeply entrenched, though the country has banned the practice and signed international conventions against slavery and child labor.

People born into slavery in Mauritania are usually illiterate, unaware of their rights and enslaved in domestic labor and as cattle herders.

They are regarded as the property of their masters.

Slaves can see their children sold to other masters, or given away as gifts.

"Indoctrination to ensure people in slavery accept their situation of ownership is a key feature of slavery in Mauritania," the Global Slavery Index report said.

Without access to education or any other way to support themselves, "many believe that it is God's wish for them to be slaves."

The report called on Mauritania to conduct a nationwide investigation into continuing forms of slavery.

It also called on the country to  do more to support slaves leaving their masters and to help them mount legal action to receive the pay they are owed for their labor.

In Ivory Coast, many children work without pay in fishing, farming, building, domestic service and the cocoa industry, one of country's major exports.

As many as 800,000 children work on small family farms.

Their working conditions are "akin to the worst forms of child labor," the report said.

The United States is ranked 134th in terms of the prevalence of slavery.

Nearly 60,000 people are estimated to be in modern slavery in the country.

The Walk Free Foundation was founded last year by an Australian mining tycoon, Andrew Forrest.

Its goal is to campaign against slavery and fund programs to end the practice.

One of its campaigns focuses on pressing companies to ensure that their suppliers do not rely on slave labor in the developing world.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the report was not a perfect measure of global slavery but was a good starting point.

"I urge leaders around the world to view this index as a call to action, and to stay focused on the work of responding to this crime," she said.

