Giant food company Nestle SA has sold fish caught with slave labor in Thailand.

Poor migrants from other countries move to Thailand to find work.

They suffer under terrible conditions and with little to no pay.

The discovery comes from Nestle SA itself.

The Swiss corporation announced the conclusions of its yearlong investigation last week.

In 2014, Nestle asked the nonprofit organization Verite to look into the working conditions of the fishermen.

Verite found that just about all U.S. and European companies buying seafood from Thailand might have the same problem.

Nestle SA is one of the biggest food companies in the world.

The investigation followed reports from news outlets and nongovernmental organizations that tied brutal working conditions to the company's shrimp, prawns and Purina brand pet foods.

Earlier this year, The Associated Press (AP) news service reported on slavery in the seafood industry that led to the rescue of more than 2,000 fishermen.

Nestle and other companies buy the seafood from Thai suppliers.

They use the fish ingredients to make their own products or sell the seafood under their own brand names.

The laborers come from the neighboring countries of Myanmar and Cambodia, which are much poorer than Thailand.

Middlemen illegally charge the workers high fees to get them the jobs.

They then become trapped working on fishing boats and at ports, mills and seafood farms in Thailand to pay back more money than they can ever earn.

"Sometimes, the net is too heavy and workers get pulled into the water and just disappear.

When someone dies, he gets thrown into the water," a worker from Myanmar told Verite.

"I have been working on this boat for 10 years.

I have no savings.

I am barely surviving," said another.

"Life is very difficult here."

Nestle announced a series of actions to ensure that workers are treated fairly.

It said it would post the Verite reports online and come up with a plan to solve the problem.

All fish suppliers will have to follow strict rules on how they treat workers.

Nestle said it will train boat owners and captains about human rights.

It also plans to bring in investigators and have a high-level Nestle manager make sure the working conditions actually change.

"Forced labor and human rights abuses have no place in our supply chain," Magdi Batato, a top official with Nestle, said.

Verite interviewed more than 100 people for the study.

These included about 80 workers from Myanmar and Cambodia, as well as boat owners, shrimp farm owners and representatives of Nestle's suppliers.

Verite visited fish ports and fishmeal packing plants, shrimp farms and docked fishing boats.

Boat captains and managers, along with workers, confirmed violence and danger in the Thai seafood industry.

Boat captains rarely checked the ages of workers.

Verite found child workers who were forced to fish.

Workers said they perform their duties without rest, and receive barely any food and water.

Fishing companies do not allow them to have contact with the outside world.

The Thai seafood industry exports $7 billion of products a year.

Generally, the workers studied by Verite were catching and processing fish into fishmeal fed to shrimp and prawns.

But the group said many of the problems are not unique to Nestle.

They occur throughout the entire fishing industry, Verite said.

Nestle's announcement is rare.

Global companies that make everything from clothing to electronics may announce they are investigating possible labor abuses.

However, they rarely share negative findings.

Mark Lagon is the president of the nonprofit group Freedom House, an anti-slave labor organization.

He said that Nestle's announcement was unusual and admirable.

Usually companies will not even say they are looking into a problem.

They are concerned that they will get sued in court.

In fact, Nestle is already being sued.

In August, pet food buyers filed a lawsuit against the company.

It claimed that fish in Fancy Feast cat food was caught and processed with slave labor in Thailand.

It is one of several lawsuits filed in recent months against major U.S. companies that import seafood from Thailand.

Some of the lawsuits refer to news reports from the AP.

The news service tracked slave-caught fish to suppliers of giant food sellers, such as Wal-Mart, Sysco and Kroger.

It also found the fish in popular brands of canned pet food, including Fancy Feast, Meow Mix and Iams.

The seafood can turn up as calamari at fine restaurants, as imitation crab in a sushi roll or as packages of frozen snapper relabeled with store brands that land on dinner tables.

The U.S. companies have all said they strongly condemn labor abuse and are taking steps to prevent it.

Nestle promises to publicly report its progress each year.

