Slavery persists in the world.

It is even still found in the United States, a new report said Thursday.

But nowhere is it worse than in Africa.

Nearly 30 million people are enslaved around the world, according to the Global Slavery Index.

Of the 50 countries where slavery is at its worst, 38 are in Africa, it said.

Mauritania has the poorest record.

Out of a population of 3.8 million, some 150,000 people are held captive in the west African country.

Many of their parents were slaves.

Slavery is often handed down at birth.

Many West African countries have slavery.

The report mentioned Benin, Ivory Coast, Gambia, Gabon and Senegal.

West Africa has a long, sad history of slavery.

Slaves captured elsewhere in Africa were taken there.

Then they were shipped to the New World.

Today children are bought and sold around the region.

They are forced to work in homes and farms.

Some are sold for other duties.

Many are abused.

The index was created by anti-slavery group Walk Free Foundation.

In many African countries, children are sold into labor by poor rural parents.

Some are sent to religious schools.

There, they are forced to beg on the streets.

Armed gangs or armies lure them into being unpaid fighters or laborers.

Girls are often married off young and not allowed to go to school.

They are also forced to work for armed groups.

The risks of becoming a slave are high in many African countries, the report said.

Wars, poverty and dishonest governments make it easy for some to fall into slavery.

Governments look the other way when children are forced into marriages.

Some countries have informal or old laws that allow people to be married against their will.

As many as one-fifth of the people in Mauritania are slaves, according to a group there interviewed by the Walk Free Foundation.

A 2013 U.S. report on human trafficking gave a similar estimate.

Slavery in Mauritania goes back generations.

The country has banned the practice and signed international agreements against slavery and child labor.

But slavery still has deep roots.

Adults and children from slave social classes in Mauritania usually cannot read.

They do not know their rights.

They are seen as the property of their masters.

Slaves can see their children sold to other masters, or given away as gifts.

They do not have education or any other way to make a living.

The report said "many believe that it is God's wish for them to be slaves."

The report called on Mauritania to look into continuing forms of slavery.

It also called on the country to do more to support slaves.

It suggested helping them leave their masters and going to court to get paid back for their work.

In Ivory Coast, many children work without pay in fishing, farming, building, homes and the cocoa industry, one of country's major exports.

Up to 800,000 children work on small family farms.

Their working conditions are  similar to "the worst forms of child labor," according to the report.

The United States is ranked 134th in the report.

Experts say there are nearly 60,000 slaves in the U.S.

The Walk Free Foundation was founded last year by a rich Australian businessman, Andrew Forrest.

Its goal is to fight against slavery and pay for programs to end the practice.

It pressures companies to make sure their products and supplies are not made by slaves.

Former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said the report was not a perfect measure of global slavery but was a good starting point.

"I urge leaders around the world to view this index as a call to action, and to stay focused on the work of responding to this crime," she said.

