In 1794, a Portuguese ship taking about 400 slaves from Africa to South America crashed off the coast of South Africa.

About half of the slaves died in the rough waters.

The slaves who survived were sold to a new owner.

Then they were sent to work on sugar plantations in the South American country of Brazil.

Now, two items found in the wreck of the slave ship São José-Paquete de Africa are coming to Washington.

One is an iron ballast, which is a weight that is carried on a ship to keep it stable.

The other is a wooden pulley block.

It is part of a machine used to lift heavy objects onto a boat.

The items will be displayed next year at the new National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C.

They will be featured in an exhibit on slavery.

"These will be part of the list of 'I've got to see this,'" said Lonnie Bunch, one of the museum's leaders.

He was in South Africa on Monday, where it was announced that the Iziko Museums would loan the artifacts to the new museum.

The items represent a significant addition to the newest Smithsonian museum, which is set to open next year.

The National Museum of African American History and Culture was created by Congress in 2003.

The $540 million building will open with 11 exhibitions, including the one on slavery.

The museum has already collected important items from the time of slavery.

They include iron chains worn by a child, a receipt for the sale of a 10-year-old boy into slavery, and a slave cabin from South Carolina.

"We have many items that tell a full and complex story of slavery ... and the way it shaped our nation," Paul Gardullo, the museum's curator, said.

"This will add to that in a unique way."

He acknowledged that the items recovered from the shipwreck are "humble," or simple.

Still, he said they can help visitors feel something about what slavery was like.

The items will be on loan to the Smithsonian for at least 10 years, Bunch said.

He said they might be kept even longer because research is still going on.

"There might be objects we don't know about yet."

The agreement to loan the items is important to the Slave Wreck Project.

The program started in 2008 to learn more about the slave trade by studying shipwrecks.

The National Museum of African American History and Culture has been working on the project with five other groups.

They are here in the United States and overseas.

"It's a great collaboration that brings us across the ocean," Gardullo said.

Their collaboration involves "engaging in these conversations and looking at new ways to do this work."

The São José shipwreck was first discovered in the 1980s.

At first, experts thought the ship was an older Dutch boat.

In 2008, researchers with the Slave Wreck Project chose the site as its first undertaking.

They began to explore the underwater location and conduct research in the cities the ship was thought to have visited.

Since 2010, researchers have discovered documents in Portugal that told who the ship's owners were.

The documents also indicate what type of cargo the ship was carrying when it left Africa.

There is also evidence that the ship's captain bought a slave from a local leader called a sheikh.

Officials involved in the project are in Cape Town, South Africa, this week for meetings.

They hope that the story of the São José shipwreck is just the beginning of their discoveries.

"One of the last areas that can provide us with new knowledge (of the slave trade) is underwater," Bunch said.

He added that he hopes the project will continue for a long time and that other shipwrecks will be identified.

He said he would also like to see artifacts from those shipwrecks come to the museum.

