Caribbean countries face plenty of problems.

There's rising unemployment, high crime and an unending health crisis.

But almost every Caribbean leader who spoke at the United Nation last week brought up one issue: paying for the damages of slavery.

The countries were European colonies during the African slave trade.

They want money, or reparations, for the descendants of African slaves.

Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Baldwin Spencer said the Caribbean countries have had a lot of trouble making their economies better.

The problems continue because of slavery and because they were once colonies.

"Reparations must be directed toward repairing the damage inflicted by slavery and racism."

The fight is many years old.

Black scholars and others across the United States, Caribbean and Africa have unsuccessfully sought money from Britain, France and the Netherlands.

They want the European countries to pay for supporting kidnapping, enslaving and selling Africans.

But their idea was never backed by most citizens or political leaders.

Now that has changed.

The push for reparations has been gaining steam in recent weeks.

Leaders of the 15-member Caribbean Community regional bloc have agreed to make a case for the former colonial powers to pay up.

They have met with a British law firm and called for apologies.

They might even go to the International Court of Justice, the United Nations' main legal arm, if the Europeans will not deal with them.

The leaders say what they most want is money for programs to help lift people out of poverty.

The money could be used for things like building schools and making bridges and roads.

Ralph Gonsalves is prime minister of St. Vincent and the Grenadines.

He is one of the leaders of the movement.

"It's a historic wrong that has to be righted," Gonsalves said.

"Look, the Germans paid the Jews."

He also noted payments to Japanese people in the United States who were forced into camps during World War II.

The Maori people received reparations from New Zealand, too.

A group was formed to work on reparations for the Caribbean countries at a meeting Gonsalves hosted.

Hilary Beckles, a leading historian on the issue of slavery and reparations, was selected to lead the group.

Beckles recently published a book.

In it he argues that Britain built its economic empire on slave labor.

The effects of slavery continue to be seen in the problems Caribbean countries have with improving their fortunes, the book said.

"It's not a confrontation, it's a conversation" that the Caribbean nations are seeking for the 400-year-old problem, Gonsalves said.

"It's not a protest.

It's an engagement."

It is unclear whether other nations will join the Caribbean's call.

On Monday, the U.N. unveiled the winning design of a memorial at U.N. headquarters to honor the victims of slavery.

Gonsalves and other leaders say they welcome the memorial and the U.N.'s efforts.

But more action is needed, he said.

"I saw the president of South Africa, the president of Ghana, the prime minister of Ethiopia, and they are all on board," Gonsalves said.

"We're going to build the links.

We have to build it inside of Europe, too, with ordinary Europeans."

But if Europeans are willing to listen, their governments may not be.

French President François Hollande resists demands to pay reparations for its part in Haiti's independence and the slave trade.

He refused just like Jacques Chirac before him.

Chirac was the French president when Haiti was celebrating its 200th birthday almost 10 years ago.

Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide demanded that France repay Haiti for the amount it was forced to pay for its freedom in 1804.

Aristide had sent Paris a bill for the amount, down to the last penny, of $21,685,135,571.48.

Chirac quickly said no.

Britain also still hasn't apologized for slavery, activists say.

Blacks in America have had no more success than their counterparts.

Attempts to have the courts force the U.S. to pay reparations for slavery have gone nowhere.

Still, Heather Russell, a professor of Caribbean and African-American literature, says she is "cautiously hopeful" about the Caribbean Community's latest efforts.

"You have 15 heads of government who have signed on," said Russell, a Jamaica native.

"This issue has never been squarely put on the table."

Verene Shepherd is a historian and who has fought a long time for reparations.

She said people are more aware about the affects of slavery today.

"Remember, slavery lasted 300 to 400 years.

In the scheme of things, we have not been fighting a long time," she said.

