As 10-year-old Wesley Pope bombed down a snow-packed hill one afternoon, his father Russell smiled.

"Keep going, son!"

Russell yelled.

"Have fun."

After a mostly snowless winter, the Overland Park, Kansas, man enjoyed finally getting to go sledding with his children.

In a growing number of cities, however, something other than a lack of snow has kept kids off the hills — the law.

Dubuque, Iowa, is the latest city to give the traditional winter pastime the cold shoulder.

In January, city council members voted to ban sledding in 48 of the city's 50 public parks and impose a $750 fine on repeat offenders.

Other cities — including Des Moines, Iowa; Montville, New Jersey; Lincoln, Nebraska; and Columbia City, Indiana — have taken less drastic measures.

They are banning sledding only on the most dangerous hills, requiring helmets and outlawing jumping ramps and thin sledding sheets.

Some are posting sternly worded warning signs that inform thrill seekers that they are sledding at their own risk.

In Paxton, Illinois, park officials even removed a steep sledding mound.

Cities are taking such steps because they fear someone might get hurt — or, more to the point, that someone might sue.

"Sledding is a risky activity," Dubuque's city attorney wrote in proposing the ban.

"It's not unusual for people to talk about their accidents or near accidents along with the fun times they've had."

Nationwide, sledding injuries sent nearly 230,000 kids to emergency rooms between 1997 and 2007.

Cities have been successfully sued for millions of dollars following sledding injuries.

In Omaha, Nebraska, $2.4 million went to the family of a 5-year-old who became paralyzed after her sled hit a tree.

In Sioux City, Iowa, a jury awarded $2.75 million to a man who injured his spinal cord after crashing into a stop sign.

In Boone, Iowa, $12 million was awarded to a sledder who collided with a concrete cube.

The fear of such lawsuits is behind the movement to ban or restrict sledding.

However, for some cities, banning sledding is not that easy.

Omaha prohibited sledding at a popular hill as a test after settling its lawsuit, but allowed it again after residents ignored the ban.

As city attorney Tom Mumgaard put it: "It wasn't practical."

Instead, the city posted warning signs, stationed sentries at the hill and put hay bales around trees and pads around posts.

At the Overland Park hill where Russell Pope's family was sledding Monday, safety measures have also been taken.

Hay bales were in front of light poles and a fire hydrant.

Pope said he hoped the concern for safety would not become an outright ban.

"Kids' safety is paramount to us parents — but there's always a risk," he said.

"I understand there's money involved, but you can't take all the joy out of being a kid.

If you don't go sledding in the winter, all you've got is your iPad and SpongeBob.

I'd rather they get out there and get some exercise."

In most states — including Missouri and Kansas — laws shield cities from being held responsible for injuries resulting from sledding.

However, unlike Missouri and Kansas, Iowa's laws do not specifically mention sledding.

A bill to extend state protection to that activity failed in the last two legislative sessions.

Dubuque officials say the ban on sledding is a way to protect taxpayers financially.

It is taxpayers who ultimately end up paying when lawsuits against cities are successful.

Officials say they will reverse the ban if the effort to win state protection ever succeeds.

While Dubuque, which has many steep hills, has protected itself financially, it may have unintentionally made sledding more dangerous.

"It may have invited more injuries if it has driven kids off the hills and into the streets," law professor Craig Lawson said.

"The parents ought to be getting out there yelling at the elected officials and telling them they've made sledding more dangerous for their kids."

Indeed, the odds of going to an emergency room for sledding injuries are five times higher in children who sled on the street instead of a park.

In addition, injuries from street sledding typically are worse and are more likely to involve serious brain damage.

Dubuque's sledding ban has spawned many protests, and not just by kids.

Following the ban, two middle-aged brothers slid down a hill holding signs, one of which read "Don't tread on my sled!"

Lawson said cities used to be more protected from being held responsible for sledding injuries than they are now: "If you went sledding, you understood that it was inherently dangerous and did so at your own risk," he said.

However, toward the end of the last century, laws evolved to allow juries to decide it cities had been negligent.

The result was that more lawsuits against cities were successful.

The question is whether a city could foresee a risk, Lawson said.

"So if you create a sledding hill and right at the bottom is a large hard object that you could hit, a jury could decide that a reasonable city would have taken steps to make the hill safer."

Meanwhile, back on the Overland Park sledding hill, 11-year-old Lydia Pope frowned at the idea of a sledding ban.

"I wouldn't like it," she said.

"Sledding is what you do when there is snow!"

