A group of doctors has asked schools to start later in the day.

These doctors say that students need more sleep to be healthier in life.

Young people need 8 to 10 hours of sleep a night to grow and learn.

Few students get that much sleep.

For many students, being exhausted is a part of life.

High school senior Nicole Bankowski sleeps about five hours each weeknight.

She takes difficult classes, edits her school newspaper and sings in the choir.

She often does not start doing her homework until 10:30 p.m. Bankowski stays up late and wakes up early.

Sometimes she does not get to bed until 3 a.m. "It's probably not the healthiest way to live, but it's the only way to get everything done," Bankowski said.

This month, Bankowski will start applying to colleges.

She expects to get even busier.

Bankowski said she has to think about her future.

"It's more important than going out or taking a nap."

Matt Shapiro is another student who does not get enough sleep.

He is school president and captain of the speech and debate team.

Shapiro wakes up at 6:00 every morning.

He must fight back against the sleepiness that hits him each day.

Shapiro said he once fell asleep, in third grade.

"I never forgot how badly I felt," he said.

"I never let it happen again."

Lauren Ward's secret to staying awake in class is candy.

She snacks on Charleston Chew candy bars at school.

Even with the candy, it is hard to stay alert.

"Really, it's usually third period before I start feeling like a human," she said.

The group of pediatricians, doctors who treat young people, recommended that schools start at 8:30 a.m. or later.

Today, more than 8 out of 10 schools start earlier than that.

Most high schools in Chicago start at 8 a.m.

Some students have sports practices at 6 a.m. Students not getting enough sleep is a serious issue.

It is more than just being tired.

Judith Owens, a sleep expert at a children's hospital, called it a "public health crisis."

Young people who do not get enough sleep have a higher risk of serious diseases later in life.

Studies have shown that a good night's sleep is important for a young person to be healthy physically and emotionally — healthy in body and mind.

Starting school later is a simple and effective way to get young people more sleep, Owens said.

But school leaders say it is not easy to change schedules.

Starting later means ending later, and that can interfere with after-school sports and activities.

"I can't change when the sun sets," one district superintendent said.

