Algae is a type of very simple plant.

Found in lakes and ponds, it provides food for fish.

When there's too much of it, however, algae can crowd out other plants.

Eventually, it can cause fish to die off.

One algae has caused particular worry: Didymo.

Didymo produces threadlike stalks called "rock snot."

The stalks were given this strange name for a simple reason: They look something like mucus.

When the stalks bloom, serious problems can result.

Lakes and ponds can become clogged.

Many fear that didymo is spreading rapidly from one body of water to another.

On the East Coast, there have been attempts to stop it.

For example, in Maryland, fishing boots with felt soles have been outlawed.

The worry is that the algae can stick to the felt.

Fishermen may then carry didymo from one lake to another.

Fishermen also now must carefully wash their gear after fishing.

That way, they won't unknowingly transport the algae.

People might soon think of didymo differently.

A new Dartmouth College study may change its reputation.

The study shows that didymo is no rapidly spreading newcomer.

Indeed, it has been found all over the world for a long time.

The study found that didymo had been present in rivers around the globe for centuries.

In some cases, it had been present for thousands of years.

The team did find one significant change, however.

In the past, rock snot blooms were very rare.

Now, they are common.

Study leader Brad Taylor has an explanation for the increase.

It wasn't caused by didymo's spread from river to river, as most believe.

Instead, it was caused by global warming.

[Climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) has created problems for didymo.

Chief among them is a drop in levels of the mineral phosphorous.

When we burn coal or gas it releases nitrogen.

More nitrogen means less phosphorous in lakes or rivers.

Didymo and other plants depend on phosphorous to grow.

Didymo produces its stalks when phosphorous levels are very low, Taylor said.

It does this "to push itself up."

The plant heads upward to search for what it isn't getting.

One sees the same thing with beanstalks, Taylor said.

He added, if "you starve the plants of light, they grow tall and spindly."

Taylor's team is now trying to discover the cause of the drop in phosphorous levels.

He thinks something humans are doing is to blame.

In the meantime, Taylor has a simple message: Current efforts to stop the spread of snot blooms won't work.

Some of those efforts have cost millions of dollars.

"It's already there," Taylor said.

"It's not going to do any good to try and stop the spread of it, obviously."

Taylor thinks there's a better way to spend the money: to try to figure out "what's causing it to bloom."

Once that's understood, he said, we can move on to the next step.

We will then need to figure out "ways to regulate that."

Or we may need to find "ways to simply adapt to it and deal with it."

Didymo, Taylor said, could provide valuable information.

It may provide a window into climate change's effects.

Climate change may be affecting didymo before other plants, he said.

Thus, didymo may provide an early warning.

It may help show us "changes that are going to happen in rivers."

Taylor said didymo is "being affected by changing environmental conditions."

As a result, it "is causing a nuisance."

That kind of problem is "something I think we need to be more aware of in the future."

What's more, he added, it's a problem that may soon become "more common."

