Slopestyle, the newest Olympic event, was always going to be a flashy addition to the Games.

The sport is an acrobatic assault on a snowy obstacle course of rails and jumps.

Danger wouldn't just be part of the event.

It would be a selling point.

But did the 2014 Winter Olympic Games go too far?

On Wednesday, Shaun White abruptly withdrew from slopestyle.

The first-ever Olympic competition in the sport began the next day.

White is the most famous snowboarder in the world.

White's Olympics are not over; he is still scheduled to compete in another event, the halfpipe.

That's no small matter — White is a halfpipe favorite.

Capturing the gold would make him the first American man to win an event at three straight Winter Olympics.

But White's high-profile campaign to capture a medal in two events is done.

This is another troubling development for a Winter Games.

These games cost roughly $51 billion to stage, but have been beset by concerns over safety, cost overruns, human rights and construction woes.

Russia has a lot riding on the games.

It is hosting the games for the Olympics for the first time since the Soviet Union broke up.

Russia used to be part of a larger country called the Soviet Union (USSR).

It had a communist government.

White said the decision not to compete in  slopestyle was "difficult" and not one he made lightly.

"I know how much effort everyone has put into holding the slopestyle event for the first time in Olympic history," White said.

White's decision came after days of mounting evidence that event organizers had overreached.

They seemed to have assembled a course that was risky even by the standards of this daring sport.

Earlier this week, a favorite in the slopestyle competition, Torstein Horgmo of Norway, fell on a jump during a practice run.

He broke his collarbone, ending his Olympics.

A Finnish competitor, Marika Enne, crashed on the course's third and final jump, hit her head and was hauled off in a stretcher.

White jammed his wrist in a practice run.

Olympic officials scrambled to respond.

They met with athletes and tweaked the 2,083-foot-long course.

Authorities had apparently anticipated that some snow would melt in the run-up to competition, a fair bet in this subtropical resort on the coast of the Black Sea.

When that didn't happen, they attempted to reshape jumps that one athlete compared to leaping from the top of a building.

Athletes also reported that rails — which are used to stage tricks and stunts — were too sticky and needed to be waxed.

Some slopestyle athletes downplayed the risks of the course.

"Snowboarding is dangerous.

Like crossing a street is dangerous," said Canadian Mark McMorris, who is trying to push forward despite suffering a broken rib less than two weeks ago at the X Games.

Sage Kotsenburg, one of White's Olympic teammates, called the modified course "sick" — a compliment, in this world.

"The snow's getting better," he said after a training session.

"It's still a little bit icy.

I mean, it's a dangerous course.

Every course is dangerous.

It is a risk we take dropping in every time."

Kotsenburg would go on to win the gold medal in slopestyle.

He is the first American to win a gold medal at the Sochi Olympics.

Still, even the modified course was apparently not enough to satisfy White.

"The potential risk of injury is a bit too much for me to gamble my other Olympics goals on," White said.

Authorities from the U.S. Olympic Committee and the U.S.

Ski and Snowboard Association (USSA) supported White's decision.

White "made a sound athletic decision," said Jeremy Forster, the USSA's snowboarding and free-skiing director.

Slopestyle was fast-tracked into the Olympics only three years ago, an unusual departure for the International Olympic Committee.

For some sports, Olympic inclusion has come after many years of competition and lobbying.

Even slopestyle athletes were taken by surprise by the decision; most had assumed that the event would not make its Olympic debut until at least 2018.

Many observers saw the decision as a reflection of the Olympics' desire to reinvent itself and attract a younger audience.

Chris Gunnarson, president of Snow Park Technologies, said slopestyle is probably the most meaningful sport to younger people who ski and snowboard.

"Many kids are going to be able to relate and they are going to be able to see athletes doing the same kinds of things they could do, to a higher level."

Snow Park Technologies has designed and built slopestyle courses for the X Games.

The sport has been shadowed by tragedy.

One of its most well-known competitors, Canadian freestyle skier Sarah Burke, died in a training accident two years ago.

The X Games champion pushed hard for the inclusion of the sport in the Olympics, and her teammates planned on honoring her in Sochi by putting stickers on their helmets.

