"It's a world of laughter / A world of tears / It's a world of hopes / And a world of fears / There's so much that we share / That it's time we're aware / It's a small world after all ..." At Disneyland in California, Disney World in Florida, and Disney parks in Japan, France and Hong Kong, you'll find a simple, old-fashioned boat ride: It's a Small World.

This year, Small World is turning 50 years old.

The ride has carried more than 290 million guests.

That's about 111,000 a week for 50 years.

Small World hasn't changed much since it first appeared in 1964 at the World's Fair in New York.

At the time, Walt Disney said he wanted an attraction that would bring joy "to every child from 1 to 100."

On Small World you take a slow and peaceful boat ride through the countries of the world.

Each room has dolls in traditional clothes dancing and singing the title song over and over again.

The song is famously catchy.

Its message is about peace and understanding.

Small World has remained popular for years.

It's a gentle, family ride with a short line and air conditioning.

The ride takes about 15 minutes.

For the World's Fair, Disney was asked to design an attraction for UNICEF, a world organization that raises money for children in need.

Disney wanted a ride with a positive and inspiring theme.

His idea was 200 mechanical dolls dressed in the clothes of their countries.

Richard and Robert Sherman wrote the song.

It plays an average of 1,200 times a day.

The Sherman Brothers wrote the song as a message of hope.

In the early 1960s, the United States nearly went to war with the Soviet Union, a huge country that included Russia.

It was a scary time for many.

Rolly Crump helped design Small World in 1964.

He said a simple theme and detailed artwork have kept the ride popular.

"The technology today is burning people out," he said.

"This ride is so simple, so clean."

It gives people warm memories of the past, he explained.

In 2009, Disney changed the original ride at Disneyland in California.

It added in modern Disney songs.

Characters, such as Ariel, Flounder, Nemo, Woody and Tinker Bell, also appeared.

These changes angered some people who preferred that Small World stay the same.

Still, the ride remained popular.

On Small World, riders see the world through the eyes of children, said Disney designer Kim Irvine.

"It's innocent and pure and tells a story that everyone would love to believe in," she said.

Twenty-five years ago, Juanita and Mark Harrigan brought their daughter on Small World.

Today, they are bringing their young granddaughter.

"It's fun and relaxing," Juanita Harrigan said.

Cindy Oporto has been on Small World about 50 times.

Her 2-year-old son, Logan, recently took his first trip on the ride.

"He likes the singing and the animals," she said.

Fifty years after it first appeared, Small World is being made into a movie.

Jon Turteltaub is directing the movie.

He first rode Small World in 1966 and recently introduced his own kids to it.

He called the ride "innocent and sweet."

It provides a rest from "the noise of our society," he said.

