On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will consider the case of a California man whose smartphone got him in serious trouble.

What they decide will affect everyone with a cellphone.

These days, that means most of us.

In 2009, David Leon Riley's Samsung Instinct was searched by police.

It was loaded with pictures, some of them suspicious-looking, and Riley got busted.

The police who searched Riley's phone did so without a warrant — that is, without special permission from a judge.

The case will decide whether warrant-less searches of phones are legal.

The Supreme Court must decide if smartphones are covered by the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

That amendment — that is, addition or change — provides protection against unreasonable searches.

The Court's decisions will update rules that were written long before smartphones existed.

A modern smartphone, law professor Jeffrey L. Fisher noted, contains a lot of personal information.

It is a window into our private lives.

Police, he said, should not be allowed to poke through cellphones just to see what they can find.

Fisher is representing Riley, who is from San Diego.

Riley's case will be heard along with a separate phone-search case.

That case involves a man named Brima Wurie, whose flip-phone was searched without a warrant.

The outcome of the two cases could be very significant for both police and phone users.

Some fear that a ruling against Riley and Wurie would make the secrets of cellphone owners far too easy to uncover.

Ninety percent of U.S. adults now own cellphones.

A growing number of those phones are smartphones, which can contain much more personal information.

Law enforcement officials are worried as well.

Their fear is that they will lose an extremely valuable investigative tool.

California's attorney general — the top lawyer for the state — argued that barring cellphone searches would be inconsistent.

It is legal to seize certain kinds of information from an arrested person when they are "in paper form."

For example, photographs, videos, letters and lists of addresses are all fair game.

Such material, the attorney general said, should not be given "Fourth Amendment protection" simply because it's on a cellphone.

State and federal officials are urging the court to allow police to search smartphones.

The Riley and Wurie cases will be argued back to back on Tuesday morning.

Both involve warrant-less searches of devices unimagined back in 1791, when the Fourth Amendment was approved.

"I think the Riley case, in particular, is incredibly important," lawyer Elizabeth B. Wydra said on Friday.

"It should be important for everyone who has a smartphone."

Riley was pulled over by a San Diego police officer on Aug. 22, 2009, prosecutors and defense lawyers agree.

The two sides describe him very differently, however.

Fisher called Riley a "college student."

California officials called him "a member of a San Diego Blood gang."

Police seized Riley's car because he was driving with a suspended license.

In a search that followed, officers found two guns.

A police officer then scrolled through Riley's unlocked phone.

On it were video clips of gang fights, pictures of gang signs and clips of a red car allegedly used in an earlier gang shooting.

Convicted on charges that included attempted murder, Riley was sentenced to prison for 15 years to life.

The 23-year-old is currently in California's Kern Valley State Prison.

The Wurie case also involves a warrant-less search of a cellphone.

After busting Wurie on drug and gun charges, Boston police checked his phone's call log, allowing them to see who he'd been talking to.

Wurie was convicted in 2009, and is now serving a 262-month prison term.

The Riley case may prove to be the more important of the two.

This is because it deals directly with the way modern smartphones can store so much personal information.

An estimated 56 percent of U.S. adults were using smartphones last year.

"You're talking about a treasure trove of personal information," Wydra said.

And it's "the kind of information that we think of as deeply private."

