Next week, the Founding Fathers will meet the selfie generation.

On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will consider the case of a California man whose smartphone got him in serious trouble.

In 2009, David Leon Riley's Samsung Instinct was searched by police without a warrant.

It was loaded with pictures he shouldn't have taken, and Riley got busted.

Now the justices, who sometimes seem uncomfortable with new technologies, will consider something that is very much a 21st-century problem.

Justices must decide if smartphones are covered by the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

That amendment guarantees protection against unreasonable searches and seizures.

The eventual outcome will clarify rules that were written long before smartphones existed.

"A modern smartphone," law professor Jeffrey L. Fisher noted, is a window "into our most sensitive and confidential affairs.

The digital contents of such a device should not be subject to a fishing expedition."

Fisher is representing Riley, who is from San Diego.

Riley's case will be heard along with a separate flip-phone search challenge filed by a Boston-area native named Brima Wurie.

The two cases pose potentially far-reaching consequences for police and phone users alike.

Privacy advocates fear that a ruling against Riley and Wurie would make the secrets of cellphone owners far too easy to uncover.

Ninety percent of U.S. adults now own cellphones, a growing number of which are smartphones.

Law enforcement officials, in turn, fear they might lose an extremely valuable investigative tool.

"A photograph, short video, letter, list of addresses or other material" can "be properly seized from an arrestee's pocket in paper form," the California attorney general's office wrote.

Such material should not be given "Fourth Amendment protection simply because it is digitized and carried on a cellphone."

State and federal officials are urging the court to give law enforcement leeway in searching smartphones.

The Riley and Wurie cases present different scenarios, and they'll be argued back to back for an hour each on Tuesday morning.

Both rest on the warrant-less searches of devices unimagined at the time the Fourth Amendment was ratified in 1791.

"I think the Riley case, in particular, is incredibly important," lawyer Elizabeth B. Wydra said on Friday.

"It should be important for everyone who has a smartphone."

Riley was pulled over by a San Diego police officer on Aug. 22, 2009, prosecutors and defense attorneys agree.

The two sides describe him very differently, however.

Fisher called Riley a "college student."

California officials called him "a member of a San Diego Blood gang."

Police impounded Riley's Lexus because he had been driving with a suspended license.

In a search that followed, officers found two guns.

A police officer then scrolled through Riley's unlocked phone.

On it were video clips of gang initiation fights, pictures of gang signs and clips of a red Oldsmobile allegedly used in an earlier gang shooting.

Convicted on charges that included attempted murder, Riley was sentenced to 15 years to life in prison.

The 23-year-old is currently in California's Kern Valley State Prison.

In Wurie's case, Boston police lacked a warrant when they checked the call log on his Verizon LG phone after busting him on drug and gun charges.

Wurie was convicted in 2009 and is serving a 262-month prison term.

The Riley case may prove to be the most consequential because it deals directly with the multimedia capacity of modern smartphones.

An estimated 56 percent of U.S. adults were using smartphones last year, according to one survey.

"You're talking about a treasure trove of personal information," Wydra said, "the kind of information that we think of as deeply private."

The attorneys general of 14 states have weighed in on California's behalf.

Support for the other side has come from groups that range from the American Civil Liberties Union to the American Library Association.

"What Americans are reading is normally none of the government's business," the librarians said.

"This case threatens that principle because it allows police officers to peer into the contents of a person's entire personal library using a device that happens to be found on that person."

The nine justices considering the two cellphone cases won't be starting from scratch in making their decision.

In a 1973 decision that involved the discovery of heroin inside a crumpled cigarette pack, the Supreme Court upheld the authority of police to thoroughly search someone who's been arrested.

There are limits, though, the Court declared.

The searches are supposed to be for weapons or for evidence directly related to the arrest.

A 1969 decision involving the warrant-less search of the house of a Santa Ana, Calif., man also laid down certain limitations.

Police, the justices cautioned then, cannot "rummage at will among his papers in search of whatever will convict him."

One possibility is that the court might rule differently in the two cases: They might allow searches of phone call numbers in the Wurie case, while imposing tighter restrictions on broader content searches in the Riley case.

Justice Antonin Scalia, in particular, might prove to be a key swing vote among conservatives.

