On Tuesday, the Supreme Court will consider the case of a California man whose smartphone got him in serious trouble.

What they decide will affect everyone with a cellphone.

These days, that means most of us.

In 2009, David Leon Riley's Samsung Instinct smartphone was searched by police.

It was loaded with pictures, some of them suspicious-looking, and Riley got busted.

The police who searched Riley's phone did so without a warrant.

A warrant is permission from a judge, which is required to look at someone's things.

Riley's case will address an important question: Should warrant-less searches of cellphones be allowed?

The Supreme Court must decide if smartphones are covered by the Fourth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

Amendments, essentially, are additions or changes to the Constitution.

The Fourth Amendment provides protection against the government unreasonably searching or taking your personal belongings.

This rule is usually for homes or cars.

In this case, police searched Riley's cellphone.

The Court's decisions will update rules made long ago.

Those rules were written long before smartphones existed.

A modern smartphone, law professor Jeffrey L. Fisher noted, contains a lot of information about us.

It is a window into our private lives.

Police, he said, should not be allowed to poke through cellphones just to see what they can find.

Fisher is representing Riley, who is from San Diego.

Riley's case will be heard along with a separate phone-search case.

That case involves a man named Brima Wurie, whose flip-phone was searched without a warrant.

The outcome of the two cases could be very important.

Both police and phone users could be affected significantly.

Some fear that a ruling against Riley and Wurie would make the secrets of cellphone owners far too easy to uncover.

In the United States, nine out of 10 adults use cellphones.

A growing number of those phones are smartphones.

Such devices can store much more information about us than older phones can.

Law enforcement officials are worried as well.

Their fear is that it will become harder to spot criminals if cellphone searches are banned.

California officials argue that cellphones shouldn't be given special protection.

Police can take photos, videos and letters when they are in paper form.

So why should such material be off limits simply because it's on a cellphone?

The Riley and Wurie cases will be argued back to back on Tuesday morning.

Both concern devices unimagined back in 1791, when the Fourth Amendment was approved.

"I think the Riley case, in particular, is incredibly important," lawyer Elizabeth B. Wydra said on Friday.

"It should be important for everyone who has a smartphone."

Riley was pulled over by a San Diego police officer on Aug. 22, 2009.

Police took away his car because he was driving with a suspended license.

In a search that followed, officers found two guns.

A police officer then scrolled through Riley's phone.

On it were video clips of gang fights, pictures of gang signs and clips of a red car that some say was used in an earlier gang shooting.

Riley was convicted on charges that included attempted murder.

The 23-year-old was sentenced to 15 years to life in prison.

Brima Wurie's case also involves a warrant-less search of a cellphone.

After busting Wurie on drug and gun charges, Boston police checked his phone's call log.

That allowed them to see who Wurie had been talking to.

Wurie was convicted in 2009, and is now serving a 262-month prison term.

The Riley case may prove to be the more important of the two.

This is because it deals directly with the way modern smartphones can store so much private information.

In the United States, more than one in two adults were using smartphones last year.

"You're talking about a treasure trove of personal information," Wydra said.

And it's "the kind of information that we think of as deeply private."

