Flashback to a jazz club in the 1940s.

A saxophonist performs on stage wearing his sunglasses at night.

"I'm cool," he says, relaxed in the moment.

Lester Young, the lead saxophonist in Count Basie's orchestra and soul mate to singer Billie Holiday, was just tossing out some jazz slang.

But after that, everyone else started using the word cool too.

Being cool would become an American and global craze.

But what does it mean to say someone is cool?

Over the past five years, curators at the National Portrait Gallery set out to examine how that idea of cool has shaped American culture.

A new exhibit opening Friday gives the image of cool an entertaining yet scholarly treatment.

It features 100 photographs of people who defined cool as a word for rebellion, self-expression, charisma, edge and mystery.

"American Cool" traces the idea further back to the "granddaddies of cool," Walt Whitman and Frederick Douglass.

It then unfolds through the generations, leading to Jay-Z, Johnny Depp and Madonna.

"These are the successful cultural rebels of American culture," said Joel Dinerstein, a professor and jazz scholar at Tulane University.

He co-curated the show and teaches a college course on the history of being cool.

The exhibit's idea was born out of the 2008 presidential election.

Then the buzz was about a new type of political candidate who exuded a cool, relaxed power, appealing to a new generation, said co-curator Frank Goodyear III.

No presidents made the list, though curators considered Obama, Clinton, Reagan and Kennedy.

What might seem like a made up list of 100 celebrities was actually much-debated.

It was whittled down from 500 names, the curators said.

They devised a four-point formula to define cool on a national scale.

To be included, a person had to have an original artistic vision with a signature style, represent cultural rebellion, have instant visual recognition, and have a recognized and lasting cultural effect.

Jon Stewart was chosen over someone like talk show host Johnny Carson because Stewart's style of spoofing the news and comedy was considered more original.

It's been copied in Egypt and beyond.

The 100 who made the cut include musicians, actors, athletes, comedians, activists and writers.

At the roots of cool, there's actor/dancer Fred Astaire, author Ernest Hemingway and artist Georgia O'Keeffe.

The roots period was followed by the birth of cool in the jazz era with musicians Young, Holiday, Muddy Waters and Duke Ellington.

Audrey Hepburn, Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra also fell within that era.

Music from 10 jazz, blues and rock-and-roll artists plays throughout the galleries.

In the 1960s and 1970s, cool was tied to the counterculture.

To be cool was to be against authority and open to new ideas, curators said, with figures like Bob Dylan, Muhammad Ali, Angela Davis and Andy Warhol, rebelling against the war, racism and the mainstream culture of the time.

Throughout the show, there are more men than women represented.

Cool was very much associated with being masculine "until very recently," Dinerstein said.

"This notion of sort of having edge and charisma and mystery and detachment really was not applied to women, except in negative ways, for quite a while.

The crossover period for that is in a lot of ways the '70s."

"American Cool" is an exhibit about history, race, and being male and female.

And it's about photography as the figures each shaped their public images through photographs by Richard Avedon, Annie Leibovitz and other leading fine art photographers and photojournalists.

Most of the images are black and white.

The most difficult section to curate was what remained of cool from the 1980s onward, Goodyear said.

"There are some who thought that cool died in the '80s," Goodyear said.

"It was Reagan's America and increasing materialism and the growth of sort of corporate power and its influence."

Being cool was more important than being rich in the decades before.

But more recently being cool has been validated by being rich.

Someone like rapper Jay-Z is "selling in" to have more power in the culture, rather than selling out, Dinerstein said.

"Hip-hop totally crosses that over in which bling becomes positive," he said.

It was extremely difficult to choose just 100 people.

So the exhibit also includes an alternate list of 100 names at the end who the curators argued about the longest.

Dinerstein said he hopes the list will inspire debates between people of different generations.

The generation that lived through World War II can tell their grandkids who jazz drummer Gene Krupa was and why he's important, he said.

"People who are young can tell their grandparents who Jay-Z is and why he is important."

"American Cool" will be on view through Sept. 7 in Washington.

The National Portrait Gallery is part of the Smithsonian Institution.

