Where did the term "cool" come from?

One night at a jazz club in the 1940s, Saxophonist Lester Young performed on stage.

He was wearing his sunglasses.

"I'm cool," he said, relaxed in the moment.

Young was just throwing out some jazz slang.

But after he said the word cool, everyone else started to say it too.

It would become a global craze.

But what does it mean to say someone is cool?

Over the past five years, curators at the National Portrait Gallery have been working on this.

They wanted to see how the idea of cool has changed American culture.

A new exhibit opening Friday features 100 photographs of people.

Those chosen were cool for several reasons.

They rebelled against things they disagreed with and expressed themselves in a new way.

They had charm, edge and mystery.

"American Cool" starts with the "granddaddies of cool."

Poet Walt Whitman was one.

Frederick Douglass, a leader for the rights of African-Americans in the 1800s, was another.

The exhibit then unfolds through the generations.

Jay-Z, Johnny Depp and Madonna are some of the latest people on the list.

"These are the successful cultural rebels of American culture," said Joel Dinerstein, a professor and jazz scholar.

He co-curated the show.

The idea for the exhibit came out of the 2008 election for president.

The buzz then was about how Barack Obama gave off a cool, relaxed power.

His style appealed to a new generation, said co-curator Frank Goodyear III.

No presidents made the list, though.

Curators considered Obama, Clinton, Reagan and Kennedy.

Four rules were designed for what it meant to be cool.

To be included, a person had to have an original artistic vision and their own style.

They had to be instantly recognizable.

They had to rebel against the way things were during their lives.

And finally, the effect they had on culture had to last.

Jon Stewart was chosen.

Stewart's style of poking fun at the news was seen as original.

It's been copied in Egypt and beyond.

The 100 people who made the cool cut had many different jobs.

At the roots of cool, there's dancer/actor Fred Astaire, writer Ernest Hemingway and artist Georgia O'Keeffe.

The birth of cool in the jazz years followed them.

Lester Young, Billie Holiday, Muddy Waters and Duke Ellington were cool figures in music then.

Audrey Hepburn, Elvis Presley and Frank Sinatra were from the same period.

In the 1960s and 1970s, cool was about being against the people in charge.

Cool people then were open to new ideas.

Figures like Bob Dylan, Muhammad Ali, Angela Davis and Andy Warhol made the list for those years.

They disagreed with things that were happening, like war and racism.

In the show there are more men than women represented.

The idea of being cool was very much owned by men "until very recently," Dinerstein said.

This notion of having edge and mystery really was not related to women, he said.

And when it was, it was in a bad way.

That began to change in the 1970s.

The exhibit is also about photography.

Each figure shaped their public image by having their pictures taken by famous photographers.

Most of the images are black and white.

The most difficult section to decide on was the 1980s, Goodyear said.

"There are some who thought that cool died in the '80s," Goodyear said.

People in the 1980s became more interested in getting rich.

Companies gained more power.

Before then being cool was more important than being rich.

But now being cool and being rich can go together.

Someone like rapper Jay-Z is "selling in" to have more power in the culture.

He's not seen as selling out, Dinerstein said.

Dinerstein wants people to discuss the list.

Grandparents can tell their grandkids who jazz drummer Gene Krupa was and why he's important.

"People who are young can tell their grandparents who Jay-Z is and why he is important."

"American Cool" will be on view through Sept. 7 in Washington.

The National Portrait Gallery is part of the Smithsonian Institution.

