The worldwide number of smokers has never been higher.

And the number of cigarettes smoked is the highest it's been, too.

The University of Washington (UW) released a new study about smoking.

Between 1980 and 2012, the number of adults who smoke rose.

It was 721 million but now it is nearly 1 billion, reports the study.

The number of cigarettes smoked around the world jumped from about 5 trillion to 6.25 trillion.

The study is one of the largest ever to examine world tobacco use.

It shows that there were remarkable drops in smoking.

These drops are in the United States and other wealthy countries.

But there has been a rise in smokers in the poorer parts of the world.

The rise in the number of smokers has to do with population growth.

China and Indonesia in particular have grown and started smoking more.

But it is also a result of tobacco companies advertising in poorer nations.

Smoking numbers are usually reported in terms of rates.

That is the percentage of people who smoke.

The global smoking rate dropped from 26 percent to 18.7 percent during the study period.

But the total number of smokers is most important.

That is what affects public health, said Ruth Malone.

She studies global tobacco issues at the University of California, San Francisco.

"It's early deaths," Malone said.

"Preventable suffering — that we're talking about here," she said.

Malone was not involved in the UW study.

Global smoking rates fell quickly for 10 years.

But they have fallen more slowly since the mid-2000s, said Marie Ng.

She is a professor who led the study.

The numbers are still uncertain.

But the study shows some hints about the future.

The worldwide smoking rate for men may have started to go up again in the past three years.

It is now 50 years after the top doctor in the U.S. first warned of the ill effects of smoking.

In 1964, the Surgeon General released a report.

It drew a clear link between smoking and lung cancer and other diseases.

Since then, anti-smoking programs in the United States have saved 8 million lives.

The percentage of Americans who smoke has fallen by more than half.

It dropped from 42 percent in 1964 to 18 percent in 2012.

The U.S. population grew.

But the number of smokers in the United States has also dropped.

It fell from 52 million in 1980 to 38 million in 2012.

The attempt to control tobacco has gone on for a while.

It is "one of the great public-health successes of the 20th century," wrote Thomas Frieden.

He wrote an essay that was published with the study.

But lung cancer is still the biggest cause of cancer deaths.

Illnesses from tobacco kill 5 million people a year worldwide.

Ng and her team spent three years working on the study.

They collected information and looked at smokers from 182 countries.

Uruguay adopted a set of anti-tobacco laws.

They included higher cigarette taxes and restrictions on ads.

It saw smoking rates fall 25 percent in just three years.

Mexico requires scary warning labels on cigarette packages.

Since 1980, the smoking rate in Mexico has fallen.

It dropped even faster than in the U.S.

But countries such as Russia, Indonesia and China have kept smoking.

There, more than half of all men still smoke.

They have slowed global progress, said Matthew Myers.

He is president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington, D.C. Russia recently adopted some of the world's toughest anti-smoking measures.

They will kick in soon.

"This study is not a reason for a sense of hopelessness," Myers said.

But he said that it's a wake up call.

For countries that haven't started anti-smoking programs, "the death toll from tobacco is going to be devastating."

