A new study from the University of Washington (UW) shows that the number of smokers worldwide has never been higher.

Further, the number of cigarettes smoked is at an all-time high.

Between 1980 and 2012, the number of adults who smoke rose from 721 million to nearly 1 billion, reports the study.

It was published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association.

The number of cigarettes smoked around the world jumped from about 5 trillion to 6.25 trillion.

The study is one of the largest ever to examine global tobacco use.

It shows that there were remarkable drops in smoking rates in the United States and other wealthy countries.

But they have been offset by a growing smoking population in poorer parts of the world.

The study showed "how much further the world, particularly low- and middle-income countries, still has to go," said Matthew Myers.

He is president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in Washington, D.C.

The rise in the number of smokers reflects population growth.

But it is also a result of tobacco companies advertising and promoting cigarettes heavily in poorer nations, experts say.

Nations such as China and Indonesia in particular have grown and started smoking more.

Smoking numbers are usually reported in terms of rates, or the percentage of people who smoke.

The global smoking rate dropped from 26 percent to 18.7 percent during the study period.

But the sheer number of smokers is most important when it comes to public health, said Ruth Malone.

She studies global tobacco issues at the University of California, San Francisco.

"It's premature deaths ... and the total global burden of suffering — of preventable suffering — that we're talking about here," said Malone, who was not involved in the UW study.

Global smoking rates fell quickly for 10 years.

But they have fallen more slowly since the mid-2000s, said Marie Ng.

She is the lead author of the study.

She works at the UW's Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.

The numbers are still uncertain.

But the study shows signs that the worldwide smoking rate for men may have started to go up again in the past three years.

It was 50 years ago that the top doctor in the U.S. first warned of the ill effects of smoking.

The Surgeon General released a report in 1964.

It drew a clear link between smoking and lung cancer and other diseases.

Since the Surgeon General's report, tobacco-control efforts in the U.S. have saved 8 million lives.

The percentage of Americans who smoke has fallen by more than half.

It dropped from 42 percent in 1964 to 18 percent in 2012.

And even though the population grew, the number of smokers in the U.S. also dropped.

It fell from 52 million in 1980 to 38 million in 2012.

"Tobacco control has been described, accurately, as one of the great public-health successes of the 20th century," wrote Thomas Frieden.

He wrote an essay that was published with the study.

But lung cancer is still the biggest cause of cancer deaths.

The World Health Organization says tobacco-related illness kills 5 million people a year worldwide.

That is more than AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined.

Ng and her team spent three years working on the study.

They collected and looked at more than 1,000 data sets from 182 countries.

Uruguay was the first nation to adopt a set of anti-tobacco laws.

They included higher cigarette taxes and restrictions on advertising.

It saw smoking rates fall 25 percent in just three years.

Mexico requires gory warning labels on cigarette packages.

Since 1980, the smoking rate in Mexico has fallen faster than in the U.S.

But countries such as Russia, Indonesia and China have kept smoking.

There, up to 54 percent of men still smoke.

They have slowed global progress, Myers said.

Russia recently adopted some of the world's toughest anti-smoking measures.

They will kick in soon.

"This study is not a reason for a sense of hopelessness," Myers said.

But he said that it's a wake up call.

For countries that have not yet started anti-smoking programs, "the death toll from tobacco is going to be devastating."

