Edward Snowden became well-known, if not infamous, to the U.S. government by letting everybody know its secrets.

He told the world about programs for gathering information on telephone calls people make and Internet sites they visit.

Now he doesn't want the government to know where he is.

Snowden's attempt to avoid facing U.S. criminal charges has become a game of hide-and-seek across the globe.

And Hong Kong and Russia are not helping the U.S. government win.

U.S. authorities want to arrest Snowden on charges of spying and theft.

The U.S. canceled his passport.

Snowden is being helped by WikiLeaks.

That is a group which has made a reputation by leaking government secrets on the Internet.

WikiLeaks' leader,  Julian Assange, has been living under protection in the Ecuadorian embassy in London for a year.

He is trying to avoid legal problems of his own.

With WikiLeaks' help, Snowden has also sought protection in Ecuador.

WikiLeaks is "interested in preserving Mr. Snowden's rights and protecting him as a person," legal director Baltasar Garzon said in statement.

He compared Snowden's situation with that of Assange.

He called what is happening to both men "an assault against the people."

On Friday, the United States said that it was seeking to extradite Snowden.

That means it wants to bring him home to face charges.

U.S. officials have also revoked Snowden's passport.

That could make it more difficult for him to travel between countries.

Snowden was in Hong Kong.

He had lived there for a few weeks while telling a newspaper about the secret National Security Agency spying programs on telephone calls and Internet use.

His information started a worldwide debate about the balance between stopping terror attacks and upholding personal privacy.

U.S. officials wanted Hong Kong to send Snowden back to the U.S.

Instead, Hong Kong let Snowden fly to Russia on Sunday.

This upset the Obama administration.

Hong Kong authorities said they had asked the United States for more information regarding the request to send Snowden back and could not legally stop him from leaving.

Hong Kong is a Chinese territory.

The United States has told both Hong Kong and China that it is upset.

U.S. officials said that they were answering Hong Kong's questions when Snowden left.

Once Snowden got to Moscow, things became even more interesting.

There is no direct flight from Moscow to Ecuador.

Reports said that Snowden was taking a flight to Cuba on Monday.

The gate where the flight was boarding was mobbed by reporters and television cameras.

Some reporters even booked seats on the flight.

But Snowden was not on the airplane.

Assange told reporters via telephone on Monday that Snowden was "healthy and safe."

He would not say where he was.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said that Russia should turn Snowden over.

"I would urge them to live by the standards of the law," he said.

But Russian officials were being tight-lipped.

"Overall, we have no information about him," Russian President Vladimir Putin's press secretary told Reuters.

Ecuador has received Snowden's request for legal protection.

It said it will make a decision in due time.

The decision will take into account Ecuadorian and international law.

How can Snowden travel without a valid U.S. passport?

Assange told the _New York Times_ that WikiLeaks arranged for Ecuador to give Snowden a "special refugee travel document" a week ago.

He expected charges to be filed against Snowden.

U.S. officials have defended the gathering of telephone and Internet data.

NSA director Keith Alexander said last week that the programs had helped stop more than 50 terror plots worldwide.

Assange says the U.S. government is guilty of spying -- on everyone.

"But it is Edward Snowden who is charged with espionage for tipping us off," he said.

