Luisa Hilario's ponytail swings from side to side.

She is running to catch a train.

"Hurry!"

yells her mother.

"We're going to be late."

Luisa carries her soccer ball.

Her little brother and her mother, Erika, are with her.

They travel from Boyle Heights to Pasadena and back.

It takes five hours round-trip.

They go by bus, train, and on foot.

They make the trip on most weekdays.

Luisa is 11 years old.

She plays for one of California's best soccer clubs.

Someday, she hopes to play professionally.

Her family is trying for a better life.

In Pasadena, Luisa plays with children from rich families.

Her teammates talk about pretty houses with big backyards.

Erika cheers on her daughter, in Spanish.

She says, "You can do it, Luisa!"

Luisa's father is a truck driver.

Finding work has been hard lately and he bounces from job to job.

He can only come home four nights a month.

Their home is an apartment in a dark, run-down building.

Erika painted the walls blue, yellow and green.

She placed her two birds in a cage out back.

She put in fans for when the weather is hot.

On Friday nights, Erika teaches her kids Spanish.

She wants them to speak both English and Spanish perfectly.

Every day, Erika says, don't take no for an answer.

Years ago, Luisa was in kindergarten.

She was bullied because of her crooked teeth.

Erika pulled Luisa from the school and sent her to a different one.

The new school cost money.

Erika did not have enough.

So she talked to the school.

The school agreed to let her pay less.

It was still hard to get by.

She hustles to make money.

They all do.

Erick picks up bottles and cans during soccer practices.

They recycle them for money.

Luisa makes colorful fake flowers to sell at school.

Erika sells bracelets, purses and hair bows.

Sometimes, she works at a tortilla bakery.

Luisa's days start at 6 a.m. and end at 10 p.m. She eats dinner, does homework, and tries to nap.

It all happens on the train.

She gets all A's in school.

She wants to go to a good high school.

"I just have to push myself," she said.

"A lot of kids in Boyle Heights never have a chance to leave."

Her coach is Cherif Zein.

He said Luisa can make it as far as she wants.

"On the field, they're all the same," Zein said.

"It doesn't matter how much you make or where you live or who you are."

Perhaps that's why Luisa loves the game so much.

