Heading the ball is a key soccer skill.

But a new study finds that players who headed the ball frequently were more likely to suffer brain injury and damage their memory than players who were a little less likely to use their heads.

Sports like American football and ice hockey get most of the attention when it comes to [concussions](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=concussions) and other forms of traumatic brain injury.

But soccer is an intense physical sport for which the head can be as important as the foot.

Still, since research hasn't linked heading to concussions, players, coaches and medical professionals have generally stayed on the sidelines with regard to its risks.

"For many people, it's beyond belief that minor injuries could be a problem," said Dr. Michael Lipton, a neuroradiologist at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in New York City.

Lipton was the lead author of the study published online Tuesday by the journal _Radiology_.

Lipton said he hasn't headed a ball himself since he played youth soccer.

But he is intently interested in the added effects of repetitive traumatic brain injury.

Soccer was a good sport for his research.

"With soccer, we know we have people who are going to experience exposure — who are going to head the ball — and we have a way to quantify that exposure," he said.

Lipton and his colleagues interviewed 37 adult league soccer players from New York City and took high-tech scans of their brains.

They also asked the players how often they played soccer and approximately how often they headed the ball, and they gave the players a battery of neurocognitive tests.

They divided the players into three groups – low heading, medium heading and high heading – and found that players who headed the ball the most had the lowest scores on memory tests.

They also had the lowest average scores for a metric called fractional anisotropy, FA.

That is a measure of the health of the brain's white matter—the billions of nerve fibers that connect different parts of the brain.

Low FA scores have also been found in people who have suffered concussions.

These findings were independent of players' concussion history and demographic factors, which were controlled for in the study.

The researchers found no link between heading and players' attention, ability to visually track objects or ability to manage complex thinking tasks.

The relationship between heading and traumatic brain injury was not simply a matter of more heading leading to more injury.

Instead, the researchers discovered that players could safely head the ball 885 to 1,550 times a year without experiencing FA problems.

It took almost 1,800 headers for players to have trouble with their memory.

There were some players below those levels who showed FA and memory problems.

So some people may be more sensitive to heading the ball.

However, Lipton cautioned players not to dismiss the potential risks of heading the ball too many times.

Lipton suggests that soccer start keeping a "head count" to monitor the number of headers players use in a given game.

The head count would be similar to the "pitch count" in baseball.

Teams use that to make sure that pitchers do not throw too many pitches in one game.

Practice is also important to consider, Lipton said.

The number of headers is usually greater in practice than in games, although they are made at lower speed.

American football probably is the sport that comes to most people's minds when they think of concussions.

The National Football League has been sued by former players who have suffered concussion-related diseases.

In March, the league and General Electric Co said they were working together to improve the diagnosis and treatment of brain injuries.

The league has also been looking at different helmet designs to help prevent concussions.

So should soccer's David Beckham have been wearing a helmet during his years with Manchester United, Real Madrid and the Los Angeles Galaxy?

Not so fast, Lipton cautioned.

"We can't yet infer a definitive cause and effect from this study," he said.

The study was based on a small sample size.

Most of the subjects were male (28 men, nine women).

Also, the data were collected at a single point in time.

There is more studying to be done.

And more research is on the way.

Lipton's team recently landed a $3 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to extend the work.

In the meantime, if you're concerned about heading the ball too much, keep it mostly to your feet.

