At Oakland International High School, there are students from more than 30 countries.

One thing has brought them together: soccer.

The students are from Ethiopia, Burma, Colombia, Yemen, Liberia, Guatemala and other countries.

They play together through a program called Soccer Without Borders.

Playing soccer allows these students to make friends.

They work together.

They become more confident.

Students come to Oakland International High from all over the world.

Many of the students are refugees.

They came to the United States because war was hurting their home country.

Some have seen terrible things.

These students speak different languages.

They come from completely different cultures.

Soccer Without Borders allows them to share at least one thing in common.

Ben Guccidari was a semipro soccer player and a teacher.

He started the program in 2008.

His goal was to help young people bond across different cultures.

He also wanted them to grow as leaders.

Today, more than half of Oakland International's students play in the program.

Almost everyone on the team graduates high school.

"I see soccer as a tool," Guccidari said.

He makes rules for his players.

They must eat healthy and have a helping spirit.

Most of all, they must be respectful of others on and off the field.

"I'm not interested in winning or losing," he said.

"But if this is something that can help these amazing young people get where they want to go, then we've done our job."

Omar Benitez is one student who was helped by the program.

The 18-year-old Colombian made his first school friend on the soccer team.

He came from Liberia.

"Coach Ben" helped Omar prepare for his SATs and apply for college scholarships.

He said that Coach Ben has become like a second father to him.

Now the players are working together off the field.

They are trying to convince the school district to give them a field to play on.

There is a field next to Oakland International, but it is used by another school as a baseball field.

For a while, the international students were sharing the field.

But last fall, they were not allowed to use it anymore.

"It feels sad," said Graciela Bibiano, 17, a captain of the girls team from Mexico.

"We don't get to play together as a team and a big family.

And that's what we are."

So the soccer-playing international students have begun to fight for their right to a field.

Bolor Erdenebat is 17 and from Mongolia.

She went to a school board meeting to fight for a soccer field.

Yasser Alwan, 17, from Yemen, used his multimedia skills to make a video.

The video advertised the soccer field campaign.

Solomon Camara, a 17-year-old from Liberia, approached board members by phone and email.

"I learned that politics is a little fun — I just like it," he said.

School officials now hope to create a field on city land.

The future field could be used for soccer, baseball and softball.

"These students can have a voice and they can make a difference," school board member Jody London said.

