Luisa Hilario's ponytail swings from side to side as she races to catch the train.

"Hurry!"

yells her mother.

"We're going to be late."

Luisa carries her soccer ball and cleats.

Her little brother has the first-aid kit.

Her mother, Erika, is carrying the blanket and chair.

Most weekdays, they travel five hours round-trip — by train, bus and on foot — from Boyle Heights to northeast Pasadena, California, so Luisa can play.

The 11-year-old plays for one of California's top soccer clubs.

Someday, she hopes to play professionally.

But the family doesn't hustle just for soccer.

They hustle for a glimpse of another world.

In Pasadena, Luisa plays alongside the children of doctors, lawyers and professors.

Her teammates arrive at the field in cars and chat about dream colleges and vacations to other countries and pretty houses with big backyards.

Erika cheers on her daughter, in Spanish, from the sidelines: "You can do it, Luisa!"

You can aim for more.

"I don't know exactly what that means," Erika says.

"But it's something big, and we're not going to rest until she gets there."

Luisa's father worked as a long-distance truck driver.

But steady work has been hard to find lately and he bounces from job to job.

He comes home four nights a month, at most.

At home, Erika's focus is Luisa and her 8-year-old brother, Erick.

They live in an apartment in a dark, run-down building.

But Erika, 34, refuses to settle.

She painted the walls deep blue, yellow and green, and placed her Virgen de Guadalupe statue in the hallway and her two parakeets in a cage out back.

She installed ceiling fans for when it's hot.

Luisa's three dozen soccer trophies and medals line the TV stand like shiny soldiers.

School and library schedules hang from a bulletin board.

Multiplication tables are taped to the wall in front of the toilet.

Next to Luisa's desk hang signs with the definitions of the words joy and inspire.

On Friday nights, Erika transforms the living room into a classroom for Spanish lessons.

She wants her kids to speak English and Spanish perfectly.

Any time there's extra money, it goes for the kids' English tutoring, swimming lessons and Jujitsu martial arts practice.

Every day, Erika preaches one lesson: Don't take no for an answer.

Years ago, when Luisa was in kindergarten and bullied to tears every day because of her severely crooked teeth, Erika complained to the principal.

When nothing changed, she pulled Luisa from the public school and enrolled her at a private one nearby.

There was no money to pay for tuition.

Instead, she worked out a deal with the school to get a lower tuition and for months bought only the bare necessities to get by.

"Sometimes I think I'm crazy," Erika says.

"But when it comes to the kids, there are no excuses."

She hustles to get by; they all do.

Erick collects bottles and cans during soccer practices and games to sell for recycling.

Luisa makes colorful fake flowers to sell at school for $1.

Erika hawks bracelets, purses and hair bows she buys on the cheap in Los Angeles.

Occasionally she works at a tortilla factory counting tortillas.

Luisa's days stretch from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. She eats dinner, does homework, tries to nap, all on the train.

She has a 4.0 grade-point average.

When you ask where she plans to go to high school, she names two top private ones.

She hopes soccer will help her get a scholarship to pay for her high school tuition.

"I just have to push myself," she said.

"A lot of kids in Boyle Heights never have a chance to leave the area at all.

I have, so I have to set an example."

When she plays, her worries seem to fade away.

"Everything I'm feeling," she said.

"I leave it out on the field."

Her coach, Cherif Zein, said it's up to Luisa to determine how far she will go.

Many of the players he's coached in his 39 years of teaching soccer with his club, CZ Elite FC, have gone on to play in college and for national teams, in the United States and overseas.

"On the field, they're all the same," Zein said.

"It doesn't matter how much you make or where you live or who you are.

It's them and the ball and nothing else."

Perhaps that's why Luisa loves the game so much.

