Arthur Blank put on traditional soccer garb on Wednesday, to mark the announcement of his new Major League Soccer team, which will be based in Atlanta.

"I love this one," Blank said, looking down at the red, black and gold scarf draped over his dark suit.

"I haven't taken it off since it was given to me.

I may not sleep in it tonight, but I may.

I haven't decided yet."

The team will begin play in 2017 at the city's new retractable roof stadium.

The team will be owned by Blank, who also controls the NFL's Atlanta Falcons.

Blank said he first started talking with MLS about bringing a team to the city about a decade ago.

The off-and-on discussions picked up again after Blank reached a deal with the city last year to build a new $1 billion downtown stadium next to the soon-to-be-demolished Georgia Dome.

He is putting up most of the money, with the city kicking in $200 million from a hotel tax.

"I think Atlanta is a natural fit for Major League Soccer," said Blank, who was serenaded by a growing fan group that calls itself "Terminus Legion," a reference to Atlanta's former name.

The team's name has not been decided.

Blank said he will get input from the fans before choosing it.

He already knows the colors, though: red and black — matching the Falcons — with a substantial amount of gold as well.

"What the name will be, we really don't know," he said.

"We will spend a lot of time listening to our fans and trying to understand why some names are more important than others, why certain designs are more important than others, why certain logos are more important than others."

One name that won't be considered is the Atlanta Chiefs.

That's the name of two previous teams that played in the old North American Soccer League.

While the Chiefs won the first NASL championship in 1968, both teams struggled financially and eventually folded.

MLS Commissioner Don Garber said there was no hesitation about putting a team in Atlanta, after Blank worked out a stadium deal.

Atlanta is the ninth-largest metropolitan area in the U.S. and the biggest without a top-level soccer team.

The city has a large Hispanic population and last month drew more than 68,000 fans to the Georgia Dome for a friendly match between Mexico and Nigeria.

"This is something that will help elevate our league," Garber said.

"It will also elevate our sport in the entire Southeast, which is something that is very important to us strategically."

The league went all out to promote its newest team.

Hundreds of fans turned out for a street festival.

Blank and Garber arrived by helicopter for the introductory news conference, touching down on the roof of a downtown hotel overlooking Centennial Olympic Park.

Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed also attended.

While the new stadium is primarily designed for the Falcons, Blank stressed that it will be soccer-friendly.

The stands along the sideline can be moved back to accommodate the larger soccer pitch.

Curtains will fall from the roof and close off the upper sections, to make the venue appear smaller.

MLS games attract a smaller crowd than football games.

The new facility is designed to seat about 71,000 for NFL games, Blank said, but can be reduced to about 29,000 for soccer using only the lower bowl.

"There will never be an MLS game in Atlanta where NFL lines are shown on the field," Blank said, drawing a big cheer.

MLS, which has 19 teams this season, is expanding rapidly with a goal of having 24 teams by the end of the decade.

Orlando and New York City are scheduled to begin play next season.

The league has also awarded a provisional team in Miami to a group led by David Beckham, if they can build a soccer-specific stadium there.

The league has added five teams in the past five years, including the hugely successful Seattle Sounders.

Garber said there is no worry about growing too fast given the abundance of soccer talent around the world.

"When we expand, we can pick from players around the world," Garber said.

"We could change the roster rules, the international player limits, and have no dilution in talent."

Blank said he will try to encourage some crossover between Falcons' season-ticket holders and those interested in attending MLS games.

But he said the teams are likely to have very different fan bases.

The new soccer team will not merely be a side business for the Falcons, he said.

His first task is to hire a team president for the MLS venture.

He will also be exploring possible locations for a state-of-the-art training facility.

"We don't want any stepchildren in our family," Blank said.

"We want to make sure the people running soccer get up in the morning thinking about soccer and go to bed thinking about soccer."

