The boys of Oakland International High School play soccer under a blazing sun, on hot black asphalt.

The newest player, Paulos Gurmu, is from Ethiopia.

Other players are from countries like Burma, Colombia, Yemen and Liberia.

During the girls' game, Fernanda Barrera, a 10th-grader from Guatemala, screamed coaching advice to fellow players from the sidelines.

"Relax, blue, and pass the ball," she yelled to her team.

Playing soccer allows these students to make friends, work together and gain confidence — even before they have learned English.

Oakland International is home to students from nearly three dozen countries, many of whom are refugees who came to the U.S. to escape war in their homelands, where some of them witnessed terrible things.

A fourth of the students had little or no formal education before arriving.

In this mixing pot of cultures and languages, unity comes in part through Soccer Without Borders.

The  program was started at this campus and has since spread globally.

Founder Ben Gucciardi created the group to help youths bond across cultural gaps and grow as leaders in and out of the classroom.

Through soccer, Barrera said, we can communicate "with people who are different from us."

Gucciardi, a semipro soccer player with a master's degree in alternative education, started Soccers Without Borders at Oakland International in 2008 as a volunteer.

These days, half of the school's more than 300 students participate at some point during the year and team members have a 95 percent graduation rate.

"I see soccer as a tool," said Gucciardi.

He sets out rules the youths must follow: healthy eating, a helping spirit and, above all, respectful treatment of others on and off the field.

"I'm not interested in winning or losing; but if this is something that can help these amazing young people get where they want to go, then we've done our job."

Omar Benitez, 18, from Bogota, Colombia, made his first school friend — from Liberia — on the soccer team, even before he could speak English.

"Coach Ben" has helped him prepare for his SAT exams and apply for college scholarships, even advising him on his relationship with a new step-father.

Benitez said Gucciardi has made a huge difference in his new life in America, acting like a second father to the teen.

Now, Benitez and the other players are uniting off the field.

They are tired of practicing on broken asphalt or playing at parks, so the students at Oakland International are asking for a field of their own.

The field next to Oakland International High was given to a parents group from another high school years ago.

At the time, Oakland International was so tiny that school leaders thought it didn't need an athletic field, so parents from the other school raised more than $400,000 to turn it into a baseball field.

For a while, the international students were allowed to use the field for physical education class and for soccer, but eventually, the baseball parents didn't like the sharing arrangement.

Starting last fall, the international students were no longer allowed to use the field.

"It feels sad," said Graciela Bibiano, 17, a lanky captain of the girls team who grew up playing soccer near Acapulco, Mexico.

"We don't get to play together as a team and a big family.

And that's what we are."

Now, the soccer-playing international students are getting a lesson in democracy in action as they fight for the right to play.

Bolor Erdenebat, 17, from Mongolia, went along with other students to a school board meeting, where she spoke and said she was impressed by the school board members' diplomacy.

"It was a whole process, with people demonstrating their ideas and trying to get something," she said.

Yasser Alwan, 17, used multimedia skills he learned at Oakland International High.

During an internship at the school district's TV station, he worked for hours to create a promotional video for the soccer field campaign.

Meanwhile, Solomon Camara, a 17-year-old from Liberia, began approaching board members by phone and email.

"I learned that politics is a little fun — I just like it," he said.

"Before, I would have felt intimidated."

The school district held a meeting in April in the school cafeteria.

The International students were on one side and the baseball parents were on the other.

The parents were mainly angry at the district, but some comments were unpleasant — like the suggestion that the young refugees could return to their own countries if they were dissatisfied here.

"Some of them, they hide some hate for us," Benitez said in an interview later.

Still, both groups came to the middle of the room to shake hands at the end where the conversation continued.

School officials now hope to create a field on city land that could be used for soccer, baseball and softball.

"It gives me a lot of heartache to see that much conflict," said school board member Jody London, who represents the district and must work on behalf of both schools.

"But it's really shown these students that they can have a voice and they can make a difference."

