Major League Soccer's newest team will be in Atlanta.

The team will begin play in 2017.

Arthur Blank is the team's owner.

He dressed as a soccer fan to celebrate.

Blank looked down at his red, black and gold scarf.

"I love this one," he said.

"I haven't taken it off since it was given to me.

I may not sleep in it tonight, but I may.

I haven't decided yet," he said.

Atlanta is the ninth-largest city in the U.S.

It is also the biggest U.S. city without a top-level soccer team.

Many people in Atlanta have roots in Latin America.

Soccer is important to them.

Last month thousands of fans went to the Georgia Dome in Atlanta to watch a game between Mexico and Nigeria.

Blank is building a new stadium in downtown Atlanta.

"I think Atlanta is a natural fit for Major League Soccer," said Blank.

Blank already knows what the team's colors will be.

They will be red and black, with some gold.

Blank also owns the Atlanta Falcons football team.

Their colors are red and black, too.

The team's name has not been decided yet.

Blank said he will ask the fans before choosing it.

"What the name will be, we really don't know," he said.

"We will spend a lot of time listening to our fans."

One name they won't choose is Atlanta Chiefs.

That's the name of two old teams that ended up closing.

The league welcomed its newest team with a street festival.

Hundreds of fans came to celebrate.

Arthur Blank and Don Garber arrived by helicopter.

Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed also attended.

Atlanta's new stadium is mainly being built for the Atlanta Falcons.

But Blank said that it will be soccer-friendly.

A soccer field is bigger than a football field.

But the stands will be moved back to make space.

Fewer people go to MLS games than football games.

The upper levels will be closed.

That will make the stadium feel smaller.

The new stadium has 71,000 seats for NFL games.

For soccer fans, there will be 29,000 seats.

MLS, which has 19 teams this season, is growing quickly.

Its goal is to have 24 teams by 2020.

The league has added five teams in the past five years.

One of those teams is the very successful Seattle Sounders.

Blank's first task is to hire a president for the MLS team.

He will also be looking for a place for the team to train.

"We want to make sure the people running soccer get up in the morning thinking about soccer and go to bed thinking about soccer," said Blank.

