Most of the concussions that high school soccer players get are not the result of heading the ball, new research shows.

Instead, most head injuries come from athlete-to-athlete contact, the kind of rough play that is against the rules.

The study, published by JAMA Pediatrics, also found that girls seem to be at higher risk of getting concussions than boys.

The findings challenge the traditional wisdom that heading the ball is the most dangerous part of soccer.

Though heading was still the most common single activity that led to a concussion, the majority of concussions came from other physical contact.

69 percent of boys and 51 percent of girls sustained a concussion from rough activity such as crashing into another player while defending, goaltending, chasing a loose ball, receiving a pass or dribbling down the field.

Only about a third of boys' concussions and a quarter of girls' concussions happened while heading the ball.

"If you ban heading, yes, you will prevent some concussions in soccer, perhaps as much as 30 percent," said Dawn Comstock, an epidemiologist at Colorado School of Public Health at the University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus.

What's more important, according to Comstock, is simply enforcing the existing rules of the game, making sure referees keep aggressive play to a minimum and curtailing the amount of athlete-athlete contact.

"You would actually prevent many more concussions," she said.

The rest of the concussions came from slamming into a playing apparatus, such as a goal post (29 percent of those for girls and 17 percent of those for boys), and banging one's head on the ground (19 percent of girls and 13 percent of boys).

Female athletes were more likely to get concussions than males, researchers found.

Over the course of 10,000 games or practices, girls averaged 4.5 concussions while boys averaged only 2.78.

"Consistently in gender-comparable sports like soccer and basketball, where girls and boys play by the same rules using the same equipment, we see higher rates of concussion in girls," Comstock said.

Although no one is entirely sure why this is the case, there are some theories.

The first one is physical.

It could be that girls have less neck strength than boys, so their brains get more jostled by an impact to the head, Comstock said.

The second relates to reporting.

Girls may be more likely to notice the symptoms of concussions and report them to their coaches.

Additionally, adult coaches and referees who spend time with student athletes may be more attentive to the health of female players than of males.

The researchers' calculations were based on data reported by high school soccer coaches from 2005 to 2014 as part of the National High School Sports-Related Injury Surveillance Study.

They used a random sample of 100 high schools nationwide to determine the proportion of players who got concussions during school-sanctioned soccer practices or games.

This data was combined with information on what exactly the athletes were doing when they received the head injury.

The number of students playing soccer has risen dramatically in recent years.

Almost 800,000 high school students of both sexes played on school soccer teams in the United States in 2014.

That number was approximately 50,000, and all male, in 1969, the study noted.

As the game has become more popular, it has also become more dangerous, with concussion rates rising for both male and female players.

Other studies show that soccer matches have become rougher over time, with fewer fouls and penalties called for illegal player-to-player contact.

The most effective way to cut down on concussions — for both male and female players — would be to reduce the amount of physical contact between athletes, Comstock said.

"We don't have to allow soccer to turn into football," she said.

"There will always be some athlete-athlete contact while soccer is played.

But a large amount of the athlete-athlete contact that's currently happening is technically against the rules of the game."

Roger Blake is executive director of the California Interscholastic Federation, which governs high school sports in the state.

He also agrees safety must come first.

"The rules are there," Blake said.

"The game can be physical, but the officials have to make those calls to keep it from getting overly rough."

If referees are going to make errors, he added, they should "err on the side of safety for these kids."

Parents can play their part, too.

They can make sure their kids are playing for a coach who does not tolerate overly aggressive behavior and in a league that hires referees who appropriately call fouls and give penalties when players are too rough, Comstock said.

Overall though, playing soccer in high school is still good for kids, she said.

"The long-term negative risks of an inactive lifestyle — obesity, cardiac disease, diabetes — those are much more concerning than the very small likelihood that any individual soccer player will be seriously injured," she said.

"We want more kids to play sports more often.

We just want to keep them as safe as possible while they do so."

