The newest city to get a Major League Soccer team will be Atlanta, where play will begin in 2017.

The team's owner, Arthur Blank, dressed as a soccer fan to mark the occasion.

"I love this one," Blank said.

He looked down at the red, black and gold scarf draped over his dark suit.

"I haven't taken it off since it was given to me.

I may not sleep in it tonight, but I may.

I haven't decided yet."

Blank also controls the NFL's Atlanta Falcons.

Blank said he first started talking with MLS about bringing a team to Atlanta 10 years ago.

The talks started again after Blank said he would build a new $1 billion stadium.

He is paying most of the money for the stadium.

The city will pay $200 million.

"I think Atlanta is a natural fit for Major League Soccer," said Blank.

A group of fans that calls itself "Terminus Legion" sang to him.

Atlanta used to be called Terminus.

The team's name has not been decided.

Blank said he will ask the fans before choosing it.

He already knows the team's colors, though.

They will be red and black — matching the Falcons — with some gold as well.

"What the name will be, we really don't know," he said.

"We will spend a lot of time listening to our fans."

One name they won't choose is Atlanta Chiefs.

That's the name of two teams that played in the old North American Soccer League.

Both teams ended up closing.

MLS Commissioner Don Garber said he has no concerns about putting a team in Atlanta.

Atlanta is the ninth-largest city in the U.S.

It is also the biggest U.S. city without a top-level soccer team.

The city has a large Hispanic population.

Last month more than 68,000 fans came to the Georgia Dome to watch a friendly match between Mexico and Nigeria.

The league welcomed its newest team with a street festival.

Hundreds of fans came to celebrate.

Arthur Blank and Don Garber arrived by helicopter to talk to newspapers and television.

Atlanta Mayor Kasim Reed also attended.

The new stadium is mainly designed for the Falcons, but Blank said that it will be soccer-friendly.

The soccer field will be larger than the football field, so the stands along the sideline can be moved back.

Fewer people go to MLS games than football games.

Curtains will close off the upper sections of the stadium, to make it appear smaller.

The new stadium is designed to seat about 71,000 for NFL games.

That can be reduced to about 29,000 for soccer.

"There will never be an MLS game in Atlanta where NFL lines are shown on the field," Blank said.

MLS, which has 19 teams this season, is expanding rapidly.

Its goal is to have 24 teams by 2020.

Orlando and New York City are scheduled to begin play next season.

There will also be a team in Miami, if a group led by David Beckham can build a stadium made for soccer there.

The league has added five teams in the past five years, including the hugely successful Seattle Sounders.

Garber said there is no worry about growing too fast.

There are a lot of talented soccer players in the world, he said.

"When we expand, we can pick from players around the world," Garber said.

Blank said the Falcons and the MLS games will likely have different fan bases.

The new soccer team will not merely be a side business for the Falcons, he said.

His first task is to hire a president for the MLS team.

Blank will also be looking for a place for a state-of-the-art training ground.

"We want to make sure the people running soccer get up in the morning thinking about soccer and go to bed thinking about soccer," said Blank.

