There are students from more than 30 countries at Oakland International High School.

Soccer is the one thing that unites them.

Students from all over the world play together.

They come from countries like Ethiopia, Burma, Colombia, Yemen, Liberia and Guatemala.

They're in a program called Soccer Without Borders.

Playing soccer allows the students to make friends, work together and gain confidence.

Sometimes it is even before they have learned English.

The students attend Oakland International High School.

Many of them came to the U.S. as refugees — people who are escaping war in their homelands.

Some have witnessed terrible things.

Speaking different languages and coming from different cultures, the students are very different.

Still, they have found that Soccer Without Borders allows them to share something in common.

The program was started by semipro soccer player and educator Ben Gucciardi in 2008.

He hoped to help students bond across different cultures and grow as leaders.

Today, more than half of Oakland International's students play in the program.

Team members have a 95 percent graduation rate.

"I see soccer as a tool," Gucciardi said.

He sets out rules that the players must follow: healthy eating, a helping spirit, and above all, respectful treatment of others on and off the field.

"I'm not interested in winning or losing," he said.

"But if this is something that can help these amazing young people get where they want to go, then we've done our job."

Omar Benitez is one student who has benefited from the program.

The 18-year old from Colombia made his first school friend — from Liberia — on the soccer team.

"Coach Ben" helped Benitez prepare for his SAT exams and apply for college scholarships.

He said that Coach Ben has become like a second father to him.

Now the players are working together off the field.

They want to convince the school district to give them a field to play on.

There is a field next to Oakland International, but it's used by another school as a baseball field.

For a while, the international students were sharing the field.

But last fall, they weren't allowed to use it anymore.

"It feels sad," said Graciela Bibiano, 17, a captain of the girls team who grew up playing soccer in Mexico.

"We don't get to play together as a team and a big family.

And that's what we are."

So the soccer-playing international students have begun to fight for their right to a field.

Bolor Erdenebat is 17 and from Mongolia.

She went to a school board meeting to argue for a soccer field.

She was impressed by the school board members, who listened to all points of view.

"It was a whole process, with people demonstrating their ideas and trying to get something," she said.

Yasser Alwan, 17, from Yemen, used his multimedia skills.

While interning at the school district's TV station, he made a video to advertise the soccer field campaign.

Meanwhile, Solomon Camara, a 17-year-old from Liberia, began approaching board members by phone and email.

"I learned that politics is a little fun — I just like it," he said.

"Before, I would have felt intimidated."

Now, school officials hope to create a field on city land.

They hope the field can be used for soccer, baseball and softball.

"These students can have a voice and they can make a difference," said school board member Jody London.

