The winter Olympic Games in Sochi, Russia, start in less than three weeks.

Yet hundreds of thousands of tickets still remain unsold.

Some people are worrying there will be empty seats.

And they worry Russia's first Winter Olympics will be lacking in excitement.

It appears that many foreign fans are staying away.

They are turned off by a number of reasons: terrorist threats, expensive flights and hotels, long travel distances, a lack of tourist sites, and the hassle of obtaining visas and special passes.

"Some people are scared it costs too much," senior International Olympic Committee member Gerhard Heiberg of Norway said.

Others, he said, are worried about their safety.

"From my country, I know that several people and companies are not going for these two reasons.

Of course, there will be Norwegians there but not as many as we are used to," he said.

Sochi organizers said that 70 percent of tickets have been sold for the games, which run from Feb. 7-23 and represent a symbol of pride for Russia and its president Vladimir Putin.

Dmitry Chernyshenko, chief of the Sochi Games organizing committee, said about 213,000 fans are expected, and about 75 percent are likely to be Russians.

"Tickets are being snapped up fast," the organizing committee said.

The most popular events are hockey, biathlon, figure skating, freestyle skiing and snowboarding.

"We are expecting strong last-minute ticket sales and do not envisage having empty seats," the committee said.

However, according to IOC documents, Sochi had a total of 1.1 million tickets on offer.

That would mean about 300,000 tickets were still available.

By comparison, 1.54 million tickets were available for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, and 97 percent (1.49 million) were sold.

For the 2012 Summer Games in London, organizers sold 97 percent (8.2 million) of their 8.5 million tickets.

Heiberg chairs the IOC marketing commission and organized the 1994 Lillehammer Winter Olympics in Norway.

He said the Russians have cut down by half the number of viewers for the mountain events because of safety reasons.

"That means there will be less people and probably less enthusiasm than we had, for instance, in Lillehammer," he said.

The Lillehammer games stood out for the colorful atmosphere generated by passionate Norwegian fans.

He said he hoped the Russians would be able to fill their indoor stadiums, where the games are held.

He also hoped "there will be enough people in the stadiums for the Nordic events."

Sochi's ticket sales began in February 2013, a year before the games, on a first-come, first-served basis on Sochi's official website.

Box offices are now open in Sochi and Moscow, Russia's capital.

The cheapest tickets go for 500 rubles ($15), the most expensive for 40,000 rubles ($1,200).

More than half of all tickets cost less than 5,000 rubles ($150).

The average monthly salary in Russia is 30,000 rubles ($890).

The only ticket office in Sochi was busy on a recent afternoon.

Three dozen people lined up at what once was a waiting room at the city's railway station.

Many, however, complained that all the cheap tickets were already gone.

"Prices leave much to be desired, but what can you can do?"

said Yana Ivolovskaya, who lives in Sochi and was one of those who'd waited for tickets.

She bought two tickets for the bobsled event for 2,000 rubles ($60).

"We're not going to get another Olympics in Sochi so I thought I should go."

Attracting foreign visitors has been a challenge with all the headlines about Russia's law banning people from mentioning homosexuality to anyone under 18, as well as its other human rights issues.

Terrorism is a particular worry.

Back-to-back bombings killed 34 people last month in Volgograd, only about 400 miles from Sochi.

An Islamic group in Russia claimed responsibility and threatened to strike the Sochi Games.

"We experienced demand at expected levels," said Michael Kontos, a spokesman for CoSport, the official ticket seller for the United States and six other countries.

But, he wouldn't say how many tickets have been sold.

Flights to Sochi are expensive.

Most international travelers have to go through Moscow, with direct flights to Sochi only available from Germany and Turkey.

Another reason why Western travelers are staying away is the time-consuming visa process to enter Russia.

They also have to obtain a special pass to watch the games, in addition to their tickets.

Jan Serenander, who helps run ticket seller Jet Set Sports in Norway, mentioned another reason.

"When Sochi was announced, no one had even heard of the place," Serenander said.

He said they had to get out their maps to find it.

Die-hard winter sports fans, however, will not be discouraged from attending.

Orange-clad speedskating fans from the Netherlands are always among the most visible fans at any Winter Games.

Orange is the national color of the Netherlands.

"I expect it to be orange," Jeroen de Roever, manager of official Duch ticket seller ATPI, said of Sochi's speedskating venue.

"We have been sold out for quite a while."

