Russia celebrated the end of a remarkable Olympics Sunday night with a farewell show.

Seventeen days of sports and global unity had come to a close in Sochi.

The rowdy crowd chanted "Ro-ssi-ya!

Ro-ssi-ya!"

— "Russia!

Russia!"

Fireworks exploded above them.

The  show presented a stunning overview of Russian history.

The closing ceremony started at 20:14 Sochi time.

It was for the year 2014.

Russian President Vladimir Putin chose this year to change how Russia is seen by the world.

He has wanted to use the Olympics' power to bring attention to his country.

"Now we can see our country is very friendly," said Boris Kozikov of St. Petersburg, Russia.

"This is very important for other countries around the world to see."

Russia spent more money on this Olympics than any other country ever had.

Sochi was just an old town on the Black Sea before.

It was completely changed for the Olympics.

It showed how far Russia has come.

Just two decades ago, the country began to open itself up and allow more freedoms.

But the Olympic show didn't win over people with complaints against Russia.

Under Putin, some say Russia has gone backward.

They say there are fewer freedoms and human rights.

Even with a few bumps along the way, the end to the games was upbeat.

One of Sochi's big successes was safety.

Terrorists threatened to target the games.

But, the feared attacks didn't come to pass.

"It's amazing what has happened here," said Thomas Bach.

He's the president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).

As dusk fell, Russians and foreign visitors poured into the stadium.

The ceremony featured the putting out of the Olympic flame.

Russia celebrated its history, music and literature in the ceremony.

Performers in puffy white wigs pushed 62 grand pianos around the stadium floor in a kind of dance.

Meanwhile, a pianist played music from a Russian composer.

There was also ballet.

Russia is famous for its ballet talent.

Dancers from two of the world's oldest ballet companies performed.

The faces of Russian writers through the ages were displayed on enormous screens.

Athletes said goodbye to other athletes from far-off places.

Some looked ahead to the 2018 Winter Games.

They'll be held at Pyeongchang in South Korea.

Winners of Russia's record 13 gold medals marched into the stadium.

Athletes poured into the stadium, dancing and taking photos of themselves.

Earlier, giant screens flashed highlights of their Olympic achievements.

Six athletes were absent though.

They were caught using drugs to perform better.

The IOC conducted a record 2,631 drug tests.

Putin smiled as he stood beside Bach.

He had reason to be pleased.

Russia's athletes topped the Sochi medals table.

They won the most both in golds and total — 33.

That represented a stunning turnaround from the 2010 Vancouver Games.

There, it won just three golds and 15 total.

Russia's golden run started with its victory in team figure skating.

For home fans, the games' high point was Adelina Sotnikova.

At 17, she became Russia's first gold medalist in women's Olympic figure skating.

"The success of the home team is always an important part of the success of the games overall," Bach said.

Not all of the headlines out of Sochi were about sport.

An outspoken musical group tried to play in public.

Security forces whipped them.

And during the last days of the games, protests and violence broke out in Ukraine.

It's a neighbor of Russia's.

Bach singled out Ukraine's victory in the women's biathlon relay.

He called it "really an emotional moment" of the games.

He praised Ukrainian athletes for staying to take part in the games.

Many Ukrainians had just died in protests back home.

"Seeing your capital burning, and feeling this responsibility, and then winning the gold medal," he said, "this really stands out for me."

