What if they held an Olympics and nobody came?

The situation isn't that bleak for the Sochi Games.

Yet, less than three weeks before the opening ceremony, hundreds of thousands of tickets remain unsold, raising the prospect of empty seats and a lack of atmosphere at Russia's first Winter Olympics.

Many foreign fans are staying away.

They are turned off by a number of reasons: terrorist threats, expensive flights and hotels, long travel distances, a shortage of tourist attractions, and the hassle of obtaining visas and spectator passes.

"Some people are scared it costs too much and other people are scared because of security," senior International Olympic Committee member Gerhard Heiberg of Norway told The Associated Press.

"From my country, I know that several people and companies are not going for these two reasons.

Of course, there will be Norwegians there but not as many as we are used to."

Sochi organizers announced last week that 70 percent of the tickets have been sold for the games, which run from Feb. 7-23 and represent a symbol of pride and prestige for Russia and President Vladimir Putin.

Organizing committee chief Dmitry Chernyshenko said about 213,000 spectators are expected, with about 75 percent from Russia.

"Tickets are being snapped up fast," the organizing committee said to the AP.

The most popular events are hockey, biathlon, figure skating, freestyle skiing and snowboarding.

"With 70 percent of tickets already sold and another ticketing office opening shortly, we are expecting strong last-minute ticket sales and do not envisage having empty seats."

Sochi officials have refused to say how many tickets were put up for sale, and the figure will only be released after the games.

However, according to IOC marketing documents seen by the AP, Sochi had a total of 1.1 million tickets on offer, meaning that about 300,000 tickets remained available.

By comparison, 1.54 million tickets were available for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, and 97 percent (1.49 million) were sold.

For the 2012 Summer Games in London, organizers sold 97 percent (8.2 million) of their 8.5 million tickets.

Heiberg, who chairs the IOC marketing commission, said the Russians have cut down by 50 percent on the number of spectators originally planned for the mountain events, for reasons of security.

"That means there will be less people and probably less enthusiasm than we had, for instance, in Lillehammer," he said.

Heiberg organized the 1994 Lillehammer Winter Olympics in Norway, which stood out for the colorful atmosphere generated by passionate Norwegian fans.

Sochi's ticket sales began in February 2013 on Sochi's official website on a first-come, first-served basis.

The cheapest tickets go for 500 rubles ($15), and the most expensive for 40,000 rubles ($1,200).

More than half of all tickets cost less than 5,000 rubles ($150).

The average monthly salary in Russia is 30,000 rubles ($890).

The one and only authorized ticket office in Sochi was busy on a recent afternoon, with three dozen people lining up in what once was a waiting room at the city's railway station.

Many, however, complained that all the cheap tickets were already gone.

"Prices leave much to be desired, but what can you can do?"

said Sochi resident Yana Ivolovskaya, who bought two tickets for the bobsled event for 2,000 rubles ($60).

"We're not going to get another Olympics in Sochi so I thought I should go."

Fans outside Russia buy tickets from dealers appointed by their national Olympic committees.

Attracting foreign visitors has been a challenge amid all the headlines about Russia's law banning gay "propaganda," and human rights issues.

Russia's "propaganda" law makes it a crime for someone to discuss homosexuality with a person under the age of 18.

But, a particular worry is the risk of terrorism.

Back-to-back suicide bombings killed 34 people last month in Volgograd, about 400 miles from Sochi.

An Islamic group in Russia's North Caucasus claimed responsibility for the bombings and threatened to strike the Sochi Games.

"We experienced demand at expected levels," said Michael Kontos, a spokesman for CoSport, the official ticket dealer for the United States and six other countries.

Kontos, though, wouldn't give figures on how many tickets had been sold.

Flights to Sochi are expensive, with most international travelers having to go through Moscow.

Western travelers must navigate the time-consuming visa process and requirement to obtain a "spectator pass" along with their tickets.

This requires providing passport details that allow authorities to screen all visitors.

Austrian Olympic Committee spokesman Wolfgang Eichler said that's a bigger turn off than security.

Jan Serenander, managing director of ticket seller Jet Set Sports in Norway, said, "When Sochi was announced no one had even heard of the place.

They had to get out their atlases."

Die-hard winter sports fans, however, will not be discouraged from attending the games.

Orange-clad speedskating fans from the Netherlands are always among the most visible spectators at any Winter Games.

Orange is the national color of the Netherlands.

"I expect it to be orange," Jeroen de Roever, manager of official Duch ticket seller ATPI, said of Sochi's speedskating venue.

"We have been sold out for quite a while."

