Flushed with pride after a spectacular showing at the costliest Olympics ever, Russia celebrated.

Seventeen days of sport-driven global unity came to a close on Sunday night with an elaborate farewell show.

Rowdy spectators chanted "Ro-ssi-ya!

Ro-ssi-ya!"

— "Russia!

Russia!"

— before being surrounded by multicolored fireworks and carried through a visually stunning overview of Russian history and culture.

The crowd was in a party mood.

The closing ceremony, a farewell from Russia with love and pageantry, started at 20:14 local time.

The time was a nod to the year 2014, which Russian President Vladimir Putin seized upon to remake Russia's image.

He has worked to make the most of the Olympics' power to concentrate global attention on his nation.

"Now we can see our country is very friendly," said Boris Kozikov of St. Petersburg, Russia.

"This is very important for other countries around the world to see."

The $51 billion Russia spent on the games topped even Beijing's estimated $40 billion layout for the 2008 Summer Games.

The huge sum transformed Sochi from a decaying resort town on the Black Sea into a household name.

The change showcased how far Russia has come.

It was just two decades ago that the country turned its back on communism, a system where there is no private property and the government controls many businesses.

But the Olympic show didn't win over critics of Russia.

Under Putin, critics say it has gone backward on democracy, human rights and its treatment of gays.

Despite the bumps along the way, International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach was expected to use the closing ceremony to deliver an upbeat conclusion to the games.

One of Sochi's big successes was safety.

Terrorists threatened to target the games, but the feared attacks didn't come to pass.

"It's amazing what has happened here," Bach said a few hours before the ceremony.

As dusk fell, Russians and international visitors streamed into the stadium.

The ceremony featured the extinguishing of the Olympic flame.

Day and night, the flame became a favorite backdrop for "Sochi selfies."

The phrase was born at these games for the fad of athletes and spectators taking souvenir photos of themselves.

Russia celebrated itself and its rich gifts to the worlds of music and literature in the ceremony.

Performers in puffy white wigs pushed 62 grand pianos around the stadium floor in a kind of ballet.

Meanwhile, a pianist played Russian composer Sergei Rachmaninoff's Concerto No.

2.

There was, of course, also ballet, for which Russia is famous.

Dancers from the Bolshoi and the Mariinsky — among the world's oldest ballet companies — performed.

The faces of Russian authors through the ages were projected onto enormous screens.

Athletes were saying goodbye to rivals-turned-friends from far-off places, savoring their achievements or regretting what might have been.

Some looked ahead to the 2018 Winter Games at Pyeongchang in South Korea.

Winners of Russia's record 13 gold medals marched into the stadium.

They carried the country's white, blue and red flag, which was raised alongside the Olympic flag.

Athletes streamed by the hundreds into the stadium, dancing and taking photos of themselves.

Earlier, giant screens flashed highlights of their Olympic feats.

With a 3-0 victory over Sweden in the men's hockey final Sunday, Canada claimed the last gold from the 98 medal events.

Absent were six competitors who failed their drug tests.

The IOC conducted a record 2,631 tests — nearly 200 more than originally planned and the most in Winter Olympic history.

Putin smiled as he stood beside Bach, and he had reason to be pleased.

Russia's athletes topped the Sochi medals table, both in golds and total — 33.

That represented a stunning turnaround from the 2010 Vancouver Games.

There, it won a meager three golds and 15 total.

That seemed proof of Russia's gradual decline as a winter sports power since the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991.

The Soviet Union was a group of republics under Russia's control.

It's breakup gave many Eastern European countries their freedom.

Russia's bag of Sochi gold was the biggest haul by a Russian team since the Soviet Union split up.

Russia's golden run started with aging star Evgeni Plushenko leading Russia to victory in team figure skating.

Russia's last gold came Sunday in the four-man bobsled.

The games' highlight for home fans was Adelina Sotnikova.

Cool as ice at 17, she became Russia's first gold medalist in women's Olympic figure skating.

"The success of the home team is always an important part of the success of the games overall," Bach said.

Not all of the headlines out of Sochi were about sport.

An outspoken group of female punk rock musicians tried to play in public.

Security forces whipped them.

Organizers faced criticism going in about Russia's strict policies toward gays.

Though, once the games were under way most every athlete chose not to use the Olympic spotlight to campaign for the cause.

And during the last days of competition, Sochi competed for attention with violence in Ukraine, Russia's neighbor.

In an interview on Saturday, Bach singled out Ukraine's victory in the women's biathlon relay as "really an emotional moment" of the games.

He praised Ukrainian athletes for staying to compete despite the scores dead in protests back home.

"Seeing your capital burning, and feeling this responsibility, and then winning the gold medal," he said, "this really stands out for me."

