Five days could change how you see the world.

A new research study says the ability to read other people's feelings can get better.

It just requires less time in front of a computer or on a cellphone.

The study followed about 50 sixth-graders at nature camp.

None of the campers could use electronic devices there.

They could not use their cellphones, computers or watch TV.

The people who started the study are worried.

They think children might be losing the ability to understand how other people feel.

Social clues, like the expressions on a person's face, are normally how people figure that out.

Children now spend more time using electronics to talk to their friends.

As a result, they spend less time talking to them in person.

Yalda Uhls led the study.

Uhls said the idea came from watching her daughter.

She said she sees her daughter and her friends using phones to talk or text while in the same room.

Uhls worked with another scientist named Patricia Greenfield.

They found a sixth-grade class that goes to a wilderness camp for five days.

The researchers wanted to see children without their electronics.

Then they would compare them to sixth-grade students who did not go to the camp.

About 50 sixth-graders attended the camp.

When they arrived, they took two tests to measure their ability to read social clues.

In one, the kids looked at 48 photos of people making faces.

They were asked to guess the feelings the faces had in each photo.

Were the faces happy, sad, angry or scared?

In the second test, they watched a video with no sound and then guessed the actor's feelings.

The kids took the tests again five days later.

The researchers said the kids made an average of about 14 mistakes on the photo test at the beginning of camp.

By the end of camp, they only made about nine mistakes.

On the video test, they got about two out of 10 of the feelings right at first.

After five days at camp, the students improved.

They got three out of 10 of the feelings right.

Uhls said the researchers were surprised to see the better results after just five days.

She said she was happy about what they showed.

Even five days with no devices might be enough to read social clues better.

The researchers needed to compare the camp results to students who were not at the camp.

Fifty-four sixth-graders from the same school who did not go to camp were the control group.

They also took the same tests five days apart.

Their scores were surprisingly similar to the camp group.

On the photo test, they made an average of 12 mistakes the first time.

Like the group at camp, they made around nine mistakes five days later.

For the video test, the students' scores stayed the same.

The control group got almost three out of 10 of the feelings correct both times.

The researchers think the key is the change the kids showed over time.

The two groups started at different levels before they ended at the same score.

Still, the group at camp showed more improvement over the five days.

Uhls and Greenfield said it is important for kids to spend time away from screens.

The study does not mean that all screen time is bad.

People should understand it is important that kids have time for face-to-face socializing.

"It is really important to have a balance," Uhls said.

