week without seeing a screen could change how you look at the world.

A new study suggests that the ability to read nonverbal social cues can improve after just five days away from computers and iPhones.

Researchers followed a group of about 50 sixth-graders to a nature camp in Southern California.

None of the campers could use computers or cellphones.

Nonverbal social cues are the emotional information we pick up from people that is not spoken out loud.

Cues can come in how people look at you or how they sound.

Researchers are wondering whether children are losing the ability to read these important cues.

Children spend more time using electronics and less time interacting face-to-face these days.

Yalda Uhls works for a group focused on understanding Internet use.

She also led the study and wrote up the results.

Uhls said the idea for the study came from watching her daughter.

She said she sees her daughter and her friends using phones to interact while they are all in the same room.

Uhls and professor Patricia Greenfield found a sixth-grade class that goes to a wilderness camp for five days.

The researchers wanted to see children without their electronics.

About 50 children attended the camp.

When they arrived, they took two tests to measure their ability to read nonverbal social cues.

In the first, the kids were asked to judge the feelings in 48 photos of people making faces.

In the second test, they watched a video with no sound and then judged the actor's feelings.

The kids took the tests again five days later.

According to researchers, the kids made an average of 14.02 mistakes on the face-recognition test at the beginning of their camp stay.

They thought the actors were feeling one way when they actually felt a different way.

Then, by the end of the camp the kids took the test again.

That time, they only made 9.41 mistakes.

On the video test, they correctly named about a fourth of the feelings at the beginning of camp.

After five days at camp, the students got 31 percent correct.

Uhls said the researchers were surprised to see those results after just five days.

She was encouraged by what they showed though.

The results suggest that putting devices away for five days is enough time to improve at reading social cues.

The researchers needed to compare the results at camp to kids who did not go to camp.

They gave the same test to 54 sixth-graders from the same school who had not gone to camp.

The group, which is called a control group, made an average of 12.24 mistakes the first time they took the photo test.

Like the group at camp, they made 9.81 mistakes five days later.

For the video test, the students' scores stayed the same.

Students in the control group got an average of 28 percent of the feelings correct both times they were tested.

The end results of the two groups were not that different.

The group at camp showed a larger improvement over the five days than the group of kids who did not go to the camp.

Uhls said she noticed the groups' same end results.

The researchers are focusing on the change the kids showed over time because the groups started at different levels.

Uhls and Greenfield said the results of their study suggest that it is important for kids to spend time away from screens like computers, cellphones and TVs.

It does not necessarily suggest that all screen time is bad.

They hope people understand it's important that kids have time for talking face-to-face.

"It is really important to have a balance," Uhls said.

