Sodas and other sugary drinks sold in California will have to have warning labels.

That is, if a new bill announced Thursday passes.

If it does, California would be the first state to require such labels.

The bill would require the warning on the front of all drinks with added sweeteners that have 75 or more calories in every 12 ounces.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

The label would read: "STATE OF CALIFORNIA SAFETY WARNING: Drinking beverages with added sugar(s) contributes to obesity, diabetes, and tooth decay."

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) means having an unhealthy level of extra body fat.

Diabetes is a disease that involves having too much blood sugar.

Democratic Senator William Monning came up with the bill.

He said there is clear research showing the link between sugary drinks and these diseases.

He added that the label was written by a national panel of experts.

The goal of the label is to give buyers the right to know, he said.

There are health risks to drinking sodas.

It is a health problem "that will take more lives than gun violence," he said.

A similar bill was introduced last year in Vermont.

But it has been held up since April.

The Vermont bill would require drink companies to put warning labels on bottles of drinks that contain sugar or other additives.

CalBev is the California arm of the American Beverage Association.

It's a group that stands up for the drink makers.

It said that beverage companies already post calories on the front of many bottles.

This is part of its "Clear on Calories" campaign that began in 2010.

Drink bottles also have detailed lists of nutrition information.

"We agree that obesity is a serious issue," the group said in a statement.

But it called Monning's bill "misleading."

It said just 6 percent of calories in the average American's diet come from soda, fruit, sports and energy drinks.

Sweets and desserts make up 11 percent.

In fact, most calories are eaten in the form of fats, oils and starches in food.

The group would not say how much it would cost them to add the new labels.

But it said the measure would increase the cost of doing business in California.

The medical groups supporting Monning's bill came back with their own numbers.

They said sugary drinks are the largest source of new calories in Americans' diet in the last 30 years.

They also said one soda a day makes a child 55 percent more likely to be overweight.

It can raise the risk of diabetes by 26 percent.

Monning said the warning labels were similar to efforts to control alcohol and tobacco.

He didn't agree with suggestions that the labels would be another example of the government telling people how to live.

"It is not the responsibility of industry to protect the public health.

It is the responsibility of government," he said, noting that people could still choose to drink the drinks.

Monning said warning labels can make a difference in people's choices.

They would help along with other public health programs warning of the dangers of obesity.

He said the labeling would be in line with the drink makers' own goal.

They say they want to give people the information to make a smart choice.

