Sodas and other sugary drinks will have to bear warning labels to be sold in California under a new proposal.

A state lawmaker announced the bill Thursday, which if passed would make it the first state to require such labels.

The bill, SB1000, would require the warning on the front of all containers of drinks with added sweeteners that have 75 or more calories in every 12 ounces.

A calorie is a unit of energy in food.

The label would read: "STATE OF CALIFORNIA SAFETY WARNING: Drinking beverages with added sugar(s) contributes to obesity, diabetes, and tooth decay."

[Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) describes when a person has a dangerously unhealthy amount of body fat.

Diabetes is a disease involving an excess of sugar in the blood.

Democratic Sen. William Monning proposed the bill.

He said there is clear research showing the link between sugary drinks and these diseases.

He added that the wording was developed by a national panel of nutrition and public health experts.

The bill has the support of the California Medical Association and the California Center for Public Health Advocacy.

The goal of the label is "to give consumers the right to know" about the medical risks of drinking sodas, Monning said.

"We're talking about a public health epidemic that will take more lives than gun violence."

The Latino Coalition for a Healthy California and the California Black Health Network also are sponsoring the bill.

They worry about the high rates of soda drinking and connected health problems among minorities.

A bill similar to Monning's was introduced last year in Vermont.

The Vermont bill would require drink companies to put warning labels on bottles that contain sugar or other additives.

The bill has been held up since April.

CalBev, the California arm of the American Beverage Association, said that the industry already posts calorie counts on the front of many bottles.

This is part of its "Clear on Calories" campaign that began in 2010.

Drink bottles also have detailed ingredient lists and nutrition information.

"We agree that obesity is a serious and complex issue," the group said in a statement.

But it called Monning's bill "misleading."

It said just 6 percent of the calories in the average American's diet come from soda, fruit, sports and energy drinks, compared with 11 percent in sweets and deserts.

In fact, it said, most calories are eaten in the form of fats, oils and starches in food.

The group would not put a price tag on adding the new labels.

However, it said the measure would increase the cost of doing business in California.

The medical groups supporting Monning's bill countered with their own data, saying sugary drinks are the largest source of added calories in Americans' diet in the last three decades.

They also said one soda a day boosts an adult's chances of being overweight by 27 percent and a child's by 55 percent.

It can increase the risk of diabetes by 26 percent.

Monning said the warning labels were similar to efforts to control alcohol and tobacco.

He dismissed suggestions that the labeling would be another example of the so-called nanny state, where people are told how to live their lives by the government.

"It is not the responsibility of industry to protect the public health.

It is the responsibility of government," he said, noting that consumers could still choose to drink the drinks.

"We believe it's an appropriate role for government to play."

The warning labels would mesh with similar health campaigns and proposed laws in several California cities and elsewhere.

San Francisco is thinking about asking voters to pass a tax on soda and other sweetened drinks.

Former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg tried and failed to push taxes on soda and ban the sale of large soda containers.

Monning said warning labels can make a difference in consumers' choices.

The would help particularly when paired with other public health programs warning of the dangers of obesity.

"We don't underestimate what we're up against," he said.

"We're up against $100 million advertising campaigns."

He said the labeling would be in line with the beverage makers' own goal of giving consumers the information to make a smart choice.

