Subjects like math, science and reading are usually in the spotlight at school.

However, teaching elementary-age students "soft" skills helps them in other areas of their lives.

Examples of "soft" skills include self-control and how to get along with others. A study finds that it can help to keep at-risk kids out of trouble with the law in the future.

Duke University researchers looked at a program called Fast Track.

The program was started in the early 1990s.

It was for children who were identified by teachers and parents to be at high risk for developing behavioral problems.

The students were put into two groups.

Half took part in the intervention.

This included a teacher-led course of study and parent training groups.

It also involved scholastic tutoring and lessons in self-control and social skills.

The program lasted from first grade through 10th grade.

It reduced misbehavior, arrests and use of health services as the students got older, as experimenters explained in a separate study published earlier this year.

In the latest study, experimenters looked at why this was happening.

They looked at information from nearly 900 students.

They found that the soft skills the students learned from ages 6 to 11 helped them stay away from committing crimes in the future.

The academic skills, like reading and math, that were taught as part of Fast Track had a different effect.

These skills had less of an effect on crime and behavior than did the soft skills.

Soft skills are associated with emotional intelligence.

Soft skills might include teaching kids to work together in a group.

Teaching math is an example of a hard skill.

Due to these findings, these "soft" skills "should be a larger part of our education system, says Kenneth Dodge.

He is a professor at Duke.

Dodge was a main investigator in this study as well as in the original Fast Track project.

Parents should do all they can to encourage these skills with their children, Dodge says.

By improving these skills, we can cut down on problems with misbehavior and crime, says Dodge.

He is also head of Duke's Center for Child and Family Policy.

The study was published last week in a science magazine called Child Development.

Neil Bernstein is a psychologist in Washington, D.C., who focuses on child and teenage behavior.

To him, the findings seem to go along with what he's seen.

He has been working with children for more than 30 years.

And while he says he agrees with the value of teaching self-control and social skills, he would add empathy to the list, too.

"Empathy is what makes us aware of the feelings of others," says Bernstein.

"When you're empathic, you're much less likely to hurt someone else's feelings," he continues.

He serves on the advisory board for the Partnership for Drug-Free Kids.

Bernstein has also written many books, including "How to Keep Your Teenager Out of Trouble and What to Do if You Can't."

Being in tune with how someone else feels can help in other ways.

It might also make teenagers steer clear of bullying, Bernstein says.

Empathy was not one of the skills directly measured in this study, according to Lucy Sorensen.

She is a Ph.D. student at Duke and lead writer of the study.

Still, there were several measures of "prosocial behavior," Sorensen says.

This is behavior that is helpful and kind towards others.

