ILADELPHIA – Solar power is a cleaner way to make electricity than coal or natural gas.

But it is not very practical since it costs so much.

However, some scientists in Pennsylvania are working to change that.

The have come up with a way to make it cheaper.

Solar panels absorb sunlight.

But more than that happens to make electricity.

The sunlight energizes electrons in the solar panels.

Then the electrons must be moved, or channeled, in the same direction.

To do that, solar panels typically are made with layers of two kinds of materials.

A team of researchers from the University of Pennsylvania and Drexel University may have found a way to change that.

The scientists said they created a new type of material that could both absorb the energy and move the electrons cheaply and efficiently.

The scientists wrote about the new material, a ceramic, in the journal Nature.

So far the group has created just small bits of the new material.

But members predict it can be used to make new panels.

The panels would be better at harvesting energy than the common silicon-based panels and also would be less expensive, the researchers said.

The researchers say their new material also would be better than "thin-film" solar panels.

Those panels tend to contain materials that are rare, poisonous, or both.

The new material contains potassium, niobium, barium, and nickel.

Those elements are in great supply.

They are also friendly to the earth.

So is silicon.

But a lot has to be done to silicon for it to be used in solar panels.

The authors say their combination of materials will be cheaper in the long run.

Penn chemistry professor Andrew M. Rappe said the group has opened up new ways to make materials.

Rappe worked on the study.

The government said only a very tiny amount of energy used in the United States comes from solar power.

The solar energy companies say more solar energy is used.

They say the government does not have complete information about the number of rooftop panels.

Either way, solar power has been climbing steadily.

For scientists, the sun remains an intriguing source of untapped power.

Materials that can channel the flow of electrons are described as having polarity.

Scientists have known about the materials for many years.

But they absorb energy from the wrong type of light, so they have not been used to make solar panels.

The Penn-Drexel team started with a material with polarity.

It is called potassium niobate.

Then the team used computers to predict what other elements could be added so that it would absorb visible light.

Barium and nickel were chosen.

"The nickel is really doing the job," Rappe said.

"The barium's kind of along for the ride."

Making the material involved many steps.

The elements had to be ground up and heated.

Lane W. Martin agreed that the approach had a chance to work.

He is a professor at the University of Illinois.

"It's a pretty promising first step," said Martin, who was not involved with the research.

Future research will involve actually making a solar "cell," complete with electrodes.

Yet Drexel professor Jonathan Spanier was plenty excited by the small samples.

Spanier conducted tests revealing that the material had the desired properties.

"It's a mixture of excitement and satisfaction and thrill," he said.

