Two dozen fourth- and fifth-grade students at Tildenville Elementary School clustered around Thomas Dillen.

From their enthusiasm, you might think that Dillen was handing out candy.

In fact, he was holding a solar panel.

Dillen, a student at Valencia College, was leading a solar energy workshop.

He raised a solar panel above his head, trying to catch the sunlight.

The students watched and waited, hoping that the sun would power the portable generators they had been building.

If they worked, the generators would be sent to an orphanage in Africa.

An LED light bulb attached to one of the generators lit up.

The students erupted in cheers.

In only a few months, the students had turned a box, some wires and a light socket into a machine that would help poor children half a world away.

The workshop was part of a new after-school program at Tildenville in which students build solar-powered generators to send to communities in need.

The goal is to develop students' interest in science and technology and raise their awareness of global issues.

The program, which will end next month, was developed by Deb Hall, an electrical engineer and professor at Valencia College.

In 2009, she attended a renewable-energy workshop, where she met a couple who designed "solar suitcases" - portable generators that can provide power for people who do not have access to electricity.

The couple ran a company called We Care Solar that manufactured solar suitcases and donated them to hospitals in developing countries.

Access to electric power can help save lives in these areas.

For example, doctors in some hospitals do not have electric lights, so at night they have to operate by candlelight.

Electricity would allow them to provide better health care under better conditions.

Hall was inspired by the work that We Care Solar was doing, and she became interested in building solar suitcases in her classes at Valencia.

She hoped that teaching her students about the generators would be educational and could improve the world.

She received $5,000 from the Valencia Foundation that allowed her and her students in Introduction to Alternative and Renewable Energy to build five generators.

When the generators were complete, four of them were sent to Haiti, Costa Rica, Guatemala and Kenya.

Hall kept one to use in demonstrations.

Then, about three years ago, Hall and a half-dozen of her students began visiting Tildenville Elementary to give presentations to science teacher Sharon Burnett's fifth-graders.

They wanted to teach the kids about careers in science and technology.

"These kids need to have their eyes opened to what might be available to them in the future," Burnett said.

Hall brought along their solar suitcase, and Burnett thought the generators would make a good project for her after-school students.

We Care Solar agreed to let the Tildenville kids help build generators under the supervision of Valencia students.

The company would inspect the suitcases before they were then sent to Uganda.

Burnett got funding to build three of the suitcases, which cost $1,500 apiece, and the project began in August.

The generators can be used to power headlamps, rechargeable batteries and a lamp, all of which will be provided in each suitcase.

On a recent Friday, the children divided into three groups in the library and got to work while Hall gave instructions.

"Everybody gets a chance to tighten up the screws," Hall said as the kids clustered around the generators.

The group of students is learning not just about electricity and sustainable energy, but also about the importance of working together, following directions and testing their work.

Moreover, they are also learning to appreciate what they have and be mindful of people around the world who are less privileged than them.

Most of the students at Tildenville Elementary are not rich.

More than two-thirds of them are eligible for a free or reduced-price lunch.

Nevertheless, they live in luxury compared with the Ugandan orphans.

Ariana Gonzalez, 9, said she felt sad when she learned about the limited resources of people growing up in extreme poverty.

"In Uganda in some orphanages, they don't have any light at all," she said.

"They have only one little candle, and it doesn't light up the whole room."

The class will get a chance to connect with the African children more personally, and practice their writing skills, when they compose letters to accompany the bright-blue, plastic suitcases.

The Valencia students who help supervise the after-school project also benefit, earning college credit and getting to see solar suitcases designed and engineered from start to finish.

"It's rewarding," said Dillen, a former truck driver.

"I'm learning myself."

