Thomas Dillen was holding the machine up to the sunlight, as high as he could.

About two dozen fourth- and fifth-graders from Tildenville Elementary School crowded around him.

They waited.

A small light on the machine lit up.

All at once, they started cheering.

Dillen, a student at Valencia College, was teaching the Tildenville students how to build solar generators.

They are machines that capture the energy of the sun and turn it into electricity.

Imagine you are lost in the desert and your phone runs out of batteries.

If you have a solar generator, you can charge your phone and call for help.

The class the students are taking is not just for fun.

When they finish building them, the generators will be sent to communities in Africa that do not have electricity.

The program was started by Deb Hall, a professor at Valencia College.

She teaches electrical engineering, the study of how to use electricity to run machines.

In 2009 she attended a renewable-energy meeting.

Renewable energies are sources of power that will never run out, like the sun and wind.

New technologies are being designed that can capture these energy sources and use them to power lights and machines.

At the meeting, Hall met with a company called We Care Solar.

The company designs "solar suitcases," generators that are small enough that a person can carry one.

The generators can provide power in areas without electricity.

We Care Solar donates the solar suitcases to hospitals that do not have electric lights.

Without generators, doctors in these hospitals have to work by candlelight, which makes their jobs very difficult.

Hall was inspired by the work that We Care Solar was doing and wanted to show the solar suitcases to her students at Valencia.

Having them learn how to build these generators could be educational and could improve the world, she thought.

She and her students built five generators and sent four of them to Haiti, Costa Rica, Guatemala and Kenya.

Hall kept one to use in demonstrations.

Then, about three years ago, Hall and a half-dozen of her students began visiting Tildenville Elementary.

They gave presentations to science teacher Sharon Burnett's fifth-graders, hoping to teach the kids about science and technology.

Hall brought along the solar suitcase for one of the presentations.

When Burnett saw the machine, she thought solar generators would make a good project for her after-school students.

We Care Solar agreed to let the Tildenville kids build generators while Valencia students watched them to make sure it was done right.

The company would then inspect the suitcases before they were sent to Uganda.

The classes teach students about electricity, working together and testing their work.

Students also learn about people in other countries who have less than them.

Ariana Gonzalez, age 9, said she felt sad when she learned about what life was like for people in the poorest parts of the world.

"In Uganda in some orphanages, they don't have any light at all," she said.

"They have only one little candle, and it doesn't light up the whole room."

