There are more than 80,000 immigrants from the east African country of Somalia living in Minnesota's twin cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis.

There is only one female Somali police officer in St. Paul.

Her name is Kadra Mohamed, 22.

She stands 5-foot-1 and wears a hijab, a traditional Muslim headscarf, along with her blue and white police uniform.

Mohamed is a community officer who doesn't carry a gun.

It's her job to get out into neighborhoods and visit with local business owners and residents.

She frequently translates for other officers.

Kadra often rides with her partner, Tom Lee, 24, who works with Hmong immigrants from southeast Asia.

Somalia, on the horn of eastern Africa, has been in chaos for years.

Many people have left the country to escape the violence and war.

Kadra's parents were two people who got out — her father was Ethiopian and her mother was Somali.

They had an arranged marriage — their parents set them up together.

"Love takes time," Mohamed said.

"A friendship developed before they grew into loving one another.

They got lucky."

Her parents eventually moved to the Twin Cities, where they started a family.

Mohamed grew up fast after her father died when she was 12.

Going to college at St.

Cloud State University outside the Twin Cities, Mohamed began to wear the hijab.

She also experienced racism.

Strangers told her to "take the towel off your head," and "go back to your terror state."

Though she originally wanted to be a lawyer, Mohamed changed her goal to police work because she wanted to help her community.

Mohamed says she is not afraid to arrest a Somali man, even though men hold the power in traditional Somali culture.

"I'll speak to him in our language — Somali to Somali," she says.

"I'll explain that this is my job.

He broke the law and there are steps that must be taken."

Not everyone is happy to have a hijab-wearing police officer.

One blogger suggested the scarf could be dangerous for Mohamed.

The department has put metal snaps on the hijab so it will come off easily if someone pulls on it.

St. Paul's Assistant Chief Todd Axtell said that uniform rules, and all rules, must be changed when necessary.

"In the early 1970s, you had to be at least 5-foot-8 to become a St. Paul police officer," said Axtell, who is 5-foot-7.

"If that rule hadn't been changed, I wouldn't be here today."

Other criticism has come from the Somali community.

Some Somalis say Mohamed is breaking tradition: she's wearing pants and short-sleeve shirts, working alongside men.

Once Mohamed passes her police exams, she can start carrying a gun.

"[The older Somalis] think she's crazy," said Mohamed's friend Nada Mohamed.

"They don't think a Muslim woman should be a police officer, if she wears a hijab or not."

Many of the Somalis who live in the Twin Cities are Muslim.

Locals say there is a strained relationship between Somali immigrants and the city.

Having police officers like Mohamed is one step toward making things better.

There are two major problems today in the Minnesota Somali community.

One is criminal street gangs with names like the St.

Pistol Boys and Somali Outlaws.

The other is young Somali men who leave Minnesota to fight in wars in Somalia, Syria and Iraq.

Today, Mohamed visits the Grocery and Meat Market on St. Paul's north side.

She's been coming here since she was a girl.

She breathes in the smell of Somali spices and the bread she has loved all her life.

Abdi Mohamed, the market's owner, comes out to greet her.

"Kadra, it's you," he says in the Somali language.

He asks about her mother, and then pauses.

"It's good to see you in uniform."

