Many people from the east African country of Somalia now live in Minnesota.

There are more than 80,000 Somali immigrants in Minnesota's twin cities of St. Paul and Minneapolis.

There are many Somali people in St. Paul, but only one female Somali police officer.

It's Kadra Mohamed, 22.

Mohamed is 5-foot-1.

She wears a blue and white police uniform and a hijab, a traditional Muslim headscarf.

Kadra is a community officer.

She doesn't carry a gun.

It's her job to go into neighborhoods and visit with people who live and own shops and businesses there.

She often helps other officers who need someone who can speak Somali.

Mohamed sometimes rides with her partner, Tom Lee, 24, who works with Hmong immigrants from southeast Asia.

Somalia has serious problems.

War and violence are common there.

Somalia is the base for many pirates that sail off the coast of Africa.

Mohamed's parents left Somalia.

Her father was Ethiopian and her mother was Somali.

They moved to Minnesota and started a family there.

At St.

Cloud University in central Minnesota, Mohamed began to wear the hijab.

She also experienced racism.

Strangers told her to "take the towel off your head," and "go back to your terror state."

Mohamed first wanted to be a lawyer, but she decided to become a police officer.

She believes that's how she can help her community.

Not everyone is happy to have a police officer who wears a headscarf.

Some other officers said the scarf breaks rules about uniforms.

St. Paul's Assistant Chief Todd Axtell said that rules must be changed sometimes.

"In the early 1970s, you had to be at least 5-foot-8 to become a St. Paul police officer," said Axtell, who is 5-foot-7.

"If that rule hadn't been changed, I wouldn't be here today."

Some Somalis have criticized Mohamed, too.

They say she is breaking tradition by wearing pants and working with men.

When she passes her police exams, she will start carrying a gun.

"[The older Somalis] think she's crazy," said Mohamed's friend Nada Mohamed.

"They don't think a Muslim woman should be a police officer."

Many of the Somalis who live in the Twin Cities are Muslim.

There isn't always a good relationship between the Somalis and the city.

Having police officers like Mohamed is one step toward making things better.

There are two major problems today in the Minnesota Somali community.

One is criminal street gangs.

The other is young Somali men who leave Minnesota to fight wars in Somalia, Syria and Iraq.

Today, Mohamed visits the Grocery and Meat Market on St. Paul's north side.

She's been coming here since she was a girl.

She smells the Somali spices and the bread she has loved all her life.

Market owner Abdi Mohamed comes out to greet her.

"Kadra, it's you," he says in the Somali language.

He asks about her mother, and then pauses.

"It's good to see you in uniform."

