Ben E. King's "Stand by Me" record has been played on the radio many, many times.

It is a very popular song.

The Library of Congress says it is an important song too.

It is important enough to save for all time.

The Library of Congress is the nation's main library.

It is in Washington, D.C.

It stores books that are important to our country's history.

It also stores great sound recordings.

The library has to decide which recordings are important enough to keep.

Each year it picks new things to add.

This year's picks were just announced.

It said 25 sound recordings were added.

The oldest is from 1890.

The newest is from 1999.

"Stand by Me" was recorded in 1962.

King wrote it for his old band, the Drifters.

Then he changed his mind and recorded it himself.

It ended up being a huge hit.

"Stand by Me" was not the only very popular song the library picked.

There were several others.

Another is "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'" by the Righteous Brothers.

It was made in 1965.

The Righteous Brothers were surprised when their song became a big hit.

They thought it was not the right song for them.

Folksinger Joan Baez's first album was also picked.

The record is just called "Joan Baez."

It is from 1960.

Not only music was picked.

Steve Martin's 1978 comedy record "A Wild and Crazy Guy" was selected too.

It helped to change the way comedy is done.

Martin was happy when he heard his record had been picked.

He said: "I could not be more proud of this honor.

This means the record was probably funny."

The library also selected recordings made at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair.

Musicians from around the world performed at the fair that year.

Many Americans had never heard music from other parts of the world before.

The library picked some newer recordings too.

One is a collection of songs from the TV show "Sesame Street."

The record is called "Sesame Street: All-Time Platinum Favorites."

It was first released in 1995.

The library also picked "OK Computer" by the band Radiohead.

The album is from 1997.

Many people think it is one of the most important rock albums ever.

