Sony Pictures Entertainment makes movies.

Last month, its computers came under attack.

Using computer code, attackers got inside Sony's computers.

They caused great damage to Sony's computers.

They destroyed computer files.

They also released private information about actors and people at Sony.

Such computer attackers are known as hackers.

When computers are used to attack other computers it is called a cyber attack.

The hackers wanted to do more than damage Sony.

They also wanted to stop Sony from releasing its movie "The Interview."

They put out a warning: If the movie was released, theaters that showed it would be destroyed.

After the attack, Sony stopped the movie's release.

The movie was already attracting attention before the cyber attack.

North Korea was angry that the movie was made.

Its made-up plot is about killing North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un.

The movie stars Seth Rogen and James Franco.

Their characters are asked by U.S. spies to go to North Korea and kill Kim Jong-un.

It is meant to be funny.

Experts say North Korea probably led the cyber attack.

On Thursday, U.S. government officials were trying to figure out what to do.

Right now they don't have too many choices.

The United States is already punishing North Korea for trying to build nuclear weapons.

The country cannot be punished much more than it is, an expert said.

The U.S. government could launch its own cyber attack.

If that happens, hackers working for the U.S. military would go into action.

They would try to shut down the computers used in the attack on Sony.

It would probably be done in secret.

Proving that North Korea started the attack will not be easy.

The country has been blamed for cyber attacks before, though.

Last year, it was believed to have made cyber attacks on South Korea.

North Korea might not have acted alone, however.

Experts believe the country could not have broken into Sony's computers on its own.

Computer hackers from other countries might have joined in the attack.

The hackers might even have been helped by several unhappy Sony workers.

North Korea is a very poor country.

Most of its citizens have no experience with computers.

However, experts believe the country does have a small group of top hackers working for it.

Computer attacks are a useful tool for North Korea.

They are cheap to carry out and hard to trace.

President Barack Obama said that the attack against Sony is alarming.

It shows that the United States must do more to keep its computers safe.

Obama said the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) should know more about the cyber attack soon.

He added that the United States will be working hard to prevent new attacks.

The president said Americans should not be too worried.

Obama said his advice was that "people go to the movies."

