Immigrant shopkeepers have been under attack in parts of South Africa.

These immigrants come from other countries to start new lives in South Africa.

Last month, Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini told his followers that foreigners should pack up and leave.

Zwelithini is the leader of a large group in South Africa called the Zulus.

President Jacob Zuma's eldest son, Edward, joined in.

He said that foreigners were "taking over the country" in a "ticking time bomb."

Then last week there were major attacks.

They have continued since.

Dozens of immigrants in Johannesburg and other cities closed their shops Wednesday as cellphone text messages from an unknown source warned that Zulu people were coming to kill immigrants.

One message referred to an attack that "will be more destructive than ever before."

It warned immigrants to stay indoors.

Violence spread in the city of Durban on Tuesday.

People attacked shops owned by immigrants.

Some of the immigrants had armed themselves with large knives.

Five have died in the recent violence near Durban.

Violence targeting immigrant shopkeepers has been a problem in South Africa for years.

The attacks are fueled by hate speech, envy and high unemployment.

The police and government officials often say the violence is not specifically aimed at immigrants.

In 2008, 62 people were killed in attacks on immigrants near Johannesburg.

"The situation is very tense.

There are many foreign nationals who are fearing for their lives.

Some of them want to go back to their homes in other countries.

I've met many people who are worried and don't know what to do," said Mkululi White.

He is a spokesman for the African Disapora Forum.

The group represents immigrants in South Africa.

Some 2,400 people fled their homes in the Durban violence this past week.

They have been living in temporary camps.

The worst attack in the latest unrest happened on Friday.

Two Ethiopian brothers near Durban were locked in a shopping container that looks like a large box.

The brothers had set up a small shop inside the box.

The box was set on fire by a mob.

Tescma Marcus, 22, died that night at a hospital.

His brother, Alex, 24, is still in the hospital.

Mobs robbed and damaged shops Wednesday in the city of Pietermaritzburg.

The African Diaspora Forum also reported a threat to firebomb a building in the town of Mthatha, which has many foreign-owned shops.

In January, more than 120 foreign-owned shops were attacked, often while police stood by.

Six people were killed in the violence.

There were similar big attacks on immigrant businesses in May, June and September.

Organizations representing immigrants in South Africa say that smaller attacks in small towns occur almost weekly.

Bereje Fana is a spokesman for the Ethiopian Community Association.

Fana said the organization had been asking South African authorities to take attacks on immigrants more seriously and to protect them.

He blamed Zwelithini, the Zulu king, for careless remarks that ignited the recent attacks.

The worst violence has been in and around Durban, the capital of Kwa-Zulu Natal state.

Zulus are the largest group of people there.

"We have heard it's going to continue," Fana said.

"We're trying to highlight it and bring it to the attention of the authorities, to create awareness and protect their lives and protect their businesses."

President Zuma last week condemned attacks on people from other countries.

He also said that his government was taking steps against illegal immigrants.

The actions included trying to prevent people from coming to the country illegally, arresting foreigners involved in crime, and shutting down shops that do not have the correct papers to operate, Zuma said.

The leaders of groups representing South African owners of small cafes and shops have been blamed for causing problems in the past.

They have accused foreign shopkeepers of destroying South African jobs and businesses.

At a meeting in Soweto last month, they called on the government to stop being easy on foreigners.

White, the spokesman for the African Diaspora Forum, called on police to arrest those responsible for the attacks.

White added that his organization was also concerned that comments by King Zwelithini and Edward Zuma played a role.

The king's spokesman last week denied that the king's comments caused the violence and spoke against the people who carried it out.

