Jeb Bush is running for president.

One afternoon last week, his black SUV pulled up to Wholly Smokin' barbecue joint.

The crowd was excited to see him.

Bush is 6-feet, 4-inches tall.

His head poked above the many television cameras and reporters who were waiting for him.

"What we need is quiet, strong leadership," Bush told about 150 people at the restaurant.

He shook hands around the room and posed for dozens of cellphone pictures.

A candidate's personality is not important, Bush said.

Someone running for president is known as a candidate.

The race for president is about finding a leader who fixes the big things, he said.

Bush was once governor of Florida. South Carolina is a good state for him to start his run for president.

In South Carolina, Republicans are interested in different things.

There are conservative Republicans.

In general, conservatives support old-fashioned values.

They like the traditional ways of doing things.

Other South Carolina Republicans mainly want the government to be careful about spending money.

Meanwhile, there are also hunters and fishers, who want to preserve nature.

To win South Carolina, a candidate has to appeal to these different groups.

Before a Republican candidate can get to the general election, he or she has to run in primary elections.

There are two sets of primary elections.

One is for the Democrats and the other is for the Republicans.

They are the main political groups in America.

The winners from each political party run against each other in the general election.

It will take place in November 2016.

South Carolina is the first state in the South to hold a primary election.

Since 1980, it has usually picked the Republican candidate who later became the party's choice to run for president.

Matt Moore is the head of the Republican Party in South Carolina.

He said South Carolina Republicans are practical.

They are mainly interested in whether a candidate can win the general election.

"They want to elect a president," Moore said.

Ken Wezl was waiting in the restaurant to hear from Bush.

He thinks Bush would be "a good president."

He also likes Marco Rubio of Florida, another Republican candidate.

Rubio is a lawmaker in Congress. Wezl said people support Rubio because he is able to explain his ideas clearly.

They also like how Rubio looks.

"You can picture him up there against the Democrats," said Wezl.

Rubio looks like a president, Wezl said.

Yet Rubio, who is 43, has not been in Congress very long.

He might not have enough experience to be president, Wezl said.

Wezl's wife, Karen, wants to vote for Jeb Bush, but she is not completely sure.

In Spartanburg, Ron Pockette was at the Beacon Drive-In.

He was checking out Ohio Governor John Kasich, another Republican candidate.

He likes that Kasich says what he thinks.

Kasich used to be a congressman and tried to make sure the government did not spend too much, Pockette said.

"He has lots of experience in Washington and in running a state," said Pockette.

"He sounds strong, like he'll push his ideas forward."

Pockette said he will not vote for Donald Trump.

He said Trump is entertaining, but he will not be a good president.

Right now, Trump is leading in South Carolina.

About one out of four Republican voters support him, according to surveys in the state.

Ben Carson is running second.

About one out of five Republican voters support him.

About one of out of 10 support Rubio.

Even fewer people say they will vote for Bush.

Jim Drury was at a Trump campaign event in Spartanburg last week.

"We do need to make America great again," said Drury.

"We are losing everything.

We're losing the war on terrorism, we're losing our jobs," he said.

