While it is continuing to expand its economy, China has recently been accused of building a "Great Wall of sand" by creating artificial islands in the South China Sea.

The government hopes the islands will help them claim more territory in the sea and gain control of the area.

The United States believes the Chinese are dredging sand and dumping it on reefs of living coral.

However, China's island growth strategy could potentially have a serious impact on the environment and coral in the sea.

Alan Friedlander is a chief scientist of the National Geographic Pristine Seas Program.

He spoke recently in Hawaii about how dredging kills off reefs.

The South China Sea is wedged in between China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei.

The sea is home to many different types of underwater life.

The reefs are very shallow, which attracts fish.

There are currently many reefs in the region.

Without the reefs, those fish would disappear.

The area is called the Spratly Islands.

Two researchers from the University of Singapore, Youna Lyons and Wong Hiu Fung, believe China is seriously changing the land around the Spratly Islands.

They accused China of dredging up sand and dumping it on the coral reefs, which crushes the underwater life that was once there.

The U.S. Navy said China has created 1.5 square miles of artificial land.

Part of the reason China wants to increase land size is to become a more powerful country.

Many nations in the area are battling for control.

One challenge is that all the countries that border the South China Sea have a claim in the region.

China says its ownership extends over almost the entire sea.

Many countries want control of the water.

Yet all of the sides want to avoid a fight.

Ouyang Yujing, director general of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs, said it is legal for China to build these islands.

The construction of these islands helps China in different ways.

The islands create platforms for Chinese citizens to work in the maritime zone.

These workers can help serve and protect their country while being on the islands.

They will be able to perform different duties, such as safety and rescue operations, scientific investigation, navigation aid, fisheries services, weather forecasting, and watching out for pirates.

The islands also help China remain visible and strong in the area.

Yujing believes there is no problem with the new islands.

He says the country did a lot of research before it started the dredging.

He said a "rigorous scientific test" was conducted before the construction began to ensure there would be no environmental damage from building the islands.

"China's coral reef ecosystem has been under very severe impact," said Zhang Haiwen, who serves as the director general of the Department of International Cooperation, a government agency.

Still, there are many reasons the reefs are in danger.

Humans are to blame for some of the major changes including acidification.

The process of acidification occurs when there is increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.

It presents a big environmental problem that affects reefs, including the ones in China.

The nation also blames fishing boats from neighboring countries for causing damage to the reefs.

Haiwen said her agency is working on transplanting some reefs, and a government lab is developing techniques to regrow coral.

Haiwen said the Department of International Cooperation performs many functions.

Protecting the environmental is only part of its work.

The agency also supports economic development in the region by the sea.

They must figure out how to help China grow its businesses while also protecting the environment.

According to Haiwen, building artificial islands "is an international norm."

The growth benefits the region and the country.

There are international rules that control island development.

She claims China has been following the rules set by both its own government and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.

Furthermore, the Defense Ministry, another government agency, has examined the issue, she said.

It found the islands to be allowable and legal.

"What we are doing is in line with international and domestic laws," she said.

Haiwen pointed out that some of China's neighboring countries are doing the same thing by building off coral reefs.

In fact, on Friday, the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington released satellite photos that it says reveal two similar projects in the South China Sea carried out by Vietnam.

When asked to describe the damage to the coral that her agency monitors had witnessed while the Chinese military was building the artificial islands, Zhang stood up in exasperation.

"I have a plane to catch," she said, and walked out.

