When Adm. Harry Harris accused China of building a "Great Wall of sand" by creating artificial islands in the South China Sea to bolster its territorial claims there, one of the things he mentioned was that the Chinese were dredging sand and dumping it on reefs of living coral.

Skeptics may wonder about the U.S. Navy's dedication to the environment — top officers maintain they are serious about it — but the potential damage to coral is a serious business.

Alan Friedlander, chief scientist of the National Geographic Pristine Seas Program, told a recent forum at the East-West Center in Honolulu that dredging kills off a reef.

The South China Sea, wedged in between China, Vietnam, the Philippines, Malaysia and Brunei, is home to an astonishingly diverse array of marine species, largely thanks to the shallow reefs of coral that are particularly abundant in the region of the contested Spratly Islands.

Without the reefs, those fish would disappear.

Writing recently in Eurasia Review, University of Singapore researchers Youna Lyons and Wong Hiu Fung allege that Chinese dredgers have been pulling up the coral itself, crushing it and using it as fill.

Harris, speaking in Australia in late March, said China has created 1.5 square miles of artificial land in its recent move to secure possession of most of the sea.

All the countries that border it have claims; China says its sovereignty extends over almost the entire sea, on the basis of a map that was drawn up right after World War II.

Tensions there have been on the increase, and all sides say they fear an incident that could spark an armed confrontation.

On Monday May 11, a touring group of journalists from the United States and 11 countries that lie on or near the South China Sea visited the Foreign Ministry here in Beijing.

Ouyang Yujing, director general of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs, said China was entirely within its rights, and within the law, in building the new islands.

He said the work was "justified, reasonable and lawful."

The construction is designed to make habitable platforms for the people China wants to deploy in the maritime zone.

They will be posted there, he said, to be able to carry out safety and rescue operations, scientific investigation, navigation aid, fisheries services, weather forecasting, suppression of piracy and — not least — the "exercise of sovereignty."

"It does not merit any reproach," he said.

Before any construction was begun, he said, a "rigorous scientific test" was conducted to ensure there would be no environmental damage.

The agency responsible for the marine environment is the State Oceanic Administration.

The traveling journalists, who are being supported on their tour by the East-West Center, dropped in to meet with Zhang Haiwen, director general of the Department of International Cooperation.

"China's coral reef ecosystem has been under very severe impact," she said.

Acidification from increased carbon dioxide in the atmosphere is a big problem.

China also blames fishing boats from neighboring countries for causing damage to the reefs.

She said her agency is working on transplanting some reefs, and a government lab is developing techniques to regrow coral.

She went on to point out that her agency has 10 functions and that environmental protection is only one of them.

Another is the promotion of economic development in the maritime zone.

So the question is how to develop resources while also protecting the environment.

Building artificial islands, she said, "is an international norm."

It creates a benefit for the region and the country.

China has been in strict compliance with both the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and its own tough regulations, she said.

Furthermore, the Defense Ministry had examined the issue, she said, and found the work to be permissible.

"What we are doing is in line with international and domestic laws," she said, "and besides, some of our neighboring countries are doing the same thing."

(On Friday, the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington released satellite photos that it says show two land reclamation projects in the South China Sea carried out by Vietnam.)

When asked to describe the damage to the coral that her agency monitors had presumably witnessed while the Chinese military was building the artificial islands, Zhang stood up in exasperation.

"I have a plane to catch," she said, and walked out.

