Immigrant shopkeepers have been under attack in parts of South Africa.

Last month, Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini, the leader of South Africa's Zulu people, told his followers that foreigners in South Africa should pack up and leave.

President Jacob Zuma's eldest son, Edward, joined in.

He said that foreigners were "taking over the country" in a "ticking time bomb."

Then last week, attacks in Durban townships exploded and have continued since.

Dozens of immigrants in Johannesburg and other cities closed their shops Wednesday as cellphone text messages warned that Zulu people were coming to kill immigrants.

It was not known who sent the text messages.

One message referred to an attack that "will be more destructive than ever before," and warned immigrants to stay indoors.

"Take (it) serious our friends r killed like Cockroaches."

Violence spread in central Durban on Tuesday, after looters attacked shops owned by immigrants.

Some of the immigrants had armed themselves with machetes and knives.

Five have died in the recent violence near Durban, which is along the country's southeast coast.

Violence targeting immigrant shopkeepers has been a problem in South Africa for years.

The attacks are fueled by hate speech, envy and high unemployment.

The police and government officials often say the violence is criminal but not specifically aimed at immigrants.

In 2008, 62 people were killed in attacks on immigrants in townships around Johannesburg.

"The situation is very tense.

There are many foreign nationals who are fearing for their lives.

Some of them want to go back to their homes in other countries.

I've met many people who are worried and don't know what to do," said Mkululi White, spokesman for the African Disapora Forum, which represents immigrants in South Africa.

The victims are often Somalis, Mozambicans, Ethiopians, Malawians, Pakistanis and Nigerians and other Africans.

Estimates of the immigrant population in South Africa range from 2 million to 5 million, according to Human Rights Watch.

Some 2,400 people fled their homes in the Durban violence this past week.

They have been living in temporary camps.

Friday brought the worst attack in the latest unrest.

Two Ethiopian brothers near Durban were locked in a small shop they had set up in a shipping container, which had been set on fire by a mob.

Tescma Marcus, 22, died that night at a hospital.

His brother, Alex, 24, is still in the hospital.

Mobs robbed and damaged shops Wednesday in the city of Pietermaritzburg.

The African Diaspora Forum also reported a threat to firebomb a building in the town of Mthatha, where there are many foreign-owned shops.

In January, more than 120 foreign-owned shops were attacked, often while police stood by.

Six people were killed in the violence.

There were similar big attacks on immigrant businesses in May, June and September.

Organizations representing immigrants in South Africa say that smaller attacks in small towns occur almost weekly.

Bereje Fana is a spokesman for the Ethiopian Community Association.

Fana said the organization had been asking South African authorities to take attacks on immigrants more seriously and to protect them.

He blamed Zwelithini, the Zulu king, for careless remarks that ignited the recent attacks.

The worst of the violence has been in and around Durban, the capital of Kwa-Zulu Natal state, where Zulus are the largest ethnic group.

"We have heard it's going to continue," Fana said.

"We're trying to highlight it and bring it to the attention of the authorities, to create awareness and protect their lives and protect their businesses."

President Zuma last week condemned attacks on foreign nationals.

He also said that his government was taking steps against illegal immigrants.

The actions included trying to prevent illegal migration, arresting foreigners involved in crime, and shutting down unlicensed shops, Zuma said.

The leaders of groups representing South African owners of small cafes and shops have been blamed for causing problems in the past.

They have accused foreign shopkeepers of flooding the market with cheap goods and destroying South African jobs and businesses.

At a meeting in Soweto last month, they called on the government to stop being easy on foreigners.

It's not clear what the business owners want the government to do, however.

White, of the African Diaspora Forum, called on police to arrest those responsible.

White added that his organization was also concerned that comments by King Zwelithini and Edward Zuma played a role.

The king's spokesman last week denied that the king's comments triggered the violence and condemned those carrying it out.

Last month, White said, he was in Ngcobo, in the Eastern Cape, where several immigrant shopkeepers had fled a mob of about 180 people.

"These attacks are going on all the time.

There are also cases where foreign nationals are accused of doing something they didn't do, or officials demand bribes from them," he said.

