A group of shopkeepers have been under attack in parts of South Africa.

The shopkeepers are immigrants.

They have come from other countries to live in South Africa.

Last month, Zulu king Goodwill Zwelithini made comments some people thought were dangerous.

Zwelithini is the leader of a large group of people called Zulus.

Their families have lived in South Africa for hundreds of years.

Zwelithini told his followers that immigrants in South Africa should leave.

President Jacob Zuma's eldest son, Edward, joined in.

He said that immigrants were "taking over the country" in a "ticking time bomb."

Then last week, large attacks started.

They have continued since.

Dozens of immigrants in Johannesburg and other cities closed their shops Wednesday.

Cellphone messages warned that Zulu people were coming to kill immigrants.

One message referred to an attack that "will be more destructive than ever before."

It warned immigrants to stay indoors.

People did not know who sent the messages.

Attacks spread in the city of Durban on Tuesday.

People attacked shops owned by immigrants.

Some of the immigrants had armed themselves with large knives.

Five people have died.

Immigrant shopkeepers have been attacked for years in the country.

Envy and high unemployment are things that have led to the attacks.

So have mean comments known as hate speech.

In 2008, 62 people were killed in attacks on immigrants near Johannesburg.

Many of the immigrants are afraid they could be killed, said Mkululi White.

He is a spokesman for the African Disapora Forum.

The group represents and speaks for immigrants in South Africa.

Around 2,400 people fled their homes in Durban this past week.

They have been living in camps.

These camps are created for people to live in only for a short period of time.

The worst attack happened on Friday.

Two Ethiopian brothers near Durban were locked in a large metal box where they had set up a small shop.

The box was set on fire.

Tescma Marcus died that night at a hospital.

His brother, Alex, is still in the hospital.

In January, more than 120 foreign-owned shops were attacked.

Six people were killed in the attacks.

There were similar big attacks on immigrant businesses in May, June and September.

Organizations representing immigrants in South Africa say that attacks in small towns occur almost weekly.

Bereje Fana is a spokesman for the Ethiopian Community Association.

Fana said the group had been asking South African officials to take attacks on immigrants more seriously.

They want protection for immigrants.

He blamed Zwelithini, the Zulu king.

Fana said Zwelithini's remarks started the recent attacks.

The biggest attacks have been in and around Durban, the capital of Kwa-Zulu Natal state.

Zulus are the largest group of people there.

President Zuma last week spoke out against the attacks on immigrants.

He also said that his government was taking steps against people who come to the country illegally.

He is trying to stop this.

He also said immigrants involved in crimes were being arrested.

Officials were also shutting down shops that did not have the correct papers to operate, Zuma said.

South African owners of small shops have joined together and formed groups.

Their leaders have been blamed for causing the violence.

They have accused immigrant shopkeepers of destroying South African jobs and businesses.

Last month, these groups asked the government to stop being easy on immigrants.

White, the spokesman for the African Diaspora Forum, called on police to arrest those responsible for the attacks.

White said his group was also worried about the comments by King Zwelithini and Edward Zuma.

The king's spokesman last week denied that the king's comments caused the attacks.

He spoke against those who participated in the violence.

