Scientists have been examining all the different types of life on the International Space Station.

The Space Station orbits about 200 miles above Earth.

Astronauts live on the space station and run experiments to learn more about outer space.

Other things also live on the space station.

They are tiny organisms like fungus and bacteria.

They belong to a group called microbes.

A more common name for microbes is germs.

Scientists found that there are many more microbes living on the space station than previously thought.

The scientists also found some microbes that could make people sick.

NASA and other countries' space agencies have been keeping track of the microbes that live on the space station for 15 years.

The scientists have been gathering dust from air vents and surfaces.

The dust samples contained microbes.

Then the scientists grew those samples in labs both in space and on Earth.

They were trying to see what types of microbes could be found.

Collecting the dust and then trying to grow samples in labs does not always work, though.

There are some types of microbes that are more difficult to grow in the lab.

Previous studies may not have shown as many of those microbes as there actually are on the Space Station.

NASA is thinking about sending people on long missions in space one day.

They are looking to send people to the planet Mars.

NASA wants to learn as much as possible about the microbes that could be in their spaceships.

The scientists used a special technology in their new study.

It looks at the DNA of the microbes.

DNA contains the instructions for how each microbe works.

This method looks at all forms of life on the space station.

It does not just look at those that can grow well in a lab.

The research team looked at two samples.

One was taken from an air-filter screen that had been in place for 40 months.

This sample helped scientists determine what microbes were living in the air of the space station.

A second sample came from a vacuum cleaner bag.

The bag contained microbes living on the space station's surfaces, like floors and countertops.

Most of the microbes found on the space station comes from human skin, the study showed.

The researchers also found some microbes that could make people sick.

Astronauts in space often may have trouble fighting sickness, said Kasthuri Venkateswaran, a scientist who led the study.

The reason is that their bodies are going through so many changes.

If a person is less able to fight the sickness, "some of these bacteria could lead to disease," Venkateswaran said.

Not all the microbes will lead to disease, though.

More work needs to be done to find out exactly which of these microbes actually cause disease and will make astronauts sick.

