SA confirmed Thursday that Voyager 1 indeed left our solar system and entered interstellar space after 36 years of space travel.

The unprecedented event occured more than a year ago, but it took months of scientific debate to confirm that it happened.

"Voyager has boldly gone where no probe has gone before, marking one of the most significant technological achievements" in scientific history, said NASA's John Grunsfeld.

At a Thursday news conference in Washington, officials said the delayed confirmation was based on new key evidence involving space plasma density.

This is a measure of the amount of electrons in the charged gas that comes from our sun and other stars.

The evidence was outlined in a paper published online Thursday in the journal Science.

Lead author Don Gurnett said information from the spacecraft showed conclusively that Voyager 1 had exited the heliopause — the bubble of hot, energetic particles that surrounds our sun and planets — and entered into a region of cold, dark space called the interstellar medium.

Gurnett is an Iowa State plasma physicist and a Voyager project scientist.

"When we got that data, I and my colleagues just looked at each other and said, 'We're in the interstellar medium.'

It was just that clear to us," Gurnett said.

Gurnett calculated that Voyager crossed the edge of the heliosphere -- called the heliopause -- at or around Aug. 25, 2012.

Scientists started to debate Voyager's whereabouts earlier this year.

It was clear then that the probe was being bombarded by an increasing number of galactic cosmic rays and that the number of high-energy particles from inside the heliosphere had plummeted.

Cosmic rays are radiation particles that bombard the earth from space.

However, NASA scientists said they could not be certain Voyager had left the solar system until surrounding magnetic fields changed direction.

They waited for that change for more than a year.

Then officials decided that the magnetic field change was not a necessary sign that the spacecraft had left the solar system after all.

"It's a big surprise, and it's another mystery," said Ed Stone, a Voyager project scientist at Caltech.

"This is not what our models were telling us.

We have to address this issue, but right now ... we don't understand."

Confusion over Voyager's whereabouts has a lot to do with the failure of one piece of equipment, the spacecraft's plasma science experiment, or PLS.

The device measures the electron density, or number of electrons, in space plasma.

Cool plasma is the product of stars that exploded millions of years ago.

It is found in interstellar space and is very dense.

It has about 100,000 electrons per cubic yard of space.

Super-heated plasma, like the solar wind that flows from our sun, fills the heliosphere.

It is much less dense, with only about 1,000 electrons per cubic meter, Gurnett explained.

A functioning PLS would have been able to sense the rising density as Voyager exited the heliosphere.

"The instrument failed in 1980, so the spacecraft is sort of instrument-challenged," Gurnett said.

"That's really one of the major failures we've had.

There really aren't that many."

Voyager does, however, have two plasma wave antennas that stretch from its base in a wide V shape.

The antennas are connected to a radio transmitter.

They detect the vibration of plasma particles.

The device will convert the vibrations into noise that is recorded on Voyager's old-fashioned eight-track tape recorder.

The higher the frequency of the noise, the denser the plasma.

The only trouble is that something has to excite the plasma for it to "ring."

That something can be a large solar flare.

Waiting for a solar flare can take years during a period when there is not a lot of solar activity.

Also, when a flare does occur, it can take as long as a year for the shock wave to reach Voyager 11.6 billion miles away.

Fortunately for Voyager scientists, the antennas picked up two long-lasting vibrations.

The first was in October and November of 2012 and the second was in April and May of 2013.

In both cases, the frequency suggested that the plasma was cold and dense.

Voyager was in interstellar space.

"It was key evidence," Stone said.

"We really needed to measure plasma to know if we were inside or outside the heliosphere."

Gurnett and his colleagues used math to come up with the crossing date of Aug. 25.

Scientists are hoping that many gaps in our understanding will be filled in by Voyager 2.

The sister spacecraft was also launched in 1977.

It is nearing the edge of the heliosphere.

It is traveling a different path and is expected to reach interstellar space sometime within the next several years.

Unlike Voyager 1, however, Voyager 2 has a fully functioning plasma science instrument.

It has been sending back density readings throughout its journey.

"I think it's going to teach us even more about this region," Stone said.

