Recently, Doreen Alhadeff met with a group of people dedicated to keeping alive Ladino, a centuries-old Jewish language spoken by Jews of Spanish origin, and explained why she plans to become a Spanish citizen.

"It's symbolic," said Alhadeff.

"For me, it's something that was taken from my ancestors and I want it back."

Spain expelled the Jews in 1492.

They were told to convert to the Catholic religion or leave the country.

Most Spanish Jews, called Sephardic, went to the Ottoman Empire, in what is today Turkey.

Following a renewed interest in this part of its past, Spain passed a law last June to give citizenship rights to the descendants of the Sephardic Jews who were forced to leave Spain.

The descendants will be allowed to have dual citizenship, in both Spain and the country which they call home.

There are conditions, however, and some Jews resent a country that played a part in a sad moment in Sephardic history.

It leaves many in Seattle's large and active Sephardic population with mixed emotions.

"They kicked us out and now they're making us go through hoops?"

said Victor Amira.

He is a member of a group known as the "Ladineros."

They meet weekly at The Summit at First Hill, a Jewish retirement community, to study Ladino.

Amira was talking about requirements that include tests in the Spanish language and culture and a trip to Spain to finish the paperwork.

There is also a fee to apply of a little more than $100.

Spain, Alhadeff said, is spending a lot of time and energy making amends.

"It's not for everybody," she said, but "I think it's got to ring to you on another level."

It rings for Alhadeff, who co-founded a website for the local Sephardic community and belongs to a well-known family within it.

Sephardic pioneers, most from Turkey and Greece, built a community with a culture and language different from the Yiddish-speaking Ashkenazi Jews of Europe.

The Sephardic population around Seattle's Puget Sound numbers about 5,000.

That makes the Sephardic community the third largest in the country, after New York and Los Angeles.

Alhadeff grew up hearing her grandparents speak Ladino.

Her grandmother, an important figure in her life, used to call Alhadeff "mi alma."

She didn't think much about it, until she went to Spain as a college student and heard someone in a cafe use the term.

"I almost fell out of my chair," said Alhadeff, who just then realized her grandmother's pet name came from the Spanish words for "my soul."

It was one of the things that made her feel a little closer to Spain.

This spring, she strengthened her connection.

She lived in Spain for three months, helping organize an international conference of Sephardic Jews.

Only about 40,000 Jews live in Spain today, but the government has made a point of righting its past abuses, as Alhadeff sees it.

Alhadeff visited the town of Avila, where the government preserved an ancient Jewish cemetery.

She went to another town that was called Castrillo Matajudios (Spanish for Camp Kill Jews) until recently.

The people there voted to change the name to Castrillo Mota de Judios (Jews' Hill Camp).

"The Spain of today is clearly not the Spain of 1492," Alhadeff said.

But others seem doubtful.

Rabbi Marc Angel, of the Institute for Jewish Ideas and Ideals in New York, wonders if this is "a move by Spain to attract Jewish business, investment and tourism."

Not all Sephardic Jews see Spain as part of their experience.

"My parents were born in Turkey," said Ladinero member Marlene Souriano-Vinikoor.

"I feel very strongly that I am Turkish," agreed Isaac Azose, the leader of the Ladineros, who traces his roots to the Turkish island of Marmara.

He prefers to honor Turkey as "the country that took us in," he said.

Seattle's Sephardic community has hung onto the customs of the Ottoman Empire.

That could be why Rabbi Ron-Ami Meyers of the Ezra Bessaroth congregation in Seattle says he is not yet seeing much interest in Spanish citizenship.

Luis Fernando Esteban, the Spanish consul in Washington and Oregon, said they may be missing an opportunity.

They might not learn about 15 centuries of Jewish history in Spain, he said.

Spanish citizenship has other benefits, said Alhadeff.

A Spanish passport could make travel easier in Europe and countries that have tense relations with the U.S., said Alhadeff's son, Loren Alhadeff.

He said he's very excited about the law, and also hopes it will stir Sephardic pride among his generation.

He noted that he has two young children and a busy job in sales at a tech company.

Part of his decision about Spanish citizenship will depend on the details of the process, which are not clear yet.

For example, how hard is the language test?

"I don't know if I can carve out more time to take Spanish classes right now," he said.

