Doreen Alhadeff came to a meeting of a group that wants to keep alive an old Jewish language.

It was the Ladino language spoken by Jews who lived in Spain in the 1400s.

She came to the meeting to explain why she wants to become a Spanish citizen today.

"It's symbolic," said Alhadeff.

"For me, it's something that was taken from my ancestors and I want it back."

Spanish Jews, called Sephardic, were forced to leave the country in 1492.

Most went to the Ottoman Empire, in what is today Turkey.

Only about 40,000 Jews live in Spain today.

Spain has shown new interest in that part of its past.

Last June, the country passed a law to allow the descendants of the Sephardic Jews to become citizens.

They can be citizens of both Spain and the country they call home.

This is called dual citizenship.

Seattle, Washington, has a busy Sephardic population, and not many want to become Spanish citizens.

They blame Spain for a sad moment of their history.

They also think the country has made too many rules for applying.

"They kicked us out and now they're making us go through hoops?"

said Victor Amira.

He is a member of a group known as the "Ladineros."

They meet weekly at a Jewish retirement community to study Ladino, the old language of Sephardic Jews.

Amira was talking about requirements that include tests in Spanish language and culture.

They also include a trip to Spain to finish the paperwork.

The paperwork costs a little more than $100.

Spain is working hard to make amends, but becoming a citizen is not for everyone, Alhadeff said.

Alhadeff belongs to an important family in the Sephardic community in Seattle.

The Sephardic population around Seattle numbers about 5,000.

It is the third largest Sephardic community in the United States, after New York and Los Angeles.

Alhadeff grew up hearing her grandparents speak Ladino.

Her grandmother, an important figure in her life, used to call Alhadeff "mi alma."

Alhadeff did not think much about it, until she went to Spain and heard someone in a cafe say it.

"I almost fell out of my chair," said Alhadeff.

She realized her grandmother's pet name came from the Spanish words for "my soul."

It was one of the things that made her feel closer to Spain.

This spring, she lived in Spain for three months and helped set up a meeting of Sephardic Jews.

Alhadeff visited the town of Avila.

The government has preserved an old Jewish graveyard there.

"The Spain of today is clearly not the Spain of 1492," Alhadeff said.

Some people wonder if this is a move to attract Jewish money and tourism.

Not all Sephardic Jews see Spain as part of their past.

"My parents were born in Turkey," said Marlene Souriano-Vinikoor.

"I feel very strongly that I am Turkish," agreed Isaac Azose, who traces his roots to the Turkish island of Marmara.

He prefers to honor Turkey as "the country that took us in," he said.

Luis Fernando Esteban, an official of the Spanish government, said they may be missing an opportunity.

They might not learn about 15 centuries of Jewish history in Spain, he said.

Being a Spanish citizen has other benefits, too, said Alhadeff.

Alhadeff's son, Loren Alhadeff, said he's excited about the law.

He hopes it will stir Sephardic pride among people his age.

He has two young children and a busy job, so part of his decision will depend on how hard it will be to apply.

For example, how hard is the language test?

"I don't know if I can carve out more time to take Spanish classes right now," he said.

