For decades, finding Spanish-language books in the U.S. was tough.

Booksellers stocked few titles, and those they carried were very expensive.

A paperback copy of "Don Quixote" in the original Spanish could easily cost triple the price of a deluxe hardcover translation in English.

If, that is, it could be found at all.

Booksellers blamed the cost of importing books printed in Spain and Latin America.

And U.S. publishers lost faith in the market after a series of failed attempts to translate English-language bestsellers.

These efforts had resulted in Spanish versions filled with errors that sold poorly.

The upshot was a frustrating situation: Even in heavily Latino cities such as Los Angeles, readers of "libros en espanol," or "books in Spanish," could find little.

"There was a tremendous appetite for Spanish-language books that wasn't being met," said David Kipen, who runs Libros Schmibros, a Los Angeles used bookstore with many Latino customers.

But lately, the nation's 38 million Spanish speakers have been finding a lot more to read.

This is thanks in large part to the Internet.

The explosion of portable digital reading devices, or e-readers, such as Amazon's Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook, has changed the game.

For the first time, publishers of Spanish-language books are able to market their electronic books to U.S. buyers.

And often at a fraction of the cost of printed versions.

In the last two years, the number of Spanish-language titles available in the U.S. has tripled at some online booksellers.

Imported hardcovers such as Colombian author Alvaro Mutis' "Maqroll" trilogy once sold for more than $100.

Now those same books can be bought online for less than $15.

And entire genres of Latin American literature that were all but impossible to acquire at any price are now a few mouse clicks away.

Take, for example, modern Ecuadorean poetry.

Spanish-language book sales are still small, and account for less than 5 percent of the nation's $7.1 billion in annual sales.

But their rapid growth has challenged some long-held ideas.

Within the book industry, this has led to a greater focus on Spanish-language titles.

"There has been a real shift," said publishing industry journalist Ed Nawotka.

"I see confidence in the market that has never been there before."

Luis Alcaraz is a native of Mexico now living in Las Vegas.

When he bought a Kindle four years ago, he said, there was "practically nothing available to download in Spanish."

Today, Alcaraz said, he finds a seemingly endless supply of interesting electronic titles in his native language.

These include specialized technical books on things like computers, and the science fiction stories he likes to read on flights.

To date, he's bought 97 Spanish e-books for his Kindle.

"There's just been an incredible change," said Alcaraz.

Alcaraz's experience is not unique.

Latinos are buying tablet computers, like iPads, and e-readers far faster than the U.S. population as a whole.

In 2011, about 1 in 20 Hispanics owned such a device; in 2012, the number had jumped to nearly 1 in 5.

That rapid shift, said book industry executive Patricia Arancibia, gives many the belief that "this market could work."

Arancibia herself founded Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Books en Espanol site.

Before 2010, she said, only about 10,000 Spanish-language print titles were in stock at online booksellers in the U.S.

This was out of a total of about 650,000 Spanish titles worldwide.

Today, there are nearly 65,000 Nook books available in Spanish on Barnes &amp; Noble's website.

And the story is the same over on Amazon's Spanish-language page, EBooks Kindle en Espanol.

It now has more than 70,000 titles.

That's more than double the number offered when the site started in April 2012.

Growth in electronic book sales in the U.S. has shown signs of leveling off in recent months.

But downloads in languages other than English are soaring.

According to Amazon, its sales of foreign-language e-books went up around 40 percent in 2013.

Meanwhile, Audible.com said foreign-language audio book sales are increasing at more than 25 percent annually.

Publishing digitally, said publishing executive Carmen Ospina, "removes all the obstacles you have with a printed book."

Ospina is in charge of digital development at Random House Mondadori in Spain.

The U.S. now makes up 19 percent of the publisher's worldwide e-book sales, she said.

That's compared to less than 10 percent a year ago.

This month, Ospina said, the publisher will release Chilean author Isabel Allende's new novel, "El Juego de Ripper."

The book will appear at the same time in the U.S., Spain and Latin America.

In the U.S., a digital edition will cost about half the price of a hardcover copy.

The growth in Spanish-language digital books has also had benefits for printed books in Spanish.

Overall, foreign publishers have grown more hopeful about the U.S. market.

Independent Publishers Group, a national distributor, has seen its sales of Spanish-language print books jump 40 percent over the last five years.

And in July, the paperback version of "Inquebrantable," the autobiography of recording artist Jenni Rivera, hit the No.

1 spot on all of Amazon.com, outselling every other book on the e-commerce site.

