For decades, finding Spanish-language books in the United States was tough.

Booksellers stocked few titles, and those they carried were very expensive.

A paperback copy of "Don Quixote" in the original Spanish could easily cost triple the price of a deluxe hardcover translation in English — if it could be found at all.

Booksellers blamed the expense of importing books printed in Spain and Latin America.

And U.S. publishers lost faith in the market after a series of botched attempts to translate English-language bestsellers.

These efforts had resulted in Spanish versions riddled with errors that sold poorly.

The upshot was that even in heavily Latino cities such as Los Angeles, readers of "libros en espanol," which means "books in Spanish," could find little.

"There was a tremendous appetite for Spanish-language books that wasn't being met," said David Kipen, who runs Libros Schmibros, a Los Angeles used bookstore with many Latino customers.

"We might have 1,000 books in Spanish, but we're always ravenous for more."

But lately, thanks in big part to the Internet, the nation's 38 million Spanish speakers have been finding a lot more to read.

The explosion of portable reading devices, or e-readers, such as Amazon's Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook has for the first time allowed publishers of Spanish-language content to market electronic books to U.S. buyers.

And often at a fraction of the cost of printed versions.

It's the latest twist on the disruptive power of digital publishing.

But whereas cheaper electronic versions of English-language books have led to a drop in print sales, e-books in Spanish are selling in a market where few could be found before.

In the last two years, the number of Spanish-language titles available in the U.S. has tripled at some online booksellers.

Imported hardcovers such as Colombian author Alvaro Mutis' "Maqroll" trilogy once retailed for more than $100.

Now those same books can be bought online for less than $15.

And entire genres of Latin American literature — like contemporary Ecuadorean poetry — that were all but impossible to acquire at any price are now a few mouse clicks away.

Spanish-language book sales are still small, accounting for less than 5 percent of the nation's $7.1 billion in annual sales.

But their rapid growth has challenged some long-held notions.

Within the book industry, this has led to greater investment in Spanish-language titles.

"There has been a real shift," said publishing industry journalist Ed Nawotka.

"I see confidence in the market that has never been there before."

Luis Alcaraz consults for companies on computer software.

When he bought a Kindle four years ago, he said, there was "practically nothing available to download in Spanish."

The Mexico native, who lives in Las Vegas, bought the device to replace printed books, because he felt they were filling up his house and were a pain to travel with.

Today, Alcaraz said, he finds a seemingly endless supply of interesting electronic titles in his native language, including specialized technical books on things like computers, and science fiction stories he likes to read on flights.

To date, he's bought 97 Spanish e-books for his Kindle.

And he's completely given up on printed books.

"There's just been an incredible change," said Alcaraz.

Alcaraz's experience is not unique.

Latinos are adopting tablet computers, like iPads, and e-readers far faster than the U.S. population as a whole.

In 2011, about 1 in 20 Hispanics owned such a device; in 2012, the number had jumped to nearly 1 in 5.

That rapid shift, said book industry executive Patricia Arancibia, gives many the belief that "this market could work."

Arancibia herself founded Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Books en Espanol site, the first of its kind in the United States.

Before 2010, she said, only about 10,000 Spanish-language print titles were available at online booksellers in the U.S., out of a total of about 650,000 Spanish titles worldwide.

Today, a search of Barnes &amp; Noble's website turns up nearly 65,000 Nook books available in Spanish.

And Amazon's Spanish-language page — EBooks Kindle en Espanol — now has more than 70,000 titles.

That's more than double the number offered when the site debuted in April 2012.

And although the overall growth in electronic book sales in the U.S. has shown signs of flattening in recent months, downloads in languages other than English are soaring.

According to Amazon, sales of foreign-language e-books in English-speaking markets (including the United States) are expected to rise 40 percent in 2013 compared with 2012, when the sales are finally counted.

Meanwhile, Audible.com, which is owned by Amazon, said foreign-language audio book sales are increasing at a more than 25 percent annually.

"Digital removes all the obstacles you have with a printed book," said Carmen Ospina, director of digital development at Random House Mondadori.

The U.S. now makes up 19 percent of the Spain-based publisher's worldwide e-book sales, compared to less than 10 percent a year ago, she said.

This month, Ospina said, the publisher will release Chilean author Isabel Allende's new novel, "El Juego de Ripper," simultaneously in the U.S., Spain and Latin America.

In the U.S., a digital edition will cost about half the price of a hardcover copy.

The digital expansion in Spanish has also had benefits for printed books in Spanish as foreign publishers grow more optimistic about the U.S. market.

Independent Publishers Group, a national distributor, has seen its sales of Spanish-language print books jump 40 percent over the last five years.

And in July, the paperback version of "Inquebrantable," the autobiography of deceased recording artist Jenni Rivera, hit the No.

1 spot on all of Amazon.com, outselling every other book on the site.

