For many years, finding Spanish-language books in the U.S. was tough.

Bookstores stocked few titles, and those they carried were very expensive.

A paperback copy of "Don Quixote" in the original Spanish could easily cost three times the price of a deluxe hard-bound translation in English.

If, that is, it could be found at all.

Booksellers said the high prices were unavoidable.

Importing books printed in Spain and Latin America was expensive.

For a time, U.S. publishers experimented with translating English-language bestsellers into Spanish.

But these books were done carelessly and were often filled with translation mistakes.

As a result, they sold poorly.

Soon, many U.S. publishers pretty much gave up trying to reach the Spanish-speaking market.

It was frustrating.

Even in heavily Latino cities such as Los Angeles, readers of "libros en espanol," or "books in Spanish," could find few.

"There was a tremendous appetite for Spanish-language books," said David Kipen, who runs the Los Angeles used bookstore Libros Schmibros.

And it "wasn't being met."

But lately, the nation's 38 million Spanish speakers have been finding a lot more to read.

This is thanks in large part to the Internet.

And to the spread of portable digital reading devices, or e-readers, such as Amazon's Kindle and Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook.

So for the first time, publishers of Spanish-language writing were able to sell electronic books to U.S. buyers.

And they're available often at a fraction of the price of printed books.

In the last two years, the number of Spanish-language titles available in the U.S. has tripled at some online booksellers.

And prices have gone way down.

Imported hardcovers such as Colombian author Alvaro Mutis' "Maqroll" trilogy once sold for more than $100.

Now, digital versions of those same books can be bought online for less than $15.

Spanish-language book sales in the U.S. are still small.

Overall, they account for less than 5 percent of the nation's $7.1 billion in annual sales.

But they are growing rapidly.

Luis Alcaraz is a native of Mexico now living in Las Vegas.

He bought a Kindle four years ago.

At the time, he said, there was "practically nothing available to download in Spanish."

Today, Alcaraz said, he finds a seemingly endless supply of interesting electronic titles in Spanish.

These include specialized books, like those on computers.

And he has no problem finding the science fiction stories he likes to read on flights.

"There's just been an incredible change," said Alcaraz.

Alcaraz's experience is not unique.

Latinos are adopting tablet computers — like iPads — and e-readers far faster than the U.S. population as a whole.

In 2011, about 1 in 20 Hispanics owned such a device; in 2012, the number had jumped to nearly 1 in 5.

Before 2010 only about 10,000 Spanish-language print titles were in stock at online booksellers in the U.S.

This was out of a total of about 650,000 Spanish titles worldwide.

Today, there are nearly 65,000 e-books on Barnes &amp; Noble's Nook Books en Espanol website.

And the story is the same over on Amazon's Spanish-language page, EBooks Kindle en Espanol.

It now has more than 70,000 titles.

That's more than double the number offered when the site started in April 2012.

Growth in electronic book sales in the U.S. has shown signs of flattening in the past few months.

But downloads in languages other than English are soaring.

Amazon's sales of foreign-language e-books went up by more than a third in 2013.

And Audible.com said foreign-language audio book sales are increasing quickly as well.

The growth in Spanish-language digital books has also helped sales of printed books in Spanish.

Overall, foreign publishers have grown more hopeful about the U.S. market.

The book distributor Independent Publishers Group has seen sales of Spanish-language print books go way up.

Sales have jumped by 40 percent over the last five years.

And in July, the paperback version of "Inquebrantable," the autobiography of recording artist Jenni Rivera, hit the No.

1 spot on all of Amazon.com, outselling every other book on the website.

