College athletes may get through the season without a concussion.

But they may not be completely in the clear, a new study suggests.

Football and ice hockey players may have shown no signs of brain injuries.

But they still showed changes in parts of the brain.

The changes are a reason to worry.

The athletes also did worse on brain tests following the season.

Those changes didn't happen to athletes in other sports.

The findings may show that a season of small hits may prompt changes in the brain.

There has been other evidence of this.

Those brain changes cause problems with memory, mood or ability to learn years later.

The changes come even though none of the individual hits are hard enough to have to see a doctor.

Players may heal during the off-season.

Scientists are still trying to figure out how easily the brain recovers from injury.

They also want to know whether there is a point where the damage adds up or cannot be reversed.

The new results don't solve the matter.

But they do suggest that repeated blows to the head can cause damage.

This even could be true when an athlete is able to get up and keep playing, said study leader Thomas McAllister.

He is a doctor who studies problems in the brain.

Finding and managing brain injuries like [concussions](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=concussions) matters, McAllister said.

But it may not be enough, he added.

The study looked at 159 students at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire.

The students played on teams between 2007 and 2011.

All of the sports were played by both men and women, except for football.

The 80 athletes who played contact sports, like football, wore devices in their helmets.

The devices measured the number of blows to the head during all practices and games.

They also measured how hard the hits were.

The athletes also got MRI brain scans before and after their seasons.

An MRI takes detailed pictures of the body.

The athletes' ability to learn and memorize things was also tested.

The researchers looked only at athletes who didn't have brain injuries during the season.

They made important links between blows to the head and changes in the brain.

They also found changes in the brain's abilities.

The changes were there weeks after the season ended.

MRIs measured the brain's white matter.

White matter are bundles of fatty tissue.

They send electrical signals among nerve cells.

The scans showed football and hockey players experienced changes that were greater than anything seen in the brains of the athletes who played noncontact sports.

The changes happened after one season.

The players who had the biggest changes in white matter also did the worst on postseason tests of learning and memory.

McAllister said there was good news.

The white matter of contact-sport athletes at the start of their seasons was largely the same as that of athletes in noncontact sports.

This happened even though they had played their sports for years.

That suggests the brains of college athletes may largely bounce back from a season's wear and tear.

But it will take more studying to determine whether there are certain athletes who don't heal as well.

There could also be athletes who have larger problems from small changes in the brains.

Those effects could also not show up until later.

"We know some of them heal.

But some of them don't," said Eric Nauman of Purdue University.

Nauman tracks the effects of small and large hits in high school football.

There on limits of how well MRIs can find white matter changes.

That means the fact that differences were seen in the Dartmouth athletes is remarkable, Nauman said.

Scientists are trying to figure out what this means in the long term, said Nauman.

He was not involved in the study.

McAllister wants to find a line between hits that are safe and hits that cause concussions.

But years of study have made him suspect that if that line exists, it may tell only part of the story.

Blows to the head change the brain's makeup and the way it works, he said.

The changes may be not last forever.

But, the changes happen a long time before the hits cause a concussion.

And there's growing evidence that a player is at higher risk for a concussion after he or she has taken several smaller hits, McAllister said.

Making too much of the size of a single hit is wrong, he said.

