Ryan Bennett of Kansas City records a few programs and does not demand much from his television.

But he wants his sports .

.

.

when he wants his sports.

Chiefs on Sundays, plus the Royals and Missouri football and basketball when his schedule allows.

"I don't really watch anything live, except sports," Bennett said.

Viewers like Bennett are critical in the world of sports, where the costs of running pro teams and college broadcast fees paid by networks keep going up.

Bennett's cable company makes deals to carry ESPN and other networks that feature sports.

ESPN and other channels bid in the billions of dollars for the rights to broadcast professional and college sports.

Then the cost gets passed to consumers — whether they know it or not and whether they like sports or not.

"Until I saw something about it recently, I had no idea how much," Bennett said.

According to the media research SNL Kagan, basic cable customers paid an average of $5.06 a month for ESPN in 2012.

With nearly 100 million subscribers, ESPN is by far the most expensive product on basic cable.

In the grand scheme of things, the deal seems reasonable to sports fans.

For about the price of a large Frappuccino at Starbucks, you get a month's worth of America's best live sports lineup.

But non-sports watchers or those who do not want some sports channels also are paying and have no choice.

"For them to get more than $1 out of a cable bill is racketeering," said cable subscriber Jim Bredemeier of Wichita, Kan.

Some have called it a sports tax on their cable bill, and Sen. John McCain has introduced legislation that would allow consumers to pay only for the programs they want to watch: a la carte pricing.

The idea would be to pick channels from a menu.

TNT received $1.21 per subscriber last year.

For that, viewers got NBA playoff and NCAA men's basketball tournament games.

But they also got full seasons of police dramas such as "Southland" and "Rizzoli &amp; Isles."

News station CNN received 57 cents and the Cartoon Network 20 cents.

The average monthly basic cable bill was about $90 in 2012.

ESPN was beamed into 98.9 million households in 2012.

That made it one of the most-widely distributed cable networks.

It took in more than $6 billion in yearly subscriber fees.

Subscribers are the lifeblood of cable television.

"The cable customer pays for just about everything in the industry," said John Denison,  a founder of Metro Sports.

That includes "the documentary that follows lions in Africa."

As live sports programming has become more expensive for networks to buy, multimillion-dollar salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well.

Some of the costs make their way down to subscribers — sports fans or not.

DirecTV added a $3 monthly fee to the bills of new customers in markets where there is more than one local sports channel.

Time Warner subscribers in Southern California probably will see their bills go up, too.

This is because of the cable company's $7 billion deal for Los Angeles Dodgers games.

The nine highest-rated single telecasts of 2012 involved live sporting events.

And while skipping commercials is easy on a recorded program, sports is real reality TV that is coveted by advertisers.

But A.J.

Maestas, president of Navigate Research, said it all goes back to your cable bill.

"Sports, as much as anything, is must-see TV to the point where people will switch their cable carrier if they don't have what they want," Maestas said.

Cable and satellite companies make deals to carry cable networks.

They are not part of the negotiations between sports channels and pro teams and college conferences.

But the cable providers can decide what channels to carry.

"We have to step in and act in the best interest of our customers," said Mike Pedelty, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable Inc. Another sports network is on the way.

Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. is launching Fox Sports 1, a national sports network to challenge ESPN.

Fox Sports 2 is in the works.

; Comcast and CBS also have sports networks.

All are angling for cable dollars, whether you want sports channels or not.

McCain, an Arizona Republican, wants to change that.

He wants to give cable television consumers the ability to pay as they go.

Cable companies do not want this because they are able to bundle popular channels like ESPN with less desirable ones.

A growing trend — cord-cutting — could give the consumer the final word.

According to one report, about 4.7 million American households that previously paid for TV will have dumped cable by the end of the year.

They get their entertainment streamed from the Internet using services such as Netflix, iTunes and Hulu.

That's up from about 3.74 million cord-cutters in 2012.

Maestas tried cutting the cord himself last fall, but it didn't last.

"I had to have my Washington Huskies," he said.

