Ryan Bennett of Kansas City records a few programs and does not demand much from his television.

But he wants his sports .

.

.

when he wants his sports.

Chiefs on Sundays, plus the Royals and Missouri football and basketball when his schedule allows.

"I don't really watch anything live, except sports," Bennett said.

Consumers like Bennett are critical in the ever-more-expensive world of sports.

The costs of running pro teams are pricey and networks must pay higher and higher fees to get the rights to broadcast college sports.

Bennett's cable provider makes deals to carry ESPN and other networks that feature sports.

ESPN and other channels bid in the billions of dollars for the rights to broadcast professional and college sports.

The cable company pays it, and the cost gets passed to consumers — whether they know it or not and whether they like sports or not.

"Until I saw something about it recently, I had no idea how much," Bennett said.

ESPN is by far the most expensive product on basic cable.

One-hundred million basic cable customers paid an average of $5.06 a month for ESPN in 2012, according to the media research firm SNL Kagan.

In the grand scheme of things, the deal seems reasonable to sports fans.

For about the price of a large Frappuccino at Starbucks, you get a month's worth of America's best live sports lineup.

But non-sports watchers or those who do not want some sports channels also are paying and have no choice.

"There's little objectivity out of ESPN and for them to get more than $1 out of a cable bill is racketeering," said cable subscriber Jim Bredemeier of Wichita, Kansas.

Some have called it a sports tax on their cable bill, and Sen. John McCain has introduced legislation that would allow consumers to pay only for the programs they want to watch: a la carte pricing.

The idea would be to pick channels from a menu.

TNT received $1.21 per subscriber last year, and viewers not only were shown NBA playoff and NCAA men's basketball tournament games but full seasons of police dramas such as "Southland" and "Rizzoli &amp; Isles."

News station CNN received 57 cents and the Cartoon Network 20 cents.

The average monthly basic cable bill was, without a phone or Internet package, about $90 in 2012.

ESPN was beamed into 98.9 million households in 2012, ranking near the top of the most-widely distributed cable networks.

It banked more than $6 billion in yearly subscriber fees.

Ads are worth another $1.9 billion annually, according to industry analysts.

Subscribers are the lifeblood of cable television.

"I always reminded my guys that the cable customer pays for just about everything in the industry," said John Denison, founder and principal partner of Niles Media Group and a founder of Metro Sports.

"The documentary that follows lions in Africa, cable subscriptions paid for that production."

As live sports programming has become more expensive for networks to acquire, multimillion-dollar salaries for professional athletes and college coaches have increased as well.

And some of the costs have trickled down to subscribers -- sports fans or not.

Last September, DirecTV added a $3 monthly fee to the bills of new customers in markets where there is more than one regional sports channel.

It is likely Time Warner subscribers in Southern California will see their bills increase because of the cable company's upcoming $7 billion deal for rights to broadcast Los Angeles Dodgers games.

The nine highest-rated single telecasts of 2012 involved live sporting events.

And while skipping commercials is easy on a recorded program, sports is real-time TV that is coveted by advertisers.

But A.J.

Maestas, president of Navigate Research, said it all goes back to your cable bill.

"Sports, as much as anything, is must-see TV to the point where people will switch their cable carrier if they don't have what they want," Maestas said.

Companies such as Time Warner, Comcast, SureWest, AT&amp;T U-verse, DirecTV and Dish Network make deals to carry cable networks, but they are not part of the negotiations between sports channels and pro teams and college conferences.

Still, the cable providers can decide what channels to carry.

All channels want wide distribution, "but we have to step in and act in the best interest of our customers," said Mike Pedelty, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable Inc. Another sports network is on the way.

Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. announced in March that it was launching Fox Sports 1, a national sports network to challenge ESPN.

Fox Sports 2 is in the works.

Other big media corporations have gotten into the cable sports game.

Comcast operates the NBC Sports Network and is currently televising the NHL's Stanley Cup playoffs.

CBS Sports Network has deals to broadcast college football and basketball, lacrosse, tennis, golf and arena football.

All are angling for cable dollars, whether you want sports channels or not.

McCain, an Arizona Republican, wants to change that, by giving cable television consumers the ability to pay as they go.

Cable companies are opposed to this because they are able to bundle popular channels like ESPN with less desirable ones.

A growing trend called cord-cutting could give the consumer the final word.

According to one report, about 4.7 million American households that previously paid for TV will have cut the cable cord by the end of the year.

They get their entertainment streamed from the Internet using services such as Netflix, iTunes and Hulu.

That's up from about 3.74 million cord-cutters in 2012.

Maestas tried cutting the cord himself last fall, but it didn't last.

"I had to have my Washington Huskies," he said.

