Harry Potter, Elvis Presley and Bugs Bunny share one thing in common: They are not at all popular with traditional stamp collectors.

Some philatelists — as stamp collectors are known — say the committee that picks new stamps is favoring pop stars and fictional characters.

Such choices mean that cultural sites and historical figures appear less often.

The result, they say, is that a long tradition is made less valuable.

"Harry Potter is a perfect example," said Ken Martin, director of the American Philatelic Society, a stamp-collecting group.

He does not approve of a stamp of the fictional boy wizard or his British creator, J.K. Rowling.

"Why do you honor a British author's book?"

Martin asked.

"Wouldn't it be much more appropriate to honor something that reflects our country's (history), not the product of another country?"

The reason for the change, many say, is money — something the Postal Service badly needs.

It has been losing huge amounts of money in recent years.

The newer stamps, celebrating things like "Spider-Man" or "Star Wars," vastly outsell traditional stamps.

These days, commemorations of the Civil War or pictures of Pacific Coast lighthouses just are not that popular.

Not surprisingly, the Postal Service is favoring stamps it believes more people will buy.

The Postal Service certainly came up with a hit last November — the Harry Potter stamps.

The stamps display scenes from some of the eight wildly popular Harry Potter films.

One stamp shows Harry reading the letter admitting him to Hogwarts, the school for young witches and wizards.

Another pictures him firing his wand in battle.

Magical creatures like Dobby the house elf and Hedwig the owl are also featured.

The Postal Service issued its latest limited-edition commemorative stamp Friday.

It honors legendary blues rocker Janis Joplin, who died at age 27.

Postal officials make no apologies for embracing pop culture.

They especially hope to lure young people into collecting stamps.

"We need to change and improve to serve the changing needs of the American public," said Toni DeLancey, a Postal Service spokeswoman.

"Those current Americans that we want interested in stamps, these are probably the images they want to see."

DeLancey defended the Citizens' Stamp Advisory Committee, the 12-member group that evaluates future stamp issues.

The group, she said, is just keeping up with the times.

Not everyone agrees, however.

Last month, Benjamin Bailar, who served as postmaster general from 1975 to 1978, angrily resigned from the committee.

He accused the postal service of caring more about money than the quality of the stamps program.

Bailar suggested the committee be abolished if it is going to recommend things like cartoons.

"The stamp program should celebrate the things that are great about the United States," Bailar wrote.

It should, he said, "serve as a medium to communicate those things to a worldwide audience."

Bailar said the stamp program "deserves more than comic-strip characters and pop- music characters."

The committee chair, Janet Klug, said she was disappointed by Bailar's resignation and does not think he represents others in the group.

The committee's goal, she said, is to increase public interest in stamp collecting.

"I don't even know if the post office is making more money," she said.

"I'm sure they would like to make more money — who wouldn't?

But it's also trying to engage a broader public and get them interested in stamps."

