Where's Rey?

Many people are wondering why "Star Wars" toys do not feature Rey.

Disney says it is working to get more of the new "Star Wars" heroine into stores quickly.

A firestorm erupted on the Internet over the lack of Rey in a new "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" Monopoly game.

In response, Disney says it is releasing new merchandise that puts more of Rey front and center — including toys featuring her gripping a blue lightsaber.

Over the holidays, Twitter exploded with the hashtag "#wheresrey."

Twitter users were shocked at the lack of Rey merchandise in stores, despite her playing a key role in the film.

Early in January, an 8-year-old girl wrote Monopoly maker Hasbro, saying "girls matter."

Last week, both Disney and Hasbro decided to add a Rey piece to future editions later this year.

Paul Southern works on products that Disney designs with toymakers.

He said part of the problem was high demand for hundreds of products featuring Rey.

It meant that some shoppers could not find her on store shelves.

Target spokesman Lee Henderson said Rey toys and apparel are selling "exceptionally well" and most stores are selling as fast as they can stock shelves.

Disney had planned for more than a year to hold back certain toys.

The company wanted to avoid giving away a key plot point where Rey picks up the lightsaber wielded by Finn in order to duel new baddie Kylo Ren.

Some merchandisers always hold back products for big movies.

For example, the Hot Wheels-made speeder ship that shows Rey as she was seen in movie trailers was held back to keep up excitement about the brand.

"The fact that she was the ultimate heroine of the film was one of the significant plot points we did want to protect," Southern said.

That meant keeping Rey out of Monopoly, which featured characters from older "Star Wars" movies but only two characters from the new film — Kylo Ren and Finn.

If Rey had been a piece instead of Finn, "we would be revealing she was the main protagonist," Southern said.

The Monopoly game came out on Sept. 4, which Disney had dubbed "Force Friday."

Jim Silver runs the toy review website TTPM.com.

He says another factor behind the perceived lack of Rey toys and clothes was unexpected demand.

Throughout "Star Wars" merchandise history, evil lord Darth Vader has outsold any other character by at least 3 to 1.

"We assumed Kylo Ren was going to be the next great villain," he said.

Silver also said Disney was following through on a plan to release several batches of products.

The first would have come out on Force Friday.

The second set of toys would have revealed spoilers, and come out on the movie's release date of Dec. 18.

This batch included a lightsaber-wielding Rey that was exclusive to the Disney Store.

Disney also planned to release another batch in January.

Steve Sansweet is the president of the "Star Wars" memorabilia museum Rancho Obi-Wan near Petaluma, California.

He says Disney and the retailers are still adapting to the fact that "Star Wars" is not primarily a boy's brand like before.

"I think Hollywood and merchandisers are waking up to the fact that it's not just women and girls who want to buy Rey figures, it's guys too," he said.

Sansweet added that the conundrum creates an interesting collector's item: the Monopoly game with Rey and the one without.

"I want to get both versions," he said.

