A few years ago, a Kansas City middle school student passed out during football practice.

It was not the heat, and it was not his heart.

"We basically found out he hadn't eaten in three days," said Sergeant Brad Deichler.

He is with the Police Athletic League (PAL) of Kansas City, a sports program for kids.

"And he wasn't telling anyone because he didn't want his friends to know."

Officers have known for years that some of the kids in the program face challenges.

Some live in homes without heat or electricity or have parents out of work.

Other kids stay on a friend's couch for days because their parents cannot pay the rent.

Not every kid has enough food.

That day on the field, though, was a turning point.

The officers realized they had to do more than just hand out donated food or tuck snacks in kids' backpacks for later.

The kids now get a meal after school five days a week, including fruit and yogurt, or a sandwich and chips.

They always get milk.

"Sometimes this is their only dinner," said Officer Antoney Perez.

He works with a food bank called Harvesters.

It provides small meals after school to the league's kids five days a week.

Some kids will show up at games to help sell food so they also have something to eat.

"Sometimes I'll have 20 kids show up to help," Deichler said.

"They're eating chili dogs at 8 in the morning — they're starving."

Other programs in the area have seen the need for food grow, as well.

In 2010, the Harvesters food bank fed 4,000 children a year.

This year, it has fed 7,300 children.

At the police sports league, some kids come and just sit in the stands.

They are more interested in the food than playing sports.

Some of them stuff extra food in their bag for later.

"I love the chips," said Mark Johnson, 10.

He also said he loves drinking the milk, because it is fresh and has not gone bad.

A 2010 study showed that 1 in 4 kids in Kansas City do not have enough food at home.

"Families are just not able to make ends meet," said Valerie Nicholson-Watson, Harvesters' president.

Some families must choose whether to pay the rent, the heating bill or buy food.

They cannot afford all three.

"It's particularly hard on the children," she said.

Too often, experts say, kids are too proud and embarrassed to say they are hungry.

Last year, when an officer went to the home of four sports league kids, it had no electricity or gas.

Electrical wires dangled from the ceiling.

The kids were trying to cook tater tots on an outside grill in the cold.

"That was dinner," Deichler said.

The parents were "fighting in any way they could to put anything on the table for the kids."

The Police Athletic League sent out emails asking for help.

Within two hours, food started arriving for the family.

PAL also paid the gas bill, fixed the wires, and bought the family a new stove and a new furnace.

Police still help the boy who passed out on the football field.

PAL brought his family a Thanksgiving dinner, and officers make sure he is doing well.

"I'm telling you for a fact, there are a lot of hungry kids in this town," Deichler said.

"If nothing else goes right in the day, we make sure the food goes right," Deichler said.

"Because that's the most important thing we do."

