Where's Rey?

People have seen plenty of "Star Wars" toys in stores, but very few Rey toys.

Disney says it is working hard to get Rey toys in stores.

When Rey was not part of a new "Star Wars: The Force Awakens" Monopoly game, people complained on the Internet.

Disney replied.

The company says it is releasing new toys with more of Rey.

Disney plans to release toys featuring Rey holding a blue lightsaber.

Over the holidays, Twitter exploded with the hashtag "#wheresrey."

Twitter users were shocked.

Rey was a main character in the movie, but there were few Rey toys in stores.  Monopoly is made by Hasbro.

Early in January, an 8-year-old girl wrote to Hasbro.

She wrote that "girls matter."

Last week, both Disney and Hasbro decided to add a Rey piece to Monopoly games that will come out later this year.

Paul Southern works for Disney.

He said part of the problem was that so many people want Rey toys.

Target spokesman Lee Henderson said Rey toys and clothing are selling "exceptionally well."

Stores are selling them as fast as they can.

Disney had planned to release toys slowly.

The company did not release all the toys before the movie came out.

Disney did not want certain Rey toys to give away parts of the story.

In the movie, Rey picks up Finn's lightsaber and fights new baddie Kylo Ren.

A Rey lightsaber toy might have given away the movie plot.

Southern said many people did not know that Rey would be a heroine in the movie.

He said Disney wanted to keep that a secret until the movie was released.

That secret is why Rey was kept out of Monopoly.

The game included "Star Wars" characters from old movies but only two characters from the new movie.

The only new characters were Kylo Ren and Finn.

Southern said that if Rey had been a piece instead of Finn, people would have known she was a heroine.

The Monopoly game came out on Sept. 4.

Disney called that day "Force Friday."

Jim Silver runs a website that reviews toys.

He says many toy stores ran out of Rey toys.

Toymakers were surprised that so many people wanted Rey toys.

They did not make enough Rey toys for everyone.

In the past, Darth Vader was the most popular "Star Wars" character toy.

At least three Darth Vader toys sold for every other toy.

Darth Vader was the evil lord in the older "Star Wars" movies.

Silver said, "We assumed Kylo Ren was going to be the next great villain."

Silver also said Disney was following its plan to release several sets of toys.

The first would have come out on Force Friday.

The second set of toys would have given away part of the plot.

It came out on the movie's release date of Dec. 18.

This set included a lightsaber-wielding Rey that was only sold at the Disney Store.

Disney also planned to release another set in January.

Steve Sansweet runs a "Star Wars" museum in California.

He says Disney and stores are still adjusting to the fact that girls want "Star Wars" toys too.

In the past, it was a boys brand.

Sansweet said that boys want Rey toys too, not just girls.  He added that the problem creates an interesting collector's item.

There will be the new Monopoly game with Rey.

There is also the old one without her.

"I want to get both versions," he said.

