A few years ago, a middle school student in Kansas City collapsed on the field during football practice.

It wasn't the heat, and it wasn't his heart.

"We basically found out he hadn't eaten in three days," said Sergeant Brad Deichler, a supervisor of the Police Athletic League of Kansas City (PAL).

"And he wasn't telling anyone because he didn't want his friends to know."

Officers have known for years that some of the kids in their sports league live in single-parent homes or two-parent homes with both parents out of work.

There are kids without heat or electricity or who stay on a friend's couch for days because their parents can't pay the rent.

There are also kids who do not have enough to eat.

For the officers, that day on the field was a turning point.

They realized they had to do more than just hand out donated food or snacks tucked in kids' backpacks for later.

Kids in the league now get a meal after school five days a week that includes fruit and yogurt, or a sandwich and chips.

They always get milk.

"Sometimes this is their only dinner," said Officer Antoney Perez, who works with a local food bank to feed the kids after school five days a week.

"It feels pretty good to be able to provide them something to eat," Perez said.

"Kids have more energy, they're more excited to come.

We have more kids."

Some kids will show up at games to help sell food at the concession stand so they have something to eat.

"Sometimes I'll have 20 kids show up to help," Deichler said.

"They're eating chili dogs at 8 in the morning — they're starving."

Other programs that help kids have seen the need for food grow as well.

In 2010, the food banks' Kids Cafe fed 4,000 children a year.

This year, Kids Cafe has served 7,300 kids.

At the police sports league, some kids come and just sit in the stands, more interested in eating the food than playing the sports.

Some of them stuff extra food in their bag for later.

"I love the chips," said Mark Johnson, 10, who was working his way through a bag of Sun Chips on a recent weeknight.

"And the milk, because it's not overdue expired."

The numbers of hungry kids seemed staggering.

One study in the fall of 2010 showed that 1 in 4 kids in Kansas City didn't have enough food at home.

Another put Missouri fifth in the nation for hungry kids, while Kansas ranked 12th.

"Families are just not able to make ends meet," said Valerie Nicholson-Watson, the president of Harvesters, which runs the Kids Cafe.

She said families have to decide whether to pay the mortgage or rent on their house, their electric or gas utility bill, the medical bills or medicine — or buy food.

"It's particularly hard on the children."

This year, Harvesters is delivering 19,500 BackSnack food packages to schools to tide kids over the weekend.

More than 400 schools send the food packs home every week, and 12 schools are on a waiting list.

Too often, experts say, pride and embarrassment keep kids from saying they are hungry.

Last year, when an officer went to the home of four kids kids in the police league, it had no electricity or gas, and electrical wires dangled from the ceiling.

Their mom had a low-paying job, and their dad cut grass in the summer but was out of work that fall.

The kids were trying to cook tater tots for dinner on an outside grill in November.

"They were literally fighting in any way they could to put anything on the table for the kids," Deichler said.

The Police Athletic League sent out emails for help.

Within two hours, food started arriving for the family.

PAL also paid the gas bill, rewired the house's electrical system, and bought them a new stove and new furnace.

By Christmas last year, the family was able to cook dinner in their home.

Officers still help the young man who passed out on the football field.

His family received a  Thanksgiving dinner from PAL, and officers make sure he's doing well.

"I'm telling you for a fact, there are a lot of hungry kids in this town," Deichler said.

That's why, he said, "if nothing else goes right in the day, we make sure the food goes right because that's the most important thing we do."

