They are some of Greece's most famous beauties.

And after nearly 2,500 years, it's only fitting that they're getting a bath.

Not the water kind, though.

The Caryatid statues are undergoing a high-tech cleaning to get rid of more than a century's worth of dirt and grime.

The Caryatids are columns carved in the form of women.

They once held up the roof of the Erechtheion Temple on the Acropolis hill in Athens.

The Acropolis held some of the most famous buildings of the ancient world.

Three goggle-wearing workers use lasers to zap away dirt from the marble ladies.

They are surrounded by a white curtain.

The curtain protects visitors from the laser beams, which can hurt their eyes.

Tourists watch the work from a distance on screens.

In the 19th century, one of the six Caryatids was removed by an English nobleman.

Today it stands in the British Museum.

The other five were put in the Acropolis Museum in 1979  to protect them from air pollution, smoke and acid rain.

They were replaced by copies.

Dimitris Pantermalis is in charge of the museum.

He said it is safer to clean the Caryatids where they are.

They could be damaged if they are moved.

But cleaning them at the museum also gives tourists the chance to see the repair of some of the greatest glories of the ancient world.

"We want to offer visitors a backstage peek," he said.

Visitors are impressed.

"The fact that it was ... taking place in the museum, it does bring it home to you the actual level of care that is needed to bring these back to life," said British tourist Trevor Richards.

"It's like (a makeover) for statues isn't it?"

It takes about seven months to clean each of the larger-than-life statues.

They were carved nearly 2,500 years ago in about 420 B.C.

The repair work on the statues began in 2011.

It is expected to be finished in June.

Special lasers remove all the dirt, Pantermalis said.

They don't damage the patina.

That is the thin, orange-colored layer the statues have developed over time.

The cleaning "is done with very great care to avoid any possible damage," he said.

The Erechtheion Temple was sacred to the Greek gods Athena and Poseidon.

It might have been built in honor of a king of Athens.

In later times, it served as a church and a palace.

Greece's oldest examples of columns in the human form were made a century before the Caryatids.

But the Caryatids are more famous.

For two thousand years, builders imitated them.

Special technology was developed for the Acropolis Caryatids.

Lasers use different light waves.

They keep the statues from being scratched or stained.

"The laser beam hits the black crust formed on the surface of the statues over the years," said Costas Vassiliadis.

He is the leader of the six-person team working on the statues.

The laser breaks up the dirt.

The marble underneath is not affected.

Laser operators spend at most three hours on the job every day.

Sometimes they get unwelcome guests.

Tourists occasionally pull back the curtain to get a look at the work being done.

At first, the cleaning team tried not to make any noise.

"We always had in mind that we might disturb visitors," Vassiliadis said.

"Only it's the other way round."

The visitors disturb the workers.

They really shouldn't do that, he added.

The laser can cause eye damage.

