Romance can be rocky, and no one knows that better than the Statue of Liberty.

Over and over, Lady Liberty has been separated from her adoring public.

The most recent breakup was caused by an uninvited guest named Sandy who stormed through, leaving heartbreak and ruin in her wake.

Since Oct. 29, 2012, the statue stood alone in New York Harbor.

But the painful separation was pushed aside on Thursday as visitors returned to the Statue of Liberty for the first time since the superstorm shut her down.

It was the third closure since the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

"I don't know about you, but I'm getting a little bit tired of reopening and closing the Statue of Liberty," said David Luchsinger, the national monument's superintendent.

"I think this time we'll just leave it alone," he said with a laugh as the sun beat down on Liberty's golden torch.

As he spoke, hundreds of visitors swarmed Lady Liberty.

Her home, Liberty Island, is a short ferry ride from lower Manhattan.

The island is uninhabited save for the 127-year-old woman who symbolizes freedom, from her shimmering torch to the broken chain at her feet.

As the first tourist boat of the day circled the island and visitors got a close-up view of Liberty's strong jaw and steady-gazing eyes, they fell quiet.

Many lowered their cell phones, stopped taking pictures, and just stared.

"She's beautiful," said Rebecca Hines, of Byron, Ill. "This isn't something you can capture on an iPad."

"Pictures don't do it justice at all," said her 16-year-old son, Alex.

Officials said it was literally a round-the-clock effort to get the statue reopened in time for Independence Day.

A Fourth of July reopening had been their goal since Sandy sent a record 14-foot storm surge over much of New York City.

Lady Liberty survived unscathed, but her home was trashed.

The ferry docks were splintered, the electrical and sewage systems were destroyed, and the walkways and railings surrounding her pedestal were a total loss.

The National Park Service expected to spend about $56 million to fix Liberty Island and nearby Ellis Island, home to an immigration museum that remains closed.

But the cost soared to $77 million as officials sought to use better materials.

Their hope is that they can prevent the next monstrous storm from damaging the islands' docks, walkways and buildings.

The Liberty Island restoration included putting 53,000 new paving stones and 2,000 feet of granite in place.

"It was no small feat," said National Park Service Director Jonathan B. Jarvis.

The scramble paid off.

Coveted tickets to visit the statue's crown, a climb of 354 stairs up a narrow, winding staircase, sold out months ago.

"It's worth it," said Bev Viger, a visitor from Vancouver, British Columbia, who was visiting with her granddaughter, Makaela.

They had scored crown tickets along with a friend, Danielle Williams, and weren't deterred by the hot and humid day.

"It's spectacular, and it's the New York icon," said Williams.

"And what better day to visit?"

As they began their climb, dignitaries and special guests gathered behind Lady Liberty for a formal ribbon-cutting ceremony.

The guests mirrored the diverse masses the statue embraces.

They included three schoolteachers from Kendallville, Ind., whose elementary school pupils sold lollipops to raise more than $400 to contribute to the statue's repair.

Actor Dominic Chianese sang "God Bless America" to the crowd.

As he sang, clouds blew across the sky, creating an ever-changing palette of gray, white and blue against the striking green of the statue.

The secretary of the Interior, Sally Jewell, paid tribute to the statue and to the 19 firefighters killed Sunday in Arizona, breaking down in tears as she called the fallen men "a great reminder of the importance of first-responders."

She urged Americans to remember them on Independence Day.

Jewell wore a purple ribbon on her shirt to honor the firefighters.

Since the statue was dedicated in 1886, it has been closed several times.

The past dozen years have been especially turbulent for Liberty and for those who yearn to get close to her.

Security concerns after the 2001 attacks prompted Liberty Island's closure for three years.

The island reopened in 2004, but the statue was kept closed for another two years.

In 2006, visitors were once again allowed inside, but not up to the crown.

It finally was reopened on July 4, 2009.

On Oct. 29, 2011 the statue was closed for one year for upgrades to its interior.

It reopened a year later, only to close after one day because of Sandy.

"This is a work of art that became a symbol of resilience," said Adrian Benepe of the Trust for Public Land.

"It's a highly important symbol, not just for New York but for the world."

Gil Thibault, visiting from Laguna Beach, Calif., with his wife, Judy, and daughter, Sandee, agreed.

"It's not one of the seven or eight wonders of the world," Thibault said, "but it should be."

