About 1,000 babies are born every year in the United States with half a heart.

The rare defect requires them to undergo series of risky surgeries.

Even then, the infants have a big chance that their hearts will wear out too soon.

Now, the Mayo Clinic has been approved to run a study to see if stem cells from the babies' own umbilical cords can strengthen their hearts.

Stem cells can grow different types of organs.

If it works, the new procedure could buy these children time as scientists scramble for a cure for the birth defect known as HLHS.

The Mayo study could lead to breakthroughs in stem cell treatments for other heart defects that affect 19,000 children a year.

But right now, the doctors at Mayo focusing on babies who need the most help now.

"We're really here to make a difference in children's lives who are living today with unmet needs," said Dr. Timothy Nelson, director of Mayo's HLHS research program.

Christina DeShaw was pregnant with twins when she learned that the left side of her daughter's heart was not developing properly.

"The world just started spinning," DeShaw said.

"Our lives were forever changed from that moment on."

DeShaw and her husband, Brad Weitl, sought help from the Mayo Clinic for their baby.

They named her Ava Grace.

They learned that children born with defects on the left side of the heart must have three complicated surgeries.

Within a few days of birth, surgeons rebuild the heart so that the right ventricle can do both its own work and the work of the broken left ventricle.

Dr. Harold Burkhart runs the surgeries in Mayo's new study.

He said that when the procedure was developed in 1983, only about 30 percent of the patients survived.

About 70 percent survive now, he said.

About nine of 10 at Mayo live.

The second and third surgeries are much safer.

They involve rerouting blood from the body directly to the lungs, bypassing the heart entirely to reduce the workload of the right ventricle.

Ava Grace Weitl was born on May 8, 2012, then whisked away for her first surgery.

"Her heart was the size of a walnut," DeShaw said.

"She had less than a 40 percent chance of making it."

Ava remained under intensive care until Labor Day.

DeShaw spent months living in a Rochester hotel; her husband drove up on weekends.

But they were not out of the woods when they finally took their daughter home.

Ava has suffered many complications.

She even was flown back to Mayo in a helicopter once.

Ava won't be eligible for the stem cell trial.

The stem cells in  the trial will be injected into the right ventricle during the second surgery, which Ava has already had.

Still, Ava's parents remain dedicated to helping Mayo research.

"We wanted to participate, not only because we thought that at some point Ava might benefit, but we also wanted to help all the other babies," DeShaw said.

Using stem cells to treat hearts was first done in adults.

Worldwide, 5,000 to 6,000 people have received stem cell treatments for heart conditions.

But those procedures relied on cells taken from the patients' bone marrow, said Dr. Atta Behfar, one of Mayo's top researchers in the field.

Doctors at Mayo found that stem cells typically weaken as they age.

They appear to become "sick" along with the patient.

Mayo just finished a trial in Europe showing that they could make the cells work better and significantly improve the patient's health.

They could also cut treatment costs and improve the quality of a patient's life.

Nelson said he thinks stem cells taken from blood from the umbilical cord and put into a growing heart will work even better.

Also, Nelson said, stem cells from the umbilical cord seem to know when to stop making heart cells.

That means using them does not create the same cancer concerns as using other types of cells.

Nelson dedicated himself to finding a cure for HLHS when he was studying to become a heart surgeon for children.

He was saddened that babies had to go through three surgeries and would often return as young children with heart damage that could not be fixed and little chance of finding a new heart in time to save them.

Some research suggested that half the children with HLHS don't make it to their fifth birthday, Nelson said.

But there are also children living into their early 20s.

Joshua and Sandra Hughes said they learned about Mayo's children's heart research from a friend.

Their 5-year-old daughter, Jaclyn, also has HLHS and is participating in Mayo's program.

Jaclyn underwent an MRI last week, and she and her parents each contributed skin tissue for genetic testing and other research.

The body's internal structures are visualized through the magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, technique.

A Mayo doctor said Jaclyn's heart is performing quite well after her third surgery.

"The stuff they're working on now may not be available for Jackie," Sandra Hughes said.

"But it may be available for the next generation."

The doctor interrupted her, voicing his optimism for the Mayo research.

"It may be available for her, too," he said.

