About 1,000 babies are born every year in the United States with half a heart.

The rare problem means that they need three risky operations.

Even then, the babies face a big chance that their hearts will stop working too soon.

Now, the Mayo Clinic is going to try a new procedure to try to extend their lives.

Mayo is one of the world's top hospitals.

It will run a study to see if cells found in the babies' own umbilical cords can strengthen their hearts.

The cells can grow into different organs such as hearts or lungs.

They are called stem cells.

If it works, the children could live longer while scientists try to cure the birth defect known as HLHS, hypoplastic left heart syndrome.

The Mayo study could help the 19,000 children born each year with other heart problems.

But the doctors at Mayo are focused on babies who need the most help now.

Christina DeShaw was pregnant with twins when she leanned that the left side of her daughter's heart was not growing properly.

"The world just started spinning," DeShaw said.

"Our lives were forever changed from that moment on."

DeShaw and her husband, Brad Weitl, sought help from the Mayo Clinic for their baby.

They named her Ava Grace.

Children with problems on the left side of the heart must have three difficult operations.

The first comes days after they are born.

Doctors rebuild the heart so that the right side can do the work of both sides.

The operation is dangerous.

Many babies did not survive.

But more are living through it now.

The second and third operations are much safer.

Doctors change how the blood runs through the body.

They make it go straight to the lungs so the heart can work less.

Ava Grace Weitl was born on May 8, 2012.

She was taken quickly to her first operation.

"Her heart was the size of a walnut," DeShaw said.

The baby stayed at the hospital until September.

But Ava has had many problems since she went home.

She was even once flown back to Mayo in a helicopter.

Ava cannot take part in the stem cell study, since she already had her second operation.

The stem cells are put into the heart during that second operation.

Still, Ava's parents want to help Mayo's research, not just because at one time they thought it might have helped Ava.

"We also wanted to help all the other babies," DeShaw said.

Adults were the first people to have stem cells used to fix heart problems.

Worldwide, 5,000 to 6,000 people have received stem cell treatments for heart conditions.

But they got cells taken from the patients' bone marrow, said Mayo's Dr. Atta Behfar.

Doctors at Mayo found that stem cells typically weaken as they age.

They apparently become "sick" along with the patient.

Mayo just finished a test in Europe.

It showed that they could make the cells work better.

They could also cut treatment costs and improve the quality of a patient's life.

Dr. Timothy Nelson runs Mayo's HLHS research.

He thinks that the stem cells used in the new test and put into a growing heart will work even better.

Nelson dedicated himself to finding a cure for HLHS when he was studying to become a heart surgeon for children.

It made him sad that babies had to go through three heart surgeries and would often come back as young children with heart damage.

The damage could not be fixed, and the children usually could not find a new heart in time to save them.

Some research suggested that half the children with HLHS don't make it to their fifth birthday, Nelson said.

But there are also some living into their early 20s.

Joshua and Sandra Hughes said they learned about Mayo's heart research for children from a friend.

Their 5-year-old daughter, Jaclyn, has HLHS.

Jaclyn had high-tech pictures taken last week, called MRIs.

She and her parents also each contributed skin samples for  research.

A Mayo doctor said Jaclyn's heart is performing quite well after her third surgery.

"The stuff they're working on now may not be available for Jackie," Sandra Hughes said.

"But it may be available for the next generation."

The doctor interrupted her.

He has high hopes for the Mayo study.

"It may be available for her, too," he said.

