J. Nitkowski had nothing to lose in spring 2011.

After 10 years as a major league pitcher, he had badly damaged the muscles in his left shoulder.

He was 38 years old and couldn't throw a baseball the way he used to.

If he had gone to a hospital for surgery on his shoulder it would have taken a long time to get better.

It would also mean quitting baseball.

So Nitkowski paid $3,000 to have stem cells taken from his waist.

Then a doctor injected them into his shoulder.

It is known as stem cell therapy, and is a new type of treatment.

Healthy cells from one part of the body are used to treat an illness or disease somewhere else in the body.

"I look at it as a last shot," Nitkowski said.

He felt better after using stem cell therapy.

It also helped him to play baseball in the minor league in 2012.

He never made it back to the major leagues before retiring in 2013.

Still, Nitkowski thinks stem cell therapy helped him use all of the talent he had.

While he won't tell other athletes to try the therapy, he is one of only a handful of players who will speak publicly about the treatment.

He understands why players want to talk to him about it.

"I can't give a recommendation," Nitkowski said.

"I can only tell my story."

He feels that stem cell therapy could be used regularly, if it does heal the body.

Many people think stem cell therapy can help different sicknesses.

More study still needs to be done to know for sure.

This is why players and the agents who represent them are paying so much attention to it.

"They want the cutting edge," said Dr. Jim Bradley who works for the NFL's Pittsburgh Steelers.

"If I was an agent, I'd want the same thing."

Bradley is excited about what stem cell therapy can do.

Many people don't understand what it is, so he often explains what stem cell therapy does.

Adult stem cells are cells that are the same and are found around the body.

They can divide quickly.

Some experts believe that stem cells can help damaged tissue in the body.

However, no proof exists yet from doing a lot of tests in a laboratory.

People are still really interested though.

"Everybody wants answers right now and you can't have them right now," Bradley said.

In the United States, the rules on stem cell therapy are stricter than elsewhere.

So stem cell doctors here can only do simple procedures like what Nitkowski received.

That's not the case in other countries.

Hospitals in Europe, Australia and Asia will do more advanced procedures.

Patients can have stem cells taken out and then grown in a laboratory for weeks, making millions more cells.

Any athletes who go outside the U.S. for the therapy do it in secret.

Some reports said football star Peyton Manning went to Germany in 2011 after he had a problem with his neck.

Manning won't talk about it.

Likewise, tennis star Rafael Nadal had stem cell treatment in 2014 to help his back but he won't recommend it to other players.

Pro teams in the United States can't stop players from trying stem cell therapy.

However, some teams don't support the treatments.

Studies into stem cells are still very new.

Dr. Freddie Fu, a doctor for University of Pittsburgh athletics, is not sure the therapy can really work.

"If you get hurt, it's going to take time to heal," Fu said.

"It's a part of life.

There's always a way to think that maybe something is better, but it might not be."

