The trouble started on Facebook, with a post that asked a direct, but loaded, question.

"Do you have a problem with me?"

one teenager wrote on the other's page.

By the time Marquita Riley, 16, and Aaliyah Hudson, 17, ended up in Manley High School's "peace room," things were worse.

People in school had been saying that the two girls were going to fight.

Aaliyah did not want a fight that could get her suspended for 10 days.

So she went to the classroom with a comfortable couch, chairs and posters, to get a counselor to help the two girls talk it out.

They sat in a circle of chairs, talked and listened to each other until they worked out their problems.

"I came down here and talked before I reacted," Aaliyah said after their session.

The room at Manley is part of the school's restorative justice program.

Restorative justice focuses on healing and teaching people how to resolve conflicts.

The philosophy aims to bring together victims and people who wronged them to work through their problems.

The idea is used in schools, churches and other places in Chicago.

It teaches young people how to understand their anger and handle problems before they turn violent.

It is also being used instead of suspensions and arrests.

The idea seems simple.

If something bad happens, there needs to be a way to "restore order" so that the community can move on, said Ilana Zafran.

Her company helps set up restorative justice programs in Chicago schools.

Chicago is dealing with shootings and killings among youths.

Activists, ministers and educators are turning to restorative justice to stop the unrest.

Restorative justice forces all sides in an argument to talk instead of fight.

There may still be punishment for doing something wrong.

But restorative justice emphasizes identifying emotional pain and thinking of ways to fix it.

"The assumption is if you are a teenager, you know everything about how to act and behave," Zafran said.

"But that's not true."

Supporters admit that it is complicated.

It is also difficult to tell if it is working.

But restorative justice is worth trying, experts say.

"The idea that if we punish hard enough they won't do it again hasn't proven effective," said the Rev.

David Kelly.

His ministry uses restorative justice when working with troubled youths.

Putting people in prison does not work and is expensive, he said.

Manley and Fenger high schools in Chicago have peace rooms where students and others can go to work out problems.

People involved in a conflict sit together and are allowed to express their feelings without being interrupted.

That makes them look at the reasons behind the dispute, said Tosha Jackson, assistant principal at Fenger.

That school began using restorative justice after a student was killed in a 2009 brawl.

In the peace rooms, students often talk about gang ties and deep troubles they may have at home.

Teachers admit they have unresolved hurt and anger, and staff members admit they struggle, too.

"A lot of our kids don't want to be involved in fights.

They don't want to be suspended or away from school," Jackson said.

"We had to create an environment of peace."

Before she started high school, Geneva Harris, 18, said she was the type of kid who called others names.

She was insulting and had a bad attitude.

But at Fenger, another student questioned why she acted this way.

Harris, a senior, learned from that student the steps for solving problems by talking.

Then she also became a person who helps students resolve conflicts.

Now, she is quick to pull her friends and family members into a circle and talk their problems over.

"Now I'm a people person," she said.

"I'm like the older sister among my friends."

Manley started restorative justice because lots of students were being suspended.

Eventually the suspensions fell by a lot and fewer people were being arrested at the school.

So it became a way of teaching social skills and moral lessons.

On a recent afternoon, the Manley High School peace room was full of activity.

Marquita and Aaliyah, the two girls rumored to be getting ready for a major fight, were there.

"People came up to me and said you wanted to fight me," Marquita told Aaliyah.

"If you thought I had a problem with you, you could have come to talk to me," Aaliyah told Marquita.

After another 20 minutes of discussion, they agreed they had simply misunderstood each other.

The girls decided they would not fight.

They promised they would talk it over if they found themselves facing problems again.

