A 14-year-old Muslim student will not face criminal charges for taking a homemade clock to school, his city's police chief said Wednesday.

Ahmed Mohamed had taken a clock he made to school and his teachers thought it looked like a bomb.

The student will not be charged with possessing a fake bomb, Irving Police Chief Larry Boyd said at a news conference.

There is no evidence that Ahmed meant to cause alarm at his school, Boyd said.

Boyd said the clock that Ahmed built looked "suspicious" but the police chief considers the case closed.

The teen explained that he makes his own radios and repairs his own go-kart.

On Sunday, he spent about 20 minutes before bedtime assembling the clock.

He made it out of a circuit board, a power supply wired to a digital display and other items.

On Monday, Ahmed wanted to show his work to his engineering teacher but was warned to keep the clock in his backpack.

When it began beeping during another class, he let the teacher know.

Shortly afterward, he was pulled from class and questioned and searched by the principal and Irving police officers.

He was then taken out of the school in handcuffs for further questioning by the police.

"We live in an age where you can't take things like that to school," Boyd said.

The boy's family says Ahmed was suspended for three days.

It's not clear if he'll be allowed to return to school now that police say he won't be charged.

School district spokeswoman Lesley Weaver would not confirm that Ahmed had been suspended.

She cited privacy laws that prevented her from giving out that information.

The incident drew broad attention, and President Barack Obama invited Ahmed to the White House.

In a tweet posted Wednesday, Obama called Ahmed's clock "cool."

He said that more kids should be inspired like him to enjoy science, because "it's what makes America great."

The hashtag "#IStandWithAhmed" was tweeted more than 450,000 times by early Wednesday afternoon.

Ahmed's father, Mohamed Elhassan Mohamed, earlier said that his son "just wants to invent good things for mankind."

But he added that because Ahmed's last name is Mohamed and because of the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, he thinks his son was mistreated.

Weaver insisted that school officials were concerned with student safety and not the boy's faith.

Boyd said "the reaction (to the clock) would have been the same regardless" of his religion.

Boyd said police have an "outstanding relationship" with the Muslim community in Irving and would meet the boy's father to discuss any concerns.

This spring, the Irving City Council endorsed a bill under discussion in the Texas Legislature.

The bill would forbid judges from rulings based on "foreign laws," that would include Islamic law, called Shariah.

Legislation opponents viewed the bill as unnecessary and driven by anti-Muslim feeling.

At a later council meeting, some denounced Islam and Shariah, including one woman who declared "Shariah law is Islam."

She said Islam's goal is to immigrate, become part of the wider society and then destroy it.

A man sitting in the audience shouted "That is offensive!"

and was escorted out.

The Council on American-Islamic Relations is reviewing the action against Ahmed.

"This all raises a red flag for us, how Irving's government entities are operating in the current climate," said Alia Salem.

She is the executive director of the council's North Texas chapter.

