Ice and mud surrounded the water tower in a rough neighborhood amid barren residential blocks in this roughest of cities.

Commercial stretches were pockmarked by vacant storefronts.

But inside the water tower, it was a different world as girls and a few boys — toddlers to teens — peeled off coats and scarves and gathered in giddy groups beneath fluorescent lights, chatting, laughing and practicing dance moves and cartwheels.

A man pulled drums from a storage space.

At the center of it all was a cheerful woman in orange jeans and a baseball cap, with hair extensions tumbling down her back.

"Get ready!"

the woman, Tawanda Jones, bellowed in a voice that soared over the din.

The crowd, including a few parents watching from the side, fell silent.

"One line!"

Jones hollered.

Three dozen pairs of feet shuffled across the concrete floor as the youngsters organized themselves from tallest to smallest, with the speed that comes from practice.

Then Jones sent them marching, adjusting their arms, shoulders and posture as they stomped the length of the room to the thunderous beat of the drum.

Jones, 40, spotted someone chewing gum and ordered her to spit it out, then swooped down to pick up a pair of eyeglasses that had flown off the face of a marcher.

She yelled advice, orders and encouragement as sweat formed on foreheads.

It was another night of practice for the Camden Sophisticated Sisters Drill Team, which Jones started as a teenager in 1986.

Since then, she and her husband, Robert, have guided the team from practicing under highway overpasses to performing on "Dancing with the Stars."

They've also provided a haven for children in one of the nation's most troubled cities.

Jones relies on donations to send team members to performances across the country and to buy costumes, drums and meals on the road.

Practices take place in the abandoned water tower, which is warm and dry but has a moldy ceiling.

There isn't enough space for the entire team — about 320 members — so Jones staggers practice, holding it four nights a week for different troupes.

Each practice seems to bring a new drama.

"What happened to your face?"

Jones asked a girl who arrived tonight with scratches and welts on her cheeks.

The teenager said she had been fighting with classmates who bullied her.

A tall young man approached Jones to say hi; he had been pistol-whipped a few days earlier in a robbery.

"How you doing, baby?"

Jones asked.

His friend — also a drill team member — had been shot in the same incident.

Last year, an 11-year-old team member was shot and paralyzed.

"They come in here with war marks," Jones said.

But the drill team keeps going, with Jones doing all she can to keep the children in school.

She helps with their homework and finds tutors for struggling pupils.

She meets with their parents or guardians to be sure someone is watching over them.

"I don't want to see them go extinct," she said.

"This whole thing has to do with saving lives, not just marching in front of the cameras."

Nearly 40 percent of  Camden's 77,000 residents live below the poverty level.

The FBI in 2012 said Camden, a onetime industrial center, was the country's most dangerous city based on its crime rate.

Jones grew up in Camden, attended its public schools and still lives here with Robert, also 40, their three children and her mother.

Her stepbrother, Andre Butler — Skeet to his friends and relatives — was shot dead six years ago.

When she was 13 and classmates drifted into gangs and drugs, Jones looked for a way to keep herself off the streets.

She joined a city-run drill team and, as the oldest member surrounded by kids half her age, Jones became the troupe's de facto leader.

When funding for the team dried up and it folded, parents asked Jones to start a new one.

Her grandfather bought uniforms and three drums.

Jones, who loved dancing, cheerleading and marching, began holding practices for dozens of children under bridges, in parks or on streets because she could not afford to rent a hall.

Robert, her high school sweetheart, played drums as Jones taught dance steps and led the team through marches and exercises.

Jones attended college for two years but dropped out to care for her grandfather.

She and Robert worked at a social services agency, helping mentally disabled adults find work, then oversaw drill team practices, fundraisers and performances in their free time.

Last year, after a string of TV and public appearances led to an influx of donations, Jones quit her job to devote herself full time to the drill team.

Her daughter, LaQuicia, 23, volunteers time to choreograph routines; her oldest son, Robert Jr., 17, helps his father on drums at practices.

None of them, including Jones, receives a salary for working with the team.

The Sophisticated Sisters have to follow Jones' strict rules: Children must complete 200 hours of community service a year, keep up with their homework and maintain at least a C average.

Jones takes the older children on college tours, often paying for the trips herself.

Destiny Bush, now 24, went on one of the tours, visiting three universities with Jones after joining the drill team as an eighth-grader.

"I come from a family where over 90 percent of the people don't even have high school diplomas," said Bush, who is pursuing her master's in education at Washington State University.

When feeling overwhelmed by work or school, she still finds comfort in repeating the chants about confidence, success and overcoming obstacles that she learned from Jones.

"She told me I was worthy, that I could succeed," Bush said.

