As standardized testing seems to be on the rise in schools, some parents say test refusal is growing.

Meanwhile, lawmakers say they're hearing a loud message about too much unnecessary testing.

This spring, Congress will discuss education  as lawmakers attempt to rewrite a 2002 law.

The No Child Left Behind law was intended to improve education in all schools.

It required testing students every year to make sure that they were learning what they were supposed to.

The law also established severe penalties for schools whose test scores didn't show enough progress.

An agreement in the Senate on updating the education bill might reduce the pressure on schools to test.

It would give states, not the government, the job of ensuring that schools are doing good work.

The agreement would also leave it up to the states what to do about the schools that aren't showing good test scores.

Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Senator Patty Murray of Washington are in charge of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee.

They say the proposed law "should produce fewer and more appropriate tests."

Any updated law is still some time away.

Meanwhile, complaints this year about the amount of testing have, if anything, grown greater.

"We need fewer, better and fairer assessments," said Susie Morrison.

She is the chief education officer and deputy superintendent at the Illinois State Board of Education.

Morrison spoke at a national meeting of educators in Washington.

Morrison is not against testing.

She said that parents deserve to know how their children are doing in school.

A large number of students graduate from high school but need extra help before college because they didn't learn what they were supposed to learn.

Testing makes it clear what students know and do not know before they get to that point, she said.

But not all tests are equally valuable, Morrison said.

"Some assessments used by local districts can and should go away, in our opinion."

Education Secretary Arne Duncan wants the federal government to remain in charge of testing.

However, he has said that students, parents and teachers do have a real complaint.

There's too much testing, as well as too much time spent on preparing for the tests.

Under No Child Left Behind, schools had to show that the students achieved more each year.

If they did not, they would have to create an improvement plan.

If they still did not improve, teachers could be fired.

As a last step, the school could be closed.

In some places, even teachers' salary raises have been tied to better test scores.

"There's always been a group of parents that don't like testing," said Michael Petrilli.

He is the president of the Thomas B. Fordham Institute, an education research center.

"I think the reason it's been brought to a rapid boil lately is because of these teacher evaluations."

Some states have already reduced the number of tests, including North Carolina, Texas and Virginia.

In Florida, Rosemarie Jensen is one of the leaders of United Opt Out.

The group encourages parents to opt out, or refuse, standardized tests for their kids.

She is seeing a lot more parents who are opposed to the  tests and keep their children from taking them.

In Florida, she said, there are 26 opt-out groups alone.

Testing is not a good way to measure a child, said Jensen, a former kindergarten teacher who has two children in high school.

"None of this has anything to do with better education," she said.

In her own family, Jensen said, her son is a good student but a poor test-taker, while her daughter does well on tests.

Jensen said the tests say more about the students than the teachers.

"Her test scores can mask some not-so-good teachers," she said.

"My son's make his teachers look bad, and they work  so hard with him.

That's not fair."

Debbie Veney is with the Education Trust, a group that helps black and other  minority students and those from low-income families.

She said too many tests repeated the same material or did not test what kids were learning in school.

Some of them were just not useful.

"However, are tests necessary?

Absolutely,"  she said.

"We believe it's not enough to simply see what performance levels are.

You've got to be able to do something when performance levels aren't where they need to be."

