A 14-year-old Muslim student took a homemade clock to school, and some teachers thought it looked like a bomb.

He will not be charged with a crime, the city police chief said Wednesday.

There is no evidence that Ahmed Mohamed meant to scare people at his high school, Chief Larry Boyd said.

Boyd said the clock that Ahmed built looked "suspicious."

The police chief added that he considers the case closed.

The teen explained that he makes his own radios and repairs his own go-kart.

On Sunday, he spent about 20 minutes before bed putting together the clock.

He took a power supply and wired it to a clock display.

On Monday, Ahmed wanted to show the clock to his engineering teacher.

He goes to a high school in Irving, Texas.

He was warned to keep the clock in his backpack.

When it began beeping during another class, he let the teacher know.

Shortly afterward, he was pulled from class.

The principal and police officers questioned and searched him.

He was then taken out of from the school in handcuffs so the police could question him further.

"We live in an age where you can't take things like that to school," Boyd said.

The boy's family says Ahmed was suspended for three days.

It is not clear if he will be allowed to return to school now since he will not be charged with a crime.

School district spokeswoman Lesley Weaver would not say if Ahmed had been suspended.

The incident received much attention, and President Barack Obama invited Ahmed to the White House.

In a tweet posted Wednesday, Obama called Ahmed's clock "cool."

He said that more kids should be inspired like him to enjoy science, because "it's what makes America great."

The hashtag "#IStandWithAhmed" was tweeted more than 450,000 times by early Wednesday afternoon.

Ahmed's father is Mohamed Elhassan Mohamed.

He said that his son "just wants to invent good things for mankind."

He added that he thinks Ahmed was treated badly because his last name is Mohamed and because of the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

Weaver insisted school officials were concerned with student safety and did not care about Ahmed's religion.

Boyd said "the reaction (to the clock) would have been the same regardless" of his religion.

Boyd said police have an "outstanding relationship" with the Muslim community in Irving.

He said he would meet the boy's father to discuss any concerns.

This spring, the Irving City Council endorsed a bill being discussed by Texas lawmakers.

The bill would forbid judges from decisions based on "foreign laws," which would include Shariah law.

Shariah law comes from Islam, the Muslim religion.

Opponents viewed the bill as unnecessary.

They said it is caused by anti-Muslim feeling.

At a later council meeting, some criticized Islam and Sharia.

One woman declared "Shariah law is Islam."

She said Islam's goal is to immigrate, become part of the wider society and then destroy it.

A man sitting in the audience shouted "That is offensive!"

and was escorted out.

The Council on American-Islamic Relations is examining the action against Ahmed.

