Alice Stokes Paul co-founded the National Woman's Party in 1916, and headquartered the group in a red brick house at the northwest corner of Second Street and Constitution Avenue in Washington, D.C. As late as the 1970s, if you knocked on the door of the house, Stokes Paul herself might have opened it and welcomed you.

Five decades earlier, she fought to get U.S. women the right to vote.

Stokes Paul died in 1977, but the house is still there.

It's called the Sewall-Belmont House, and it is still the headquarters of the National Woman's Party.

Today, the group operates the house as a museum of the women's suffrage movement.

Suffrage is the right to vote and the movement became the women's suffrage movement.

For more than 100 years, only men could vote in the United States, so women formed groups and worked to gain voting rights.

Finally, the 19th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was passed, giving women the right to vote.

The 19th Amendment will have its 100th anniversary in 2020.

The question is, will the Sewall-Belmont House be around to celebrate?

The house, at least, is likely to survive — it's on the register of historic places.

It's thought to be the only private residence torched by the British during the War of 1812 after someone in the house took a potshot at the redcoats.

Still, its role as a women's history museum is threatened.

It takes a lot of money to maintain a 200-year-old building, and money is running short.

"When winter comes, I'm terrified of a cracked pipe in the basement," Page Harrington, the executive director of the Sewall-Belmont House &amp; Museum, said last week.

She is the only full-time employee at the house.

When mold was discovered last year in the library's heating and air conditioning system, she had to find $90,000 to remove it.

That meant converting some full-time employees to part-time.

Money is tight but Harrington is determined that the museum will survive.

"We will fight tooth and nail before we go quietly into the night," she said.

The Sewall-Belmont House tells the story of a determined band of women who literally put their lives on the line to get the vote for half the nation's population.

After demonstrating in front of the White House in 1917, many female protesters were arrested and sent to the Occoquan Workhouse, a prison.

At the Workhouse, some of the prisoners began hunger strikes and were force-fed, while others were even beaten.

Today, a set of steps from the Occoquan Workhouse stands on display outside the Sewall-Belmont House.

In October 1916, a young leader of the movement — Inez Milholland — collapsed while giving a speech in Los Angeles.

In poor health and suffering from serious anemia, she had been advised not to go on the speaking tour.

After her death a month later at age 30, The New York Times called Milholland an "idol of the suffragists and one of the most beautiful women in the United States."

You can sense that the writer thought that her beauty made her death even more tragic.

A wonderful painting inside the museum shows Milholland as most Americans knew her — wearing a white cape and riding a white horse.

That's what she wore when she led a suffrage parade through Washington on the day before Woodrow Wilson's first inauguration in 1913.

The National Woman's Party's big victory was winning women the right to vote, but it continued to work on other causes, and led the fight for the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.

Over time, the National Woman's Party saw its influence fade.

To younger feminists, its leaders must have seemed stodgy and matronly — boring and out-of-touch, in other words.

There is an antique vibe to the Sewall-Belmont House &amp; Museum with its black-and-white photographs, fading banners and old newsprint.

The gift shop sells tea and soap, among other items.

The National Woman's Party operated tea rooms to raise money.

They sold soap, too, arguing that giving women the vote would help "clean up" politics.

It may be old-fashioned, but this is the stuff of history, after all.

For Harrington, the irony is that while feminism is again part of the national conversation, her little museum is struggling to stay afloat.

"We are still here," she said.

"It's a lifeline to the past.

It draws a connection to the women who came before us."

In 1974, a proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution was being considered by the states.

The Equal Rights Amendment said that men and women must be treated equally under the law.

The ERA eventually failed to pass in 1979.

At the time, Stokes Paul was interviewed by American Heritage Magazine and asked to describe her part in the struggle for women's rights.

"I always feel ... the movement is a sort of mosaic," she said.

"Each of us puts in one little stone, and then you get a great mosaic at the end."

