Charity Edwards has four children, no job and is separated from her husband.

Edwards and her family live off $1,100 a month and food stamps.

The food stamps help her buy food for her two girls, ages 6 and 11, and two boys, ages 15 and 17.

"There's not money left to buy clothes," said Edwards, 38, of Washington state.

Her kids also get free or reduced-price school lunches, but only during the school year.

Now, lawmakers are arguing over school lunches.

They can't agree on how much to spend on lunches for poor children or on what foods are best for them.

Lawmaker Patty Murray wants poor kids to get money for food during the summer, when they can't get school lunches.

Murray said her plan would help 30 million children.

Edwards, for example, would get $150 for each child so that she can buy them food during the summer.

Murray said many poor kids don't get regular, healthy meals during the summer.

"I believe that kids shouldn't have to spend the summer months wondering when they're going to get the next meal," Murray said.

Murray also wants poor children to get to eat more white potatoes.

White potatoes are a big crop in her state, Washington.

Other lawmakers say kids already eat enough starchy vegetables.

They think they should eat healthier vegetables.

In the next few weeks, lawmakers must decide on spending plans for the Department of Agriculture.

That department is in charge of [school lunches](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch) and a national food program for poor women and children.

But agreeing on what to do will be difficult.

Many lawmakers worry that the school lunch program already costs too much.

They fear it will get even more expensive with new guidelines backed by first lady Michelle Obama.

The guidelines say schools must offer more fruits and vegetables, whole-wheat products and low-sodium foods.

The guidelines have been phased in over the past two years.

More changes are due this year.

Some lawmakers say it's a mistake to force schools to offer food that many students refuse to eat.

They say more students will throw their food in the garbage.

That means fewer students will eat the meals.

"Less kids are buying school lunches," said lawmaker Robert Aderholt of Alabama.

He said it was time "to hit the pause button" on new guidelines.

Aderholt and other lawmakers said schools that can't afford to serve healthier school lunches shouldn't have to.

Meanwhile, the government said schools can serve regular pasta instead of whole-grain pasta for another two years.

School lunches are a controversial topic.

In December, lawmaker Jack Kingston of Georgia suggested that schoolchildren could sweep the floors before getting free lunches.

Many people loudly disagreed.

Patty Murray said she was ready for questions about the cost of her summer hunger program.

But she said she was expecting broad support for it from other lawmakers.

Edwards, the mother of four, said everything is getting more expensive.

"My water bill is $80 a month, my gas bill is $200 a month, my electricity bill is $45 a month," Edwards said.

She is worried about the rising cost of meat.

Last week, she paid more than $20 for ground beef and bacon at the grocery store.

Her food stamps don't cover the cost of meals, she said.

Now Edwards is waiting for Congress to help.

She is hoping lawmakers will back Murray's idea.

That extra money would go a long way.

"It doesn't sound like a lot, but if you're creative, like we try to be, you can stretch it as far as you can," Edwards said.

