Charity Edwards is unemployed, separated from her husband and raising four kids on a monthly income of $1,100.

She gets another $419 a month in food stamps to help feed her two girls, ages 6 and 11, and two boys, ages 15 and 17.

"There's not money left to buy clothes," said Edwards, 38, of Washington state.

Under a bill introduced Wednesday by Democratic Sen. Patty Murray of Washington state, Edwards would get $600 — $150 per child — to buy food when schools are not in session each summer.

Members of Congress are currently arguing over school lunch rules.

The question is how much to spend on poor children and what foods would most benefit them.

Murray said her plan would cost $42 billion over 10 years.

She said it would help 30 million children, including 475,000 in Washington state, beginning in 2016.

Families who qualify for free or reduced-price lunches during the school year would get the money for summer food in electronic benefit transfer cards.

"When school lets out for the summer, many of those same kids lose access to regular meals and go without the nutrition that they need," Murray said in an interview.

"I believe that kids shouldn't have to spend the summer months wondering when they're going to get the next meal."

As part of her work, Murray is promoting smaller details, too: She wants poor kids to be able to eat more white potatoes, a big crop in her state.

Murray, along with 19 other senators, wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture asking to include white potatoes on the list of approved foods used in a federal nutrition program for poor women, infants and children.

Many Republicans in the House of Representatives back the idea, too.

Critics, however, say children already eat enough starchy vegetables and that they should eat other, healthier vegetables.

The issues will come to a head in coming weeks as Congress finalizes new spending plans for the Agriculture Department, which oversees [school lunches](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch) and the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program.

But agreeing on what to do will be difficult.

In the House, many Republicans worry that the school lunch program already is too costly.

And they fear it will get even more expensive with new federal guidelines backed by first lady Michelle Obama.

They would require schools to offer more fruits and vegetables, whole-wheat products and low-sodium foods.

The guidelines have been phased in over the past two years, with more changes due this year.

Critics say it's a mistake to force schools to offer food that many students refuse to eat, resulting in more food in the garbage and fewer students eating the meals.

"Less kids are buying school lunches and that undermines the intention to increase healthy eating in schools," said Republican Rep. Robert Aderholt of Alabama, chairman of a House of Representatives committee on agriculture spending.

After hosting a school meal debate in his home state last month, Aderholt said it was time "to hit the pause button" on new guidelines.

On Tuesday, his panel approved a bill that would let districts opt out of the healthier school lunch guidelines if they're struggling financially to meet them.

On the same day, the Agriculture Department announced that it would give "new flexibility" to schools by allowing them to serve traditional pasta instead of whole-grain for another two years.

The issue has provided plenty of fodder for Republicans in recent months.

In December, Republican Rep. Jack Kingston of Georgia ignited a firestorm when he suggested the possibility of requiring schoolchildren to sweep the floors before getting free lunches.

In March, Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, the Republican vice-presidential nominee in 2012, gave a speech in which he said the federal government was providing "a full stomach and an empty soul" to children who were getting free lunches.

Murray said she was ready for the financial arguments but that she was banking on support for her hunger bill from Democrats and Republicans alike.

"Nutrition is important," she said.

"We know the success of these programs today.

And we know that we have an obligation to address poverty and hunger for our children."

Edwards, the mother of four, said her $1,100 monthly income came from a combination of child support and government aid.

After government help, she pays only $33 a month for her four-bedroom rental house.

But, she said, household expenses were always rising.

"My water bill is $80 a month, my gas bill is $200 a month, my electricity bill is $45 a month," Edwards said, adding that she's "in the middle of a really bad divorce" after being a stay-at-home mom since 2006.

She worried about the rising cost of meat after paying more than $20 for ground beef and bacon at the grocery store last week.

She said her food stamps didn't cover the cost of meals but that she grew 100 pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables last summer, including tomatoes, sweet peas and blueberries.

Now Edwards is waiting on Congress for help, hoping members will back Murray's idea, adding that $150 per child would go a long way.

"It doesn't sound like a lot, but if you're creative, like we try to be, you can stretch it as far as you can," Edwards said.

