Charity Edwards has no job and is separated from her husband.

She is raising four kids on a monthly income of $1,100.

Edwards gets another $419 a month in food stamps.

The food stamps help her buy food for her two girls, ages 6 and 11, and two boys, ages 15 and 17.

"There's not money left to buy clothes," said Edwards, 38, of Washington state.

During the school year, her children also get free or reduced-price school lunches.

Now, lawmakers are arguing over school lunches.

The question is how much to spend on poor children and what foods would most benefit them.

Senator Patty Murray wants kids who get free or reduced-price lunches during the school year to get money for food during the summer.

Murray said her plan would cost $42 billion over 10 years and would help 30 million children.

Edwards would get $150 per child to buy food when schools are not in session each summer.

"When school lets out for the summer, many of those same kids lose access to regular meals and go without the nutrition that they need," Murray said.

"I believe that kids shouldn't have to spend the summer months wondering when they're going to get the next meal."

Murray also wants poor kids to be able to eat more white potatoes.

White potatoes are a big crop in her state, Washington.

Murray and 19 other senators wrote a letter to the U.S. Department of Agriculture asking it to include white potatoes on the list of approved foods used in a national nutrition program for poor women, infants and children.

Critics say children already eat enough starchy vegetables.

They think they should eat healthier vegetables.

The issues will come to a head in coming weeks.

Lawmakers must decide on spending plans for the Agriculture Department.

That department oversees [school lunches](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch) and the Women, Infants and Children nutrition program.

But agreeing on what to do will be difficult.

Many Republican lawmakers worry that the school lunch program is already too costly.

They fear it will get even more expensive with new guidelines backed by first lady Michelle Obama.

The guidelines require schools to offer more fruits and vegetables, whole-wheat products and low-sodium foods.

The guidelines have been phased in over the past two years.

More changes are due this year.

Critics say it's a mistake to force schools to offer food that many students refuse to eat.

They said that will result in more food in the garbage and fewer students eating the meals.

"Less kids are buying school lunches and that undermines the intention to increase healthy eating in schools," said Robert Aderholt, a lawmaker from Alabama.

Aderholt said it was time "to hit the pause button" on new guidelines.

On Tuesday, the Agriculture Department said it would give "new flexibility" to schools by allowing them to serve traditional pasta instead of whole-grain for another two years.

The issue has provided plenty of fodder for Republicans in recent months.

In December, Republican Rep. Jack Kingston of Georgia ignited a firestorm when he suggested requiring schoolchildren to sweep the floors before getting free lunches.

In March, Rep. Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, who ran for vice president in the 2012 elections, gave a speech in which he said the federal government was providing "a full stomach and an empty soul" to children who were getting free lunches.

Murray said she was ready for arguments about the cost of the program.

But she said she was banking on support for her hunger bill from Democrats and Republicans alike.

"Nutrition is important," she said.

"We know the success of these programs today.

And we know that we have an obligation to address poverty and hunger for our children."

Edwards, the mother of four, said her $1,100 monthly income came from a combination of child support and government aid.

After government help, she pays only $33 a month for her four-bedroom rental house.

But, she said, household expenses were always rising.

"My water bill is $80 a month, my gas bill is $200 a month, my electricity bill is $45 a month," Edwards said.

She's also "in the middle of a really bad divorce" after being a stay-at-home mom since 2006.

She is worried about the rising cost of meat after paying more than $20 for ground beef and bacon at the grocery store last week.

She said her food stamps didn't cover the cost of meals but that she grew 100 pounds of fresh fruits and vegetables last summer.

Now Edwards is waiting on Congress for help, hoping members will back Murray's idea.

She said that $150 per child would go a long way.

"It doesn't sound like a lot, but if you're creative, like we try to be, you can stretch it as far as you can," Edwards said.

