Chikara Yamanobe is not much of a sumo wrestler.

He is so skinny his ribs stick out, and he sometimes cries in the ring.

Still, Chikara wants to be a professional sumo wrestler when he grows up.

He has a long way to go, though.

Chikara, whose name means "power" in Japanese, is only 5 years old.

Sumo is a Japanese sport.

In sumo, two wrestlers try to push each other out of the ring.

"I want to be like Endo," said Chikara.

Endo is a Japanese sumo star.

Chances are Chikara will not make it.

Japan's national sport is not as popular as it used to be.

Boys in Japan are crazy about baseball and have lost interest in sumo.

Nowadays, many sumo wrestlers are foreigners.

In a grand sumo tournament this month, the winners were all from somewhere else.

The champion, named Terunofuji Haruo, comes from Mongolia, a country that borders China.

Other Mongolians and a Bulgarian, as well as Hawaiians and an Egyptian, also have done well this year.

This is partly because many Japanese have become more open to new things.

They are more willing to accept sumo wrestlers who are not Japanese.

Also, the life of a professional sumo wrestler is particularly tough.

Young sumo wrestlers must leave school at 15.

They have to live in training quarters, where everything from their hairstyle to their dinner is decided for them.

For kids, it is not easy to get to watch a sumo match.

The main sumo matches happen in the afternoon, when children are in school.

Sumo arenas are filled mostly with older people and tourists.

Mike Wesemann is an American who runs a blog called Sumo Talk.

He said it is difficult for sumo to compete with other sports.

"There's just nothing cool about it," he said.

Sumo officials are very aware of this.

"Sumo is not a familiar sport compared to others like soccer and baseball," said Kento Nakazawa.

He is with the Japan Sumo Association.

Noboru Yoshimura is the head of the Japanese Sumo Federation.

He said he was worried that kids are not choosing sumo.

In 2014, 33,000 kids participated in a children's sumo tournament, down from 70,000 in 1994.

At the sumo training school in Tokyo, boys practiced for hours.

Sumo students are almost always boys, because girls and women have not traditionally been allowed in the ring.

Students generally practice sumo as a sport until high school.

Then, if they want to continue, things become a lot more serious.

Toshiyo Abe sat on the mats watching his 6-year-old son Shotaro wrestle older boys.

Shotaro asked to start sumo a year ago, so now they travel an hour by train to the sumo school every Saturday and Sunday.

Abe is almost a little jealous of how much fun they're having.

Some parents, however, are not happy that getting ahead in sumo means being heavy.

"Some high school clubs make you eat until you throw up, but some clubs just leave it to you to bulk up," said Akiteru Kiyomiya.

He watched his two sons train.

"If this is the path they want to take, then yes, I'll support them."

Coach Shinju Taira said he was worried that sumo isn't as important as a sport now or as part of Japanese culture.

Not every sumo student will become a professional wrestler, he said.

However, sumo is important because it helps children learn to become leaders.

Hisao Yoshiyoka has two sons learning sumo.

She said they were learning how to live in Japanese society and about Japanese traditions.

Her youngest son, Ryudai, age 7, has already chosen his professional sumo wrestler name.

Watch out in 2030 for a yokozuna, or grand champion, called Dairyu.

