California and New York still attract hundreds of thousands of immigrants from across the globe.

But according to estimates recently released by the U.S. Census Bureau, Texas, Florida, Colorado and the Carolinas are far more appealing to Americans.

The Census Bureau, the government agency that counts United States residents, announced last year that Southern and Western states had driven much of the population growth nationwide.

The new numbers show what was behind the growth in each state: more babies, more immigrants or more newcomers from other states.

The new estimates also serve another purpose.

They help researchers measure how the poor job situation, or recession, that began in 2007 affected how people moved from state to state.

People often move — or migrate — from one state to another for a better job or living conditions.

The recession ended in 2009, but its effects linger.

Many people lost their jobs and homes.

The recovery has been slow.

During the recession, fewer Americans moved to other states.

The lack of jobs made them stay put.

Since the recession ended and jobs have started to return, it was thought that migration too would pick up.

But scholars said that the new Census estimates, which tracked movement between July 2012 and July 2013, showed only slight signs of a return to normal levels of migration.

"People were sort of frozen in place by the recession," said Kenneth M. Johnson.

He is a professor at the University of New Hampshire.

"Things are better than they were during the worst of the recession, but nowhere near where they were before," he added.

That includes the snowbelt-to-sunbelt migration.

Before the recession, it was common for Americans to move from chillier Northern states to sunnier Southern ones.

The snowbelt region covers the often snowy northern part of the United States, especially the Midwest and Northeast.

The sunbelt stretches across the southern and southwestern portion of the U.S. from Florida to California.

But since the end of the recession, Americans have remained cautious about moving.

Millennials, the group of Americans born between the early 1980s and early 2000s, have been particularly hesitant to move.

"We're not back to normal," said population expert William Frey of the Brookings Institution.

States such as Florida, Arizona and Nevada were booming before the recession.

Despite its end, those states still aren't pulling in as many people as they did before the recession, Frey added.

His research found that the number of people moving to states like Florida and Arizona from other states actually fell between 2012 and 2013.

Nevada, for instance, attracted more than 50,000 people annually from other states before the recession.

During the recession, it lost people to other states.

Now Nevada is only attracting a fraction of the American migrants that it used to.

In the most recent year tracked by the Census Bureau, fewer people migrated to Nevada from other states than in years before.

"We don't understand it," University of Southern California's Dowell Myers said.

Though more people are migrating than during the recession, "it's been a puzzle that it's taken so long.

It's like people were shell-shocked beyond the point at which there was good reason to pause."

In places like New York and California, immigration from abroad has made up for the loss of residents to other states.

For example, the entire northeastern region was estimated to have lost more than 208,000 residents to other parts of the country.

But the Northeast more than made up for it.

In the most recent year, it gained more than 227,000 foreign immigrants.

California "used to be a state that received people from all over the world and the rest of the United States," said Hans Johnson.

He's an immigration expert at the Public Policy Institute of California.

"Now it's a place that receives people from the rest of the world — including highly educated immigrants flocking to the tech industry — and sends people out to other parts of the U.S.," Johnson said.

