California and New York still lure hundreds of thousands of immigrants from across the globe, but Texas, Florida, Colorado and the Carolinas are far more magnetic for people already living in the country, according to new estimates released by the U.S. Census Bureau.

Late last year, the Census Bureau, the government agency that counts U.S. residents, announced that Southern and Western states had driven much of the population growth nationwide.

The new numbers show what was behind the growth in each state: more babies, more immigrants or more newcomers from other states.

The new estimates are also another way of measuring the effects of the recession on state to state migration.

The recession, which began in 2007 and ended in 2009, was a period when many people lost their jobs and homes due to a widespread decline in the economy.

During this period, a lot fewer Americans moved to another state to find better jobs or living conditions.

They stayed put because there were few jobs to be had.

But with the end of the recession and the job market beginning to bounce back, migration was expected to increase.

But scholars said the new Census Bureau data, which gauged movement between July 2012 and July 2013, showed only feeble signs of a return to normal levels of migration.

"People were sort of frozen in place by the recession," said Kenneth M. Johnson, a professor at the University of New Hampshire, who studies changes in population, or demography.

Now, years after the downturn was declared to be over, the new numbers show it is still shaping how Americans live.

"Things are better than they were during the worst of the recession, but nowhere near where they were before," Johnson said.

He added: "There is no evidence in these data that the recession's grip on U.S. demographic trends is ending."

The snowbelt-to-sunbelt migration that characterized the boom years has resumed, but only sluggishly, said population expert William Frey of the Brookings Institution.

The snowbelt covers the northern part of the United States, especially the Midwest and Northeast, areas subject to considerable snowfall.

The sunbelt stretches across the southern and southwestern portion of the U.S. from Florida to California.

In the wake of the recession, millennials have remained cautious about moving, putting a drag on state-to-state migration, he said.

"We're not back to normal," Frey said.

States such as Florida, Arizona and Nevada — "the poster children of the boom and bust" — still aren't pulling in as many people as during the boom years when their populations and housing prices soared, Frey added.

His analysis found that the number of people moving to those "high flyers" from other states actually fell between 2012 and 2013.

Nevada, for instance, attracted more than 50,000 people annually from other states during boom years.

During the recession, it lost people to other states and is now only attracting a fraction of the domestic migrants it used to.

And that trend isn't accelerating: In the most recent year tracked by the Census Bureau, fewer people migrated to Nevada from other states than the year before, an oddity being eyed closely by Frey and other researchers.

"We don't understand it," University of Southern California demographer Dowell Myers said.

Though more people are migrating than during the downturn, "it's been a puzzle that it's taken so long.

It's like people were shell-shocked beyond the point at which there was good reason to pause."

In places like New York and California, immigration from abroad has offset the flow of residents to other states.

The entire Northeast, for example, was estimated to have lost more than 208,000 people to other parts of the country, yet gained more than 227,000 foreign immigrants in the most recent year.

California "used to be a state that received people from all over the world and the rest of the United States," said Hans Johnson, an immigration expert at the Public Policy Institute of California.

"Now it's a place that receives people from the rest of the world — including highly educated immigrants flocking to the tech industry — and sends people out to other parts of the U.S.," Johnson said.

