California and New York still attract hundreds of thousands of people from across the globe.

But a new study released by the U.S. Census Bureau, the government agency that counts U.S. residents, shows that Americans find Texas, Florida, Colorado and the Carolinas far more appealing.

In 2013 the Census Bureau announced that Southern and Western states were responsible for most of the U.S. population growth.

More babies were born in these states than others.

But, the bigger reason was more foreigners and newcomers from other states moved to Southern and Western states.

The new study tracked these movements.

It has helped scientists measure how the poor job situation that began in 2007 affected state-to-state movements, or migration.

The period of poor job opportunities, called a recession, ended in 2009.

It was a time when many people lost jobs and homes.

This led to a decrease in migration from state to state.

Few jobs were available so people stayed put.

But the end of the recession has not increased migration much.

The Census study tracked state-to-state movement between July 2012 and July 2013.

Scientists said that it showed only small signs of improvement.

The new numbers show that the recession still shapes how Americans live.

"People were sort of frozen in place by the recession," said Kenneth M. Johnson.

He teaches at the University of New Hampshire.

"Things are better than they were during the worst of the recession, but nowhere near where they were before," he said.

It was once common for Americans to move from the snowbelt to the sunbelt.

The northern part of the United States is often referred to as the snowbelt.

It consists of the often chilly Midwest and Northeast regions.

The warmer sunbelt stretches across the southern and southwestern U.S.

It reaches from Florida to California.

But even the end of the recession has not brought back the number of Americans making the move south to what it once was.

Young Americans have remained particularly cautious about moving out of state.

"We're not back to normal," said Brookings Institution's William Frey.

He's an expert on population changes.

Sunbelt states such as Florida, Arizona and Nevada still aren't attracting as many people as before the recession.

Frey ran his own study.

He found that the amount of people moving to states like Florida and Arizona from other states actually fell between 2012 and 2013.

Nevada, for instance, attracted more than 50,000 people annually from other states before the recession.

During the recession, it lost people to other states.

Post-recession Nevada is still only attracting a small number of Americans from other states.

The number of migrants to the state even declined in the last census.

University of Southern California's Dowell Myers doesn't understand it.

"It's been a puzzle that it's taken so long (to recover)," Myers said.

"It's like people were shell-shocked."

People moving to New York and California from other countries boosted the populations of those states.

The immigration of these foreigners made up for the loss of residents to other states.

For example, the entire northeastern region lost more than 208,000 citizens.

Those citizen moved to other parts of the country.

But the Northeast gained more than 227,000 foreign immigrants in the most recent year.

Hans Johnson is an immigration expert at the Public Policy Institute of California.

He says that California used to be a state that people from all over the U.S. and the rest of the world came to.

"Now it's a place that receives people from the rest of the world, and sends people out to other parts of the U.S.," Johnson said.

