giant flood of water surrounded a 1,000-year-old French town over the weekend.

The flood was called a supertide and pictures of it were all over the Internet.

The tiny town the supertide surrounded is famous for its abbey, which is a home for religious men called monks.

The abbey is usually surrounded more by grazing sheep, than water.

The flood of water was almost 46 feet high.

Thousands of people came to the coast of Normandy to watch the water surround Mont Saint-Michel.

People usually can only get to Mont Saint-Michel, the town around the abbey, by one bridge.

But the bridge was covered with water from the tide.

Most news stories that showed the photos did not explain why there was a supertide.

Some mentioned the sun or the moon, and some said the sun and the moon where lined up.

Other articles mentioned the eclipse that occurred the same day.

An eclipse happens when the sun is blocked out by the moon.

Many called the March 20-21 event the "tide of the century," but this tide actually happens every 18 years.

The last time it happened was in March 1997, and the next one will be in March 2033.

So what caused the supertide?

The "March" in the dates is an important clue.

Tides happen because of the pull of gravity from the moon.

The sun's gravity has an effect, too, but much smaller.

When the sun and moon are lined up with the Earth, their combined pull is greatest.

This causes what are called spring tides.

They occur twice every month, but are often greatest in March and September, during the spring and autumn equinoxes.

This year the moon and sun aligned exactly, causing Saturday's eclipse.

"If we see a solar eclipse there will be a spring tide," said Hal Needham.

He is a scientist who studies weather at Louisiana State University.

That explains why the highest tides keep happening in March.

But why do they happen every 18 years?

This gets trickier.

The best explanation comes from the Met Office, which is Britain's official weather agency.

Experts at the Met said that some spring tides are higher than others.

It happens because tides are high when the moon is closest to the Earth.

That force becomes stronger when the moon is also directly over the equator.

It becomes even stronger still if both the sun and the moon are directly over the equator, the group said.

The sun is above the equator around March 21 or in September, an event known as the equinox.

The moon travels around the Earth in an orbit, which takes it above and below the equator over a period of 27 days.

The Met said that there are very large spring tides when all these things happen at once.

The moon is closest to the Earth and is also over the equator about once every 4 1/2 years.

We get a supertide when three things happen: The moon and sun line up, they are right over the equator, and the moon is closest to Earth.

However, Needham said, weather can matter more than anything.

He pointed out Hurricane Sandy in the New York City region, and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans.

One 18-year supertide might be higher than another.

It depends on whether winds are pushing water up against a coastline.

Lower-than-normal pressure in the air around the Earth can cause the sea to rise higher.

