 Most school districts do not offer homeless shelters or food banks to students.

They do not provide clothing, medical care, or mental health counselors.

Most do not have washers and dryers for families who need to do laundry.

The Jennings School District, near St. Louis, Missouri offers all of these things and more.

About 3,000 students are enrolled in the district.

The area has mostly low-income, African-American families.

When Superintendent Tiffany Anderson arrived here 3 1/2 years ago, she was determined to clear the barriers that so often keep poor kids from learning.

Jennings has been one of the lowest-performing school districts in Missouri for some time.

Anderson's approach has helped fuel a dramatic turnaround.

"Schools can do so much to really (affect) poverty," Anderson said.

"Some people think if you do all this other stuff, it takes away from focusing on instruction."

Anderson believes providing help for poor students will help them do better academically.

Public schools have not done much to help the poverty in Jennings in the past.

Since Anderson's arrival, academic achievement, attendance and high-school graduation rates have improved.  Gwen McDile is a homeless 17-year-old in Jennings.

This fall, she missed so much school that it seemed she would be unlikely to graduate in June.

That changed when she was invited to move into Hope House.

Hope House is a shelter opened by the school system to give students like her a stable place to live.

She arrived a few days after Thanksgiving.

The 3,000-square-foot house had a private bedroom for Gwen, who loves writing and poetry, a living room with a plush sofa she could sink into, and a full pantry.

Gwen is no longer hungry.

She has been making it to class and believes she will graduate on time.

Academics are improving in Jennings as well.

Anderson has launched Saturday school, a college-prep program that offers accelerated classes beginning in sixth grade.

With this, there is a commitment to paying for college courses so students can earn an associate's degree before they leave high school.

Anderson has found money to fund music, dance, and drama classes in Jennings.

She closed two half-empty schools, cut expensive administrative positions, and welcomed grants and philanthropic contributions.

This Thanksgiving, the school handed out canned goods, fresh vegetables, and turkeys for the holiday.

Among those handing out food was Samuel Brown Jr.

He graduated from Jennings High in 2015, and works as a janitor for the district.

He was one of 10 members of his graduating class who did not find work elsewhere, and Anderson hired all of them.  "I've learned how it feels to be getting your own," Brown said of his first job, which pays $9.50 an hour.

"I've learned how it feels to be free."

One-quarter of the people in Jennings are living below the federal poverty line, according to 2014 Census Bureau data.

Just 13 percent of those age 25 and up have a bachelor's degree.

That is about half of the state average.

In 2015, 92 percent of high school students in Jennings graduated on time.

Of those graduates, 78 percent had enrolled in the military or post-secondary training within six months of graduation, according to state data.  Jennings still has work to do.

Most students are not proficient in math and reading.

Only 36 percent of the graduates in 2015 scored high enough on the ACT, SAT or similar tests to meet Missouri's definition of "college and career ready."

But almost every academic indicator has been improving.

Many of the district's programs, including Hope House, are done in partnership with social services organizations.

Many people in Jennings say that the driving force in this community's turnaround is Anderson.

"We just needed someone who believed in us," said Jeff Arnold, an art teacher in the district for the past 23 years.

"She's the best thing that's happened to us in a very long time."

Every morning at 7 and every afternoon at 3, Anderson picks up a stop sign and serves as a crossing guard for students.

On chilly mornings, she brings a thermos of hot chocolate.

As she doles out the steaming treat, she checks in with children.

"How do you know the needs of the community if you're not in the community?"

she said.

