stunning photo went viral over the weekend, spreading all across the Internet.

It showed a giant surge of water, or supertide, covering the bridge that is the only connection between the French coastline and an 11th-century French abbey that is usually surrounded by sheep.

Photos from news agencies showed thousands of people arriving on the coast of Normandy.

They came to witness the spectacular 14-meter-high (15-yard-high) surge of water envelop Mont Saint-Michel, the tiny island town of 44 people that surrounds the abbey, a home for monks.

The articles that accompanied such photos mostly failed to explain why this supertide happened.

Some made vague references to the sun, or the moon, or the alignment of the sun and moon, or the eclipse that occurred the same day.

Many also referred to the March 20-21 event as the "tide of the century," even though it arises every 18 years.

The last occurrence was in March 1997, and the next one will be in March 2033.

So what caused the supertide?

A strong clue is the repeat of "March" in the dates.

Tides are driven by the gravitational pull of the moon.

The sun's gravity has an effect, too, although much smaller.

When the sun and moon are aligned with the Earth, their combined pull is greatest, creating what are called spring tides.

They occur twice every month, but are often greatest in March and September, during the spring and autumn equinoxes.

This year the moon and sun aligned very exactly, causing Saturday's eclipse.

"If we see a solar eclipse there will be a spring tide," said Hal Needham, a climatologist at Louisiana State University.

"But if we see a spring tide it doesn't mean we will see a solar eclipse."

That explains why the highest tides keep happening in March.

But why do they happen every 18 years?

This gets trickier.

The best explanation comes from Britain's Met Office, the official meteorological agency.

Experts at the Met wrote in a blog that some spring tides are higher than others "because tidal forces are strengthened if the moon is closest to Earth in its elliptical orbit.

Tidal forces are also enhanced when the sun and the moon are directly over the equator.

For the sun this happens on or around March 21 or in September.

The moon's orbit also takes it above and below the equator over a period of 27.2 days.

Just as with the sun, the tide-generating forces are at their greatest when the moon is directly overhead at the equator."

The Met also noted that very large spring tides occur when these astronomical factors happen at the same time.

Approximately every 4 1/2 years the moon is closest to the Earth, and is right above the equator.

So when the moon and sun align, and they are directly over the equator, and the moon is closest to Earth, we get the so-called supertide.

Needham also said, however, that the weather can have a greater influence on tides than any of these factors.

He mentioned Hurricane Sandy in the New York City region and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans as examples.

One 18-year supertide might be higher than another depending on whether winds are pushing water up against a coastline and whether atmospheric pressure is lower than normal, which can cause a local rise in sea level.

This weekend's supertide was felt around the world and was most extreme in places that are prone to excessive tides.

In North America, the most famous site is the Bay of Fundy in Nova Scotia, where the tide can rise and fall 10 meters (about 10 yards) even on a ho-hum day.

There is no 1,000-year-old abbey in the middle of the bay, however, so people were probably not posting photos from there on Saturday.

