The waves were growing stronger, so Ryan Shapiro decided to go surfing.

The 18-year-old paddled into the ocean on his surfboard Saturday.

He saw a stingray jump out of the water a few feet from him.

Not thinking anything of it, he decided to go out farther.

Then he felt it, a 4-foot-long shark biting into his right arm.

He looked down and could see the bite marks in his skin.

"I knew for sure it was a shark," he said.

"I was in complete shock."

Three days after the attack, Shapiro said he will not let it keep him out of the water.

"I don't ever want to stop surfing because something bad happened to me," he said.

Shapiro has been surfing for most of his life.

For the past few years he has also worked as a surfing teacher.

"It's not that this won't affect me, it's going to make me more aware of my surroundings," he said.

Right before the attack, he was at the beach with his surfer buddies.

His 14-year-old sister, Amanda Shapiro, was taking pictures.

Amanda was pointing her camera out to sea.

Suddenly, she heard screaming and calls for help.

She asked what happened and someone told that there was a shark attack.

Then she saw her brother being helped from the water by five or six other surfers.

His arm was above his head and people were rushing over to help him.

As he lay there on the sand, she tried to remain calm.

She prayed that God would protect her brother.

"To see my brother — he surfs so much, he's in the water almost every day," Amanda said.

"I would never think that something like that would happen."

Amanda called their mom, Holly Robillard.

She immediately drove to the hospital.

Shapiro has been surfing since he was 4 years old, his mother said, and had a lot of experience.

"You don't think this is ever going to happen," his mother said.

She figured that the chances were low.

In fact, the chance of being bitten by a shark are very low.

The Florida Museum of Natural History says there are just 50 to 70 shark attacks around the world each year.

Shapiro remembers the moments after the shark attack very clearly.

His pain was really terrible, he said.

All he could think about was whether he could ever surf again.

"I didn't think I was going to die," he said.

He was wondering whether he would be able to use his arm again.

On Tuesday, Shapiro found himself back on the beach.

He could not stay away from the water for long.

Instead of surfing himself, he was watching his friends surf.

In a couple of months, he thinks he will be healed enough to get back on his surfboard.

"I'm not scared," he said.

"It wasn't the shark's fault or anything.

I'm just trying to get more people to be aware of the water."

