Ahmed Mohamed was arrested last month after his teacher mistook his homemade clock for a bomb.

The arrest of the 14-year-old attracted national attention.

Many thought the school may have treated Ahmed unfairly because of his religion, Islam.

School officials were widely ridiculed for overreacting.

The incident earned Ahmed an invitation to the White House.

However, it also got him a three-day suspension.

His Irving, Texas, school insisted that he serve the suspension even after it was clear that what he brought was simply a clock.

Since then, his parents have withdrawn him from the school.

Ahmed's suspension fit in with the rigid rules that many U.S. schools adopted in the 1990s.

Such rules insist that students be punished quickly and severely for any misbehavior.

However, many schools have recently been softening their approach.

They are no longer automatically suspending or expelling kids, or calling the police, when misbehavior occurs.

Instead, they are using one-on-one counseling and choosing less severe forms of punishment.

Michael Gilbert heads the National Association of Community and Restorative Justice, which favors talking to kids who misbehave, rather than just punishing them.

"When we can't tell the difference between a serious problem and a non-serious problem with a kid in school, the problem is not the kid: It is us," he said.

Schools in New York City, Los Angeles and Denver have all moved away from relying heavily on suspensions.

In Connecticut and Oregon, new rules make it much harder to suspend or kick out younger students.

Last year, the U.S. government asked schools to abandon rules that send kids to court.

It also encouraged conflict-resolution training for teachers and other school staff.

Such training is used to help students who have gotten into fights work out their problems peacefully.

"We're seeing a lot of change" said Russell Skiba, head of the Equity Project, a project at Indiana University that studies school discipline.

Such changes are "moving us in a new direction."

However, many schools are still "afraid to move to something else," he added.

In 2008, Denver schools began using an approach called restorative discipline.

Its aim is to change schools overall, instead of just punishing individual students.

School leaders were concerned that too many kids were being suspended or kicked out of school.

They were particularly concerned that black and Hispanic students were being suspended or expelled more than white students, for the same kinds of misbehaviors.

Margarita Atencio was one such student.

She said her Denver school suspended her in seventh grade.

The suspension occurred after other girls beat her up and blamed her for the incident.

When she returned to school, she could no longer concentrate on her studies because she was afraid of being attacked again.

She was, and this time she was kicked out of school, she said.

"I was just done.

I thought since nobody was on my side that nobody cared about me really," Atencio said.

She had to repeat the seventh grade, but things eventually got better for her.

Now 19, Atencio recently graduated from high school.

Eldridge Greer runs the Denver school system's Whole Child Supports program.

He says there have been big changes since the new rules were introduced.

In the school year before the new rules took effect, around 11,500 kids were suspended and 167 were kicked out of school, he said.

Last school year, those figures were down significantly.

Only around 5,400 students were suspended, while just 55 were expelled.

Before the change, students involved in incidents like shouting matches were suspended, Greer said.

However, nothing was done to address their behavior.

Now, instead of being suspended such students meet with a school official, such as a principal.

The official discusses the students' reasons for fighting and tries to work out problems.

Daniel Kim works for the group Padres &amp; Jovenes Unidos, which works for educational equity, among other issues.

He says the change in school rules has led to fewer punishments for all students.

However, there are still differences in the punishment rates for whites and non-whites, he said.

Blacks in particular are still more likely to be punished severely.

A recent report suggests the gap has been narrowing, however.

In San Antonio, school principal Philip Carney started a restorative discipline program at Ed White Middle School three years ago.

Since then, out-of-school suspensions have dropped 72 percent, he said.

"We even got to the point where students are handling their own conflicts," Carney said.

Now, teachers and other school staff are often "just observing and setting up the process."

