The recent arrest of a 14-year-old Muslim boy whose teacher mistook his homemade clock for a bomb attracted national attention.

Many suspected an irrational fear of Islam may have played a part.

School officials were widely ridiculed for what many saw as their exaggerated response.

The incident earned Ahmed Mohamed an invitation to the White House, where the Irving, Texas, teen attended astronomy night on Oct. 19.

However, it also got him a three-day suspension, which the school insisted he serve even after it was clear that what he brought to school was just a clock.

Since then, his parents have withdrawn him from the school.

Ahmed's suspension reflects the rigid disciplinary policies that many U.S. schools adopted in the 1990s.

However, many school districts have recently been softening their approach.

They are no longer automatically suspending or expelling kids, or calling the police, when misbehavior occurs.

Instead, they are opting for one-on-one counseling and less severe forms of punishment.

Michael Gilbert heads the San Antonio-based National Association of Community and Restorative Justice, which advocates a focus on dialogue instead of punishments.

Speaking of Ahmed's case and others like it, he said, "When we can't tell the difference between a serious problem and a non-serious problem with a kid in school, the problem is not the kid: It is us."

The school districts in New York City, Los Angeles, and Denver are just some of those that have moved away from discipline policies that relied heavily on suspensions.

State governments have also been taking action: This year, Connecticut limited out-of-school suspensions and expulsions for students up through the second grade.

Texas decriminalized truancy, and Oregon limited when suspensions and expulsions can be applied to students up through the fifth grade.

Last year, the Obama administration asked schools to abandon policies that send kids to court.

It issued guidelines encouraging conflict-resolution training for teachers and other school staff.

Such training is used to help students who have been fighting work out their problems peacefully.

"We're seeing a lot of change at the federal, state and local level that I think is moving us in a new direction," said Russell Skiba, director of Indiana University's Equity Project, which studies school discipline.

However, he added, "There are still a lot of schools that don't have the resources or are afraid to move to something else."

In 2008, Denver Public Schools started using a so-called restorative discipline program, which aims to change school culture, not just address individual student misbehavior.

District leaders were concerned about the high number of suspensions and expulsions occurring then.

They were particularly concerned that such punishments were applied disproportionately to minority students.

One such student, Margarita Atencio, said her Denver school suspended her in seventh grade, before the new policies were fully in place.

The suspension occurred after other girls beat her up and blamed her for the incident.

When she returned to school, she could no longer concentrate on her studies because she was afraid of being attacked again.

She was, and this time she was expelled, she said.

"I was just done — I thought since nobody was on my side that nobody cared about me really," said Atencio, who had to repeat the seventh grade.

Now 19, Atencio recently graduated from high school.

In Denver, Eldridge Greer now runs the school district's Whole Child Supports program.

The school year before the policy changes began taking effect, he said, there were about 11,500 out-of-school suspensions and 167 expulsions.

Last school year, those figures were down significantly, to about 5,400 suspensions and 55 expulsions.

Before the change, students involved in incidents like shouting matches would receive out-of-school suspensions, but nothing would be done to address their behavior, Greer said.

Now, such students might meet with a school official instead to discuss the reasons for the conflict and to try to address them.

Daniel Kim, director of youth organizing for the group Padres &amp; Jovenes Unidos, says the change in school discipline policies benefits all students.

However, he said, there are still differences in the punishment rates for minorities when compared to whites — especially for blacks.

Outgoing U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan said last month that suspensions and expulsions "track too closely with race and class."

The problem is not just "obvious bias," Duncan said.

"Indeed, sometimes, when a genuinely transparent moment of bias arises, the whole country stops and takes a break.

A child holds a clock — and we see a bomb," he said.

"But more often, it's far subtler stuff."

After Ahmed's arrest, the police chief said there was no evidence that he meant to cause alarm.

However, the school district has declined to explain its handling of the incident, giving student privacy laws as the reason.

A spokeswoman has said the district could provide a "different viewpoint" if given permission by the family to release his school records.

Dan Losen is director of the Center for Civil Rights Remedies in Los Angeles.

His group's most recent report found out-of-school suspension rates leveling off and racial gaps narrowing slightly.

In San Antonio, principal Philip Carney started a restorative discipline program at Ed White Middle School three years ago.

Since then, he said, out-of-school suspensions have dropped 72 percent.

"We even got to the point where students are handling their own conflicts, now with us just observing and setting up the process," he said.

