Sweden has been forced to come to terms with a troubling new reality: For the first time in generations, the country is witnessing people living in poverty, without electricity or running water.

Last week, Swedish authorities shut down a Roma camp because of unsafe conditions.

The Roma are also known by the insulting word Gypsies and are one of the last ethnic groups in Europe who are openly discriminated against.

The Roma sleep on sidewalks or in homes made of scraps of wood, metal and plastic.

They must beg on the street and recycle bottles and cans to make money.

Until recently, Swedes had only seen such poverty when traveling in foreign countries or in photos from the 1800s.

Since then, Sweden has become a wealthy country.

Now there are beggars on street corners in major cities and small towns.

Many are Roma who came to Sweden from Eastern European countries like Romania and Bulgaria.

Long before that, the Roma came to Europe from India.

"We are not used to having to see this type of deep poverty.

We've worked methodically for the past 100 years to get rid of it," said Martin Valfridsson.

He was appointed by the government this year to coordinate efforts to deal with the problem.

He said that these citizens of the European Union (EU) started coming to Sweden in 2012.

Their numbers rose sharply last year, he said.

Swedish authorities avoid using ethnic labels, like Roma.

The EU is a group of 28 countries in Europe that have some shared laws and a shared currency, the Euro, for trade between the countries.

Valfridsson said there are about 4,500 Roma in Sweden, many more than in neighboring countries.

In Sweden, the Roma mostly fend for themselves.

As European citizens they do not qualify for asylum, which would allow them to stay permanently.

Asylum is reserved for refugees fleeing war or persecution.

And they're not protected by Sweden's system that gives generous help to the poor.

Sweden considers them visitors, not residents.

Roma are only eligible for emergency aid, which includes a few days of food and housing at homeless shelters and help returning home.

Many Roma don't even want that and avoid authorities as much as they can.

They set up camp in abandoned lots or in parks.

They often intend to go back home — or to another country — in a few months.

"I heard from others it was easier to earn money here," said Maria Carmen, a 38-year-old Roma from Romania with six children who came to Sweden two weeks ago.

Her clothes smelled from sleeping in a city park.

"But when we got here, nothing."

Begging is not illegal in Sweden.

The Roma say the police mostly leave them alone, unlike in many other European countries.

In Sweden, some people are asking whether giving money to beggars actually does them any good.

There have also been a few cases of people attacking beggars on the street.

In August, an extreme political party placed ads in the Stockholm subway apologizing to foreign tourists for "the mess" caused by the beggars.

Angry protesters tore them down.

But even Swedes sympathetic to the beggars are concerned about the return of slums.

Things boiled over in the southern city of Malmo, where about 200 Roma had set up a camp without permission in an abandoned lot.

The property owner was not able to kick them out.

Authorities demanded he identify each one of them first, even though he had no real way of doing that.

As months went by, it became a semi-permanent settlement.

Trash piled up between the flimsy homes, and neighbors complained as the smell of human waste and bonfires spread in the area.

Finally city authorities declared the camp dangerous to the environment and public health.

Police made the Roma leave, as well as dozens of protesters who had demanded that they be allowed to stay.

"Sweden has for a very long time worked to develop laws and rules surrounding building permits and housing standards," said Veronica Wolgast-Karlberg, head of Stockholm's social services, which provides help to the poor.

"You just cannot live outside of those rules.

It's about safety and security."

She said that about 650 Roma live in Stockholm, the capital of Sweden.

The Roma have set up about 60 small camps scattered across the city.

Sweden has asked Romania and Bulgaria to improve living conditions for the Roma.

If the two countries make changes, the Roma won't need to move away.

Valfridsson said that Swedes should support efforts to help the Roma in their home countries.

It is much more helpful to them than "dropping coins in a cup," he said.

