The evacuation of a filthy Roma camp last week has forced Sweden to come to terms with a troubling new reality: For the first time in generations, the egalitarian nation is witnessing people living in wretched poverty, without electricity and running water.

The Roma sleep on sidewalks, wrapped in blankets on cardboard boxes or in makeshift homes made of plywood, metal and sheets of plastic.

They eke out a living by begging and recycling bottles and cans.

Until recently, Swedes had only seen such misery up close on foreign travels or in black-and-white photos from the 1800s.

These pictures were taken before the country vastly narrowed the gap between rich and poor.

Now there are beggars on street corners in major cities and small towns alike.

Many are Roma, also known by the derogatory word Gypsies and one of the last ethnic groups in Europe for whom racist insults remain widely acceptable.

The Roma came to Sweden from Eastern Europe.

Many previously lived in Mediterranean countries but moved north as the financial situation there got worse.

Long before they came to Europe, the Roma lived in northern India.

"We are not used to having to see this type of deep poverty.

We've worked methodically for the past 100 years to get rid of it," said Martin Valfridsson, who was appointed by the government this year to coordinate efforts to deal with the problem.

He said "vulnerable" citizens of the European Union (EU) — Swedish authorities avoid using ethnic labels — started coming to Sweden in 2012.

Their numbers rose sharply last year, and they now number around 4,500, he said.

That is significantly more than in neighboring countries.

The growing number of beggars has become a pressing problem for Sweden as it coincides with record flows of immigrants from the Middle East and Africa.

Sweden's resources for the newcomers are under strain, with nearly 200,000 asylum-seekers expected this year.

Sweden has 9.7 million people.

Relative to population size, no other EU country comes close to having so many requests to stay.

Unlike asylum seekers, who live in government-run refugee shelters, the Roma mostly fend for themselves.

The Roma are citizens of the EU, a union of European countries that have some common laws and a shared currency.

As such, they do not qualify for asylum, which is reserved for refugees fleeing war and persecution.

They are also not protected by Sweden's generous welfare system, which provides money and support to people who need it.

Only residents can receive it, and the Roma are considered visitors.

They are only eligible for emergency aid, including a few days of food and housing at homeless shelters and assistance to return home.

Many do not even want that, avoiding authorities as much as they can.

They set up camp in abandoned plots of land or in parks, often with the intent to go back home or to another country in a few months.

"I heard from others it was easier to earn money here," said Maria Carmen, a 38-year-old Roma woman from Romania who came to Sweden two weeks ago.

"But when we got here, nothing."

She looked out of place in the posh neighborhood where she was searching for the Romanian Embassy.

Her clothes reeked from chilly nights spent in a city park.

Carmen, who has six children, said she hoped the embassy staff could replace the passport she had lost and help her pay for a bus ticket back to Bucharest.

Begging is not illegal in Sweden, unlike in many other European countries.

The Roma say the police mostly leave them alone.

But Swedes, with their culture of compassion and their desire to keep things neat and clean, find themselves conflicted.

An emotional debate has arisen about whether giving money to beggars actually does them any good.

There have also been isolated cases of attacks on street beggars.

In August, a far-right-wing political party placed controversial ads in the Stockholm subway apologizing to foreign tourists for "the mess" caused by the beggars.

Angry protesters tore them down.

But even Swedes who sympathize with the beggars worry about a return of slums, absent now for many decades.

Things came to a head last week in the southern city of Malmo.

There, about 200 Roma set up a camp in an abandoned industrial lot without permission.

The property owner was unable to evict them because authorities demanded he identify each one of them first even though he had no realistic way of doing that.

As months went by, the camp became a semi-permanent settlement.

Trash piled up between the flimsy homes, and neighbors complained as the stench of human waste and toxic bonfires permeated the area.

Finally, city authorities intervened, declaring the camp hazardous to the environment and public health.

In a pre-dawn raid, police evicted the Roma as well as dozens of demonstrators who had demanded that they be allowed to stay.

Swedish authorities say the law is the law and they cannot make exceptions for the Roma.

"Sweden has for a very long time worked to develop laws and rules surrounding building permits and housing standards," said Veronica Wolgast-Karlberg, head of Stockholm's social services.

"You just cannot live outside of those rules.

It's about safety and security."

About 650 people live in 60 small camps scattered across Stockholm, she said.

Swedish authorities have appealed to Romania and Bulgaria for help.

Namely, to improve conditions for the Roma so that they do not need to go abroad to beg.

Valfridsson said that the best way for Swedes to help the Roma is to support efforts to help them in their home countries.

Helping them requires more than "dropping coins in a cup," he said.

