strange dinosaur fossil dug up in the desert of Morocco may upend many long-held assumptions about dinosaurs.

Its odd-looking body parts show it may be the first dinosaur found which evolved to live a life partly in the water.

Dinosaurs were long thought to be landlubbers.

However, the 95-million-year-old Spinosaurus aegyptiacus, described in a study in the journal Science, could contradict that idea.

Spinosaurus has been known about for years — but it seems its uniqueness and true appearance may not have been understood.

"We have to face the fact that the 'Jurassic Park' folks have to go back to the drawing board on Spinosaurus," study co-author Paul Sereno said, referring to its duel with Tyrannosaurus rex in the film "Jurassic Park III."

"It was not a balancing, two-legged animal on land.

It would have been something very peculiar," Sereno said.

At 50 feet long, Spinosaurus was likely the largest flesh-eating dinosaur to ever have walked the Earth.

It was nine feet longer than T. rex, which did not live in the same time period.

Spinosaurus had a long, thin snout with teeth that jutted diagonally from its mouth — perfect for snapping at fish.

Its nostrils were small and pushed far up on its skull — ideal for breathing while partly submerged.

Odd openings at the front of the snout could have housed pressure sensors, rather like the ones on alligators and crocodiles.

Such sensors would have helped it detect movement while hunting in murky water.

Spinosaurus aegyptiacus belonged to a group of dinosaurs known as theropods, but it was quite unlike its fellow dinosaurs.

The differences run from head to toe.

Other theropods, like T. rex and Velociraptor, ran on two powerful legs and had small, spindly arms.

By contrast, Spinosaurus had muscular arms with blade-like claws that could have nabbed slippery fish, and shorter legs not well designed for walking on land.

Its feet were wide and flat and might even have been webbed.

The animal's center of mass was pushed far forward — terrible for moving on land but excellent for swimming.

Spinosaurus sported a bony "sail" on its back, which stayed above the water as it swam.

This would have helped it to keep moving without alerting other animals to its massive presence.

The story of how Spinosaurus' uniqueness came to be recognized is a complicated tale spanning decades.

Bones belonging to one of the animals were flung across two continents before finally being reunited.

Spinosaurus was discovered in Egypt in 1912 and first described by German scientist Ernst Freiherr Stromer von Reichenbach in 1915.

Stromer took the skeleton back to Germany.

But in 1944 the bones were destroyed in a bombing raid during World War II.

Aside from the careful drawings Stromer made, and a few photographs, all evidence of the discovery was lost.

The story didn't end there, though.

It was picked up 60 years later by the new study's lead author, Nizar Ibrahim, who is a paleontologist — a scientist who studies the history of life on Earth before humans.

In 2008, Ibrahim was working in Morocco when a local fossil hunter approached him with a cardboard box.

Inside the box were ancient bones, among which Ibrahim noticed a strange blade-shaped fossil with a red line running through it.

Later, Ibrahim was visiting a museum in Italy when researchers there told him about some strange fossils in the museum basement, sent from Morocco.

"My jaw dropped," Ibrahim said.

It was a rich collection of leg, foot and rib bones — and the same strange blade-shaped fossils with the red line running through.

Ibrahim had already wondered if the bones were Spinosaurus.

Now he suspected the two collections, spread across two continents, had come from the exact same animal.

However, the Italian researchers didn't know where their bones had been dug up — and without knowing that, it would be impossible to tell the time period, and the location, in which the animal had lived.

On a hunch, Ibrahim decided they needed to find the man with the box.

He didn't have his name or number, but recalled that the man had a mustache.

Armed with that little information, they returned to Erfoud — a Moroccan town of more than 20,000 people — and searched for him, with no luck.

"Toward the end of our mission impossible," Ibrahim said, "we were just sitting in a cafe in Erfoud, sipping mint tea and I just saw all my dreams going down the drain … and at that very moment just when everything seemed to be lost, a person walks past our table."

Sure enough, it was the man with the mustache.

Fossil hunters often won't reveal their dig sites, for fear that others will try to get a piece of the action.

However, Ibrahim managed to persuade the man to take him to the spot, where to Ibrahim's excitement still more Spinosaurus bones were found.

Ibrahim also traveled to Germany, where Stromer's granddaughter gave him her grandfather's sketches of the skeleton he had found.

Armed with those drawings and the bones from Italy and Morocco, Ibrahim and his team were able to reconstruct a model of the Spinosaurus skeleton.

It was that model which led to the groundbreaking conclusion that Spinosaurus spent much of its time in water.

