Scientists have long believed that dinosaurs only lived on land.

Now, strange dinosaur bones found in Morocco may prove that idea wrong.

The 95-million-year-old dinosaur is known as Spinosaurus aegyptiacus.

New evidence suggests it spent much of its life in water.

Spinosaurus dinosaurs have actually been known about for years.

It now seems, however, that their uniqueness and true appearance have not been understood.

"It was not a balancing, two-legged animal on land," said scientist Paul Sereno.

"It would have been something very peculiar."

At 50 feet long, Spinosaurus was likely the largest flesh-eating dinosaur to ever have walked the Earth.

It was nine feet longer than Tyrannosaurus rex.

Spinosaurus had a mouth and teeth that were perfect for snapping at fish.

Its small nostrils were far up on its head — perfect for breathing while mostly underwater.

It had strong arms with blade-like claws that could nab slippery fish.

Its shorter legs weren't designed for easily walking on land.

Its feet were wide and flat and might even have been webbed.

Spinosaurus had a bony "sail" on its back, which stayed above the water as it swam.

The spiny sail would have helped it to glide through the water.

The beast could thus keep moving without alerting other animals to its enormous presence.

The story of Spinosaurus' discovery is a complicated tale spanning a century.

Years before the Moroccan discovery, another dinosaur was found.

The first Spinosaurus dinosaur was discovered in Egypt in 1912.

It was studied by German scientist Ernst Stromer, who took the skeleton back to Germany.

In 1944 the bones were destroyed in a bombing raid during World War II.

Aside from the careful drawings Stromer had made, all evidence of the discovery was lost.

The story didn't end there, though.

It was picked up 60 years later by Nizar Ibrahim.

He is a paleontologist — a scientist who studies the history of life before humans by examining ancient bones known as fossils.

In 2008 Ibrahim went to Morocco to search for fossils.

One day, a man approached him with a cardboard box.

Inside the box were various ancient bones.

One was a strange blade-shaped fossil with a red line running through it.

Sometime later, Ibrahim visited a museum in Italy.

Scientists there told him about some strange fossils in the museum basement that had come from Morocco.

"My jaw dropped," Ibrahim said.

Among the bones he saw were several like those he already had: strange blade-shaped fossils with a red line running through.

Ibrahim suspected that his bones and the ones in Italy had come from the very same animal.

Ibrahim decided he needed to find the man with the box.

He didn't know his name, but he knew what town he met him in and remembered that the man had a mustache.

Armed with that tiny bit of information, he returned to Morocco.

There he searched for the mystery man, with no luck.

He was just about to give up and go home when a familiar-looking man walked by.

Sure enough, it was the man with the mustache.

Ibrahim persuaded the man to take him to the spot where he had found the fossils.

To Ibrahim's excitement, still more Spinosaurus bones were soon uncovered there.

Ibrahim also traveled to Germany.

There Stromer's granddaughter gave him her grandfather's sketches of the Egyptian skeleton.

Based on those drawings and the bones from Italy and Morocco, Ibrahim put together a model of the Spinosaurus skeleton.

It was that model which led to Ibrahim's groundbreaking discovery: Spinosaurus had spent much of its life in water.

