Thirteen-year-old Anas and 20 other Syrian children walk through rain, mud and cold to attend class in a tent along Lebanon's border with Syria.

The tent is home to a Syrian family that left their home country.

It also serves as a classroom for four hours each day.

Many Syrians have left their homeland to go to the neighboring country of Lebanon.

They are now refugees.

Syria is a violent place to live right now as the country is in the middle of a civil war.

The country's army, under Syria's president, is attacking rebels who want him out of office.

In the tent classrooms, there are no benches, no blackboard, no textbooks and no notebooks.

There are just sheets of paper and some pencils and crayons that two young refugee women use to teach children like Anas.

They teach them how to read and write, count and draw, sing songs and recite poems.

But even Anas might be considered one of the luckier ones of Syria's conflict.

Almost half of Syria's school-age children — 2.8 million and counting — cannot get an education.

They are prevented from going to school by the fighting in their country.

It is especially sad for a country where nearly all children used to finish elementary school.

"They come every day, these sad parents, begging me to take their children to school," said Etaf Seif Abdel Samad, the principal of a public grade school in Beirut.

Syrian children there learn with the Lebanese side by side.

"They've lost everything in Syria and all they have in Lebanon is the interest in their children's future," she said.

More than 2 million of those who should be in school remain in Syria.

Classrooms there have been bombed, used as shelters or turned into places for soldiers to sleep.

Another 300,000 Syrian children in other nearby countries don't attend school, officials say.

Those numbers likely are higher.

Experts say that puts a whole generation of Syrians at risk of coming of age without knowing how to read and write, lost to a war that has killed about 140,000 people already.

Officials estimate that more than 10,000 children have died in the violence.

The conflict has hurt all Syrians, but the effect on children has been especially painful.

Malnutrition and illness prevents them from growing; a lack of schooling stops their education; and the bloody war causes deep psychological scars.

Syrian refugees are increasingly desperate to get their children the most basic education.

They plead with principals to take them into Lebanon's overcrowded public schools.

Parents also send children to classes in tents and offer them to mosques to study with religious leaders.

Anas' tent classroom is near Majdal Anjar, a border town in the east of Lebanon's Bekaa valley.

Children's drawings hung on the plastic walls there and an out-of-season Christmas tree decoration dangled from the ceiling.

Anas was in fourth grade when his city of Homs in central Syria was attacked nearly three years ago.

He and his five older siblings have not been to school since.

"My school was beautiful.

It had walls and desks and doors.

I had many friends there," Anas said.

In the tent, there were toys and stuffed animals for younger children, as well as some children's English books.

Hanadi and Dalal are the teachers.

They got the children's attention by telling them a fairy tale.

"It's not really a school, it's more of an entertainment," Hanadi said.

They teach children between ages 5 and 15. International charity Save the Children helps.

Together, they try to offer children a taste of a life they would have lived had it not been interrupted by war.

"We are giving them the basics, letters and numbers," the 23-year-old Hanadi said.

"We mostly try to bring some joy into their lives.

They've seen too much bloodshed."

The lack of educational opportunities for Syrian children is urgent in tiny Lebanon.

The country's population has grown by two-thirds over the past year alone because of the huge numbers of refugees who moved there.

More than a million Syrians have sought refuge in the neighboring nation of 4.2 million.

There are an estimated 400,000 school-age children in Lebanon.

By the end of last year, they outnumbered their Lebanese peers by 100,000.

Some 45,000 are now enrolled in Lebanon's public schools.

