The civil war raging in Syria has taken tens of thousands of lives.

Millions of people have fled from the violence.

More than three years of violence have claimed many victims.

Syria's history is also a victim of the war, according to a new report.

There are six places in Syria that the United Nations has officially recognized as being especially important to history or culture.

Five of these World Heritage sites have been damaged significantly, the report says.

Some buildings have been completely destroyed.

Researchers, many based at the University of Pennsylvania, used high-resolution satellite photos to track damage to historic mosques, Roman buildings, and a Byzantine castle.

The Syrian conflict began in 2011, when many Syrian people took to the streets to protest against the government of President Bashar Assad.

The protests were part of the "Arab Spring," when residents of many Arab countries marched in the streets for more freedom and less corruption.

The Assad government violently crushed the protests.

By 2012, Syria was fighting a civil war.

Many rebel groups were hoping to force Assad out.

Richard Leventhal runs the Cultural Heritage Center (CHC) in Philadelphia.

His group is tracking what happens to historic sites during wartime.

The CHC released the report on Syria's historic sites along with the Smithsonian Institution, the Syrian Heritage Task Force and other groups.

Heritage, our common history, helps us to know who we are and where we come from, Leventhal said.

In war, destroying historical sites can also destroy the identity of a group of people, he said.

Brian Daniels works with Leventhal at the CHC.

Daniels went to the Turkey-Syria border earlier this summer to train 20 Syrians who want to protect the historic sites.

The Syrians were taught how to protect museum collections during emergencies and were given supplies to secure pottery and library books.

Some historic items are now being kept in people's homes.

Daniels said he was amazed at the bravery of the Syrians.

"They are aware their lives are at extreme risk," Daniels  said.

"They feel that it is their responsibility, their duty, to try to save these things that are most precious about Syria's history."

The situation in Syria is like a home that's on fire, Daniels explained.

Once you make sure that everyone is OK, you probably will try to save the family pictures, because they are irreplaceable.

"These people's jobs are to try to save the family photos for the country," he said.

The report does not assign blame for the damage.

Both the rebels and the Assad government  are responsible for an "incredible amount" of destruction, Daniels said.

The extremist group Islamic State (ISIL) "has been destroying these things left, right and center," Daniels said.

The group has been targeting historic sites such as Christian graves.

The militant group calls itself the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

ISIL has taken over parts of Syria and Iraq.

The U.S. government says the group is a great danger to the Middle East.

Experts are not as sure about the Assad government's role in the destruction, though it is the only group fighting the war that can use airstrikes.

The United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture keeps a list of more than 1,000 World Heritage sites.

These cities, buildings or national parks have important cultural or natural value.

There are 22 World Heritage sites in the United States — most are national parks.

The Heritage sites in Syria are buildings or towns.

They include the Ancient City of Damascus, the Ancient City of Bosra, the Site of Palmyra, the Ancient City of Aleppo, two castles — the Crac des Chevaliers and Qal'at Salah El-Din — and the Ancient Villages of Northern Syria, which are also known as the Dead Cities.

Of the six sites, the ancient city of Damascus, the capital of Syria, has been the luckiest.

Neighborhoods surrounding the city have seen more damage.

Aleppo, in northwestern Syria, has not been so lucky.

Aleppo has been a major trading city for more than 3,000 years, reaching its peak in the 1500s and 1600s.

During the war, Aleppo has seen heavy fighting.

Many historic buildings have been damaged, including the Great Mosque, one of the city's most well-known sites.

The authors of the report hope it will help the U.S. government and humanitarian groups better protect historical sites in war zones.

Daniels also hopes the report may give Syrians who are working to protect the country's history "a better sense of what they're up against and where they can better direct their resources and energy."

