Syria is in the middle of a bloody civil war.

More than 1.5 million people have left the country to escape the violence.

More than 70,000 people have been killed.

That number doesn't even include all the soldiers who have died.

The rest of the world is looking to the United States.

There is pressure for the United States to act.

That pressure is getting worse now that there are signs the Syrian government may be using chemical weapons.

On Thursday, President Barack Obama said the U.S. has also seen evidence of chemical weapons in Syria.

However, Obama said he still needed more information.

If it is true that the Syrians are poisoning their own people, Obama may face a very tough decision: should the United States send troops to Syria?

In August 2012, Obama sent Syria a warning.

He said using chemical weapons on their people would be crossing a "red line."

He did not explain what he meant by "red line."

However, political experts say it may mean the U.S. military would try to help throw out the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.

Syria is in the Middle East.

It borders Turkey.

Last month, the prime minister of Turkey said on U.S. television that Syrians were fleeing into his country.

Some of them showed signs of chemical weapon injuries.

The Turkish leader said al-Assad had already crossed the "red line."

He called on the United States to do something.

Reporters asked Obama if his "red line" had been crossed.

They wanted to know if he would soon send U.S. military troops to Syria.

Obama said that if Syria used chemical weapons it would be a "game changer" not just for the United States, but for the whole world.

"By game changer, I mean that we would have to rethink the range of options that are available to us."

Obama did not say exactly what those options are, nor did he say whether the United States would take part in the fighting.

Chemical weapons are a "red line" because they don't just kill; they cause terrible suffering.

These poison gasses have been used for many years in different wars.

Mustard gas was the first chemical weapon ever used in warfare.

During World War I the Germans used it on the British.

Mustard gas hurts the body's breathing system.

It can lead to choking.

The gas can soak through uniforms and burn skin.

The British and French armies fired poison gas shells at the Germans.

In World War II, nerve gas was invented by German scientists.

Nerve gas can stop the body from breathing.

It makes muscles twitch and causes vomiting.

British reporters said some Syrians were having trouble breathing.

Their muscles were twitching.

They were vomiting.

The report said the people got sick after a helicopter dropped gas cans on their town.

Foreign countries aren't the only ones that have used chemical weapons during war times.

During the Vietnam War, the United States used napalm against its enemies.

Napalm can burn leaves off of trees.

During the war, U.S. troops had trouble finding North Vietnamese soldiers in leafy jungles.

They used napalm to clear out the jungles.

This way they could find their enemies faster.

But napalm did not just destroy jungles.

It also hurt humans.

When napalm touches the skin, it burns 10 times hotter than boiling water.

Agent Orange was another chemical the U.S. military used to clear away forests.

Vietnam blames Agent Orange for causing birth defects.

The babies' parents came in contact with the chemical during the war.

History shows how bad chemical weapons can be.

Now leaders, Syrian people and the press are waiting to see what Obama will do.

Will he try to stop the Syrian military from using them?

The United States already spent billions fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Thousands of U.S. lives were lost.

Some say President al-Assad is counting on that fact.

He may be betting that Obama is too tired of war to do anything about it.

