U.S. President Barack Obama said Wednesday that the world needs to punish Bashar Assad.

The Syrian president supposedly ordered a poison gas attack on his people.

Obama said if Assad is not punished, other leaders will not take future warnings seriously.

The Middle Eastern country of Syria is fighting a civil war.

Assad is trying to hold on to power as rebels try to force him out.

Thousands of people have been killed, including those who are not part of the two-year civil war.

Obama said a year ago that Assad would be crossing a "red line" if he used poison gas.

Deciding what's acceptable in warfare is not his decision, Obama said Wednesday.

"I didn't set a red line; the world set a red line," Obama said in Sweden before going to Russia for a meeting of world leaders.

Obama is trying to get other countries to agree with U.S. plans to use missiles to punish Assad's government.

The United States says it is sure that Assad's forces were behind a gas attack on Aug. 21 near Damascus that killed more than 1,400 people.

Some of them were children.

Like "The Boy Who Cried Wolf," Obama argues that if you say something over and over and it does not come true, people stop listening.

In this case, he says that Assad was warned he would be punished if he used poison gas.

If he is not punished, other people who commit crimes against humanity will think they can get away with it.

"What are you going to do about it?"

Obama asked about innocent people being killed.

But not many countries support Obama's plan to fire missiles at the Syrian government.

At least not yet.

Some are worried about getting into another war in the area without knowing the facts.

They recall the Iraq war as on example.

The United Nations is still testing samples from Syria.

It plans to say whether poison gas was used in the attack, but not which side used it.

Sweden's Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt said his country wants the United Nations to be involved.

It also wants a political solution to the Syrian civil war, not a military one.

"This small country will always say 'Let's put our hope into the United Nations, let us push on some more to get a better situation,' " Reinfeldt said.

He was at the same news conference as Obama.

Obama says there is no doubt that poison gas was used by Assad's government.

He also pointed out that he was against the war in Iraq.

"I'm not interested in repeating mistakes" by using bad information, Obama said.

Russian President Vladimir Putin warned the United States against firing missiles at Syria.

The United States should get U.N. approval first, he said.

Putin was speaking to The Associated Press.

Russia usually stops the U.N. from punishing Syria.

Putin said he could agree to a punishment this time.

But the United Nations has to prove that Syria used poison gas.

Obama canceled a meeting he was supposed to have with Putin in Russia.

The president is meeting with the leaders of Japan, China and France.

The White House said Obama and Putin should still have a chance to talk.

Putin said in the AP interview that he and the president could still have talks that could lead to something.

Putin tried not to let it show too much how frosty the relationship is between him and Obama.

Russia experts have said it is one of the worst ever between U.S. and Russian leaders.

"President Obama hasn't been elected by the American people in order to be pleasant to Russia," Putin said.

"And your humble servant hasn't been elected by the people of Russia to be pleasant to someone either."

He added, "We work, we argue about some issues.

We are human."

But the two countries have interests in common around the world to find solutions to their problems, he said.

