The Pentagon is putting high-tech equipment on a 647-foot cargo ship in order to safely destroy hundreds of tons of lethal chemical weapons materials that were collected in Syria after a deadly gas attack last summer.

The attacks sparked an international outcry.

Two specially developed hydrolysis machines have been installed aboard the Cape Ray at the U.S. naval base in Norfolk, Va., officials said Thursday.

The machines use water or bleach to neutralize the chemicals that produce nerve gases.

The system should be able to eliminate Syria's gas stockpiles and chemical components in 45 to 90 days, the officials said.

No chemicals will be dumped at sea.

With Syria engulfed in civil war, moving the deadly material to the U.S. naval ship over the next month may be the biggest challenge.

Plans call for trucking the arsenal from a series of collection sites to the Syrian port of Latakia.

There it will be loaded into 150 Teflon-lined shipping containers.

Pentagon planners fear that even a heavily guarded convoy could be attacked en route to Latakia.

"Obviously, it's a challenging environment," said a U.S. official, who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity to discuss military operations.

Poison gas rockets hit rebel-held suburbs east of Damascus on Aug. 21, killing more than 1,000 people, according to U.S. officials.

After the attack, President Bashar Assad agreed to surrender his stockpiles to international chemical weapons inspectors and thus avoid a threatened retaliatory attack led by the U.S. military.

Over the last few months, the teams have dismantled or destroyed Syria's chemical weapons production facilities and warheads.

Now they must get rid of liquid chemicals that are mixed to form the nerve gases.

Destroying the material at sea was chosen as a last resort when no country agreed to do it on land.

Norway has offered to ferry the sealed containers from Latakia to an as-yet-unnamed port outside Syria.

They will be transferred to the Cape Ray there, the officials said.

The U.S. officials refused to say if the Cape Ray would stay in the Mediterranean Sea while it destroys the chemicals , or if it would sail elsewhere.

They also refused to discuss what security would be provided.

No U.S. government personnel will be in Syria to assist with the operation.

Also, no U.S. military forces will be involved in protecting the Syrian trucks as they transport the chemical agents to Latakia.

Under a timetable established by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, which is working with the United Nations to carry out the disarmament, the most dangerous material must be removed from Syria by the end of this year.

Under a U.N. Security Council resolution, the entire stockpile must be destroyed by mid-2014.

The Pentagon has offered the use of the ship to the Hague-based organization.

The group has not formally accepted the offer, but is expected to shortly.

The modified ship is expected to undergo a sea trial this month, and be ready to sail early next year.

The ship will also have an analysis lab and a protective system that includes a large tent.

The tent is supposed to prevent hazardous material from escaping the hold if an accident occurs.

Workers now being trained will wear protective suits.

The Pentagon has used hydrolysis machines to help destroy parts of its own once-vast chemical weapons stockpile.

It has never done so on ship before, however.

The machines eliminate 99.9 percent of the chemical agents.

The leftover liquid is considered hazardous waste but is not as poisonous, according to one of the U.S. officials.

The liquid will be stored aboard the Cape Ray until arrangements can be made to destroy it at a commercial waste treatment facility.

The ship will be manned by about 60 Defense Department civilians and contractors.

Most of Syria's chemicals are in liquid bulk form that need to be mixed to produce a usable weapon, officials said.

This makes it easier to neutralize them instead of destroying them through incineration, a process that would have to occur on land.

The Cape Ray is owned by the U.S. Maritime Administration, a federal agency that maintains a reserve fleet of ships that can be leased to help the Pentagon transport vehicles and other equipment during hostilities or in other emergencies.

