People with buckets hauled 14 pails of mud and slush from the tent that Um Mahmoud shares with a dozen other Syrian refugees in a settlement here in the Bekaa Valley.

The area is blanketed with snow.

It brings a touch of the Alps to the rugged stretch that extends to the Syrian border.

Holiday-makers from Beirut came to the hills with sleds and toboggans.

They piled souvenir snow onto their vehicles for the drive home.

But there was nothing merry about the weekend blizzard for the multitudes of Syrians living in makeshift camps scattered throughout the region.

"It was like a sea here yesterday," Um Mahmoud, a mother of 10, said with an easy smile Sunday.

She and other women were showing visitors the interior of their mud-floor tent, damp and messy after the storm.

"How can we cook in such a mess?"

she said.

She pulled back a curtain to show a bare kitchen stocked with meager provisions and subject to rat attacks.

The sun was shining Sunday in the Bekaa, exposing a landscape of white-capped peaks and snow-dusted plains.

The views were of little relief to displaced Syrians.

Many of them were clearing out the snow, slush and mud that had made an already difficult life more grueling.

The next storm cannot be far off.

The weekend's blizzard was but a preview, and the muddy mess that it left behind is certain to be seen again.

Tiny Lebanon is now home to more than 1 million Syrian refugees, officials say.

That means that about 1 in 5 residents of the country is a Syrian.

They have fled the civil war in their country.

Rebels there are fighting against troops loyal to Syria's president.

Aid groups have applauded Lebanon for letting so many Syrians come to the country.

But Lebanon has no established refugee camps, like those found in several of Syria's other neighbors, notably Turkey, Jordan and Iraq.

Refugee camps are not allowed here.

A generation ago, Palestinian camps helped lead to a civil war in Lebanon.

Now, Lebanese officials are wary of any settlements that might turn into permanent communities.

This is a nation where political power is carefully allocated among Christians, Druze, Sunni Muslims and Shiite Muslims.

Refugees could alter the balance.

The Syrian war is entering its third winter.

Meanwhile, desperate refugees in Lebanon who cannot afford apartments or don't have loved ones to host them face grim prospects.

Scores of camps have sprung up to provide for basic needs.

The camps are not permanent and are far from reliable.

Aid arrives irregularly, refugees say, despite the work of United Nations relief teams and humanitarian agencies.

Many tents have heating stoves, but fuel has been in short supply.

"It has been freezing cold here and fuel was like gold," said Ahmad Awadh.

Awadh lives in a another Bekaa-area camp.

Awadh's site is slightly more developed than the abandoned factory grounds that host Um Mahmoud and others.

The camp has 39 tents with concrete floors and blue plastic sheeting.

The plastic provides some protection from the rain and snow.

About 500 people live in the camp.

Most appeared to be from the embattled suburbs of Damascus, the Syrian capital.

A majority of the tents appear to have both portable heaters and stoves and some have electrical connections.

Different aid groups provided the stoves and heaters.

Still, residents complain that aid only comes occasionally.

Also, enrolling children in schools is next to impossible, and finding a job is only a dream.

As the sun shone, residents cleared debris from the storm out of their tents.

They hung their wet clothes to dry and gathered firewood.

For many this is not their first winter away from home.

Their situation is difficult, they say, but not life-threatening.

Their thoughts remain with loved ones back in Syria, where so many in besieged, rubble-strewn communities cope with daily explosions and clashes, as well as being cut off from regular supplies of food, fuel and water.

"We watch the news, and we hope something will happen, but in truth we have no confidence," said Um Ammar, a mother who, like others interviewed, preferred to be identified by a nickname for security reasons.

"People are laughing at us."

Back in the suburbs of Damascus, she has been told, desperate residents are burning school desks and clothing for heat.

The situation is terrible.

Yet Syrians here seem to want to go back as soon as possible.

Many ask foreign visitors about the prospects for peace.

Will there be United Nations negotiations in Geneva next month, they ask.

They are keen for any sign of progress in the war.

Given the terrible situation in Syria, many reckoned they were lucky to be in Lebanon.

"We cannot complain too much," said Um Mahmoud.

"After all, we escaped from death."

