Christmas carols and the scents of spiced wine, cookies and candles float through the air.

The special occasion is a Christmas market in Zwickau, a town in Germany.  Four young people wander from stand to stand, enjoying the holiday spirt.

They are the Habashieh family, Muslim refugees from Syria.

They fled their native country seeking safety and a better life in Germany.

While they do not celebrate Christmas, they are filled with joy to be taking part in local traditions in their new home.  The family lives in Germany, along with many other people who escaped Syria.

Syria is in the middle of a civil war.

An extremist group called the Islamic State is attempting to set up a country governed by its version of Islamic law in the Middle East.

The group's fighters have captured parts of Syria and Iraq.

The fighting makes it dangerous to live in Syria and many people have fled the country.  Many settled as refugees in Germany.

Yet life in Germany for Syrian refugees has not always been as easy as it is now for the Habashieh family.

Khawla Kareem, the family's matriarch, was so unhappy there weeks ago.

The family was living in a cramped shelter with many other people, with no school to go to.

They also feared racist attacks.

Yet today, she couldn't be happier.

After the family had lived in a number of shelters, German authorities found them an empty apartment.

They live there now with dignity.

The family is getting into the Christmas spirit, too, decorating their front door with glittery red bells and tree branches in green and gold.

"We're fully integrated now," Reem Habashieh, the family's oldest daughter, jokes.  The Habashiehs' journey to get here has been full of endless challenges.

They had to brave choppy Mediterranean waters in a small boat and trek through cornfields with no water in scorching heat.

Then they had to jump across barbed wire at the Hungarian border and pay Romanian smugglers to take them to Berlin.

They have also spent many nights in refugee centers.

This was all part of leaving Syria and getting to Germany.  It all feels like a bad dream now.

Finally, they are settling into life in Germany.  Each morning, the family walks together to their nearby German class, where Khawla Kareem is a student, too.

The kids are doing well in school.

In fact, Reem is a teacher's assistant where she helps translate instructions from English into Arabic for other refugee students.

Not all refugees have been as lucky as the Habashiehs.

There are nearly 1 million migrants in Germany and most of them are still stuck in overcrowded refugee centers.

They must wait for months to have their paperwork processed, to find if they will be given asylum and be allowed to stay.

Fights between different ethnic groups are more and more common.

Concerns about safety for women and children are growing.

Meanwhile, the mood in Germany toward the migrants has changed.

While it used to be a spirit of welcome, some people are now hostile toward newcomers.

Shelters being built for the refugees are frequently vandalized or burned and some shelters have been attacked.

There have been protest rallies against the growing numbers of refugees.

Workers dealing with the refugees — police, translators, and government workers — say they're exhausted.

There are also challenges in being a minority.

Only a little over 2 percent of the total population in Zwickau, the town where the Habashiehs live, are foreigners.

There are only 130 Syrians.

Despite the hardships, the Habashiehs were overjoyed when they learned of their latest turn of fortune: They will have their asylum interview on December 22, three days before Christmas.

The interview is an important step for refugees.  "We have high hopes that we will receive refugee status soon," says Reem.

Refugee status would give them legal protections in Germany.

People with refugee status have rights, like being able to travel throughout the country.

Right now, the Habashieh family has to stay in Zwickau. Also, almost all Syrians who are given refugee status, or asylum, get to stay in Germany for one to three years.

"Our big dream is still Berlin," Reem says.

The family spent their first two weeks in Berlin, where there were more Syrians and other immigrants.

"The dream is blurry and vague and the colors keep changing, but that's where we see our future."

