The United States attacked inside Syria for the first time on Tuesday.

The overnight air attacks appear to have caused major damage to the fighters who were targeted.

The main target was the Islamic State (ISIL).

It is a group of fighters who have taken over parts of Syria and Iraq.

The U.S. government says the group is a great danger to the Middle East.

The group calls itself the Islamic State of Syria and the Levant (ISIL) and has also been called the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

Levant is the English term for the region stretching from southern Turkey through Syria to Egypt.

It was not known how many people were hurt or killed, reports said.

The U.S. attacks are a sign that the fighting in the region is becoming worse and spreading.

Before, the U.S. airstrikes had taken place only in Iraq.

Syria and Iraq share a border.

The U.S. military planes struck across several areas of northern Syria.

The strikes spanned more than 220 miles, based on reports from the U.S. military and witnesses on the ground.

The area touches Turkey to the west and Iraq to the east.

The attacks were aimed at four Syrian cities.

One of them was the city of Raqqa in north-central Syria.

Raqqa is seen as the main base for ISIL.

The strikes were carried out by different aircraft, including fighter jets and bombers.

The U.S. military also used drones.

The drones are planes that fly with no pilot inside and are armed with weapons.

U.S. military ships also shot Tomahawk missiles from the Persian Gulf and Red Sea.

Five Arab countries took part in the strikes.

They were Bahrain, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, the U.S. said.

All the planes involved returned safely to their bases, U.S. officials said.

The strikes "destroyed or damaged" several ISIL targets, said U.S. military leaders.

Some of the targets hit were training centers, storage buildings and vehicles.

The fighters themselves were also targeted.

Separately, the United States attacked west of the Syrian city of Aleppo.

The strikes there targeted a branch of fighters called the "Khorasan Group."

The group includes longtime members of the al-Qaida terrorist network, which was responsible for the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United States.

The Khorasan was supposedly plotting an attack very soon against the United States and its Western allies.

The U.S. military did not give any more details of the plot.

The president of Syria is Bashar Assad.

Syrians have lived with civil war for three years as rebels have fought against Assad and his government.

The civil war has made it easy for ISIL and other militant groups to spread.

The airstrikes on Raqqa and its suburbs began around 3 a.m. local time, said Abu Khalil.

He is an activist in the city, and uses a nickname for safety reasons.

The strike included more than 18 separate hits, the activist said.

Seven of the 18 airstrikes landed inside the city.

Most of them targeted offices that serve as the major headquarters for ISIL fighters, the activist said.

Some were aimed at two Syrian military bases.

The group had recently seized the bases from the Syrian military, said Khalil.

It was not known how many were hurt or killed.

Most residents were in their homes during the attacks or in basements, the activist said.

After the airstrikes, the fighters fled their headquarters, Khalil said.

"Of course the people are scared," Khalil said.

He added that some Syrians supported the strikes, while others were against them.

"If the targeting is precise on ISIS, then I am for it," he said.

ISIL has been moving many of its leaders and weapons out of the city of Raqqa recently, activists and others say.

They are leaving because they have been expecting the U.S. to attack.

President Obama announced on Sept. 10 that the United States might attack inside Syria.

Obama declared that the U.S. would "degrade and ultimately destroy" the militant group.

