Before their world collapsed around them, Fatima and Fadi Adris were living happily in Homs, Syria's third-largest city, where they met and were married.

They made a good home for themselves with their son.

Fadi Adris worked as a painter, and she went to school to learn English.

But in 2011, that all ended.

"We were sitting in my house when … it was destroyed over our heads," said Fadi Adris, recalling the bomb that leveled the family home.

So began their four-year flight to flee Syria's brutal civil war.

At once shocking and all too familiar, their story of bombings, executions and refugee camps before finding a safe haven in Chicago is just one of thousands coming out of the crisis in Syria, the Middle East and Europe.

The three-generation family fled to Damascus, the Syrian capital, about 100 miles south.

But within five months, the violence caught up to them and claimed the lives of Fatima Adris' eldest brother, who was shot in the street, and her father, who also was gunned down.

"We were very, very afraid," Fatima Adris said.

"We hid in destroyed buildings.

Whenever we would see a soldier, ... (my son Abdel Hamid) would hold me and shout, 'Soldier!'"

The surviving relatives managed to escape by bus to Lebanon.

Fatima Adris' mother and two sisters found refuge in Turkey, and her two brothers took a boat to Hungary and eventually made their way to Germany.

The Adrises applied with the United Nations to be granted a permanent home, and after three years, during which they had another child, they learned the United States had chosen them for resettlement.

In March, the family arrived in Chicago.

The United Nations estimates that at least 250,000 Syrians have been killed during the four-year civil war, and more than 4 million are refugees in neighboring countries.

As European leaders scramble to find a solution to the flood of migrants fleeing Syria, the U.S. response also has been closely watched.

Although the U.S. has provided about $4 billion in humanitarian aid — the most of any nation — human-rights activists have criticized officials for not accepting more refugees.

About 1,500 Syrian refugees have arrived.

This year so far, 94 refugees have been resettled in Illinois, 62 of them in Chicago, according to data from the Refugee Processing Center, operated by the U.S. State Department, the government agency in charge of U.S. relations with other countries.

State Department officials announced in August that the United States expects to resettle 5,000 to 8,000 additional refugees from Syria next year.

In mid-September, President Barack Obama ordered his administration to accept at least 10,000 Syrian refugees next year.

Placements are generally prioritized based on need, with torture victims, medical cases and safety in the country of asylum ranking high.

But Syrian Muslims figure low on the list of asylum seekers when U.S. politicians consider applicants from among the world's 60 million refugees.

U.S. officials have fears that members of the Islamic State group, also known as ISIS, might slip in among those trying to escape the violence, said Bill Frelick, director of the refugee-rights program at Human Rights Watch.

The Islamic State is an extremist group attempting to set up its own country governed by Islamic law.

It has also been called Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS).

The group's fighters have captured parts of Syria and some of northern and western Iraq.

The tragedy, he added, is that these refugees are the very people fleeing ISIS.

They "want to come with their children to have a decent life where they won't cower and live in fear."

With the U.S. probably accepting more refugees, the local Syrian-American community in Chicago is getting ready.

The newcomers will need help with everything from school enrollment to housing to emotional support.

Suzanne Akhras Sahloul, 43, who moved to the Chicago area from Syria about 30 years ago, knows the Adrises' pain.

About a year ago, Akhras Sahloul's cousin in Syria was killed by a sniper in front of her children, and around the same time, her sister-in-law's home was destroyed during a bombing.

Eager to help, Akhras Sahloul founded the nonprofit Syrian Community Network last year to assist refugee families settling in the Chicago area.

Akhras Sahloul helps a widowed mother of six who resettled on Chicago's North Side in January.

The woman, whose husband was fatally shot by a sniper, fled the ruins of her Damascus home with her children, ages 5 to 19, after a bombing.

Two of her daughters are being treated for shrapnel still in their bodies.

"I remember going through the same things myself," said Akhras Sahloul, recalling when she moved at age 10 to the U.S. "I didn't know how to play baseball or what normal American kids did."

The United States gives the resettlement agencies $1,875 for each refugee, which is supposed to go toward rent, utilities and other expenses.

Akhras Sahloul coordinates with resettlement groups to find apartments where there are other Syrians or Middle Eastern communities in Chicago.

The money doesn't go far enough, so groups are being asked organize coat drives before the weather turns cold.

"We imagine people from Syria won't have coats for Chicago, so we're asking for coats, sweaters, boots and outerwear," said Kim Snoddy of RefugeeOne, the largest refugee resettlement organization in Illinois.

The agencies also teach refugee families English, help them find jobs, provide mental health care and pair them up with a mentor in their neighborhood.

"They take me to the lake, they take me to the park," said Fatima Adris, the mother from Homs.

"I find everything beautiful here.

We go walking, we go shopping.

We don't feel like we're alone."

