Civil war in Syria has forced more than 1.5 million people to flee the Middle Eastern country and seek refuge in Turkey, Lebanon and other neighboring nations.

More than 70,000 civilians have been killed since the war began in March 2011.

The climbing death toll has put pressure on the United States and its allies to intervene, especially as fears mount that the Syrian government may use chemical weapons against innocent civilians and rebel forces.

It is still unclear if the Syrian military is using chemical weapons.

The BBC reported that it saw a video that appeared to show victims of a chemical attack.

President Barack Obama said on Thursday the United States has seen evidence of chemical weapons but that "more specific information" was needed.

If it can be proven that  Syria is poisoning its own people, Obama may have to face an extremely tough decision: after Afghanistan and Iraq, can the United States afford to get involved in yet another overseas war?

In August 2012, Obama said that if the Syrian government decided to use chemical weapons, that act would be a "red line" for his administration.

He did not explain the meaning of "red line," but it was widely thought that the term would mean the United States would use its military power to help overthrow the president of Syria, Bashar al-Assad.

Last month, the prime minister of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said on U.S. television that Syrian refugees fleeing into his country were showing injuries that could only have been caused by chemical weapons.

"It is clear that (al-Assad's) regime has used chemical weapons and missiles," he told NBC News.

"(Obama's 'red line') has been passed a long time ago.

We want the United States to assume more responsibilities and take further steps."

Obama is feeling pressure from the allied countries to do something to stop the killing of innocent civilians.

Some countries are already taking measures to try to stop the war.

In early May, Israel bombed weapons storage units outside Damascus, the capital city of Syria.

The attack was meant to stop Syrian forces from selling the weapons to Israel's enemies.

British Prime Minister David Cameron is very worried about the conflict in Syria and met with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss the conflict.

Russia is known to be a close ally of Syria and it has been widely reported that the country has sold weapons to al-Assad's regime.

Cameron said his meeting with Putin was "substantive, purposeful and frank" and that the two countries have a "common interest" in ending the violence in Syria.

In a recent press conference, Obama was asked if his "red line" had been crossed and if he would soon send U.S. military troops to Syria.

"What's happening in Syria is a blemish on the international community generally," he said.

The use of chemical weapons would be a "game changer not simply for the United States, but for the international community.

By 'game changer,' I mean that we would have to rethink the range of options that are available to us … that means that there's some options that we might not exercise that we would … strongly consider."

He did not confirm or deny that the U.S. would act with military force in the future.

Chemical weapons determine the "red line" because they not only can kill, but they cause undue suffering.

These toxic gasses have been used for many years in different wars.

They have always proved to be disastrous to humans and to the environment.

Mustard gas was the first chemical weapon ever used in warfare, during World War I in Europe.

Mustard gas causes damage to the respiratory system and can lead to choking.

The gas can also soak through uniforms and burn skin.

The most deadly forms of mustard gas can stop a person's ability to absorb oxygen in their blood.

When exposed to any of those gases, the body shuts down in minutes.

In World War II, German scientists developed nerve gas.

This is a gas that attacks the body's nervous system and can cause someone to stop breathing, make their muscles twitch and induce vomiting.

The BBC reported that people in Syria were suffering these same symptoms after a helicopter dropped canisters over their town.

Foreign countries aren't the only ones that have used chemical weapons during wartime.

The United States also has used several types of chemical weapons during wars.

From 1965 to 1972, during the Vietnam War, the United States used a chemical known as napalm against its enemies.

Napalm is a jelly-like substance that, when put on a plant or tree, will burn it.

During the war, U.S. troops found it difficult to find North Vietnamese soldiers in dense jungles, so they used napalm to clear out the jungles and find their enemies faster.

Unfortunately, napalm did not just affect jungles.

It also came in contact with humans.

When napalm touches the skin, it burns it at a temperature 10 times hotter than boiling water.

Thousands of people died during the Vietnam War after coming in contact with napalm.

Agent Orange was another chemical used by the U.S. military to clear away forests and trees.

Millions of Vietnamese were exposed and the country claims it caused thousands of birth defects.

Knowing the damage chemical weapons can cause, Obama will face pressure to flex U.S. power and influence to stop Syria from using them.

However, political experts say that President al-Assad is counting on the fact that the United States is weary of fighting in foreign wars and that Obama will not put his money where his mouth is.

