IRO - On the outskirts of the vast Egyptian capital, Egypt ends and the latest Syria neighborhood begins.

Women tie their headscarves in a distinctly Syrian way.

They buy Syrian spices and trinkets from merchants whose shops are now tables lining the streets.

There is a constant murmur of stories about the civil war that forced Syrians to flee their homeland in the past year.

The only sign that one is still in Egypt is the sound of Egyptian men and their mothers.

They flock every day to take advantage of the dashed hopes of the Syrian revolution.

Too poor to take an Egyptian bride, the men have heard that Syrian refugees are cheaper, prettier, better cooks and easier to marry.

"I am looking for a Syrian bride," a 39-year-old painter tells a Syrian man selling pita bread and spices outside the local mosque.

"They are less complicated."

The Syrian has heard this a dozen times already that day and does not even respond.

Rather, he points to a sign in front of the mosque behind him.

It says that the mosque "has nothing to do with the marriage of Egyptian men to Syrian sisters.

That's why there shouldn't be any questions regarding this issue in any of the offices of the organization.

May Allah punish those responsible for spreading these rumors."

The painter is undeterred.

"Maybe there are Syrian women around the corner?"

he asks.

The Syrian, who asks that he be identified only as Khalid, just shakes his head.

Before the sign, Khalid said, he fielded the question 100 times a day; now it is only 50.

It is difficult to know if he is exaggerating.

"They ask us where the office is to buy a Syrian woman, as if they are buying a chicken.

They don't believe us when we tell them it doesn't exist," said Khalid, who said he is 26.

"Our women are not for sale.

We are here because we did not want to be killed."

Men across the region are now seeking Syrian brides.

In Turkey and Jordan, where refugee camps pepper the landscape, the desperation of the Syrians is far easier to spot.

Rich Persian Gulf men scour the camps to buy brides living in tents.

Abuse is widespread.

"People are marrying off their daughters for as little as 100 Jordanian dinars ($70) because of the bad circumstances inside the camp," said Marwa al-Saloumy, who works on women's issues for a regional group called Al-Zahra.

But in Cairo, where there are no camps, Egyptians and Syrians meet on more equal terms.

Egypt is going through tough times and its men are poorer now.

They find hope in the desperate Syrians, who cannot live in their own nation.

Their revolution promised change from the rule of Bashar al-Assad, Syria's president.

But it turned into civil war and brought devastation instead.

Syrian women say the men instantly spot them by their dress and approach them constantly.

Alaa is a woman who fled Syria's capital Damascus three months ago.

She lives in a Cairo neighborhood that has now become filled with Syrians, and says getting bothered has been one of her biggest challenges.

In light of what is happening in Syria, "this is not the time to marry and celebrate and enjoy life," Alaa said.

And because of it, "Egyptian women now are starting to hate Syrian woman."

That Egyptian men believe they could marry someone for less is changing marriage across Egypt.

Men are demanding more of women and offer less, women report, and the standards for taking a bride are falling.

Once an Egyptian man was expected to provide a home and prove he can work before he could marry.

Now many believe they can have a Syrian bride for as little as $45.

The men come to the areas where Syrians gather, hoping to escape forced marriages or no prospects at all.

They go to the mosque, to the Syrian merchant, to apartment complexes where Syrians are known to live.

They approach anyone whose accent identifies them as Syrian.

For the Syrians, defending the women has become a means to maintain their dignity while living as refugees.

"The thugs of Bashar Assad have spread these false rumors," explained Khalid.

"He has destroyed our nation and now he is destroying the reputation of our women."

According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there are nearly 70,000 Syrian refugees living in Egypt.

Most live in and around Cairo, and have arrived in the last year.

But it is unclear how many Egyptians have taken a Syrian bride.

Instead, it is a crisis built on rumor.

One regional women's organization reported recently that 12,000 Syrian women married Egyptian men in the last year.

But according to the Ministry of Justice in Egypt, the official number between January 2012 and March 2013 is only 170.

Fifty-seven of those marriages happened between January and March 2013, according to an Al-Ahram online newspaper report.

Moreover, neither side wants to admit they are partaking.

Syrians here find such claims insulting, and Egyptian women do not want to admit that their men could find Syrians more attractive.

Some Muslim leaders have urged Egyptian men to marry Syrian women as an act of charity.

There are even rumors that top members of the Muslim Brotherhood have taken Syrian women as second wives.

The Brotherhood is a secretive religious society through which Egyptian President Mohammed Morsi rose to power.

Earlier this month, the National Council of Women condemned the push to marry Syrian women, urging Egyptian officials to intervene.

It even set up a hotline for Syrians to call and complain.

The number does not work.

