U.S. President Barack Obama announced Saturday that he was postponing U.S. missile strikes against the Syrian government in order to first seek approval from Congress.

The decision brought anger and fear to the Zaatari refugee camp.

"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," grumbled Um Hafiz.

She had fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.

Other residents said Sunday that they worried that Obama's decision would make Syrian President Bashar Assad bold enough that he might even dare to attack Zaatari.

The camp is a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters.

It is about five miles inside Jordan.

It is also a dusty, sun-stricken stretch of tents and prefabricated metal huts.

"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the camp for the past year.

"People are angry, but when the Americans do attack, we will be happy they do."

Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week.

The United States signaled that cruise-missile strikes would happen any day.

Administration officials asserted that they had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad government was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb.

The attack killed at least 1,429 civilians.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry said Sunday that evidence showed sarin gas was used.

Sarin is a deadly nerve gas that was also used in terror attacks in a Tokyo subway in 1995.

The gas can be inhaled or absorbed through the skin.

U.N. inspectors have not confirmed if the gas was used.

They are still conducting tests on samples collected in Syria last week.

Camp residents heard Obama reveal his decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts of his announcement Saturday.

It was carried by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes atop the dwellings lining Zaatari's trash-strewn streets.

"Everybody was watching," said Zoubi, 23, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara.

The anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war erupted there on March 18, 2011.

The camp has more than 120,000 residents.

Most probably did not understand Obama's decision to seek congressional approval in the face of opposition by a majority of Americans to U.S. intervention.

They come from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, after all.

The decision at the very least delays any military strike.

And on Sunday, some in Congress doubted that Obama could win approval.

"The administration better make a whale of a case or I think they're very much in danger, certainly in the House, of losing this," said Rep. Tom Cole, R-Okla. Fadil Issa, 35, has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago.

He said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran, one of Assad's main allies.

"People are unhappy by this postponement.

They don't understand why he's afraid of Iran," he said.

As refugees tried to make sense of Obama's decision, life continued uninterrupted in Zaatari.

Part of that life is the nightly return to Syria by some refugees.

They are tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime.

So much so that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to go back.

"What's the worst that will happen?

We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, an electrician.

He had been arrested by Assad's security forces during the anti-Assad protests in Daara and spent a year in prison.

"We can't take it here anymore."

Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children.

They would get on buses that would leave them at unofficial border crossings maintained by the Jordanian military.

From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by rebels of the Free Syrian Army.

The FSA is a loose collection of rebel groups.

Seats on the buses are limited.

It's first come, first served.

So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust.

People pushed and shoved through the doors, their meager possessions stuffed in cloth bundles and old suitcases.

Jordanian security forces in three armored cars stood by impassively.

They were on guard against serious violence.

The buses were preceded by a truck hauling a trailer with windows cut into its sides.

It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria.

Only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer.

Some pushed their bags through the windows before clambering through.

Others crushed their way up the stairs into the rear.

"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene, several of her daughters clustered by her side.

"Even with rocket explosions, it's better over there.

We're not afraid.

Whatever Allah has written for us will happen."

