Fatima and Fadi Adris were living happily in Homs, Syria's third-largest city.

They made a good home for themselves.

He worked as a painter, and she went to school to learn English.

In 2011, that all ended.

They were sitting in their house when a bomb destroyed it, said Fadi Adris.

The family fled to Damascus, the capital of Syria, about 100 miles south.

Within five months, the war caught up to them.

"We were very, very afraid," Fatima Adris said.

"We hid in destroyed buildings.

Whenever we would see a soldier, ... (my son Abdel Hamid) would hold me and shout, 'Soldier!'"

The family escaped by bus to Lebanon next door.

After three years, they learned that they would be resettled in the United States.

In March, the family arrived in Chicago.

The United Nations is a group that many countries belong to.

It says that at least 250,000 people have been killed during the four-year civil war in Syria.

More than 4 million Syrians are refugees in neighboring countries.

European leaders are trying to find a solution to the flood of migrants fleeing Syria.

The United States's response is being closely watched.

The United States has provided about $4 billion in aid to the refugees, which is the most of any nation.

However, human-rights groups want the U.S. to allow in more refugees.

The United States has accepted about 1,500 Syrian refugees.

So far in 2015, 94 refugees from Syria have come to Illinois, says the government.

A total of 62 of them live in Chicago.

The United States expects to resettle 5,000 to 8,000 refugees from Syria next year.

In mid-September, President Barack Obama ordered the government to accept at least 10,000 next year.

The United States accepts refugees based on need.

There are 60 million refugees in the world.

Syrian Muslims are low on the list.

The government worries that extremist fighters might slip in among those trying to escape the violence, said Bill Frelick.

He works at Human Rights Watch, a group working to end human-rights abuses.

The saddest thing, he added, is that these refugees are the people who are fleeing terrorists.

They "want to come with their children to have a decent life" and not live in fear, Frelick said.

The Syrian-American community in Chicago is getting ready for the refugees.

The newcomers will need help with everything from schools to housing to emotional support.

Suzanne Akhras Sahloul moved to the Chicago area from Syria about 30 years ago.

She understands what the Adris family has gone through.

About a year ago, Akhras Sahloul's cousin in Syria was killed.

Around the same time, her sister-in-law's home was destroyed during a bombing.

Eager to help, Akhras Sahloul started the Syrian Community Network last year.

The group helps refugee families settling in the Chicago area.

"I remember going through the same things myself," said Akhras Sahloul.

She moved at age 10 to the United States from Syria.

"I didn't know how to play baseball or what normal American kids did."

The United States government gives the resettlement groups $1,875 for each refugee.

The money goes for home rent, heating and other costs.

The money is not enough.

The weather will turn cold soon.

"We imagine people from Syria won't have coats for Chicago, so we're asking for coats, sweaters, boots and outerwear," said Kim Snoddy of RefugeeOne.

It is the largest group that helps refugees in Illinois.

The groups also teach refugees English and help them find jobs.

Refugees are paired with a person from their neighborhood to show them around.

"They take me to the lake, they take me to the park," said Fatima Adris, the mother from Homs.

"I find everything beautiful here.

We go walking, we go shopping.

We don't feel like we're alone."

