United Nations chemical weapons inspectors arrived on Aug. 26 in one of the Syrian suburbs allegedly hit in a poison gas attack last week, after being delayed by a sniper attack.

The inspectors visited a pair of field hospitals and met with witnesses, the U.N. said.

The inspectors traveled to the Muadhamiya district, southwest of Damascus, after sniper volleys initially forced the U.N. convoy to turn back to the capital.

A U.N. vehicle was struck in the incident, but no one was injured, the U.N. said in a statement.

The damaged vehicle was replaced and the mission proceeded, the statement said.

The U.N. appears to have worked out an agreement for safe passage with the two warring sides.

No specific details were released.

Each side in the conflict blamed the other for the sniper fire.

The civil war in Syria began in March 2011.

The U.N. planned to lodge a "strong complaint" with both the government and opposition forces about the shooting, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in a statement.

The inspectors are unarmed.

They will resume their work on Aug. 27, and Ban vowed that "the safety and security of the investigation teams will be secured."

The team's mandate is to find out whether chemical weapons were used, not to determine who used them.

The rebels and the government — backed by their respective international supporters — have been trading blame for who was responsible, even as many in the West are pushing for a military response.

There was no word on whether anything that the inspectors learned Monday supported or contradicted opposition allegations that a poison-gas bombardment last week killed hundreds of civilians outside Damascus.

Syrian President Bashar Assad called allegations that his country's forces used the weapons "preposterous," according to comments from an interview with the Russian newspaper Izvestia.

The comments were published on Monday.

During their visit, Ban said, the inspectors traveled to two field hospitals and interviewed witnesses, survivors and doctors.

The inspectors took statements and also collected unspecified "samples," Ban said.

Officials previously said that the team would be seeking traces of possibly contaminated soil, as well as collecting tissue, hair and other samples from victims.

The samples will be taken for laboratory analysis, a process that could take weeks.

It was not clear why the team initially chose to visit Muadhamiya, where about 80 people were reported killed in last week's suspected chemical onslaught.

The hardest-hit area was apparently the so-called eastern Ghouta region, which is in the opposite direction.

An opposition contingent in Muadhamiya was waiting when the inspectors arrived, according to an activist in the town reached via Skype.

The U.N. experts spoke with doctors and patients at a field hospital and took blood and hair samples, the activist said.

Afterward, some in the U.N. contingent went to visit a mosque that was allegedly hit during the chemical barrage last week.

They also visited another reported site of a rocket attack, according to the activist's account.

Amateur video said to be from the inspectors' visit showed blue-helmeted U.N. personnel speaking with people and visiting what appeared to be a clinic, with some patients lying in beds.

Chemical weapons are considered especially heinous because they cause undue suffering along with death.

The civil war in Syria is one of several that has the United States at odds with Russia.

The White House said on Sunday there was "very little doubt" that Syrian forces had used poison gas against civilians.

The statement appeared to move the U.S. closer to a military strike against Syria in response.

On Monday, Russia said that Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov had warned his U.S. counterpart, John Kerry, about the "extremely dangerous consequences" of launching military action against Syria.

