Civil war in Syria has forced more than 1.5 million people to flee the Middle Eastern country.

Over 70,000 civilians have been killed  since the war began in March 2011.

The rising number of deaths has put pressure on the United States to do something to stop the killing.

That pressure is getting worse, now that there are signs the Syrian government may be using chemical weapons on innocent civilians and rebel fighters.

Britain's top news network, the BBC, said it saw a video that appeared to show victims of a Syrian chemical attack.

President Barack Obama said on Thursday the United States has also seen evidence of chemical weapons but that "more specific information" was needed.

If it is true that the Syrians are poisoning their own people, Obama may have to face a very tough decision: can the United States afford to get involved another overseas conflict?

In August 2012, Obama said that if the Syrians used chemical weapons on their people, it would be crossing a "red line."

He did not explain the meaning of that term.

However, political experts say it may mean the U.S. military would try to help remove the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.

Last month, the prime minister of Turkey said on U.S. television that Syrians who were fleeing into his country showed signs of chemical weapon injuries.

"It is clear that (al-Assad's) regime has used chemical weapons and missiles," he told NBC News.

"(Obama's 'red line') has been passed a long time ago.

We want the United States to assume more responsibilities and take further steps."

Some countries are already taking measures to try to stop the war.

In early May, Israel bombed weapons storage units outside Syria's capital.

The attack was meant to stop Syria from selling the weapons to Israel's enemies.

British Prime Minister David Cameron met with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss the conflict.

Russia is one of Syria's few allies.

It has been widely reported that Russia has sold weapons to al-Assad.

On Friday, Obama rebuked the Russians for delivering missiles to Syria.

In a recent press conference, Obama was asked if his "red line" had been crossed and if he would soon send U.S. military troops to Syria.

Obama said that if Syria used chemical weapons it would be a "game changer" not just for the United States, but for the whole world.

"By game changer, I mean that we would have to rethink the range of options that are available to us … that means that there's some options that we might not exercise that we would … strongly consider."

Obama did not confirm or deny if the United States would get involved in the conflict.

Chemical weapons are a "red line" because they don't just kill their victims; they cause terrible suffering.

These poison gasses have been used for many years in different wars.

They are hazardous not just to humans, but also the environment.

Mustard gas was the first chemical weapon ever used in warfare, during World War I in Europe.

Mustard gas causes damage to the respiratory system and can lead to choking.

The gas can also soak through uniforms and burn skin.

The most deadly forms of mustard gas can stop the body from absorbing oxygen.

When exposed to any of those gases, the body shuts down in minutes.

In World War II, German scientists developed nerve gas.

This is a gas that attacks the body's nervous system.

Nerve gas can stop the body from breathing, make muscles twitch and cause vomiting.

The BBC reported that people in Syria were suffering these same symptoms after a helicopter dropped canisters over their town.

Foreign countries aren't the only ones that have used chemical weapons during wartime.

The United States has also used several types of chemical weapons.

During the Vietnam War, the United States used napalm against its enemies.

Napalm is a jelly-like substance that can burn away leaves and trees.

During the war, U.S. troops had trouble finding North Vietnamese soldiers in dense jungles.

They used napalm to clear out the jungles and find their enemies faster.

But napalm did not just destroy jungles.

It also hurt humans.

When napalm touches the skin, it burns it at a temperature 10 times hotter than boiling water.

Thousands of people died during the Vietnam War after coming in contact with napalm.

Agent Orange was another chemical the U.S. military used to clear away forests and trees.

Millions of Vietnamese were exposed to Agent Orange.

The country claims it caused thousands of birth defects.

Knowing the damage chemical weapons can cause, Obama will face pressure to stop Syria from using them.

However, the United States spent billions already fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Thousands of U.S. lives were lost.

Syria watchers say President al-Assad is counting on that fact.

He may be betting that Obama will not put his money where his mouth is.

