Civil war in Syria has forced more than 1.5 million people to flee the country.

More than  70,000 people have been killed  since the war began in March 2011.

That number doesn't even include all the soldiers who have died.

The violence and killing has put pressure on the United States to act.

That pressure is getting worse, now that there are signs that Syria may be using chemical weapons against its own people.

On Thursday, President Barack Obama said the United States has also seen evidence of chemical weapons in Syria.

However, Obama said he still needed more information.

If it is true that the Syrians are poisoning their own people, Obama may face a very tough decision: should the United States send troops to Syria?

In August 2012, Obama sent Syria's government a warning.

He said using chemical weapons on its people would be crossing a "red line."

He did not explain the meaning of the term.

However, political experts say it may mean the U.S. military would try to help throw out the Syrian president, Bashar al-Assad.

Syria is in the Middle East.

It borders the country of Turkey.

Last month, the prime minister of Turkey said on U.S. television that Syrians who were fleeing into his country showed signs of chemical-weapon injuries.

The Turkish leader said al-Assad had already crossed the "red line" and he called on the United States to do something.

In a recent press conference, Obama was asked if his "red line" had been crossed and if he would soon send U.S. military troops to Syria.

Obama said that if Syria used chemical weapons it would be a "game changer" not just for the United States, but for the whole world.

"By game changer, I mean that we would have to rethink the range of options that are available to us."

Obama did not say exactly what those options are, nor did he say if the United States would take part in the conflict.

Chemical weapons are a "red line" because they don't just kill; they cause terrible suffering.

These poison gasses have been used for many years in different wars.

They are dangerous not just to humans, but also the land.

Mustard gas was the first chemical weapon ever used in warfare during World War I in Europe.

Mustard gas hurts to the body's breathing system and can lead to choking.

The gas can also soak through uniforms and burn skin.

The most deadly forms of mustard gas can stop the body from absorbing oxygen.

Contact with any of those gases can make the body shuts down in minutes.

In World War II, nerve gas was invented by German scientists.

Nerve gas can stop the body from breathing, make muscles twitch and cause vomiting.

Britain's top news network said some people in a Syrian hospital were having trouble breathing.

Their muscles were twitching.

They were vomiting.

The report said the people got sick after a helicopter dropped gas cans over their town.

Foreign countries aren't the only ones that have used chemical weapons during war times.

During the Vietnam War, the United States used napalm against its enemies.

Napalm can burn away leaves and trees.

During the war, U.S. troops had trouble finding North Vietnamese soldiers in leafy jungles.

They used napalm to clear out the jungles.

This way, they could find the enemy.

But napalm did not just destroy jungles.

It also hurt humans.

When napalm touches the skin, it burns it at a temperature 10 times hotter than boiling water.

Napalm killed thousands in Vietnam.

Agent Orange was another chemical the U.S. military used to clear away forests and trees.

Millions of Vietnamese were exposed to Agent Orange.

The country claims it caused thousands of birth defects.

History shows how bad chemical weapons can be.

Now leaders, Syrian people and the press are waiting to see what Obama will do.

Will he try to stop the Syrian military from using them?

The United States already spent billions fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq.

Thousands of U.S. lives were lost.

Some say President al-Assad is counting on that fact.

He may be betting that Obama will not put his money where his mouth is.

