Behind the heavy brown door that opens into the Maryland Table Tennis Center, balls ping, zing, pop and pong.

Sneakers squeak and laughter echoes off the walls.

Oblivious to the noise, 13-year-old Crystal Wang finishes her homework in a corner.

Then she heads over to a blue table.

She picks up a rubber-coated paddle, bends her knees and leans forward as she stares into her opponent's eyes.

Shifting her weight, she pulls back her arm and serves the ball with a feather-light touch.

In a flash, 14-year-old Derek Nie responds from the other side of the net.

He sends the spinning ball back to Crystal, forcing her to react quickly.

Crystal and Derek are no ordinary players.

They are two of the most promising American teenagers in competitive table tennis.

The sport, also known as Ping-Pong, is like tennis, but it is played indoors on a table divided by a short net.

Playing involves a lot of small moves and heart-pounding footwork.

"It feels like a rush," Derek says.

Crystal and Derek both live about 10 miles from the Gaithersburg, Maryland, center and train there almost every day.

Derek started playing at age 7, after his older brother got into the sport.

Crystal's grandparents, both of whom played table tennis, introduced her to it at age 5.

"It's amazing how Crystal and Derek show up at the club ready to play, day after day, week after week, never moping around or complaining and always striving to get better," says Larry Hodges.

He coaches both Crystal and Derek.

Hodges says they are also great students who amaze everyone with their ability to balance it all.

Derek juggles the academic demands of eighth grade at Robert Frost Middle School in Rockville, Maryland, plus his math team and practicing the violin.

Crystal, who Hodges says is one of the best female table tennis players of her age in U.S. history, practices every day.

Even with her practice schedule she still manages to excel in the magnet program at Roberto Clemente Middle School in Germantown, Maryland.

She competes all over the world, in such places as Japan, Canada, India, China and Austria.

Every summer, she travels to China to train.

In 2014, Crystal became the youngest person ever to make the USA National Women's Team.

She also became the youngest to win the under-22 women's singles competition at the USA National Table Tennis Championships in Las Vegas.

Derek competes in tournaments all over the United States and won his age group at last year's U.S. Open, which was also held in Las Vegas.

These days, both players have their sights set on next year's Olympic trials.

"My dream is to make the Olympic team," Crystal says.

She also hopes her table tennis skills will help her earn a scholarship to a good college where she can study medicine.

Though both players are quite talented, playing at such a high level is not always smooth sailing.

Earlier this year, Crystal had a rare but heartbreaking loss.

"I was too nervous in my mental game," she says.

"I did really bad, but I just tried to learn from the experience."

Win or lose, the pair's successes and challenges provide opportunities to grow outside of their sport.

For example, Derek says he feels much less nervous about getting up in front of his English class to give presentations.

"At least, I'm less nervous compared to how I feel at a big tournament," he explains.

Crystal and Derek take their sport very seriously, but they do have fun along the way.

Crystal says she loves making new friends at tournaments.

"And she really likes to win," Derek adds with a laugh.

