Behind the heavy brown door that opens into the Maryland Table Tennis Center, balls ping, zing, pop and pong.

Sneakers squeak and laughter echoes off the walls.

Crystal Wang ignores the busy center's familiar noises.

The 13-year-old finishes her homework in a corner.

Then she heads over to a blue table and picks up a rubber-coated paddle.

She bends her knees and leans forward, staring into her competitor's eyes.

Shifting her weight, Crystal pulls back her arm and serves the ball with a feather-light touch.

In a flash, 14-year-old Derek Nie responds from the other side of the net.

He sends the spinning ball back to Crystal, forcing her to react quickly.

Crystal and Derek are no normal players.

They are two of the most promising American teenagers in competitive table tennis.

The sport, also known as Ping-Pong, is like tennis, but it is played indoors on a table divided by a short net.

Playing involves a lot of small movements and heart-pounding footwork.

"It feels like a rush," Derek says.

Crystal and Derek both live about 10 miles from the Gaithersburg, Maryland, center and train there almost every day.

Derek started playing at age 7, after his older brother got into the sport.

Crystal's grandparents, both of whom played table tennis, taught her how to play at age 5.

"It's amazing how Crystal and Derek show up at the club ready to play, day after day, week after week," said Larry Hodges, Crystal and Derek's coach.

Hodges says both players are always pushing themselves to improve and never complain.

"They are both also great students.

Somehow they balance it all," he said.

On top of table tennis and his eighth-grade schoolwork, Derek juggles math team and playing the violin.

Crystal makes excellent grades even though she is busy with practices and competitions.

She has played in places like Japan, Canada, India and Austria.

Every summer, she travels to China to train.

Crystal recently became the youngest woman ever to make the USA National Team.

She was also the youngest to win the under-22 women's singles competition at the USA National Table Tennis Championships.

Derek competes in tournaments all over the United States and won his age group at last year's U.S. Open.

These days, both players are training hard for next year's Olympic trials.

"My dream is to make the Olympic team," Crystal says.

She also hopes her table tennis skills will help her earn a scholarship to a good college.

Crystal wants to study medicine.

Though both players are quite talented, they have also had to deal with some bumps in the road.

Earlier this year, Crystal had a rare but heartbreaking loss.

"I was too nervous in my mental game," she says.

"I did really bad, but I just tried to learn from the experience."

Win or lose, the challenges of table tennis help Derek and Crystal grow in other areas.

For example, Derek says he feels much less nervous about giving presentations in front of his English class.

"At least, I'm less nervous compared to how I feel at a big tournament," he explains.

Crystal and Derek take their sport very seriously, but they do have fun along the way.

Crystal says she loves making new friends at tournaments.

"And she really likes to win," Derek adds with a laugh.

