Taiwan native Kenneth Wang was not yet 3 years old when the secret police came and took away his father in 1947.

His father, Wang Yu-lin, was the first Taiwanese to serve as a district attorney during Japan's colonial rule.

But that made him a marked man in Taiwan after the end of World War II — when China took control of the island and began a bloody campaign of terror and repression against scholars, physicians and other elites.

Historians estimate 10,000 to 30,000 people died.

"My mother went to ask for his body.

They denied they had even taken him," recalled Wang, who moved to the United States in the 1960s and now lives in San Diego.

"We never found out where he was."

On Tuesday afternoon, Wang stood by the roadside in Lukang in western Taiwan, waiting to cheer on presidential candidate Tsai Ing-wen as she passed by in her campaign vehicle.

Tsai's Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) is poised not only to win the presidency in Saturday's election but is also likely to sweep the Nationalists, also known as the KMT, and their allies out of control of Parliament.

It would be the first time another party has been in power since Taiwan's modern political era began in 1949.

"Seventy years — it's been a long struggle," said Wang.

"Finally, we are going to overcome the KMT."

Wang and about 100 other Californians make up the bulk of a 160-member group of people born in Taiwan called Friends of Tsai Overseas.

They have paid their own way back this week not only to vote in the election but also to witness a change of power.

For Wang and many of the others, the political journey is intensely personal.

"My dad was an (anti-KMT) activist in the 1980s, and he received threats — some that even mentioned me, my middle school, the route I took," recalled Wendy Yang, a 39-year-old attorney who joined the tour with her mother.

"He sent us away for our own safety.

That was 1992\.

You would think our democracy movement would have taken off by then, but it was not fully matured."

As American as she has become, said Yang, "I can't stay away from Taiwan.

That tie is always there."

Taiwanese campaign rallies feature not just lion dancers and men pounding traditional drums but also stilt-walkers, fireworks and even giant inflatable spiders.

These boisterous theatrics can make it easy to forget that the island held its first direct presidential election only in 1996.

The DPP's rally Tuesday evening had a vibe that was part rock concert, part religious revival.

Wang, Yang and the rest of the group arrived on five buses and got prime seating near the stage.

Simon Lin bounced about giddily, snapping photos of candidates and flag-waving DPP supporters.

Both Tsai and the KMT presidential candidate, Eric Chu, visited Southern California last year to drum up support among Taiwanese-born Americans.

This year, only 2,317 overseas Taiwanese registered, and maybe 1,500 of them will actually fly to Taiwan to vote.

Although the number of returnee voters in Taiwan has been sliding, political leaders said they still play an outsize role in the last critical days of the campaign.

Since arriving last weekend, Yang's group has been attending two to three campaign events daily.

"These people who manage to do well in the U.S. or Canada, they're outstanding people; they're exemplary people.

When they return to their hometowns, their support carries extra weight," said Lai Ching-te, mayor of Tainan, one of Taiwan's largest cities.

"Many of their family members back the candidates they vouch for."

On Tuesday afternoon, the overseas group showed up in sleepy Lukang to help give a boost to the DPP local parliamentary candidate, the film director Chen Wen-bin.

They enthusiastically waved flags and held up green banners, giving the dozen or so photographers atop a media truck something lively to shoot.

When a campaign procession came to an end, they gathered in a vacant lot and led victory cheers, "Dong suan!"

Get elected!

"When I see all these overseas Taiwanese coming back, it's like a big family reuniting," said Chen, the parliamentary candidate.

China's civil war ended in 1949, leaving the Communists in control of the mainland and the Nationalist Party ruling on Taiwan.

Since then, each side has insisted it was the rightful ruler of all of China.

For decades, Washington was a close ally of Taiwan's KMT-run government, valuing it as an anti-Communist ally.

Until the late 1970s, the United States and many other Western countries had formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan but not mainland China.

That situation has reversed as China's Communist leaders have used the nation's growing economic clout to press many countries to cut ties with Taiwan.

It is excluded from the United Nations, and China's Communist government continues to insist that Taiwan and the mainland are part of "one China" and must be reunited some day.

But many Taiwanese — especially younger voters — yearn for full independence from mainland China and want to be a "normal country."

Chen said he hopes overseas Taiwanese will advocate for Taiwan back home — especially in the United States, which remains a key military and political ally of the island.

"Starting this year, Taiwan is going to take some steps toward 'normal' statehood," predicted Chen.

"These overseas Taiwanese can witness this election, this important moment."

"But they can also take our message back to their home countries and home media," he said, "to explain Taiwan's need for democracy and need for international support."

