Government scientists have discovered a puzzling new illness that is like cancer.

They found it in a man who was 41 years old.

They believe the man became ill through a common stomach bug.

It is the first time scientists have seen cancer cells from a parasite be transmitted to a human.

A parasite is a living thing that feeds off a human or animal.

In this instance, the parasite was a tapeworm.

The case involves a patient from Colombia, a country in South America.

The man was infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

The patient developed many large tumors in various parts of his body.

Doctors tested those tumors and found that the cells acted like cancer cells in some ways but were strange in other ways.

For one, they were about 10 times smaller than regular human cancer cells.

The doctors needed help.

They called the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the leading national health agency in the United States.

Atis Muehlenbachs is a doctor at the CDC.

He investigates mysterious illnesses and deaths.

He was not sure what to think when he and his team received the cell samples in 2013.

Eventually, scientists discovered that the cells contained DNA from a tapeworm.

"Discovering these cells had tapeworm DNA was a big surprise — a really big surprise," Muehlenbachs recalled.

Scientists now think the Colombian man might have eaten some unclean food with tiny tapeworm eggs inside.

Because the man was already sick and weak, he was not able to fight off illness.

The tapeworms multiplied quickly inside his body.

The case worries experts for several reasons.

Many creatures can develop cancer.

A few, like elephants, rarely do.

Before now, scientists had not believed that any human parasite could contain cancer cells.

They also had not believed that parasites could transfer cancer cells to people.

The presence of cancerous cells in tapeworms also raises many questions about where the cells came from.

It is unclear if they came from somewhere in the environment.

It is also unclear whether other tiny organisms that live inside or on people can spread cancer cells.

Cancer is generally not thought to be a disease that can spread from person to person.

However, in very rare cases it has happened.

There are also some animal populations in which it can happen.

The CDC does not believe there is any risk of the tapeworm cancer cells being spread directly from one person to another.

While tapeworms are very common, it is unclear how common this type of tapeworm cancer illness is in humans.

Some experts believe there may be other cases.

The Colombian man came to the attention of scientists when he sought help for his symptoms.

They included fever, a cough and weight loss.

Tests showed he had tumors and also tapeworms inside his body.

By the time scientists figured out what was going on, the man's condition was worse.

He died 72 hours later without being treated.

His official cause of death was HIV/AIDS.

Cancer had made him weaker.

Muehlenbachs said it was difficult to study the case after the patient died.

Also, scientists have been unable to grow tapeworm cancer cells in the lab.

The doctor is careful about calling the Colombian man's illness "cancer."

The cells in his body were different from regular human cancer cells, even though they behaved similarly.

While he thinks this type of case is rare, no one knows for sure.

Muehlenbachs said it needs to be studied more.

He said scientists need to determine whether it is limited to tapeworms or whether the situation is more complicated.

