Government scientists have identified a puzzling and unsettling new cancer-like condition in a 41-year-old man.

He is believed to have become ill through a common stomach bug.

It is the first time scientists have seen cancer cells from a parasite be transmitted to a human.

A parasite is an organism, or living thing, that feeds off a human or animal.

In this instance, the parasite was a tapeworm.

The case involves a patient from the South American country of Colombia who was infected with HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.

The patient developed many large tumors in various parts of his body.

Local doctors tested those tumors and found that the cells acted like cancer cells in some ways but were strange in other respects.

For one, they were about 10 times smaller than normal human cancer cells.

Looking for help, the doctors contacted the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the leading national health agency in the United States.

Atis Muehlenbachs is a doctor at the CDC who investigates unexplained mystery illnesses and deaths.

He was not sure what to make of the cell samples when he and his team received them in 2013.

The cells were similar to cancer cells in some ways and different in other ways.

At first, scientists thought the cells could be a new type of organism that was capable of spreading from one person to another.

After performing tests, however, they discovered that the cells contained DNA from a tapeworm.

"In the initial months, we wondered if this was a weird human cancer or some unusual, bizarre emerging protozoa-amoeba-like infection," Muehlenbachs recalled.

"Discovering these cells had tapeworm DNA was a big surprise — a really big surprise."

CDC researchers now think the Colombian man might have eaten some microscopic tapeworm eggs, most likely in contaminated food.

Because the man had a limited ability to fight off illness because of his HIV, the tapeworms multiplied rapidly inside his body.

"This is the first time we've seen parasite-derived cancer cells spreading within an individual," Muehlenbachs said.

"This is a very unusual, very unique illness."

The case is worrisome for numerous reasons.

We know that many creatures, such as various sea animals, can develop cancer, while others, like elephants, rarely do.

But until now, scientists had not believed that any human parasite could contain cancer cells or transfer them to people.

We have also known that certain parasitic infections may put people at higher risk for specific cancers.

But that is because people fighting these infections are in a weakened state.

The presence of cancerous cells in tapeworms also raises numerous questions about where the mutant cells originated.

It is unclear if they came from somewhere in the environment.

It is also unclear whether other organisms that live inside or on people can spread cancer cells.

Cancer is generally not considered to be a transmissible disease, although there have been very rare cases of humans passing on cancerous cells to other humans.

Typically, this has been through organ transplants or from mother to fetus during pregnancy.

There are also some animal species that are known to have transmissible cancer cells circulating within their populations.

The CDC does not believe there is any risk of the tapeworm cancer cells being spread directly from one person to another.

While tapeworms are very common, it is unclear how common this type of tapeworm cancer illness is in humans.

Some experts believe it is likely that there are more cases out there.

The Colombian man came to the attention of researchers when he sought care for his symptoms.

They included fatigue, fever, a cough and weight loss.

The patient had been living with HIV for at least seven years and had not been taking his medicine.

Tests showed tumors in his neck, lymph nodes, lungs and liver.

Stool samples showed tapeworms inside his body.

By the time the CDC researchers figured out what was going on, the man's condition had worsened.

He died 72 hours later, without any opportunity for treatment.

His official cause of death was HIV/AIDS, with cancer contributing to his weakened state.

Muehlenbachs said further study was limited by the patient's death and the fact that researchers have been unable to grow tapeworm cancer cells in the lab.

He also said he was not sure current treatments could have helped the man.

The doctor is cautious about calling the Colombian's illness "cancer."

The cells in his body were different from normal human cancer cells, even though they behaved similarly.

Instead, Muehlenbachs referred to it as "an infection with parasite-derived cancer which causes a cancer-like illness."

While he believes this type of case is rare, no one knows for sure.

Muehlenbachs said further investigation is needed to determine whether it is limited to tapeworms or whether the situation is more complicated.

