Most high school English teachers love William Shakespeare's works.

Dana Dusbiber does not.

In an essay posted on a Washington Post education blog this month, the California teacher explained she does not want to teach the 16th century poet and playwright despite his honored place in American education.

His works do not speak well to her ethnically diverse students, she said.

Dusbiber's opinion caught fire online and on the airwaves.

Many traditionalists, who want education to stay the same, blasted her viewpoint.

"High school teachers are supposed to love Shakespeare, and I don't, so I said I didn't," said Dusbiber, who teaches at Luther Burbank High School.

"I think the reliance on Shakespeare is something I find odd."

She said she has replaced the Shakespeare's plays in her classroom with works by nonwhite authors.

Dusbiber, who is white, said many of her students come from different ethnic and economic backgrounds than her own.

In the 2013-21014 academic year, 96 percent of Burbank students were nonwhites.

Also, 81 percent qualified for free or reduced-price lunches because their families did not make enough money, according to state data.

Dusbiber adjusted her teaching style to show nonwhite students successful authors with skin colors similar to theirs.

Instead of Shakespeare, Dusbiber assigns texts by authors from different backgrounds.

They include Isabel Allende, who was born in Peru, Sharon Draper, an African-American children's writer, and Mexican-American Francisco Jimenez.

In her essay, Dusbiber spoke out against teaching Shakespeare.

She said his view of the world is old-fashioned and also that he wrote as a white man.

Dusbiber said it is bad to cling "to ONE (white) MAN'S view of life as he lived it so long ago."

By doing so, "we (perhaps unwittingly) promote the notion that other cultural perspectives are less important," she wrote.

A few miles away at Sacramento New Technology High School, English teacher Christine Baker modernizes Shakespeare's works and creates interactive lessons for her students.

Shakespeare wrote in English, but it is English of 400 years ago and difficult to understand today.

Four out of 5 students at the south Sacramento campus are nonwhites.

Baker admitted Shakespeare's style of writing can be boring when read as a book instead of a play.

But she does not believe it should be removed from high school English classes.

She said Dusbiber's view on the matter is ridiculous.

Baker studied ways to modernize Shakespeare at the University of California, Davis, in 2013.

She asked her students to act out part of his play "Romeo and Juliet" before reading it on their own.

"Romeo and Juliet" is about two teens who fell in love but were prevented from marrying by their families.

"They get the feeling of fighting families, of young love," Baker said.

"They might make fun of it at first, but then I'll remind them that they're doing the same things in the hallways and they're like, 'Oh yeah.'"

Burbank Principal Ted Appel said he asked Dusbiber to make it clear that her views were her own, not the school's.

Dusbiber is not the first educator to suggest moving away from Shakespeare in the classroom.

Mark Powell, the assistant director at Salisbury Playhouse in England, wrote a similar opinion piece in The Guardian, a British newspaper.

Shakespeare's "words were chosen to be spoken or heard, not to be read and deadened behind a desk," Powell wrote.

Shakespeare's plays lose all life when they are not performed.

Sacramento City Unified School District trustees last week voted to require students in district high schools to complete an ethnic studies course before graduation.

The new requirement, in which students have to learn about other cultures, starts in 2020.

Dusbiber's view attracted negative reactions from many people across the country.

Most of the opposition came from conservative thinkers, who like traditionalists do not think the education system should change, though the left-wing magazine New Republic did not like her argument either.

The magazine stated that it is important to teach Shakespeare so students understand how people thought in the past.

Appel said Dusbiber's main goal was to make sure teenagers learned about many viewpoints during their time in high school.

"Her real concern is that students have an opportunity to be exposed to a broad array of texts and assignments," Appel said.

"The ultimate goal is to help students (think) about important questions and ideas."

