Most high school English teachers adore William Shakespeare, nicknamed the Bard, but not Dana Dusbiber.

In an essay published this month on a Washington Post education blog, the California teacher explained she does not want to teach Shakespeare's works despite his esteemed place in American education.

His perspective does not speak well to her ethnically diverse students.

Dusbiber's opinion caught fire online and on the airwaves as traditionalists decried her view as academic heresy.

"High school teachers are supposed to love Shakespeare, and I don't, so I said I didn't," said Dusbiber, who teachers at Luther Burbank High School.

"I think the reliance on Shakespeare is something I find odd."

After 25 years teaching in Sacramento, she said she has replaced Shakespeare's plays in her classroom with works by nonwhite authors.

Dusbiber, who is white, said many of her students come from different ethnic and socioeconomic backgrounds than her own.

In the 2013-14 academic year, 96 percent of Burbank students were nonwhites.

Also, 81 percent qualified for free or reduced-price lunches based on household income, according to state data.

Dusbiber adjusted her teaching style to show nonwhite students successful authors with skin colors similar to theirs.

Instead of Shakespeare, Dusbiber assigns texts by authors such as Isabel Allende, who was born in Peru, Sharon Draper, an African-American children's writer, and Mexican-American Francisco Jimenez.

In her essay, Dusbiber spoke out against teaching Shakespeare because of his outdated view of the world and his perspective as a white man.

Dusbiber wrote that it is bad to cling "to ONE (white) MAN'S view of life as he lived it so long ago."

By doing so, "we (perhaps unwittingly) promote the notion that other cultural perspectives are less important," she stated.

A few miles away at Sacramento New Technology High School, Christine Baker, who teaches 11th- and 12th-grade English, modernizes Shakespeare's works and creates interactive lessons for her students.

Four out of 5 students at the school are nonwhites.

Baker admitted the old style of writing can be tedious when read as a book instead of a play.

But she doesn't believe it should be removed from the high school curriculum.

"I think that's completely preposterous," Baker said of Dusbiber's view about teaching Shakespeare.

Baker studied ways to modernize Shakespeare at the University of California, Davis, in 2013.

She asked her students to act out the prologue to his famous play "Romeo and Juliet" before digging into the text on their own.

"They get the feeling of fighting families, of young love," she said.

"They might make fun of it at first, but then I'll remind them that they're doing the same things in the hallways and they're like, 'Oh yeah.'"

Burbank Principal Ted Appel said he asked Dusbiber to clarify that her views were personal, not representative of the school as a whole.

If Dusbiber taught 12th grade or International Baccalaureate (IB) English classes at Burbank, she would be required to assign Shakespeare's works.

California requires Shakespeare for 12th graders and for students who are in the special program for the international degree, Appel said.

"I think she stated her opinion, and I think it doesn't reflect the thinking of the whole school or our teachers, or the curriculum we teach within the school," he said.

Dusbiber is not the first educator to suggest moving away from Shakespeare in the classroom.

Mark Powell, the assistant director at Salisbury Playhouse in England, wrote a similar opinion piece in The Guardian, a British newspaper.

Shakespeare's "words were chosen to be spoken or heard, not to be read and deadened behind a desk," Powell wrote.

"They wither when performance is removed."

Sacramento City Unified School District trustees last week voted to require students in district high schools to complete an ethnic studies course before graduation.

The new requirement starts in 2020.

Dusbiber's view attracted negative reactions from many people across the country.

Most of the opposition came from conservative thinkers, though the left-wing magazine New Republic also did not agree with her argument, but for different reasons.

Appel said Dusbiber's main goal was making sure teenagers received a full worldview during their time in high school.

"Her real concern is that students have an opportunity to be exposed to a broad array of texts and assignments," Appel said.

"The ultimate goal is to help students (think) about important questions and ideas."

