One man trained soldiers to use Stinger missiles to shoot down enemy jets and helicopters.

Another sailed silently beneath the seas in a submarine during the Cold War.

A third piloted Black Hawk helicopters in Iraq.

Now they are using their wartime experience to teach in grade schools and high schools.

They are part of an effort to turn thousands of veterans into teachers.

The idea is that their leadership skills and life experiences could be valuable in the classroom.

More than 15,000 veterans have become teachers through the Troops to Teachers program since the military started it about 20 years ago.

Most teach in schools where there is a big need for teachers.

"A lot of times kids want to test me because I was in the military," said Anthony Kajencki, a former army air defense officer who teaches in Durham, N.C. " Look at this guy.

Let's see how tough he is.

Let's see if I can push him."

Kajencki is 41 and known to his students as "Captain K." He said one reason he chose to become a high school math teacher was a commitment he made after West Point to a lifetime of service.

At West Point and in the Army he learned how to take whatever was thrown at him and carry on.

It's what he tries to pass on to his students; that and what it's like to jump out of a plane.

People in the program who agree to work in schools that primarily serve low-income, high-needs students can get a $10,000 bonus.

Kajencki spent more than seven years in the Army.

He trained soldiers to use missiles to shoot down enemy aircraft.

He also was on the staff of a commanding general in Bosnia.

He left the military in 2001 to become a teacher.

But he ended up working in large stores instead.

In 2009 he looked into the Troops to Teachers program.

Duke University also gave him the chance to earn an advanced degree in education.

Kajencki agreed to teach at a poor school in return.

"I feel I have the ability to help people succeed," Kajencki said.

"I did that in the Army.

I did it in retail.

Now I'm doing it in education.

That's something that has given me a lot of joy."

John Helton is a 50-year-old retired Coast Guard commander who teaches an all-boys class of fifth-graders in South Carolina.

The students love to hear stories from his three-decade career.

He tells them about rescues at sea and submarines deep under water.

"That's how you get the buy-in," Helton said.

"Kids nowadays don't want to hear a talking head.

They want to hear someone who is excited about it and has something to say and really cares about them."

Helton enlisted in the Navy and served for more than 10 years on submarines.

Then he spent 20 years as a Coast Guard engineer.

The career took him to ports from Maine to the Midwest, as well as Puerto Rico.

"Pretty much everything I teach I have a story," Helton said.

Helton has a degree in education.

But he wanted to teach in an elementary school.

He went through Troops to Teachers and Teach for America, an organization that recruits college graduates and professionals to teach in low-income schools.

Helton often worked 12-hour days and spent several more hours in the evening to prepare for the next day in his first year teaching last year.

Like many of his students, he grew up without a father around most of the time.

He lived on welfare and didn't have somebody to guide him.

This is why he got involved in Troops to Teachers after he retired from the Coast Guard in 2011.

"If we can get ahold of the kids when they're young and make a difference in their lives and spark a desire to learn," he said, "then we'll have them for life."

Brandon Phillips' military career is also something he talks about occasionally in his fourth-grade class.

When he teaches math to his fourth-graders in Springfield, Ga., he might say, "I had to know how to do that when we would fly missions in Iraq.

Pilots need to know how to do this."

Phillips, 40, was the Black Hawk flight leader with Army Special Operations on missions in Iraq and Afghanistan.

He had to plan with his team, manage the work and keep everybody doing what was necessary to complete the mission.

In some ways, his classroom is no different.

"There's always multiple things going on," Phillips said.

"Different people have different needs.

My brain is just wired to be able to respond to that without getting too stressed out."

