President Theodore Roosevelt's love of the country's wide open spaces spurred him to create and conserve hundreds of national forests, parks and monuments.

His legacy, though, is being preserved virtually on the Internet.

A devoted group of Roosevelt scholars and admirers are finishing a design for a library and museum commemorating the life of the 26th president.

Unlike other presidential libraries, however, the Roosevelt library's collection will exist mainly online.

The physical library is expected to open in 2019 in Dickinson, a city of about 20,000 residents about 35 miles east of Theodore Roosevelt National Park in western North Dakota.

The park includes ranchland he once owned.

The library has already made thousands of notes, letters and photographs available online.

The National Archives in Washington, D.C., oversees all presidential libraries from Herbert Hoover, the 31st president, on.

Any library for a president who served before Hoover must be built and managed without the help of the federal government.

The National Archives helps to create a central location to collect the more recent presidents' papers.

Those of earlier presidents, like Roosevelt, are often scattered across the country in private collections and places like the Library of Congress and Harvard University.

To collect them all in one place — even virtually — the Theodore Roosevelt Center at Dickinson State University has digitally scanned about 50,000 documents.

They range from personal and presidential notes to letters and belongings.

The university, which is spearheading the library project, hopes to include hundreds of thousands more documents in the growing collection.

"It's very difficult to create a traditional presidential library for TR, because all the materials will never be gathered physically in one place," project manager Sharon Kilzer said.

She said the digital approach could be used for other libraries for presidents who predate Hoover.

"This could be a model through which the legacies of those other presidents are also preserved and made accessible to the public," Kilzer said.

Other libraries outside of the National Archives system have also digitized much of their subjects' materials.

The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library is a good example of that.

But those digital collections add to an already-impressive collection of physical artifacts and papers on site.

The Theodore Roosevelt Library and Museum is planned to open by the end of the decade.

Scholars hope its digital collection will eventually include every Roosevelt-related item they can find.

"And I think that's an interesting phenomenon; it's a very 21st-century idea," said Daniel Stowell, the director and editor of the Papers of Abraham Lincoln.

Stowell also sits on the advisory board for the as-yet unbuilt Roosevelt library.

Stowell estimated that the Roosevelt library will eventually become the headquarters for scholars and fans of Roosevelt.

In time, it will slowly collect more physical objects for the actual museum.

"Whatever topics you're interested in from Roosevelt's life and career ... the digital images are all brought together," he said.

The digital records will be drawn from sources ranging Harvard and the Library of Congress to private collections.

Last year, the North Dakota Legislature set aside $12 million for the 56,000 square-foot library.

The city of Dickinson pledged $3 million more, although those involved with the project predict the price tag will end up topping $15 million.

Richard Woollacott is the project manager for the Ohio-based company that's finishing the master design plan for the library.

He said he expects Roosevelt's library to look "like the Gilded Age, but updated with computers."

The Gilded Age, a term coined by author Mark Twain, refers to the final three decades of the 19th century.

"By having a traditional exhibit with a station where people could actually look up more in-depth information related to something that catches their interest, it tailors the exhibit to individual visitors," he said.

Visitors gain control over what information they want to view.

Roosevelt, who served as the 26th president from 1901 to 1909, was an author, a soldier, a hunter, an explorer and a naturalist.

He loved the country's rugged wilderness.

The teddy bear was named after him after he refused to shoot an old black bear in 1902, although Roosevelt hated it when people called him "Teddy."

During a 1883 hunting trip, Roosevelt fell in love with an area of North Dakota wilderness, called the badlands, and he returned the following year to raise cattle.

He established the Elkhorn Ranch along the Little Missouri River about 25 miles east of the Montana border.

Organizers hope that learning about Roosevelt's life and experiencing first-hand the natural beauty of the badlands will give visitors the complete picture of Roosevelt.

The area, often called the "cradle of conservation," would lead the former president to write, "It was here that the romance of my life began."

