President Theodore Roosevelt loved the great open spaces of the United States.

He created hundreds of national forests and parks.

A library and museum to remember his life is underway.

Unlike other presidential libraries, Roosevelt's will exist mainly on the Internet.

Roosevelt served as president from 1901 to 1909.

He was a writer, a soldier, an explorer and a nature lover.

The teddy bear stuffed animal was named for Roosevelt after he refused to shoot a bear.

Roosevelt hated it, though, when people called him "Teddy."

A presidential library collects the papers and belongings of a president.

It helps people understand the president and his effect on the country.

Roosevelt's library will be built in Dickinson, North Dakota.

The city is near the Theodore Roosevelt National Park created on ranchland Roosevelt once owned.

Roosevelt scholars and fans have already scanned thousands of documents, letters and photographs.

Many of them are already online.

So far, the Theodore Roosevelt Center has digitally scanned about 50,000 objects.

The center is located at Dickinson University, which is building the library.

The scanned objects include Roosevelt's personal and presidential notes, letters and belongings.

The center hopes to bring together everything about Roosevelt — even if it's online.

Roosevelt's papers are scattered across the country.

Private collectors own some of them.

They also are stored at places like the Library of Congress and Harvard University.

The materials will never be gathered in one place.

By digitalizing them, the center hopes everyone will be able to see them "It's very difficult to create a traditional presidential library for TR," said Sharon Kilzer.

She is in charge of the library project.

Roosevelt's nickname was TR.

She said the digital approach could be used for other presidents' libraries.

Other libraries also have digital records.

The Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library in Springfield, Illinois, is a good example.

But those libraries already have a large collection of physical records and objects.

Their online materials don't take the place of them.

The Theodore Roosevelt Library and Museum should open by 2020.

Scholars hope it will include every Roosevelt-related item they can find.

"It's a very 21st-century idea," said Daniel Stowell.

He is the editor of the Papers of Abraham Lincoln.

Stowell also is involved with the Roosevelt library.

Stowell thinks the library will become a gathering point for Roosevelt scholars and fans.

In time, it will collect more physical objects.

"Whatever topics you're interested in from Roosevelt's life and career ... the digital images are all brought together," he said.

North Dakota lawmakers are giving $12 million to build the library.

The city of Dickinson promised $3 million more.

The library will probably cost more, though.

Richard Woollacott is with Hilferty &amp; Associates.

The company designs museums.

Hilferty is finishing the library's master plan.

It will look "like the Gilded Age, but updated with computers," Woollacott said.

The Gilded Age in America lasted from 1870 to 1900.

The library will include computer stations.

People can look up more information about exhibits on them.

Roosevelt fell in love with North Dakota during a 1883 hunting trip.

He returned the following year.

Roosevelt created the Elkhorn Ranch there.

Organizers hope that the area's beauty will help visitors better understand Roosevelt.

The area is often called the "cradle of conservation."

It inspired Roosevelt to protect more of the nation's untouched land.

"It was here that the romance of my life began," Roosevelt wrote.

