When Selena Berry is having a hard day, she just looks toward the sky.

She thinks about how it feels to soar high in the clouds.

Berry is 17 years old and lives in a poor neighborhood.

She attends a challenging school.

The idea of flying makes her feel better.

"Flying makes you feel big," Berry said.

"You are on top of everything.

Untouchable.

You look down and all you see is the view, the beauty."

This summer, Berry took part in a program called Tuskegee Next.

She was one of eight African-American students from the Chicago area who enrolled.

The program teaches kids how to fly airplanes.

At the end, students earn a private pilot's license.

This is the first step toward learning to fly commercial planes.

The program's goal is to increase the number of African-Americans who are trained as pilots.

Stephen L. Davis is the founder of Tuskegee Next and owner of a lighting company in Illinois.

He has a special connection to flying.

Davis spent much of his life wanting to become a pilot.

But growing up, he could not pay for the expensive lessons.

By the time he could afford it, he had a wife and children and did not want to take the risk.

Now, Davis leads the local county airport.

He is the first African-American in that job.

"When you don't see black pilots, you don't think you can do it," he said.

"Even if these kids don't become pilots, learning to fly will give them confidence to do other great things."

It costs about $25,000 to earn a pilot's license.

The money pays for flying time and lessons.

But it is free for the students in Davis' program.

Davis donates his own money and raises funds to cover the tuition.

There are not many black pilots in the country today.

For every 100 pilots in the United States, fewer than 2 are African-American.

This may discourage young African-Americans from learning to fly.

For kids growing up in poor communities, learning to fly can have many benefits.

Getting into the sky behind the controls of a plane lets kids escape the hard lives they have at home.

They also learn discipline and build confidence.

"Flying an airplane is not necessarily as difficult as some of the other decisions these kids will have to make," Davis said.

"It's good for them to learn how to fly."

The Tuskegee Next program works with kids from troubled communities.

They welcome those who might never have such an opportunity and pay for all of their lessons.

Some of the students are already flying the planes alone.

On a recent afternoon, 20-year-old Quiana White spent about an hour alone in a Cessna airplane practicing turns.

This was her first solo flight.

When she landed, her friends from the school celebrated her success.

Marcellus Freeman, 18, grew up in the far South Side of Chicago.

He first learned about flying as a young boy.

His father worked at an airport as a ramp agent guiding planes to their gates.

His family also traveled frequently.

Ever since, Freeman knew he wanted to work in the sky.

"You're not the same person once you go up on your own," he said.

"No matter what happens, I know I'm a pilot."

