!

[](//newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/uploads/20130829_TEENJOBS.jpg) WASHINGTON — U.S. teen employment stayed stuck around record lows for the fourth summer in a row.

Now, experts fear that a generation of youth may face a future of lower pay and fewer opportunities.

Overall, the U.S. jobs market is getting better.

The unemployment rate has steadily dropped, to 7.4 percent in August.

And employers have been collectively adding almost 200,000 new jobs a month in recent months.

So there was hope that this would be the summer when teen employment improved.

But it was not to be.

In 1999, slightly more than half of teenagers 16 to 19 worked a summer job.

But by this year, that number had plunged to less than a third over June and July.

There are about 16.8 million teenagers in the United States.

"We have never had anything this low in our lives.

This is a Great Depression for teens, and no time in history have we encountered anything like that," said Andrew Sum, director of the Center for Labor Market Studies at Northeastern University in Boston.

"That's why it's such an important story."

Summer is traditionally the time when the most teens have jobs.

They are off from school and get their first brush with employment and the responsibilities that come with it.

But falling teen employment is just as striking year-round over the past decade.

The picture looks even worse when broken out by race.

Sum and his coworkers did just that.

They compared June and July 2000 and the same two months of 2013.

In 2000, 61.28 percent of white teens 16 to 19 held a job, a number that fell to 39.25 percent this summer.

For African-Americans, a number that was dismal in 2000, 33.91 percent of 16- to 19-year-olds holding a job, fell to a staggering low of 19.25 percent this June and July.

It wasn't much better for Hispanics.

They saw the percentage of employed teens fall from 40.31 percent in the two-month period of 2000 to 26.7 percent in June and July 2013.

There was a big surprise in the research, too.

Teens whose parents were wealthy were more likely to have a job than those whose parents had less income.

Some 46 percent of white male teens whose parents earned between $100,000 and $149,000 held a job this summer.

Only 9.1 percent of black male teens whose family income was below $20,000 had a job.

And 15.2 percent of Hispanic male teenagers with that same low family income held a job.

That finding is important.

A large amount of research shows that teens who work do better in a wide range of social and economic indicators.

The plunging teen employment rate could mean trouble for this generation of young workers of all races.

"Kids that get work experience when they are 17 or 18 end up graduating from college at a higher rate," said Michael Gritton.

He is executive director of the Workforce Investment Board.

The group works to create jobs and for teen employment in Louisville, Ky., and six surrounding counties.

"There are economic returns to those young people because they get a chance to work.

Almost every person you ask remembers their first job because they started to learn things from the world of work that they can't learn in the classroom," he explained.

The teen employment numbers are calculated by the U.S. government.

The weak employment numbers sometimes prompt people to say that younger workers are just staying in college longer rather than entering the workforce, or are going on to graduate school given the impaired jobs market.

But that idea is mistaken, experts say.

"I think there is this myth out there that there is some silver lining for young people, that they are going on to college.

You don't see an increase in enrollment rates over and above the long-term trend.

You can't see a Great Recession blip," said Heidi Shierholz, a labor economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute, a research group.

"They are not in school.

There's been a huge spike in the not-in-school, not employed.

It's just a huge missed opportunity."

Even before the economy took a nosedive in the summer of 2008, workers aged 16 to 19 made up a shrinking share of the overall workforce.

Part of the reason was that more teens were going to college.

Another part was that universities now place less importance on work and more on life experiences and volunteering.

But most of this decline in youth in the workforce is thought to be the result of the severe economic crisis and what happened after.

Older workers have been taking the jobs of teens.

"People entering into the labor force in their 20s, it looks like more and more now they're not going to have any work experience as teens.

Labor force participation is as low as it's ever been," said Keith Hall.

He served as commissioner of the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics from 2008 to 2012.

Hall points to a troubling trend within an already worrisome number.

Because of the so-called Great Recession, middle-age and older workers are not moving up the career ladder.

"I think that means that a lot of workers aren't advancing through their careers," he said.

"Younger workers aren't going to be progressing through their careers as they did before."

