!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20140422_STOWAWAY_Hawaii.jpg)A teenager managed to sneak onto a flight to Hawaii over the weekend.

He climbed over the fence at the airport and into the wheel well of a plane.

The wheel well is the place where the wheels are kept while the plane is in the air.

They are dropped down later when the plane lands.

Now, airports around the country are worried.

They think the boy's trip could say something about how safe and secure American airports really are.

If a teenager could hop over a fence and onto a plane, why couldn't a terrorist?

There have been many airport break-ins in the past few years.

They have all come through the outside fences.

But nothing is as unbelievable as what happened on Sunday.

The California teenager survived a 5½-hour, nonstop flight to Maui, Hawaii.

"Somebody can come onto an airport and get to the wheel well of an airplane," Brian Jenkins said.

If this is true, it means that "someone else can plant a bomb."

Jenkins works for a group that studies different issues for the government.

Some of the research the group does is on national safety.

San Jose's airport is surrounded by 6-foot fences.

Some areas have barbed wire on top.

Some of the area where the plane takes off is monitored by cameras.

But airport officials did not know that anyone had gotten on the plane without permission.

"We have 1,050 acres," Rosemary Barnes said.

She works for the airport.

"That's a lot of fence line.

He could have scaled the fence line really through any area here at the airport.

It's very easy to do so under the cover of darkness, and it appears that's what he did."

Barnes said there is video that shows what happened.

You can see a "person walking on the airport ramp" and going up to the plane.

The video was not discovered until after the airplane landed in Maui.

"If there is video of him going over the fence, why was there no response?"

asked Jenkins.

He also runs the National Transportation Security Center.

That is located at San Jose State.

The U.S. government sets the rules for airport safety.

But airports are responsible for making sure people obey the rules.

The rules can be different from airport to airport.

The embarrassing accident is not the first time something like this has happened.

There has been a string of airport break-ins over the past few years.

The government is worried about them.

"People shouldn't be able to just (walk onto) a runway or airliner," said Representative Eric Swalwell.

He is responsible for keeping transportation and airlines safe.

Salwell's committee will ask the government to update its safety numbers.

It last reported on airport fence safety needs in 2009.

Since that report, five more events of people sneaking onto airport grounds were reported.

Some airports have expensive systems to protect the planes.

Even with the fancy technology, they still depend on people watching screens.

It is unlikely that the people who watch these screens can pay attention for a long time.

San Jose's safety program has many parts.

Workers there are trained to report safety concerns.

They are supposed to tell law enforcement and airport managers.

But those measures were not enough to stop a teenager.

Advanced systems are "pricey," said John Hernandez.

He is from a consulting firm that works with government contractors.

Airports in general are not worried enough about fence safety, he said.

