It was amazing enough that the teenager survived a rare type of cancer that attacked her liver.

But then Elana Simon decided to study it.

And now there's hope for finding a way to help others with her type of cancer get better.

She has helped scientists find a strange problem in certain genes.

Genes are the building blocks of all living things.

Genes determine what hair color we'll have and how tall we'll be.

They also decide our chances of having diseases.

Finding the gene problem may help learn how the illness strikes people like Simon.

That could help doctors know how to treat it.

Age 18 is pretty young to be listed as one of the writers of a study.

The study she helped write was in a respected magazine called Science.

She is still only in high school.

Simon, of New York City, says it's amazing she's been able to do this.

The disease she wanted to study attacks the liver in the body.

It mostly hits people around her age: teenagers and people a little older.

Studying the illness required help from scientists.

Luckily her father runs a lab at Rockefeller University.

Her doctor at a hospital also helped.

Experts at the New York Genome Center, which studies genes, assisted the study.

A second person who survived the cancer also co-wrote the study.

Together, the team reported Thursday that they uncovered an oddity.

A break in the genes would leave the "head" of one gene stuck to the "body" of another.

It results in an unusual protein.

This protein doesn't form in healthy livers.

But it is in tumors, which grow in people who have cancer.

So the problem in these genes might have something to do with how cancer grows, the study said.

They've found the problem in all 15 of the tumors tested so far.

There's more to be done.

It was a small study.

More work is needed to better understand the gene problem, cautioned Dr. Sanford Simon.

He's Elana's father and helped write the study.

The National Institutes of Health is helping.

It's a government agency that studies illnesses.

It posted a YouTube video on its website.

In it, Elana Simon and another patient who survived the illness explain why teen patients should get involved in the tests.

"Fibrolamellar Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Not easy to pronounce.

Not easily understood," it says about her disease.

Simon was found to have the disease at age 12.

Getting an operation is the only treatment that works.

Doctors, called surgeons, had to go inside her body to remove the tumor.

Her tumor was caught in time.

Simon knows other patients who weren't so lucky.

The idea to do the study came during her second year in high school.

She had an internship at a lab studying another kind of cancer.

She helped scientists sort information about genes that had strange changes to them, called mutations.

She used computers to help sort the information.

Simon wanted to try the same thing with the liver cancer she'd survived.

A problem was finding enough tumors to test.

Only about 200 people a year worldwide are found to have this type of cancer.

Dr. Michael LaQuaglia performs operations on children and was also Simon's doctor.

He agreed to help.

Simon spread the word to patient groups.

Finally, tumor samples to test came in.

Sanford Simon said his daughter helped look at what was different in the tumors with a computer.

The New York Genome Center located the weird change in the gene.

Other scientists then showed the unusual protein really is inside tumor cells.

As for Elana Simon, she's going to Harvard University next fall.

She plans to study more about computers there.

