American teenagers do not get enough exercise.

Public health experts say that teens should get at least an hour of exercise each day, and half of that could take place at school.

Scientists say students should spend 30 minutes of the school day doing moderate to challenging physical activity.

Schools would need to schedule exercise for about 8 percent of each school day to make that happen.

A recent medical study found that students are not reaching that number.

Instead, they exercise only about 5 percent of the school day, or around 23 minutes.

Researchers observed that young people spend many hours a week at school.

Because of this they say, "Even a small increase in the proportion of at-school time spent physically active could lead to meaningful increases in overall physical activity."

They say that would lead to better health.

American teenagers have a reputation for being among the least active in the world.

Only 8 percent get the recommended 60 minutes of exercise a day.

Studies show that without enough exercise, teens are more likely to develop a long-term illnesses such as diabetes and heart disease.

In addition, lack of exercise affects the brain and can result in lower grades.

Researchers wanted to take a closer look at teen exercise habits.

They gave global positioning system (GPS) monitors and activity trackers to a test group of volunteers.

Scientists chose 549 teens from Seattle, Washington, and Baltimore, Maryland. The devices recorded where the volunteers were and how much exercise they were getting every 30 seconds for about a week.

All of the teenagers were between 12 and 16 years old.

The GPS monitors showed that they spent most of their waking hours at school.

On average, they spent 42 percent of their time at school and 28 percent at home.

Thirteen percent was spent in their neighborhoods, 4 percent near their schools, and the rest elsewhere.

The activity trackers revealed that the students averaged about 39 total minutes of exercise each day. On school days, more than half of those minutes were at school. Teens spent at least 25 percent more time exercising on school days than on weekends.

When weekends were included, almost half of the week's total exercise happened at school.

Since the teenagers spent the largest amount of their time at school, that is where they got the largest total amount of exercise.

However, spending the most time at school also led to the most total time spent sitting while there.  The teens spent less time at home or outside than they did at school, and those were the places where students tended to be more active. Therefore, researchers concluded that students should exercise more at school.

They should also spend more time outside in neighborhoods and schoolyards.

"Increasing time in home and school neighborhoods might increase physical activity, partly by reducing time spent in less-active locations," the researchers said.

Scientists did not find that race or ethnicity made any difference in exercise patterns.

It also did not matter if students came from families where the parents went to college.

What they did find was that boys exercised more than girls, and that that should be kept in mind when trying to increase physical fitness in teens.

