Brookfield Central High School student Chloe Olier started driving earlier this summer.

Her parents Dany and Virginie installed a DriveCam.

The device records video whenever she makes a driving mistake.

She was not happy.

The system sends the 16-year-old's mistakes to her parents.

They review the video online with her.

Chloe said she felt like the recording was unfair.

Now Chloe says she would tell her friends about it.

It has made her a better driver.

She lives in Wisconsin.

Her family got the machine for free from their auto insurer, American Family Insurance.

The machine recorded her 23 times the first week.

Now, she does not make many mistakes.

"It's nice because it tells me what I'm doing wrong so I don't do it anymore," she said.

Monitoring devices can reduce risky driving behavior by teenagers.

A growing number of car and insurance companies offer the devices.

But not many people want them, yet.

Olier said she was the only one among her friends with a driving monitor.

Many Milwaukee-area families felt they got in the way of the trust they had with their children.

About 15,000 families have used the DriveCam in 19 states.

The company has recorded a big drop in unsafe driving by people using the devices.

The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety studied a device called Tiwi.

It also reports unsafe driving acts.

Tiwi showed that it reduced risky driving.

The best results came when teenagers had a chance to change their behavior before the device sent alerts to parents.

"Parents should consider using the devices," said Russ Rader.

He is a spokesman for the institute.

He said it has often been hard to get parents to use the devices.

Mike Gonzalez's 17-year-old son, Chris, got his license recently.

Gonzalez said he was not considering using any technology to keep an eye on his son's driving.

"They have to make their own decisions and make their own lives," he said.

"A driver's license means he's mature and he has to learn more about life."

That trust, however, appears to be generous.

Teenagers are the riskiest drivers and the most likely to crash.

Motor vehicle accidents are the No.

1 cause of death for Wisconsin teenagers, for example, according to the most recent information from the Department of Health.

A State Farm survey identified something dangerous.

It found a "trust gap" between parents and children.

Around 70 percent of parents thought their teenagers were "almost always" obeying graduated licensing rules.

But as few as 43 percent of teenagers said they did.

Graduated licensing laws place passenger limits and other rules on new, young drivers.

Jeff Pierson is a driving teacher in Milwaukee who owns Safety First Driving School.

He thought his teenage son was a great driver.

Then, one day, he trailed him as he drove with friends.

"I tell parents: Two weeks after they've got their license and they know friends are going to be with them, follow them.

I was so shocked.

As soon as two girls were on the ride, he burned rubber," Pierson said.

"When you get three to four kids in a car, it's a party.

It's just play time."

Teen monitoring devices are not popular.

But more insurance companies are offering the products.

For example, Progressive has a black box that records speeds and braking times.

21st Century Auto Insurance offers a GPS monitoring system.

It lets parents set limits on distance, time and speed.

