Moshe Kai Cavalin has two college degrees, yet he isn't old enough to vote.

He flies airplanes, yet he isn't old enough to drive a car alone.

Life is filled with contrasts for Moshe, a 17-year-old from San Gabriel, California, who has raced by major life events.

He graduated from community college at age 11.

Four years later, he had a bachelor's degree in math from the University of California, Los Angeles.

This year, he started online classes to get a master's degree in cybersecurity through Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts.

He decided to put that goal on hold for a couple of terms, though.

He is too busy working for NASA.

He helps develop surveillance technology that will let NASA watch over its airplanes and drones.

Drones are unmanned aircraft usually piloted with a remote control by a person on the ground.

Between all that, Moshe has racked up an exhausting list of extracurricular feats.

He just published his second book.

He drew experience from being bullied and from other young people's stories as well.

He plans to have his airplane pilot's license by the year's end.

At his family's home near Los Angeles, he has a trove of trophies from martial arts tournaments.

Still, Moshe insists that he's more ordinary than people think.

He credits his parents for teaching him well and giving him the freedom to pick his after-school activities.

His varied interests come from his varied cultural background, he said.

His mother is from Taiwan and his father from Brazil.

"My case isn't that special.

It's just a combination of parenting and motivation and inspiration," he says after a recent shift at NASA's Armstrong Flight Research Center in Edwards, California.

"I tend to not compare myself that often to other people.

I just try to do the best I can."

His parents say he was always a quick study.

At 4 months, he pointed to a jet in the sky and said the Chinese word for airplane, his first word.

He hit the limits of his home schooling after studying trigonometry, a high-level math class, at age 7.

Then his mom started driving him to community college.

Daniel Judge is a math professor who taught Moshe for two years at East Los Angeles College.

"I think most people just think he's a genius.

They believe it just comes naturally," Judge said.

Moshe has worked harder than any other student Judge has ever taught, he added.

His rapid rise, however, has not been without twists.

Early in college, he dreamed of being an astrophysicist.

Those space scientists study stars, planets and galaxies.

When he started taking advanced physics classes, though, his interest waned.

His fascination in cryptography led him toward computer science.

The art of writing or solving codes has been a better fit, Moshe said.

He was surprised when NASA offered him work after rejecting him in the past because of his age.

Moshe was perfect for a project that combines math, computers and aircraft technology, says Ricardo Arteaga, his boss and mentor at NASA.

"I needed an intern who knew software and knew mathematical algorithms," Arteaga adds.

"And I also needed a pilot who could fly it on a Cessna."

Around the office, Moshe is a quiet worker with an understated sense of humor, Arteaga says.

They laugh about typical scientist stuff.

His daily work at NASA has included running simulations, or tests, of airplanes and drones that are on course to collide.

He helps find ways to route them to safety.

"He's really sharp in mathematics," Arteaga says.

"What we're trying to bring out more is his intuitive skills."

In conversation, Moshe chooses his words with care.

He is not easily excited, at least until he discusses his distaste for being called a certain word.

"One word I don't take too kindly is genius," he said.

"Genius is just kind of taking it too far."

After he finishes his master's degree from Brandeis, Moshe hopes to get a master's in business at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Later, he wants to start his own cybersecurity company.

For now, though, he is counting down the days until his 18th birthday, when he will be able to get a California driver's license.

Moshe currently lives away from home to work at NASA.

He relies on his landlord for rides to the grocery store, or he takes a taxi.

His older co-workers drive him to work every day.

As for the other teenage stuff, Moshe says he'll wait until he gets his doctorate to find a girlfriend.

He's only half-joking.

A 17-year-old only has so much time in a day.

