American teenagers need more exercise.

Health experts say that teens should get at least an hour of exercise every day.

Half of that could happen at school.

Scientists say students should spend 30 minutes of the school day exercising.

A report for doctors says that students are not doing that.

Teens only exercise at school for about 23 minutes a day.

Young people spend many hours at school.

Experts believe that students should exercise more at school because they are there for so many hours.

American teenagers are known for being among the least active in the world.

Only about 1 in 15 U.S. students get a whole hour of exercise a day.

Scientists have found that without enough exercise, teens can become overweight.

They are also more likely to get diseases such as diabetes.

Diabetes is a problem with blood sugar.

They could even develop heart problems when they are older.

Too little exercise can also make it hard to think.

Students do not do as well in school.

Scientists wanted to take a closer look at teen exercise habits. Scientists chose a large group of students from Seattle, Washington and Baltimore, Maryland.

They were between the ages of 12 and 16.

The scientists gave fitness trackers to the teens. The trackers are like watches or bracelets and can be worn on the wrist. The trackers recorded where they went using a GPS.

They also showed how much exercise they were getting.

The information was recorded every 30 seconds.

Teens kept the trackers for about a week.

The trackers showed that students spent most of their awake time at school.

Scientists confirmed that the students spent about 7 hours of their day at school.

They also spent around five hours at home.

Students were outside near home or school about three hours a day.

Scientists found that the students got about 39 minutes of exercise each day. On school days, more than half of those minutes were at school. Teens also spent more time exercising on school days than on weekends.

In seven days, almost half of all exercise happened at school.

Scientists also learned that teenagers spent the largest amount of their time at school.

Because of this, that is where teens got the most exercise.

It just was not enough exercise, scientists say.

The teens spent more time moving around when they were not in school.

Because they were in school so much, scientists say that students should exercise more there.

They should also spend more time outside.

Scientists also found that boys exercised more than girls.

It was the only difference that they noticed.

They say schools should think about that when they plan gym classes.

