On her toughest days, Selena Berry would look to the sky and imagine herself soaring high in the clouds above her troubled Englewood neighborhood and hardscrabble middle school.

Thinking of being in the sky brought the 17-year-old some respite.

That's when she first began fantasizing about piloting airplanes.

"Flying makes you feel big," Berry said.

"You are on top of everything.

Untouchable.

You look down and all you see is the view, the beauty."

This summer, Berry is one of eight African-American students in the Chicago area enrolled in a new, rigorous program to learn how to fly and obtain a private pilot's licenses.

The initiative, Tuskegee Next, is a special effort to increase the number of African-Americans who can work as pilots, said Stephen L. Davis, who owns a lighting company based in Wheaton and founded the organization.

The main mission of the group is to help students follow the legacy of the Tuskegee Airmen, the country's first black military aviators, Davis said.

Once the students obtain certificates to fly private airplanes, they are on a path to learn how to fly commercial airliners.

"There is a need, and there are students with great potential," Davis said.

"I thought, 'How can I bring this all together and create a program to help urban kids?'

That's how this idea was born."

For much of his life, Davis, the first African-American to serve as chairman of the DuPage County Airport Authority Board, wanted to become a pilot, but could not afford the expensive schooling, he said.

By the time he could afford lessons, he had a wife and children and did not want to take the risk.

"When you don't see black pilots, you don't think you can do it," he said.

"Even if these kids don't become pilots, learning to fly will give them confidence to do other great things.

They will have the acumen, the math and science training that can take them as far as they want to go."

It costs about $25,000 to take the lessons and pay for the flying time, officials said.

Davis has paid for the students' classes at the Illinois Aviation Academy at DuPage Airport by donating some of the money himself and raising it through his connections and private organizations.

The Federal Aviation Administration tracks pilots by sex but does not keep statistics on ethnicity or race, agency officials said.

But according to the Organization of Black Aerospace Professionals, fewer than 2 percent of the nearly 600,000 licensed pilots in the United States are African-American.

"The biggest reason African-Americans are under-represented in flying is just plain old lack of exposure," said James Gordon, the president of the aerospace group.

"For too many African-Americans, they will never see or meet a pilot of color and when they do, it's from afar.

When we don't see it, we don't think we can do it."

For youths from rough communities, the benefits of learning to fly are greater than getting a job in the airline industry, said Gordon, who works training pilots for United Parcel Service.

They escape the harsh realities of their communities, learn discipline and build confidence.

"Flying an airplane is not necessarily as difficult as some of the other decisions these kids will have to make," he said.

"It's good for them to learn how to fly.

But we also have to mentor them so they can make good life decisions and make it to 18 safely."

Other aerospace camps and mentoring projects across the country encourage African-Americans to consider careers in aviation, but Tuskegee Next targets teenagers from troubled communities who might never have such an opportunity and pays for all of their lessons.

Some of the students receive a modest stipend to make up for the summer jobs they would have otherwise.

They live on the campus of Wheaton and Benedictine colleges so they won't be distracted.

Each day they arrive at DuPage Airport, where they start with a fitness regimen.

They then spend hours in a classroom going over coursework.

Students first learn to monitor weather and to navigate, said Robert Werderich, the owner of the school, who is helping to teach the program.

Students learn several methods for measuring temperature and altitude and figuring out how a plane will feel in the air.

"When you drive a car, you have stop signs and stoplights that tell you when to stop, when to speed up," Werderich said.

"These guys don't have that in the air."

All eight of the students have passed the written exam.

Now they are spending hours piloting a Cessna aircraft with an instructor.

Some are already flying the planes alone.

On a recent sunny afternoon, 20-year-old Quiana White spent about an hour alone in a Cessna practicing turns.

When she landed from her first solo flight, the other students crowded around her, offering her hugs and peppering her with questions.

"It was scary at first," said White, who is from South Chicago.

"I called the tower a lot for stupid stuff.

I couldn't hear so I kept asking the same questions."

Her heart was racing.

Eventually she got the hang of it and relaxed.

"It's not as big of a deal as it seems," she told the others in her class.

"It was nice.

And then it was over."

Normally the teens would have cut up White's shirt, a tradition that symbolizes the free-spirited nature of pilots.

But White had on a nice lace blouse she didn't want damaged.

"No one knew I would solo today.

I didn't know," she said.

"I wanted to do it so I pushed myself.

I'm glad I've got it behind me."

Growing up in Washington Heights on the far South Side, Marcellus Freeman, 18, became familiar with flying because his father worked at an airport as a ramp agent guiding planes to their gates and his family traveled frequently.

He was 6 years old when a pilot let him take a peek into the cockpit.

"I knew I couldn't work in a cubicle," he said.

"I wanted the sky to be my office."

The cost of lessons was the biggest obstacle, Freeman said.

So as he finished his studies at Morgan Park High School, he concentrated on getting into college and taking out loans for a bachelor's degree.

As a teenager, Freeman lost a close friend to gun violence.

So when he learned about the opportunity to learn to fly, he jumped at it.

He uses the memory of his lost friend to fuel his ambition and swallows any reservation about going up in the air.

"I feel better knowing I'm not out on the street fearing I'll be killed for some stupid reason," he said.

"I'm focused on this.

There are some long days and it gets tiring.

But I don't want this opportunity to pass me by.

They picked us because they know we can handle this."

Recently Freeman started flying solo.

It has made him a different man.

"You're not the same person once you go up on your own," he said.

"When you go up, you're nervous.

You know there's no one you can call on.

But when you land, you know yourself and you know you can do it.

No matter what happens, I know I'm a pilot."

For Berry, flight school is a major challenge, but she's pushing herself.

Before entering Tuskegee Next, the only time Berry had been on a plane was through programs at her high school, the Air Force Academy High School in Bridgeport, she said.

"Flying is like magic," she said.

"It really blows my mind that this object can go up in the air and stay there.

I feel like I'm getting to learn this neat trick that not a lot of people know.

It's so cool."

Normally reserved, at flight school Berry has come out of her shell.

She asks a lot of questions and tugs on her classmates for help.

She stays up late into the night making flashcards, memorizing terms and going over special calculators and equations.

She has come to view her class as family.

"I thought I'd sit alone forever," she said.

"These girls are my sisters now.

The boys are my brothers.

Whenever I need help, they are there for me.

"This is the hardest thing I've done in my life."

