S. teen clothing retailers are closing dozens of stores.

For years, teens have hung out at the stores in malls.

They were looking for trendy clothes.

Maybe they wanted a flashy logo.

Now, retailers such as American Eagle Outfitters, Abercrombie &amp; Fitch and Aeropostale don't think they need so many stores.

These and other retailers ruled the nation's high school wardrobes for years.

Now they are trying to change how and where they sell clothes.

They want to serve a generation that uses smartphones.

Teens today move easily between digital and mall shopping.

So retailers need to help them shop by phone.

They also need to sell new styles faster and at prices teens are willing to pay.

The chains may have been slow to act.

But they are taking the problem seriously.

Brian Tunick follows retail for banking firm JPMorgan.

He said lower-priced chains made significant gains from 2007 to 2013.

So did "fast-fashion" retailers like Forever 21, H&amp;M, Uniqlo and Zara.

They did it party by selling inexpensive clothes.

They also change the clothes they sell frequently.

Most of the "fast-fashion" retailers are international companies.

However, they've opened many stores in the United States.

Meanwhile, the American teen clothing retailers were following the example of some of those international players.

They opened a lot of stores around the world.

Their international stores have done well.

Most U.S. retailers plan to continue to open stores overseas.

Yet they still have really big chains across North America.

The problem is figuring out what to do with those stores.

Teen spending slowed during 2007 to 2009, a period known as the Great Recession.

Many people lost jobs and had less money to spend on clothes.

There also haven't been any major fashion trends lately to drive sales.

Now the answer seems clear: Adding more stores isn't always the way to add sales.

In mid-May, American Eagle said it will close 150 stores in North America over the next three years.

It is closely watching 300 more.

The stores have leases, or contracts to rent the spaces, that are ending.

Tunick noted that Abercrombie had closed 260 locations since 2011.

Pacific Sun had closed 230 stores in that period.

Aeropostale is expected to close up to 300 locations in the next few years, he said.

The cuts aren't done.

Abercrombie recently said it is on track to close 60 to 70 stores this year as leases end.

Susquehanna Financial Group retail expert Thomas A. Filandro pointed out that more than 500 of Abercrombie's store leases end by 2017.

Randal J. Konik is a retail for Jefferies, a banking firm.

He said 30 percent of teen market store space could be closed over the next three years.

Still, the timing may not be bad for the shopping center business.

Things hit a low point in 2010 and 2011.

Now regional malls have an average of 93 percent of their space filled.

Shopping centers overall are at 92 percent, said Jesse Tron, who works for a group that supports shopping centers.

That's back to the levels before the Great Recession, he said.

Tron noted 94 percent of sales in the United States are still made through physical stores.

The rest are made online or through smartphones or tablets.

The industry's new goal is to combine online and offline stores.

That may result in store closures.

But Tron noted there are other retailers, like Uniqlo and H&amp;M, adding locations.

Also, some online-only merchants are finding they want physical spaces to get more attention and give customers a different shopping experience.

"Experience" is likely to be a popular word going forward.

Retailers hope to make stores welcoming and the visits worth the effort.

In the past, Abercrombie's stores had windows covered by blinds.

Meanwhile, the company's Hollister chain stores had beach shack entrances that made it hard to see inside.

Now the company is testing a new version of the Hollister stores.

Some 75 to 100 are expected to be done by 2015.

Abercrombie executive Jonathan E. Ramsden said that it's clear why the new storefronts are working.

"I mean it's very fresh and new," he said.

"You can see into the store.

You can see the merchandise … We're certainly pulling more customers into the store."

