The sky is cloudless and blue in this coastal community of bungalows by the sea.

But Stephanie Abrams has disaster on her mind.

A meteorologist with the Weather Channel, Abrams is here to co-host the network's morning shows to kick off the start of hurricane season.

Her employer is predicting more storms than usual this year.

Abrams has come to this town, which was walloped by Superstorm Sandy last year, to warn viewers of potential dangers in the months ahead.

"It only takes one — one Sandy or Katrina in order for the entire U.S. or the entire world to feel that hurt and pain," she said.

Seconds later, viewers watching the show live on TV saw a scary graphic of a gazebo battered by wind and rain.

The station proclaimed itself Hurricane Central.

Bad weather is good business for the Weather Channel.

Helped by a steady string of blizzards, tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes, the cable channel has increased its revenue while some other media outlets have struggled.

Even when the weather in most of the country is mild, the channel's coverage tends to be heavy with big graphics, capital letters and warnings of what bad weather could be unfolding somewhere, soon.

The company even changed its name to the Weather Co. from the Weather Channel last year as it offers more information on websites and mobile devices.

But the Weather Channel, as most still call it, has come under fire for covering storms in a way that seems more entertainment than information.

It decided last year to start giving names to winter storms.

That decision upset meteorologists and the National Weather Service, which is responsible for naming hurricanes.

Its coverage of what it dubbed "Nemo," the snowstorm that blanketed much of the East Coast in February, featured all-caps headlines such as "YOU MUST PREPARE NOW."

The graphics of snow and wind that illustrated the coverage seemed to depict the Ice Age rather than a snowstorm.

The gossip site Gawker poked fun with an article headlined "Snow Panic Has Driven Weather.com Completely Insane."

Still, advertisers love big storms.

The fourth quarter of the 2012, which included Sandy and some other big winter storms, was a blockbuster, said Curt Hecht, a company executive.

Weather.com had more page views on the first day of Sandy than NBC.com had for all of the London Olympics.

"It's hard to say, 'Boy, we made a lot of money' … when people have lost their homes," Hecht said.

But the company made more money selling ads during Sandy than it had during any other hurricane, he said.

The week Sandy hit, average viewership doubled from the previous week from 6 to 10 a.m., according to the ad firm Horizon Media.

The morning time slot is heavily watched and valuable for advertisers.

Technology allows the company to air more and more footage from big storms across the U.S. and around the world.

It has also beefed up its website with feature stories and photo galleries that are only slightly weather-related ("Before the Bikini: Rare Vintage Beach Photos").

NBC and two other companies bought the Weather Channel in 2008.

Since then the Weather Channel started airing more reality shows and television programs such as "Deadliest Space Weather" and "Forecasting the End."

"Forecasting the End" is about how "catastrophic weather or natural disasters could possibly cause the end of days."

The show's website warns viewers that "one fiery spark" of methane gas "could ignite global destruction."

That's a big departure from the Weather Channel's early days.

The channel was founded in 1982 as a way to bring localized forecasting to viewers across the country.

It promoted itself as a necessity for viewers trying to plan their days who wanted to know what kind of weather they might encounter.

"I can't watch the Weather Channel anymore — it's just like Froot Loops fed to you," said Carson Glover, a wannabe meteorologist in New York.

"They have pictures of lawn chairs tipped over, it gets people needlessly anxious, and then it just feeds on itself," he said.

But as people use websites and mobile apps for their daily forecasts, the Weather Channel had to give viewers something different, said Brian Wieser, an analyst with Pivotal Research Group.

Longtime viewers seem divided over the company's new direction.

On the Weather Channel's Facebook page, some commenters say they are fascinated by promotions for new series, while others urge the channel to return to weather coverage only.

"I am captivated by the excitement &amp; adventurous &amp; scientific explanations of these Historic Events.

Love it!!!!"

wrote one viewer.

"I am old.

I remember when the Weather Channel actually was weather coverage 24/7/365 not this crap they put on now," wrote another.

But executives say that viewers are becoming more interested in weather as they see destruction from storms such as Sandy and Katrina, the hurricane that devastated New Orleans.

They wonder whether they'll be seeing more extreme events like them soon.

The company's first goal is to prepare people who are in the line of danger from storms, Weather Co. chairman and CEO David Kenny said.

But it also wants to explain the weather and show its ferocity to viewers.

"There is more extreme weather, there are more unusual patterns, and as we've been able to film it more, it's a more interesting story," he said.

That might be part of the struggle the Weather Co. faces.

It may be tough to both inform people about the weather and highlight the dangerous nature of storms without exaggerating their danger to the average viewer.

"There's a lot of anecdotal evidence that certain stations put a guy on the beach to get good visuals, but it's not necessarily the smartest thing to do," said Jeffrey Lazo, an economist who studies the public's demand for weather forecasts.

"It can be hard to separate the hype from the public service part."

