Samantha Cunningham was going to a music festival when she realized she had left her asthma medicine at home.

She was halfway through a five-hour drive and her options were limited.

Cunningham could go back home and pick up her asthma inhaler, which could save her life if she had an asthma attack.

Yet that would make her late for the concert.

She could also pay more than $100 to see a doctor without an appointment and get a prescription.

She could also go without her medicine and hope there would be emergency equipment to help her breathe if she had an asthma attack at the festival.

That last option did not seem like a very good idea, she said.

Then a friend suggested American Well, a service that lets doctors see patients on video through the Internet or a smartphone.

Cunningham, 23, downloaded the phone app and entered her personal information.

Soon, she was discussing her problem with Dr. Minoti Parab, a family doctor in Charlotte, North Carolina, who sees only "telemedicine" patients like Cunningham on her home computer.

The app and visit with Dr. Parab took about 30 minutes and cost $49, far less than a traditional office visit.

When it was over, Cunningham had a prescription for a new asthma inhaler that she filled at a drugstore before arriving on time for the concert.

"It was really a perfect solution," she said.

It's also a perfect example of telemedicine, using electronic technology to provide patient care and share medical information from afar.

Several companies already offer these video consultations.

They serve consumers, employers, insurers and hospitals.

Large hospitals also use telemedicine to make their doctors available to small hospitals.

Technology is providing more and more solutions to medical problems.

Robots help treat emergency room patients and let doctors treat stroke victims far away.

New phone apps let users get full eye exams with their smartphones.

Other technology helps therapists check the moods of mental health patients on a computer screen and text them instructions or warnings.

These and other developments are expanding the uses of telemedicine, or "virtual medicine" — another term for treating patients from afar.

Telemedicine could avoid about two-thirds of unnecessary emergency room visits, according to a study.

The study also found that telemedicine could cut out about one-third of doctors' visits.

Telemedicine is expected to grow, as patients get comfortable with it and it becomes routine for simpler problems.

The benefits of virtual medicine "are just kind of punch-you-in-the-face clear and obvious," said David Francis.

He is an executive at RBC Capital Markets, the banking company that published the study.

Telemedicine could grow even more if Medicare would cover it more.

Medicare, the government-run health program for people age 65 and older, now pays for some telemedicine services for rural patients.

There are some conditions though, which make telemedicine more expensive than regular medical services, according to a report by the federal government.

A number of proposals in Congress would expand how much telemedicine is paid for under Medicare.

The proposals have been stalled because Congress can't judge what they would cost the government.

One area lawmakers and health care experts are looking into is stroke care.

There, speed can make a difference in treatment.

With telemedicine, neurologists — doctors who specialize in treating the brain — can work remotely with doctors on the scene and suggest treatments to improve the patient's chances.

In a nation already short of neurologists, technology helps put more doctors in more places.

"The numbers don't lie," said Dr. Til Jolly.

"There are not going to be all these physicians we need in all the places we need them, so we have to figure out a better way."

Jolly is chief medical officer at Specialists On Call, a telemedicine company with more than 200 doctors in 33 states.

Video conferences are the bread and butter of telemedicine, but mobile apps are the new frontier.

Apps seem especially good for mental health uses.

Centerstone, a company that offers mental health services, said patients who used its phone app ended up in the hospital less often.

The app can spot when the patients show symptoms and alert their caregivers.

Patients really liked the apps, said Bob Siegmann, a Centerstone executive.

They felt they could control and understand their illnesses better, he said.

It's hard to judge how much the apps helped by themselves, said John Torous, a doctor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School.

The lack of research on the use of apps for mental health should make therapists stop and think, he said.

It's hard to decide now what are good and bad apps, Torous said.

"We're not thinking of them medically and asking the medical questions: What are the risks and benefits of use?"

he said.

"For most of these things, we just don't know."

