Samantha Cunningham has asthma.

It is an illness that can make it hard to breathe sometimes.

She takes medicine that helps her when she has an attack.

One day, she was going to a concert and forgot her medicine.

She was halfway through a five-hour drive.

She thought about what to do.

She could turn back and miss the concert.

Or, she could go see a doctor on the way to get more medicine.

That would have cost her a lot of money.

Her other choice was to just go and risk getting sick.

That was not a good idea, she said.

Then a friend told her about a company called American Well.

It lets people see a doctor on video.

They can talk through a computer or a cellphone.

Cunningham talked to a doctor and got her medicine.

She got to the concert on time.

"It was really a perfect solution," Cunningham said.

It was also a perfect example of telemedicine.

It is a new way to treat patients.

Doctors use the technology to care for patients far away.

They use cameras to talk online or on the phone.

Technology is solving more health problems.

Robots help in hospitals.

Phone apps can give eye exams.

Telemedicine could save a lot of money.

It could also save visits to the doctor.

More people may use it as they get used to telemedicine.

"The numbers don't lie," said Dr. Til Jolly.

He is a doctor with a telemedicine company.

Soon, there will not be enough doctors in some parts of the country.

We have to find a better way to help people there, he said.

Phone apps have become popular in telemedicine.

They can be good for when people are sad or angry.

A company called Centerstone tested a phone app.

The app can see when someone is having emotional problems and warn the person treating them.

Patients really liked the app, said Bob Siegmann.

He works at Centerstone.

The patients felt they knew better how to handle their emotional problems, he said.

It is hard to tell how much the app really helped, said John Torous.

He is a doctor who treats emotional problems.

It is hard to decide which apps are good or bad, Torous said.

There are not enough studies about them, he said.

"For most of these things, we just don't know."

