On Wednesday, Mexican scientists announced a major discovery.

Underneath the ancient city of Teotihuacan, three buried chambers have been found at the end of a tunnel.

Teotihuacan is located in the mountains just outside Mexico City.

It was founded around 150 B.C.

and collapsed sometime in the seventh century A.D., long before Europeans arrived in the Americas.

At its height, it was probably the most powerful city in all of North America.

The tunnel was first discovered in 2003.

It is located beneath an important religious building, the Temple of the Feathered Serpent.

Mexican scientists say that the newly discovered rooms contained thousands of objects.

Among them were carved statues, rubber balls, jade from Guatemala and a wooden box of seashells.

So far, though, no bodies have been found.

Nonetheless, scientists suspect someone important, perhaps even a king, lies buried somewhere in the tunnel.

Sergio Gomez is in charge of the tunnel excavation project.

"Just before the chambers is where we found very important offerings," he said.

Such offerings would likely have been made to honor a dead person of great importance.

There were a lot of offerings, alongside many other kinds of objects.

"These findings are very important," commented Professor George Cowgill.

It will probably take years of study to truly understand the significance of each object, he added.

The inhabitants of Teotihuacan did not have a system of writing, so little is known about how they lived or ran their city.

Some believe there was a single all-powerful ruler.

Others claim power was shared among four rival groups.

Neither images of Teotihuacan's kings nor royal tombs have yet been discovered.

If a royal tomb is found somewhere in the tunnel, it might provide much new information about life in the ancient city.

The tunnel was first discovered when a heavy rainstorm exposed a shaft that led to it.

Scientists believe the tunnel was used in ceremonies.

Gomez's team has been digging out the tunnel for the past 11 years and has found many offerings.

In 2013 they made their first great discovery when they uncovered two chambers located across from each other.

The chambers were filled with mirrors and strange crystal balls.

Past those two chambers the soil in the tunnel was extremely wet.

Digging became much more difficult, which explains why it took so long to find the new rooms.

The three newly uncovered chambers were located only a few dozen feet down the tunnel from the first two.

In and around the three new chambers Gomez and his team found more puzzling objects.

They include a wooden box filled with shells brought from the ocean and carved by stone tools.

In addition, there were four 2-foot-tall jade statues, rubber balls and jaguar remains.

The team also found bits of skin, although they can't be sure yet if the skin is human.

In any case, they have not yet located a tomb in any of the chambers.

The newly discovered objects could be offerings, Professor Cowgill said.

However, the "large number of rather plain jars" suggests another possible explanation.

The objects could be the remains of a huge feast that was part of a funeral ceremony.

Cowgill added that some other objects in the chambers show that trade was being carried out with distant peoples.

Also, some of the objects suggest that women had an important position in Teotihuacan society.

The newly discovered rooms are still filled with dirt and rubble.

Gomez's team will continue to dig until they reach the floors.

He said it is possible that a tomb is hidden under the rubble or even below the chamber floors.

"It's very exciting," Gomez said.

While he said he believes someone very important is buried in the tunnel, "we won't know for sure until next year."

