Electric car maker Tesla Motors has introduced a new autopilot system that puts the company far ahead of its competitors.

The new system lets cars change lanes by themselves.

Like other autopilot systems already available from Mercedes, Audi and Volvo, Tesla's system automatically keeps the car within its lane and maintains a safe distance from the car in front, both at highway speeds and on city streets.

It can find a parking spot and parallel park itself.

It also uses cameras and sensors to warn drivers about potential side impacts.

Tesla's new lane-changing feature is an industry first.

Elon Musk, Tesla's chief executive officer, said the system is also unique because it will constantly collect information from actual drivers and improve itself.

The system will note, for example, how quickly drivers can safely navigate a particular bend in the road or where stop signs are located.

The new system will change driving "quite drastically," Musk said on Wednesday.

"I think this is going to be quite a profound experience for people."

Musk added a word of caution: Drivers need to keep their hands on the wheel, and the autopilot system will chime to remind them if they do not.

Drivers — not Tesla — will be held responsible if there is a crash, Musk said.

"We're being especially cautious at this early stage, so we're advising drivers to keep their hands on the wheel just in case," he said.

"The software is very new."

Musk said fully hands-free driving is still at least three years away from a technical standpoint.

He added that it will probably take government regulators longer than that to allow it.

The autopilot update will be added to around 60,000 vehicles worldwide, including Model S sedans made after September 2014 and Model X SUVs.

Owners will get the system through a software update that began on Oct. 14 in North America.

Owners in Europe and Asia were scheduled to get the software update about a week later.

People with Model S sedans that were made earlier do not have the required sensors and will not be able to add them now, Musk said.

Only owners who paid the $2,500 charge for the full autopilot system will be able to activate all of the autopilot features.

However, Musk said, the side-impact warning is a safety feature and will be available to everyone.

For the next update, Musk said, Tesla is working on having the car drive itself in and out of garages when it is summoned by the owner.

Automobile industry expert Karl Brauer said Tesla's new system appears to outpace anything the company's rivals have come up with.

General Motors' soon-to-be-released Super Cruise system, for example, will let drivers take their hands off the wheel but does not allow automatic lane-changing.

"This is the game we're going to be playing, round and round, for the next five to 10 years" until a fully self-driving car is achieved, Brauer said.

"Each time there's a step by someone out there, everyone will have to match it."

Brauer said that process could be dangerous because it means people may not know what their car is capable of.

Such uncertainty "could introduce many more problems," he said.

Musk remains convinced about the benefits of autopilot, however.

"In the long term, it will be safer than a person driving," he said.

