Test tube meat grown in huge tanks is the food of the future, according to two Dutch professors.

They argue that man-made meat could provide the world with a plentiful, environmentally safe and humane source of protein.

Their article was published Tuesday in the journal Trends in Biotechnology.

"As large parts of the world become more prosperous, the global consumption of meat is expected to rise enormously in the coming decades," the professors from Wageningen University wrote.

The university is the only one in the Netherlands that focuses on healthy food and the environment.

The result of producing this much meat will be more environmental pollution, energy consumption and animal suffering, they said.

Bioethicist Cor van der Weele and bioprocessing engineer Johannes Tramper say one way to solve the problem is a "protein transition."

This probably involves substituting vegetables for meat, raising fewer animals for meat, and possibly eating insects.

This last suggestion might make hamburger grown from lab-cultured stem cells sound positively appetizing.

The authors envision a day when "every village" grows its own meat.

Muscle stem cells from pigs, cows, chicken, fish or other animals would grow and reproduce in 5,200-gallon processing tanks.

Stem cells reproduce and grow into any kind of cell in the body.

The cells would be suspended in a liquid or gel that provides them with nutrition, like algae, and mechanical paddles would constantly mix the solution.

When the cell population reaches the desired density — perhaps in a month, the authors say — an enzyme and binding protein are added to the solution.

At that point, the mixing stops and the tissue cells form small clumps and settle to the bottom of the tank.

The tank is then drained of the growing medium.

The remaining "meat slurry" is pressed into a dense cakes and sold.

The idea may sound far-fetched.

But consider a 2003 L'Art Biotech exhibition in France in which cultured frog meat was served as the cell-donor frog looked on, van der Weele says.

If cultured meat can be grown in algae, energy use wouldn't be reduced dramatically, the authors wrote.

But [greenhouse-gas emissions](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming), land use and water use would be reduced by more than 90 percent compared to European beef.

The system envisioned by the authors could produce roughly 28 tons of meat a year, equivalent to the meat of about 112 beef cattle.

In a year, the man-made meat could feed more than 2,500 people.

Of course, there are some very real economic and technological hurdles facing their plan.

The cost of the growth medium would directly affect the cost of the meat product.

Also, producers would have to establish healthy, continuous stem cell lines.

And then would people want to eat it?

"The cells have to be concentrated to minced-meat density and structured into a texture that is appetizing and with good mouth feel," the authors wrote.

The authors believe the advantages of man-made meat are clear, but they won't guarantee that people will be willing to eat it.

