Three hundred twenty-five immigrant students showed up to start school this year at the Las Americas Newcomer Middle School.

It was a struggle for the school to get ready.

Last year, only 150 young immigrants and refugees between 4th and 8th grades started the school year there.

Refugees are people who left their homelands because of violence or war.

Some are allowed to come to the United States for protection.

"It's put a burden on me because I've run out of space," Principal Maria Moreno said.

She hired five new teachers and a social worker.

The school converted offices into classrooms and bought extra computers.

The Las Americas school has students from 23 countries who speak 17 languages.

Arabic, Nepali and Swahili were more common than Spanish until recently.

Moreno had to turn away more than 100 immigrant students who wanted to attend Las Americas this year.

Most of them were newly arrived from Central America.

"That's not going to stop," Moreno said.

She knows that those students will have to apply somewhere else nearby.

She doesn't know if the school next door will be able to handle them.

Educators across the country are having to make similar changes.

School districts have had to add English-as-a-second-language programs, or ESL, to help new immigrants.

A recent increase in young immigrants from Central America is causing these changes.

More than 66,000 children crossed into the United States illegally without their parents in the past year.

Most of them entered through Texas' Rio Grande Valley on the border with Mexico.

The U.S. government says 37,477 of them have settled with hosts across the country as of July 31.

The largest number of these children, 5,280, went to Texas.

Of those, 2,866 have been placed in the Houston area.

Texas has long served students who are in the country illegally.

A 1982 Supreme Court case ruled that the state must offer them an education.

The large amount of children presents a special challenge to educators.

Many of these students, Moreno said, are fleeing dangerous countries.

They often need counseling and other social services.

One 14-year-old Honduran boy traveled as far as Guadalajara, Mexico, with his mother.

Then she ran out of money and told him to hop cargo trains, alone, the rest of the way to the United States.

Most students do not speak English.

Some Central American children barely speak Spanish.

One Honduran boy spoke Quiche, the language of the Mayan Indians.

He kept asking Moreno in Spanish, "How do you say this in Spanish?"

Houston public schools plan to expand the Newcomers program.

They have already enrolled 1,825 new students from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.

Some Texans fear that the schools cannot afford the newcomers.

Texas Education Agency officials, who oversee the state's school districts, say otherwise.

They have already budgeted money to cover the extra students.

They can also use an extra $263 million of state money if new costs arise.

Agency officials estimate that it will pay districts $9,473 to educate each ESL student this school year.

That's $1,573 more than the Agency paid for the typical student.

The total cost of educating all the young immigrants in Texas could be more than $50 million.

Federal officials say that it's hard to estimate how many of the young immigrants are going to school.

Dorie Nolt, a Department of Education spokeswoman, said it's hard to count the costs of educating immigrant children at even a district level.

It gets more difficult on a national level.

The costs depend on a lot of local details, Nolt said.

The number of ESL students already in a school is one such detail.

Community programs and the level of state support also affect costs.

Another key is a school's existing population, Nolt said.

Some districts in cities may have room for more students right now.

"There was this concern at first that there was going to be this flood of kids," Nolt said.

Some districts in cities have seen a lot of new, immigrant students.

The vast majority have not seen many new students, she added.

Congressman Lamar Smith, a Republican, and some other Texans worry that the immigrant students will stretch schools that are already full.

"Regrettably, American taxpayers will be asked to foot the bill for the burden on these school districts," Smith said.

In the Houston area, some counties and cities have criticized federal efforts to house migrant children.

Others have directed officials not to help federal authorities run the shelters.

Moreno tried to ease these concerns by speaking to community groups opposed to the changes.

"What's better than having an educated child who can get a job and pay taxes?"

she said.

"You want them to be educated and fend for themselves."

Moreno said she recently talked to the Honduran boy who rode the trains north.

He went from being the class clown to a dedicated student in a few short weeks.

Moreno saw that as a sign of progress.

