This year, 325 immigrant students went to class at the Las Americas Newcomer Middle School.

It is more than twice as many as last year when there were only 150 immigrant students.

The middle school serves students from 4th to 8th grades who were born in other countries.

These immigrant students come from 23 countries and speak 17 languages.

It was a struggle for the school to get ready this year.

More than 66,000 children crossed into the United States without their parents in the past year.

They did not have legal permission to come to the United States.

Most of them came over the border into Texas.

Now these children need to go to school.

One 14-year-old Honduran boy traveled as far as Guadalajara, Mexico, with his mother.

Once there, she ran out of money.

She told him to hop cargo trains, alone, the rest of the way to the United States.

The huge number of young immigrants is a big challenge to teachers.

Many of these children are fleeing dangerous countries.

They often need counseling or other help.

Most students do not speak English.

Some do not even speak much Spanish.

Educators around the country are making changes to help new immigrant students.

School districts are adding English as a second language, or ESL, programs and preparing for more students.

Maria Moreno is the principal of the Las Americas school.

This summer she hired five new teachers and a social worker.

The school converted offices into classrooms and bought extra computers.

Even then, she said the school ran out of space.

Moreno had to turn away more than 100 immigrant students who wanted to attend Las Americas this year.

She does not know if other schools will be ready for these students either.

Texas has long helped students who came to the country illegally.

Texas is required by law to offer them an education.

Houston public schools plan to expand the Newcomers program.

They have already enrolled 1,825 new students from Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador.

Some Texans fear that the schools cannot afford the newcomers.

The Texas education officials who are in charge of the state's public schools disagree.

They have the money to pay for the extra students.

Texas officials think that the state will pay $9,473 to educate each ESL student this school year.

That is $1,573 more than the state paid for a non-ESL student.

The total cost of educating all the immigrant students in Texas could be more than $50 million.

The U.S. government says these numbers are harder to count for the whole country.

It is hard to know how many of these children are going to school.

It is even harder to know how much it costs for the whole country.

The costs depend on details at each school, like the number of ESL students already going there.

Another key is a school's existing population, U.S. Department of Education spokeswoman Dorie Nolt said.

Some districts might have room for more students right now.

"There was this concern at first that there was going to be this flood of kids," Nolt said.

Some districts in cities have seen a lot of new students.

However, most districts have not.

Congressman Lamar Smith, a Republican, and some other Texans worry that the immigrant students will stretch schools that are already full.

They complain that American taxpayers have to pay for the extra programs.

Moreno wants to ease these concerns.

She has spoken to community groups opposed to the changes.

"What's better than having an educated child who can get a job and pay taxes?"

she said.

"You want them to be educated and fend for themselves."

Moreno said she recently talked to the Honduran boy who rode the trains to the United States.

He went from being class clown to a dedicated student in a few short weeks.

Moreno saw that as a sign of progress.

