Texas police officer Eric Casebolt has been heavily criticized for his treatment of black teenagers at a pool party.

On Tuesday, he resigned.

Officer Casebolt had already been taken off duty.

The police department decided to punish him after a cellphone video was released.

The video shows Casebolt treating several black teenagers very roughly.

The pool party took place Friday evening in McKinney, Texas.

In the video, Casebolt can be seen drawing his gun on the unarmed teenagers.

He is also seen throwing a 14-year-old girl to the ground.

The girl was wearing nothing but a swimsuit.

She was not armed.

The video was shot by a bystander.

It has had millions of views on YouTube.

The video shows Casebolt shouting and cursing at the teenagers.

The teens do not appear to be fighting back.

Casebolt is seen wrestling some black teenagers to the ground.

Officials said neighbors had called the police to complain about an out-of-control party.

Some of the teenagers said they had permission to be at the pool.

They said some of the neighbors had been giving them a hard time.

On Monday protesters gathered to express their anger.

Meanwhile, police have promised to look into Casebolt's actions.

Many across the country were already upset over how police treat African Americans.

Recently, a number of unarmed black men have been killed by officers.

The Casebolt video has added to the growing anger over police behavior.

Fortunately, this time no one was seriously hurt.

Even so, the video was very disturbing.

For some, it brought back memories of the nation's pre-1964 segregation laws.

Under segregation, blacks were kept from using certain whites-only public spaces.

In many states blacks were denied the right to swim in pools with white Americans.

A group that represents McKinney police officers denied that the pool party event had anything to do with race.

It said McKinney police officers are not racist.

David Bradford is an expert on policing.

He said the video suggests that Casebolt was overreacting and failed to try to calm things down.

"If this was my department and that was my officer," there would definitely be some retraining, Bradford said.

The police would need to be reminded what their job should be and how they should treat people.

Still, Bradford said he would want to know more about what happened before saying that Casebolt definitely behaved wrongly.

Bradford explained how officers should handle a large crowd of upset people.

The first goal is to calm things down, he said.

Police should then get people to leave the area, while being very careful not to use unnecessary force.

