Students in Venezuela do math to understand how government programs help farmers.

English classes practice saying where the late President Hugo Chavez was born.

Social studies lessons explain why old people should be thankful to him.

The people of Venezuela have been divided about how well the government is running the country.

Some support the government, but others are against it.

Now, textbooks are causing more trouble.

Parents have even burned books on the street outside some schools.

Chavez, who opposed the U.S. government, became president of Venezuela in 1998.

He turned Venezuela into a socialist country.

That means the government owns many of the businesses.

It sets prices for things, even food.

People cannot buy and sell on their own as much.

When Chavez became president his government took over many businesses.

Chavez won his fourth election in 2012 by a few votes.

He was accused of shutting down the news media that criticized him, and of attacking his enemies.

He died from cancer in 2013, just after winning another election.

His vice president took over and has kept most of his plans.

Children are now back in school after their winter break.

But many Venezuelans are still angry about the school books.

They complain the books admire Chavez just like U.S. school books look up to George Washington.

A math problem works out how farms improve after the government takes over.

Another exercise adds up how much land is left for the government to take from private owners.

A problem adds up groceries bought at a store supported by the government.

Students learning English have to answer the question: "Where was Hugo Chavez born?"

Hector Cuevas was shocked when his son brought home his sixth-grade books.

He said the books are changing the country's history to how the government wants people to see it.

They are brainwashing children, said Cuevas, who works with technology.

The new books were introduced in 2011.

Their supporters say the books include history that is left out of grade school education.

They also say the books tie lessons to real life in their socialist country.

The minister of education defended the books last fall.

He said the books are not perfect, but people who think they are wrong should help make them better.

The minister told a Venezuelan news website that people should point out mistakes, so the government can correct them.

People who are against the textbooks say mistakes are not the biggest problem.

They say the real problem with the books is that they support a government that attacks its enemies.

One social studies book showed a photo of an old person writing, "Thanks, Chavez."

It asks students to explain why.

Another book stops an explanation of fractions to praise a government food program.

It says it was started by the government to make sure that the poor can eat.

All students receive the books, but they are used more often in schools in poor neighborhoods.

In those areas, the books are often the only choice teachers have.

One of those schools is Consuelo Navas Tovar.

It is a high school at the edge of one of the large slums in Venezuela's capital, Caracas.

Students in navy-blue uniforms are squeezed into grimy desks.

They sit in a classroom with bare walls, studying their English textbooks.

The lesson has students discuss a government agency known by its initials.

One student has to say: "It's a project of FUNDABIT!"

The student's partner replies: "That is excellent!"

Tomas Guardia, a university professor, has spent months recording mistakes in math books.

One book defines a square as a shape with four sides.

But that could be a rectangle, too.

Cuevas, the father worried about his son, often pulls out his father's old math textbook to help him.

He dreams about textbooks that show the real Venezuela.

The books always use exercises like adding up groceries, but getting food can sometimes take forever in Venezuela.

He said a real textbook would add up how many hours were spent in line to buy meat or sugar.

