Students in Venezuela study math by figuring out the benefits when the government takes over farms from landowners.

English classes practice saying where the late President Hugo Chavez was born.

Social studies lessons explain why the elderly should be thankful to him.

Messages praising the government in Venezuela's schoolbooks have caused trouble in this country.

Parents recently burned textbooks in the streets in front of some schools.

The people of Venezuela have became divided about how their government has run the country.

Some support the government Chavez created, while others do not.

Chavez, who often criticized the U.S. government, became president of Venezuela in 1998.

He turned Venezuela into a socialist country.

In a socialist economy, the government often sets prices for things and controls how they are bought and sold.

When Chavez was president, his government took over many businesses.

Chavez was accused of shutting down news media that criticized him, and of attacking his opponents.

He died in 2013 from cancer, just after winning re-election.

His vice president took over and has continued many of his practices.

Children are now back in school after the winter break.

But many Venezuelans are still angry about their schoolbooks.

They complain the books talk about Chavez the same way U.S. schoolbooks treat George Washington.

Math problems calculate how farming has improved thanks to the government takeover of farm land.

Other problems ask how much land the government still has to take from private owners.

Exercises ask how much shoppers save at stores run by the government.

Students learning English have to answer the question: "Where was Hugo Chavez born?"

Hector Cuevas was shocked when his son brought home his sixth-grade books.

He said the books are changing the country's history and replacing it with the government's version.

They are brainwashing children, said Cuevas, an information technology worker.

Defenders say the books introduced in 2011 include history that is left out of grade school education.

And they add that the books also tie lessons to real-life examples in their socialist country.

The minister of education defended the books last fall.

In an interview, he said the books are not perfect, so people should point out errors and the government can correct them.

Opponents of the textbooks say errors are not their biggest problem.

They say the problem is the books attack the government's opponents and spread hype in support of government programs.

An early edition of the social studies book shows a photo of an elderly person writing, "Thanks, Chavez."

It asks students to explain why.

Another book stops an explanation of fractions to praise a government food program, which it says was developed by the government to make sure that the poor can eat.

While all students receive the books, they are used more often in schools in poor neighborhoods where the books are often the only choice teachers have.

One of those schools is Consuelo Navas Tovar, a high school at the edge of one of the large slums in Venezuela's capital, Caracas.

There, students dressed in navy-blue uniforms are crammed into grimy desks.

They sit in a classroom with bare walls, studying their English textbooks.

The lesson has students discuss a government agency known by its initials.

One student has to say: "It's a project of FUNDABIT!"

and the student's partner replies: "That is excellent!"

Tomas Guardia, a math professor at the Central University of Venezuela, has spent months recording basic errors in math books.

One book defines a square as a shape with four sides.

But that could be a rectangle, too.

Cuevas, the father worried about his son, often pulls out his father's old math textbook to help him.

He dreams about textbooks that show his less-sunny vision of modern Venezuela.

He said the books always use exercises like adding up groceries, but in Venezuela getting food from government supermarkets can take awhile.

A real textbook would add up how many hours were spent in line to buy meat and sugar.

