Five million public school students in Texas will begin using new social studies textbooks this fall that barely address racial segregation.

The state's guidelines for teaching American history do not mention the Ku Klux Klan, a white supremacist group.

They also do not talk about the Jim Crow laws that made blacks second-class citizens throughout the South.

When it comes to the Civil War, children are supposed to learn that the conflict was caused by "sectionalism, states' rights and slavery," according to some members of the State Board of Education.

The state educational standards were written to deliberately express their view that slavery had a secondary role in the conflict, said some members of the board.

Slavery was a "side issue to the Civil War," said Pat Hardy, a Republican board member, when the state board adopted the standards in 2010.

"There would be those who would say the reason for the Civil War was over slavery.

No.

It was over states' rights."

The recent killings of nine black people in a South Carolina church sparked a broad backlash against the Confederate battle flag.

To some, the flag is a symbol of Southern heritage but to others, it is a divisive sign of slavery and racism.

There has also been a call to reexamine another controversial aspect of the Civil War in American society.

Some people are questioning how the history of the war, so central to our nation's understanding of itself, is presented in public school classrooms and textbooks.

"It's the obvious question, it seems to me.

Not only are we worried about the flags and statues and all that, but what the hell are kids learning?"

said Dan Quinn of the Texas Freedom Network.

The liberal organization has been critical of the state's academic standards in social studies.

Nowhere is the rejection of slavery's central role more apparent than in Texas.

In 2010, the State Board of Education revised state social studies standards to correct for what they said was a liberal slant.

Students in Texas are required to read the speech Jefferson Davis gave when he was inaugurated president of the Confederacy, which does not mention slavery.

But students are not required to read a speech by Alexander Stephens, Davis' vice president, who stated that slavery was the cornerstone of its government and "the immediate cause" of the war.

Rod Paige, a Republican who has served as federal education secretary, was among those who criticized the Texas board for downplaying difficult parts of the nation's past.

"I'm of the view that the history of slavery and civil rights are dominant elements of our history and have shaped who we are today," Paige said.

"We may not like our history, but it's history."

Historians acknowledge that disagreements over states' rights played a role in the Civil War.

But the states' rights issue cannot be separated from the issue of slavery, they say.

The right that states in the South were seeking to protect, after all, was the right to buy and sell people.

Southern states made that clear in their declarations of independence from the union, said James Grossman, the executive director of the American Historical Association.

Slavery's primary role in driving the Civil War is widely accepted among scholars, he said.

"The War happened only because of the determination of the leadership of 11 states to defend the right of their residents to own other human beings," Grossman wrote in an e-mail.

"The Civil War was fought over the issue of slavery."

The social studies standards in Texas are more politicized than in any other state, said historian Jeremy A. Stern.

He gave the Texas standards a grade of D and wrote that the board was "molding the telling of the past to justify its current views."

Stern said the social studies standards in South Carolina deserve an A and honestly address slavery's role in the conflict while also acknowledging states' rights as an important issue at the time.

South Carolina is where the Civil War began and where the churchgoers were killed in June.

Nearly half of Americans — 48 percent — believe that states' rights were the main cause of the war.

In comparison, 38 percent said the main cause was slavery, according to a 2011 Pew Research Center survey.

Raul Cevallos, a Texas resident who started a group to raise awareness, found that many young people are ignorant about history.

In a video he made, some students did not know who won the Civil War, but they were able to name Brad Pitt's wife, Angelina Jolie.

"If you don't know about the Civil War, and you don't know about things like slavery, then you wouldn't really be able to understand why our society is the way it is today," Cevallos said.

Critics of the new history standards in Texas fear that their teaching about the Civil War will spread to other states via textbooks written for Texas.

The state is the second-largest textbook market in the country.

A spokesman for the publisher McGraw-Hill Education was asked whether the company changes Civil War-related passages in books used outside Texas.

The spokesman said the company provides "content that is tailored to the educational standards of states."

Stephen Wright, an eighth-grade teacher in Nacogdoches, a small and conservative East Texas town, said some Texas students undoubtedly leave their classrooms believing that slavery was not the primary cause of the Civil War.

But not his students.

Wright said he has his students read the Southern states' declarations of secession to learn for themselves what the war was about.

He deals with the Civil War standards — he has to teach the standards, because they might show up on the state's history test — by explaining the reasons that "some people believe" the war happened.

"Man, it's all about slavery," he said.

"The students know that."

