Four Thai customs agents in a gray speedboat slowly circle a rust-covered fishing vessel a mile off the coast of Phuket.

Squinting, they can see a man in sunglasses behind the huge ship's control room windows.

The government has forbidden the 625-ton boat to set sail, but it has also ordered the agents not to board.

So they continue to circle — and stare.

The Kunlun — one of many names the ship has used — is suspected of holding some $5 million worth of "Chilean sea bass," obtained through unauthorized practices.

The fish are neither bass nor necessarily from Chile, but they are valuable enough to be at risk of overfishing.

For decades, overfishing has threatened the existence of entire species.

International organizations have made headway in recent years with regulations that rein in devastating practices like fishing with massive drift nets that ensnare everything in their path.

But in many parts of the world, especially little-patrolled stretches of the remotest ocean, pirates continue to operate.

They use run-down vessels and a shifting assortment of national flags while catching protected fish with banned equipment.

To combat them, environmental organizations and law enforcement authorities engage in high-stakes cat-and-mouse games on the high seas.

Before its arrival in Thailand, the Kunlun had led pursuers on a six-day, 900-mile chase.

On Feb 26, customs officials boarded the ship in Australia's Cocos Islands.

They found a large load of frozen fish, but left without filing any charges or complaints.

Richard Colbeck, Australia's parliamentary secretary to the agriculture minister, explained the situation to the local news media.

Colbeck said that Australia was legally barred from arresting the captain and crew because they were in international waters.

Prior to that escapade, the Kunlun had been spotted on a remote stretch of the Antarctic Ocean about 2,400 miles southwest of Australia.

Many commercial fishermen consider those choppy, iceberg-filled international waters too dangerous to travel.

But this so called Shadowlands region teems with Arctic toothfish, one of two species marketed under the more appealing name of Chilean sea bass.

Fishing in the Antarctic Ocean is regulated by the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources.

The CCAMLR, as it is more commonly called, is an international fisheries management body made up of representatives from 24 nations and the European Union.

The Australia-based organization licenses vessels, tracks their movements and sets catch limits.

But it faces a constant battle with "illegal, unreported and unregulated" ships, which fish with banned gill nets and fly flags of non-CCAMLR nations to dodge regulators.

The United Nations estimates such ships cause global economic losses of up to $23 billion a year.

When the market for Chilean sea bass boomed in the 1990s, ships began pursuing the species with a gold-rush-like mentality, depleting toothfish populations.

By 2000, the U.S. government reported that two-thirds of the Chilean sea bass on the market at that time had been caught illegally.

Since then, CCAMLR has tightened regulations, reducing the number of illegal fishing vessels in its area and helping to stabilize toothfish populations.

Yet some boats continue to operate with illegal nets and false flags, according to the organization.

Anchored in the Phuket's turquoise waters, the Kunlun's operators made one thing clear: They weren't going to make this easy.

When the ship entered Thailand's waters off the resort island on March 6, local authorities did not notice anything out of the ordinary.

The captain told authorities that his ship was the Taishan, the name emblazoned on its hull, and that it hailed from Indonesia.

He said it carried 182 tons of frozen black grouper that he had purchased from a smaller boat at sea.

Customs let the ship drop anchor, and the cargo was hauled by truck to the Songkhla deep-water port, a busy spot on the Thailand-Vietnam border.

The next day, Panya Chaichana, an official with the Phuket Marine Police, received a notice from the intergovernmental police organization known as Interpol.

Police sought information about the owners who "profit from the illegal actions of the vessel Kunlun."

It accused the ship of fishing with banned nets in a protected area and of committing fraud by changing its "name, national registration ('flag') and other identifying characteristics."

According to Interpol, the 42-year-old Kunlun has been called the Chang Bai, the Hongshui, the Corvus, the Galaxy, the Red Moon and the Dorita.

It's flown the flags of Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Tanzania, South Korea, Panama and Sierra Leone.

It has been registered to at least five companies, several of them based in Latin America.

When he eventually boarded the boat, Chaichana said he found no illegal fishing gear.

Songkhla port authorities could not determine the cargo's origins or how it was caught.

"If Thailand follows its own laws, the only crime which ... (the Kunlun) committed was mislabeling the seafood," said Michael Gravitz, director of policy and legislation at the Marine Conservation Institute in Washington.

"For that, they could get slapped with a $3,000 fine.

But that's for a $5 million cargo.

And this boat has been on the international list of pirate fishing boats for a long time."

Authorities at Songkhla said they planned to return the fish after the ship's owner paid about $160,000 in storage fees.

It will probably turn up on restaurant menus soon.

Pramok Urawan, a representative of a Phuket-based agency hired by the ship, said the captain and crew have since been replaced by three Spanish men, all of whom remain aboard the vessel.

He said the ship plans to sail to Indonesia.

"They're just waiting to leave," he said.

