A rusty fishing boat called the Kunlun sits a mile off the coast of Thailand.

Four Thai agents circle it slowly in a gray speedboat.

The Thai government would not let the huge boat go anywhere.

It would not let the agents go onboard, either.

So they continue to circle — and stare.

The agents believe the Kunlun's owners are holding about $5 million worth of "Chilean sea bass."

The fish are not really bass, and they are not usually from Chile.

They are actually Arctic toothfish, and they are in danger.

Like other popular types of fish, Chilean sea bass have become very valuable.

Some fishermen are fishing too many of them out of the ocean.

They know they can sell them for a lot of money.

In the past, overfishing has almost made certain types of fish extinct.

Fishermen were using huge nets to catch a lot of fish and make as much money as they could.

The nets snagged everything in their paths.

Since then, new laws have made it illegal to use nets that cause lots of damage to sea life.

Still, pirates continue to sail in parts of the ocean where few other boats go.

They catch fish that are off limits with equipment that they are not supposed to use.

Fake names and changing flags help them hide what they are doing.

Police officials and environmental groups work together to catch the pirates.

Earlier this year, officials caught the Kunlun in Australia's Cocos islands.

They had chased it for six days and 900 miles.

When they went on board, they found a large load of frozen fish, but they had to leave without making any arrests.

Australian official Richard Colbeck explained the situation to news reporters.

Colbeck said that Australia was not allowed to arrest the Kunlun's captain and crew.

The Kunlun had been in international waters, so it did not have to follow Australia's laws there.

When the Kunlun entered Thailand's waters, it seemed like a regular ship.

The captain told Thai officers that the Kunlun was from Indonesia and that it was called the Taishan, which was the name painted on its hull.

He said it carried 182 tons of frozen black grouper.

Thailand let the Kunlun drop its anchor.

Trucks hauled its cargo to the Songkhla port, a busy spot on the Thailand-Vietnam border.

The next day, an international police group called Interpol contacted Thailand's local police.

Interpol told Thai officials that the Kunlun had changed its name and flag.

It also said the ship had been fishing with illegal nets in a protected area.

According to Interpol, the 42-year-old Kunlun had also been called many other names.

It had been called the Chang Bai, the Hongshui, the Corvus, the Galaxy, the Red Moon and the Dorita.

It was trying to hide from officials.

It ship had also pretended to be from six different countries.

Thai officials did not find any illegal fishing gear when they went on board.

They could not tell where the frozen fish had come from or how it was caught.

The only thing they could find wrong with the Kunlun was that the captain had lied about what kind of fish it was carrying.

Authorities at Songkhla said they planned to return the fish after the ship's owner paid just $160,000 in storage fees -- a small price to pay for $5 million worth of fish.

The Chilean sea bass will probably turn up in restaurants very soon.

