Four Thai customs agents in a gray speedboat slowly circle a rusty fishing vessel a mile off the coast of Phuket.

The government has forbidden the 625-ton boat to set sail, but it has also ordered the agents not to go onboard.

So they continue to circle — and stare.

The Kunlun is suspected of holding some $5 million worth of "Chilean sea bass" that was caught using unauthorized practices.

The fish are neither bass nor necessarily from Chile.

Like other popular species, Chilean sea bass have become very valuable, putting them at risk of overfishing.

In the past, overfishing has threatened the existence of entire species.

Fishermen used massive drift nets that snagged everything in their paths.

Since then, international organizations have fought for regulations that help control the use of such devastating practices.

But in many parts of the world, pirates continue to operate.

In rarely patrolled stretches of the remotest ocean, they catch protected fish with banned equipment.

Their run-down vessels fly a shifting assortment of national flags.

Environmental organizations and law enforcement authorities work together to corner the pirates.

The process often becomes a high-stakes cat-and-mouse game.

Before its arrival in Thailand, the Kunlun had led pursuers on a six-day, 900-mile chase.

On Feb 26, customs officials boarded the ship in Australia's Cocos Islands.

They found a large load of frozen fish, but left without filing any charges or complaints.

Australian official Richard Colbeck explained the situation to the local news media.

Colbeck said that Australia did not have the authority to arrest the Kunlun's captain and crew because they were in international waters.

Before that adventure, the Kunlun had been spotted on a remote stretch of the Antarctic Ocean.

It was in a region called the Shadowlands, about 2,400 miles southwest of Australia.

Many fishermen consider those choppy, iceberg-filled international waters too dangerous to travel.

But this area is full of Arctic toothfish, one of two species marketed under the more appealing name of Chilean sea bass.

Fishing in the Antarctic Ocean is regulated by the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).

The organization is based in Australia, but it is made up of representatives from 24 nations and the European Union.

The CCAMLR licenses vessels, tracks their movements and sets limits on how many fish can be caught.

"Illegal, unreported and unregulated" ships are a constant source of headaches for the CCAMLR.

These boats fish with banned nets and fly flags of non-CCAMLR nations to dodge regulators.

Some estimates say they cause global losses of up to $23 billion a year.

The market for Chilean sea bass boomed in the 1990s, causing a rush to catch toothfish.

By 2000, the U.S. government reported that two-thirds of the Chilean sea bass on the market at that time had been caught illegally.

Toothfish numbers had also dropped dangerously low.

Since then, CCAMLR has tightened regulations, reducing the number of illegal fishing vessels in its area.

Toothfish populations have also been stabilized.

Still, the organization says some boats continue to operate with illegal nets and false flags.

When the Kunlun entered Thailand's waters on March 6, local authorities did not notice anything out of the ordinary.

The captain told authorities that his ship was from Indonesia and that it was called the Taishan, the name painted on its hull.

He also said it carried 182 tons of frozen black grouper that he had purchased from a smaller boat at sea.

Customs let the Kunlun drop anchor.

Trucks hauled its cargo to the Songkhla deep-water port, a busy spot on the Thailand-Vietnam border.

The next day, Phuket Marine Police official Panya Chaichana received a notice from Interpol, an police group made up of officers from a number of countries.

Interpol asked Chaichana for information about the "illegal actions of the vessel Kunlun."

It said the ship had been fishing with banned nets in a protected area.

The Kunlun's owners were also accused of changing the ship's "name, national registration ('flag') and other identifying characteristics."

According to Interpol, the 42-year-old Kunlun had also been called many other names, including the Chang Bai, the Hongshui, the Corvus, the Galaxy, the Red Moon and the Dorita.

The ship had flown the flags of Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia, Tanzania, South Korea, Panama and Sierra Leone.

It had been registered to at least five different companies.

Chaichana found no illegal fishing gear when he boarded the boat.

Songkhla port authorities could not determine the cargo's origins or how it was caught.

"If Thailand follows its own laws, the only crime which ... (the Kunlun) committed was mislabeling the seafood," said Michael Gravitz of the Marine Conservation Institute in Washington.

"For that, they could get slapped with a $3,000 fine.

But that's for a $5 million cargo.

And this boat has been on the international list of pirate fishing boats for a long time."

Authorities at Songkhla said they planned to return the fish after the ship's owner paid about $160,000 in storage fees.

It will probably turn up on restaurant menus soon.

Pramok Urawan, a spokesman from the ship's agency, said the captain and crew have since been replaced by three Spanish men, all of whom remain aboard the vessel.

He said the ship plans to sail to Indonesia.

"They're just waiting to leave," he said.

