Students in Thailand are imitating the "Hunger Games" movies.

They are using the hand signal from the movies to ask for more freedom.

The army has banned the sign of holding up three fingers.

It has arrested young people for using it.

Three students were arrested in a movie theater showing "The Hunger Games: Mockingjay — Part 1."

The day before, five other students were also arrested for using the three-finger sign.

"Mockingjay" is based on the "Hunger Games" books.

In the books, teens fight against the harsh leadership of the nation Panem.

They hold up three fingers to protest against it.

The books and the movies are very popular.

Thailand was hit by protests in 2013.

Some protesters said the government was dishonest and should go.

Others said the officials were elected by the voters and should stay.

Thailand's army took over running the country in May 2014.

It removed the leaders who the people had voted for.

The army said it had to bring order after months of protests.

The army has banned groups of more than five people.

Young people are frustrated because they cannot get together to ask for freedom.

Many young protesters use symbols to protest.

They are reading books about the fight for freedom out in public.

Shows of "Mockingjay" were canceled at two theaters in Thailand.

Students had bought hundreds of tickets and were giving them away.

They wanted to gather more people against the army.

The three students who were arrested were sent to an army camp.

Bangkok police said they we sent for "attitude adjustment."

Five other students were arrested for using the three-finger salute.

They used it during a speech by the army's leader, Prayuth Chan-Ocha.

The students could ruin their futures, said the army leader.

He also said the restrictions on liberty ordered by the army will go on.

"Mockingjay" was also delayed in China until next year.

It is not clear why.

It could be because the movie is popular with people pushing for more democracy there.

China is dealing with pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong.

Defenders of human rights spoke out against the government of Thailand.

They said banning symbols of protest is too much.

It is a way to shut people up and goes against their human rights, they said.

Life in Thailand is absurd, said John Sifton.

He works for the group Human Rights Watch.

If just imitating a movie is seen as a threat by the government, things need to change, he said.

