The Kunlun is a huge ship.

It is rusty and old and causing lots of problems for police officers.

Four of them watch it carefully from a small boat nearby.

The Kunlun sits near the coast of southern Asia.

It is about a mile away from a country called Thailand.

Police there will not let the Kunlun go anywhere right now.

They think the Kunlun is carrying fish it should not have caught.

Police believe the Kunlun is full of Arctic toothfish.

They are worth a lot of money.

People have been catching too many Arctic toothfish to try to get rich.

Now the fish are in danger.

There are not enough of them anymore.

Arctic toothfish are also called Chilean sea bass.

They are not from Chile, and they are not really bass.

Most people just think that name sounds better.

They pay a lot of money for the fish.

Some people who catch Chilean sea bass are pirates.

They use huge nets to catch as many fish as they can.

Those nets take too many fish at one time.

They hurt other plants and animals, too.

Now those nets are against the law.

Police still catch pirates using huge nets.

The pirates stay far out in the ocean where nobody else goes.

Fake names and flags help them hide from the police.

Lots of countries work together to catch the pirates.

Police officers from other countries told Thailand about the Kunlun.

They said the ship had gone by six other names.

The Kunlun had made other police boats chase it for many days.

The captain of the Kunlun told Thailand that the ship was from Indonesia.

He said it was called the Taishan.

He said it was full of black grouper fish.

Police went on the ship to take a look.

They could not find the huge nets, but the fish onboard were not black grouper.

They were Chilean sea bass.

Police could not tell where the fish had come from or how they were caught.

The pirates got in trouble for lying about their fish.

None of them went to jail.

They just need to pay $160,000 to get their fish back.

It is a small price to pay.

The pirates will still make about $5 million selling their fish.

