It's Thanksgiving!

It's Hanukkah!

It's Thanksgivukkah!

This year U.S. Thanksgiving is happening at the same time as Hanukkah.

The extremely rare event has created excitement of religious proportions.

There's the number crunching: The last time it happened was 1888, or at least the last time since Thanksgiving was declared a federal holiday by President Abraham Lincoln.

By one calculation, the next time it happens may have Jews lighting their candles in spaceships 79,043 years from now.

There's the money to be made: A 9-year-old New York boy created the "menurkey."

It's a menorah in the shape of a turkey.

He's already trademarked, or registered, the name and raised more than $48,000 on Kickstarter, a website where people can fund projects they like.

T-shirts inspired by the Woodstock festival of 1969 have a turkey perched on the neck of a guitar and read "8 Days of Light, Liberty &amp; Latkes."

The creators nabbed the trademark to "Thanksgivukkah."

Songs have popped up celebrating the day.

"The Ballad of Thanksgivukkah" has a line saying, "Imagine Judah Maccabee, sitting down to roast turkey and passing the potatoes to Squanto ..." Rabbi David Paskin is the song's co-writer and co-head of the Kehillah Schechter Academy in Norwood, Mass.

He proudly declares his Jewish day school to be the closest to Plymouth Rock.

And let's not forget the food mash-ups commemorating the staying power of the Pilgrims and the fighting talents of the Jews.

Hannukah celebrates the miracle of one night's oil lasting eight days.

Pumpkin latkes, apple-cranberry sauce and deep-fried turkey, anyone?

Paskin says he finds it amazing that there are rich religious and nonreligous celebrations in America and "those of us who live in both worlds can find moments when they meet and can really celebrate."

He added, "There are a lot of places in the world where we would not be able to do that."

The Jewish calendar is lunisolar.

It is based on the phases of the moon, though adjusted to fit the length of the solar cycle.

This makes Hanukkah and other religious observances appear to drift slightly from year to year when compared to the U.S., or Gregorian, calendar.

But much of the intrigue over Hanukkah this year is buried deep in the history of Thanksgiving itself.

Interestingly, Thanksgiving hasn't always been fixed in the same spot.

That caused some initial confusion over Thanksgivukkah, also known as Turkukkah.

In 1863, Lincoln declared Thanksgiving as the last Thursday in November.

The holiday remained there until President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed a resolution of Congress fixing it as the fourth Thursday, starting in 1942, even if the month had five Thursdays.

Jewish practice calls for the first candle of eight-day Hanukkah to be lit the night before Thanksgiving Day this year.

So, technically, Thanksgivukkah falls on the "second candle" night.

And then there's Texas.

Before 1863, each state decided on its own date for Thanksgiving.

As late as 1956, Texans were still chowing down on turkey and stuffing a week later than everyone else, according to a history put together by Chabad.org of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement of Hasidic Jews.

That means Jews in the Lone Star State might have also been lighting their first Hanukkah candle in 1945 and 1956 at the Thanksgiving table.

There's more early Thanksgiving legends and 2,000 years of tinkering involving the Jewish calendar.

But we'll spare you the trivia.

Jonathan Mizrahi, a quantum physicist at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, N.M., puzzled on the convergence.

Last January, he wrote a blog post that generated a lot of buzz on the internet.

The line graphs he made were picked up by others online.

More than 100,000 people have visited the blog since then, he said.

Some visitors questioned his calculations and prompted him to post a couple of clarifications.

He hadn't made it clear that he was referring to the "second candle" night of Hanukkah.

He also failed to realize that Thanksgiving had shifted from the last to the fourth Thursday of November.

The interest, Mizrahi said, "has truly blown me away.

I've just been totally flabbergasted at the number of responses."

While the whole thing is lots of fun, is there anything truly cosmic, or universal, happening here?

Well, there's Comet ISON, which is scheduled to pass close by the sun on Thanksgiving this year.

It may provide a nice show — possibly even during daylight.

Or not, since comets can't always be counted on.

Dana Gitell, is a mother of two who lives outside Boston.

She partnered with an artist and the Jewish gift site Moderntribe to create and sell souvenir T-shirts, cards and a poster.

She sees it as a happy and meaningful coincidence.

She's donating 10 percent of proceeds to Mazon, a Jewish hunger relief organization.

"Cosmic?

It's just a day when Jews and the rest of America are celebrating on the same day," she said.

"It's an opportunity for us to really celebrate the Jewish American experience, and to give thanks in America for the religious freedom we enjoy here, and for making the Jewish American experience possible."

