Margaret Thatcher, Great Britain's first female prime minister and a powerful political figure, died on April 8.

She was 87.

Thatcher was prime minister, which is the leader of the government in the United Kingdom just like a president is in the United States.

She ran the country for 11 years, between 1979 and 1990.

At the time, there were very few women in politics at all.

Thatcher was such a strong politician that she became known as the "Iron Lady."

Through Thatcher's politics and determined personality she changed life in Britain forever.

She was also a leader who inspired strong feelings – both good and bad.

Some people think she was the best prime minister in British history, while others believe she was the worst.

Thatcher was born Margaret Hilda Roberts in October 1925.

She did not come from a rich family, but lived in an apartment above the grocery store that her father owned.

Thatcher was a good student.

As she got older she became more and more interested in politics.

She quickly rose through the ranks to become a member of Parliament in 1959.

Parliament is similar to the U.S. Congress.

Thatcher became prime minister in 1979 at the age of 53.

Thatcher had her own strong set of political beliefs that became known as Thatcherism.

She ruled by Thatcherism throughout her long career.

Thatcher believed that the government should not have too much power over the lives of its people.

Thatcher said, "There is no such thing as society.

There are individual men and women and there are families."

This meant she believed that people should not have to pay very much in taxes.

In return, they would have more money in their pockets, but enjoy fewer of the services usually provided by the government.

One of Thatcher's cuts to services made her unpopular with children.

For many years, the British government had given all schoolchildren a daily bottle of free milk.

The government hoped that the milk would improve nutrition for younger generations.

When Thatcher was in charge of education, she stopped that milk for everyone older than 7.

This earned her another nickname: "Thatcher The Milk Snatcher."

In business, Thatcher believed that competition would make Britain work better and become richer.

So she took harsh measures against businesses that she thought were not creating as much money as others.

Thatcher shut down jobs like coal mining, but she encouraged others that she thought were profitable, like banking.

The banking business, which is located in and around London, did well during Thatcher's leadership.

But her policies also meant that lots of coal mines, factories and shipyards were closed down.

These were located in northern England, Scotland and Wales.

The workers in these areas struggled to find new jobs.

They also were not given very much help from Thatcher's government.

So the workers protested against these difficult conditions by going on strike.

This meant stopping their employer's production by refusing to go to work themselves.

The coal miners went on strike for nearly a year in 1984-85.

Without pay, many families faced great hardship.

Internationally, Thatcher was a known for her determined decision-making.

One example involved the Falkland Islands in the South Atlantic Ocean.

Both Britain and Argentina claim them as their own territory.

In 1982, Argentina invaded the islands.

Thatcher sent the British military to the area.

After two months of fighting, the U.K. won the war against Argentina and this helped Thatcher's popularity in Britain.

Thatcher had a very strong relationship with U.S. President Ronald Reagan.

The pair were friends and political allies.

Reagan and Thatcher worked together and negotiated with the Soviet Union.

By working together, they helped to end the Cold War peacefully.

The Cold War had been a time of political and military tension between the United States and its allies against the Soviet Union and its allies.

The Cold War had raged for a few decades.

When Thatcher died, British Prime Minister David Cameron praised her.

"As our first woman prime minister, Margaret Thatcher succeeded against all the odds.

She didn't just lead our country.

She saved our country," he said.

But Ken Livingstone, a former mayor of London, disagreed.

"Every real problem we face today is the legacy of the fact she was fundamentally wrong," he said.

Maybe no one will ever agree on whether Thatcher was good or bad, but her politics and personality made Britain the place it is today.

