Theme parks are using technology to reduce waits, but not just for rides.

They have started to allow customers to skip the cash register and order food ahead of time.

First, Disney World made online ordering available for its Be Our Guest restaurant so that guests can plan out their meals in advance.

Now it is trying smartphone ordering at the Backlot Express restaurant and during the Fantasmic!

nighttime show.

Smartphone ordering has also been added at SeaWorld Orlando's Seaport Pizza.

SeaWorld Entertainment plans to expand the system into more of its restaurants and theme parks this summer.

Cathy Valeriano, who runs food services at SeaWorld, calls smartphone ordering "the wave of the future."

She says guests have found it very convenient.

Theme-park restaurants are just starting to explore online ordering, but it has already become popular in traditional restaurants across the country.

Chains like Panera Bread have popular online ordering systems.

They have even added computer stations in their restaurants to reduce the amount of time people spend waiting in line.

Olive Garden has added online ordering options for to-go orders.

Publix supermarkets use online ordering systems for deli subs and wraps.

Theme parks say their customers are hungry for convenience.

They have also become more comfortable using their personal electronic devices.

Technology has become a bigger part of people's everyday lives.

Theme park restaurants are changing the way they do business to keep up with how customers live their lives.

Restaurants and theme parks are also trying to save money, according to Boston University hospitality professor Chris Muller.

Online ordering systems can be expensive to get started.

However, having them allows a restaurant to hire fewer workers, which means there are fewer people to pay.

Over a long period of time, those savings can really add up.

Reducing waits for rides is a theme park's biggest challenge.

Cutting restaurant wait times is less important, said Robert Niles, the editor of a blog about theme parks.

Theme parks know that food is not what brings their guests in for a visit, Niles said.

That's why they usually focus on line-skipping programs for rides and shows instead of food.

Niles also said theme parks have to be careful not to confuse customers.

They need to make sure they don't have too many line-skipping options in the same park.

Disney has looked at adding a number of electronic features to make things more convenient for guests.

It has thought about trying personalized digital menus.

It has even considered having employees with tablets take orders from people standing in line for rides.

Niles said Disney and other parks have to be careful about decisions like these.

Introducing new technology to visitors can be tricky.

People do not want to have to think too hard when they are on vacation, Niles says.

Disney's MyMagic+ rewards guests for frequent visits.

It also aims to make their Disney experiences simpler and more personalized.

The program also lets guests make restaurant reservations at home, which Niles recommends.

Guests can pick a restaurant when they are booking their hotel and buying their plane tickets.

They are already in a planning frame of mind then.

Still, it's hard to say whether preordering is really making a difference for theme parks.

During a recent lunch hour, no one preordered any meals at Seaport Pizza.

SeaWorld would not say how many customers have used the service.

Park officials did say that they get more preorders during busy vacation periods.

Right now, the Seaport Pizza preorder service only offers family sized pizzas, but not individual slices.

SeaWorld said it will make more items available online this summer.

Self-service computer ordering stations called kiosks are also popping up at SeaWorld.

Customers can order and pay with credit cards, but many guests skip that option.

They choose the cash-only line staffed by a cashier instead.

British tourists Toni Crews and Simon Wilkin tried the kiosk and liked it.

The only complaint, Wilkin said: "We had to take off our sunglasses" because of the sun's glare.

Crews liked the fact that she did not have to wait in line.

"It was really easy," she said.

