Most people go to animal theme parks to see creatures they've never seen before.

However, the scientists and zoologists that work there can draw in crowds too.

At Rafiki's Planet Watch at Disney's Animal Kingdom, tourists can view labs where the researchers work.

One current project includes studying hormones found in monkey droppings.

At nearby SeaWorld, researchers recently studied dolphins' and whales' swimming behavior.

Their swimming patterns might help underwater scientists design better robotic systems.

The robots will be used for jobs like detecting underwater mines.

Theme parks might be better known as places where people go to be entertained.

However, there is also important scientific research going on behind the scenes.

Many of the staff at Disney's Animal Kingdom, for example, are highly trained scientists.

"The research we do is critical to how it is that we care for animals here as well as in the wild," says Jackie Ogden, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts' vice president of animals, science and environment.

The work is also good for public relations.

This is particularly important right now for SeaWorld.

The park is not as popular with the public as it used to be.

Many believe their captive whales are not treated fairly.

"It allows them to go out and say, 'Look at all the wonderful things we do for these animals,'" said Scott Smith, a hospitality professor at the University of South Carolina.

Smith also says it shows the scientific benefits of studying confined animals.

Most of the research theme parks get involved with relates to the health of the creatures they house.

Outside of work, many Disney workers spend free time contributing to conservation efforts.

Animal Kingdom scientist Shana Lavin is working with the Jane Goodall Institute, a highly respected international wildlife conservation group.

She is studying a type of African monkey known as a mandrill.

For the first time, these monkeys are being released back into the wild.

Workers at the Jane Goodall Institute's sanctuary in the Republic of Congo collected almost 3,000 samples of mandrill dung.

First they dried them out.

Then they sent them to Disney.

Lavin developed a scientific test to determine how the mandrills were coping as they were being moved back into the wild.

This kind of experience could be very distressing for an animal, particularly one used to being in a zoo.

Miles Woodruff manages the institute's mandrill project.

He said involving Disney was critical because "they have a world-class lab."

Plus, Woodruff notes that they have expertise in endocrinology, the study of glands and the endocrine system.

Anne Savage runs Disney World Conservation.

She is considered a leader in the preservation efforts of an endangered monkey called the cotton-top tamarin.

The small natives of Colombia are known for being difficult to track.

At Disney, Savage worked on a method to count them in the wild.

Disney has also done research into sea-turtles.

It has produced studies into the migration of purple martins.

These birds frequently roost at Disney World.

Alan Bolten is the head of a group that study sea turtles in Florida.

He believes Disney is "really respected with both the scientific and conservation communities."

However, not everyone agrees that animal theme parks are doing a good job.

Critics argue that animal theme parks are money-making businesses.

Profit is their main motivation.

Animal rights activists believe any scientific research is really just a distraction from the harm they cause to their animals.

Kathy Guillermo works with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

She thinks it is not fair to keep animals confined for profit-making purposes, even if there are some benefits for science research.

Not all theme parks are the same, though.

Animal rights groups think SeaWorld does more harm to animals than other parks like Disney.

Disney's programs are seen as being of more benefit to animals in the wild.

SeaWorld Entertainment says its research benefits both its own animals and those in the wild.

The company argues that its research helps to better understand the physical needs of its animals.

SeaWorld also says its studies are carried out with scientists from universities, who don't have any business interests.

