In Rafiki's Planet Watch at Disney's Animal Kingdom, curious tourists can peer into a lab where researchers' work includes studying hormones extracted from monkey droppings.

A few miles away at SeaWorld, a Pennsylvania researcher recently scrutinized dolphins' and whales' swimming patterns for a study that could lead to advances in underwater robotic systems for tasks such as mine detection.

Sure, people visit theme parks to escape reality.

But attractions that focus on real stuff — primarily animals — also conduct scientific research.

Disney staffers, for example, have published about 2,500 papers on their findings.

"The research we do here is critical to how it is that we care for animals here as well as in the wild," said Jackie Ogden, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts' vice president of animals, science and environment.

The Association of Zoos and Aquariums requires "a demonstrated commitment to scientific research" for the accreditation it gives Disney's Animal Kingdom and SeaWorld.

The work also makes for good public relations — particularly important right now for SeaWorld, where attendance has suffered amid controversy over whales in captivity.

"It allows them to go out and say, 'Look at all the wonderful things we do for these animals.

This is the good side of being a zoo and having animals in captivity,'" said Scott Smith, an assistant hospitality professor at the University of South Carolina.

Epcot's Future World has had a scientific focus since its 1982 opening.

At The Land, which features agriculture grown with a variety of methods, visitors taking the Behind the Seeds tour can see wasps bred to keep pests in check.

Two U.S. Department of Agriculture scientists are also there studying more efficient ways to grow pears, Disney said.

But research "really became sort of a larger effort" when Animal Kingdom opened in 1998, Ogden said.

Much of the analysis at the attraction revolves around monitoring the health of its own mammals, reptiles and birds.

Still, Disney says its staffers — many of whom hold advanced science degrees — also contribute to outside conservation efforts.

Animal Kingdom scientist Shana Lavin is working with the Jane Goodall Institute to examine the health of colorful African monkeys called mandrills that are being released back into the wild.

The Jane Goodall Institute's Republic of Congo sanctuary collected almost 3,000 samples of mandrill dung, dried them out and shipped them to Disney.

Lavin developed a system to detect hormones from them to determine stress levels throughout the relocation process.

Miles Woodruff, the institute's mandrill project manager, said involving Disney was crucial because "they have a world-class lab, and we're not experts in endocrinology."

Disney World Conservation Director Anne Savage is considered a leader in the field of preserving another type of monkey: the critically endangered cotton-top tamarin.

The small Colombian natives are known for being difficult to track.

At Disney, Savage worked on a method to count them in the wild.

She designed special transmitters that can be worn on their backs.

She also used hair dye as an identifier, testing that method on the Disney cotton-tops first to ensure seeing colored fur on their companions wouldn't upset them.

She also recorded the Disney cotton-tops' vocalizations, which were played in the Colombian forests to lure their wild counterparts out of hiding for a census.

Disney has also been credited with contributing to sea-turtle research, including studies showing negative effects of sea walls on nests, at its Vero Beach time-share resort.

It is also considered a major contributor to data on migration of purple martins, which frequently roost at Disney World.

The company is "really respected with both the scientific and conservation communities," said Alan Bolten, associate director of the University of Florida's Archie Carr Center for Sea Turtle Research.

The idea of research at animal-based theme parks has its skeptics, though.

"It is an interesting thing to see amusement parks that keep animals captive for profit-making purposes try to justify that with science," said Kathy Guillermo, a senior vice president with People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.

Animal rights organizations have taken a harsher view of SeaWorld's research than Disney's.

The groups say they are more supportive of programs that benefit animals in the wild and don't use captive ones directly.

Orlando-based SeaWorld Entertainment says the studies it has done benefit both its own animals and those in the wild, contributing to understanding of topics including metabolism, sleep patterns and reproduction.

Most of SeaWorld's studies have been in collaboration with scientists from universities or research institutes, although SeaWorld says its own staffers have worked on more than 350 papers.

Much of the research has a biological focus.

Some of it, however, has implications in fields such as engineering.

Last year, a New Jersey Institute of Technology researcher studied remoras — fish that attach themselves to marine mammals using adhesive discs on their heads — at SeaWorld's Discovery Cove.

Researchers said understanding their mechanics could help improve designs for everything from animal trackers to bandages.

Frank Fish, a biology professor at West Chester University in Pennsylvania, recently observed and recorded dolphins and whales swimming at SeaWorld, hoping to better understand the motion of their flukes.

Fish is using grant money from the Office of Naval Research, with the expectation that insight from his studies might lead to designs for robotic vehicles that could one day replace live dolphins used for mine detection and other underwater work.

"Because of changing values, people don't necessarily like the military to utilize animals," Fish said.

Keeping whales and dolphins in captivity has become more controversial too.

But it's far easier to study animals in a confined setting than in the open waters, Fish said.

SeaWorld is a particularly effective place because its pools are relatively large, he said, and the animals are well-trained.

"I can collect more data in one week at SeaWorld than in well over a year out in the field," he said.

