In China, historian Maura Cunningham says, there's only one safe way to hold an online discussion of the deadly 1989 protest in Tiananmen Square: You have to speak in code.

Don't mention "June 4th," the date that tanks rolled against unarmed protesters.

Instead, try "May 35th" — a count of that month's 31 days plus four in June.

It's a way to avoid the lurking presence of the government, and to prevent what you've written from being removed.

The game being played between citizen and government isn't exactly cat-and-mouse, said Cunningham.

It's more like whack-a-mole — each time the government whacks forbidden online speech, it pops up again somewhere else.

On Thursday, Cunningham will explore new and threatening shifts in Chinese online life at a St. Joseph's University conference on Tiananmen.

The conference was timed to the 25th anniversary of the protests.

"The Internet is a bigger and bigger part of life in China," Cunningham said in an interview.

"But it's becoming more and more complicated."

The conference, called "Tiananmen at 25," is free and open to the public.

It gathers some of the world's top experts on the mass killing and kicks off what promises to be a season of international remembrance.

Harvard University holds its own seminar two days after St. Joseph's.

The University of Southern California's U.S.-China Institute released a new video on how journalists covered the protests.

Among the new books is "The People's Republic of Amnesia: Tiananmen Revisited" by Beijing-based reporter Louisa Lim, who gave the keynote speech here Wednesday.

Lim described the Communist Party's successful effort to scrub the history and memory of Tiananmen from society.

"How can people have forgotten something that occurred in living memory?"

she asked.

It turns out, it's not that difficult.

Accounts of the mass killing don't appear in Chinese history books, while Internet searches for "Tiananmen" bring up nothing but tourist information.

And people, she said, face punishment or harassment if they bring up the protests.

Lim showed the famous photo of the "Tank Man" — the lone figure who stood up and stopped an advancing line of tanks after the killings.

Then she described an experiment: She showed the photo to 100 Chinese students at four top universities.

Only 15 could identify the picture, and several were nervous to have that knowledge.

"It looks like Tiananmen," one told her.

"But it can't be."

Today, the huge square in Beijing's center is heavily monitored.

Its open plain is crossed each day by thousands of tourists from around the globe — and by plainclothes and uniformed police.

The nature of the square changed forever during a few weeks in spring 1989.

The death of Hu Yaobang, a popular, open-minded government reformer, led thousands of students and young people to march to the square in mourning.

More and more protesters arrived over the coming weeks, eventually numbering hundreds of thousands.

They demanded freedom of speech and of the press, and even built a Statue of Liberty figure called the Goddess of Democracy.

A sense grew worldwide that the Chinese government would be toppled, as others had fallen in Poland, Hungary and Czechoslovakia.

Instead, on June 4, the government ordered the military to clear the square.

Army units advanced from every direction, opening fire on protesters, bystanders and people in nearby buildings.

An accurate death toll has never been established.

Estimates range from a few hundred to a few thousand.

"It's vital that we keep the memory and lessons of those weeks alive," conference organizer and China expert James Carter said.

The purpose of remembering, he said, is "partly to understand China more fully."

But it is also "to prevent the people who died standing up for their beliefs from being erased from history."

In a country where it's foolhardy to gather publicly to demand democratic reforms, opposition has moved online.

It inhabits a shifting landscape of chat rooms and social-media platforms.

Cunningham has seen the change.

A former editor of The China Beat and a visiting scholar at the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, she's been traveling in China for the past 10 years.

Back in the mid-2000s, she noticed that a few U.S. and British websites were difficult to access.

Today, more and more are blocked.

Facebook is, and so are Twitter, YouTube and The New York Times.

The squeeze on information sparked Cunningham's interest in how people find ways around government restrictions on "dangerous" opinions.

Censored words include "massacre" — meaning, an unjustified and lopsided mass killing — and "tank."

Also forbidden are mentions of Tibet, Taiwan and the restless region of Xinjiang.

It's the big online discussion groups and most-read Internet posters drawing government attention, Cunningham said.

As in this country, a single, potentially controversial post can easily pass unnoticed.

The government blocks sites and removes online content — but it also makes use of the Internet.

It has opened its own accounts to connect with people and promote its ideas.

In the last year there's been a definite tightening online and a crackdown on those who voice complaints.

The uncertainty over who else may be reading has pushed many discussions onto networks like WeChat, where users talk only with people they know.

"It limits the spread of the idea, but people feel safer," Cunningham said.

Many people think that all online complaints about the government are blocked in China, but actually it's more complicated than that, she said.

What's acceptable today might be forbidden tomorrow.

"The line is constantly shifting," Cunningham said.

"It's really hard to know what will get you in trouble."

