Forget climbing Mount Everest.

For most humans, just surviving _anywhere_ high in the Tibetan mountains would be challenge enough.

Tibetan people, however, have thrived up there for thousands of years.

A new study says that's thanks to something they inherited from an ancient relative of humans today.

Known as the Denisovans, those early relatives were much like early humans.

Still, they were not the same.

Perhaps one could say they were as close to us as wolves are to dogs.

The Denisovans died out — they became extinct — tens of thousands of years ago.

They were related not just to us, but also to another extinct relative of ours: the Neanderthals.

The study shows that the Denisovans and modern-day Tibetans share something unusual: EPAS1.

It is a gene in Tibetan's bodies.

It has been passed down for generations and generations.

Genes are the building blocks of the human body.

They decide what color eyes and hair someone has.

They make a difference in how tall a person is.

Genes can also affect our health.

Having certain genes can put someone at risk of diseases.

Scientists think EPAS1 gives Tibetans an advantage.

It is what makes them better than anyone else at living high up in the mountains.

No one knew the Denisovans ever existed until four years ago.

It was then that an unusual finger bone was discovered in Siberia, Russia.

Scientists soon realized they had discovered a new people.

Now it appears that Tibetans and Denisovans are linked.

Tibetans can trace part of their ancestry to the ancient group.

In the new study, scientists collected blood samples from 40 Tibetans.

All the samples contained EPAS1.

The scientists then looked at blood samples from 1,000 non-Tibetans.

They found EPAS1 in only two people, both Chinese.

The 38 other Chinese people they looked at did not have it.

Tibet and China border each other, and China rules over Tibet.

Thus it was not surprising that some Chinese turned out to have EPAS1.

Most likely, they got it from a Tibetan ancestor.

Still, that left 998 out of 1,000 non-Tibetans without EPAS1.

This led to a question: If EPAS1 is only found in Tibetans, where did it come from?

Could it have come from either Neanderthals or Denisovans, the scientists wondered?

The next step was to look for traces of EPAS1 among those two extinct peoples.

Bingo — they found a match: The Denisovans had EPAS1 too!

There was still one mystery, though: Just how did EPAS1 end up in modern Tibetans?

The answer may seem surprising: It was probably passed from Denisovans to Tibetans as a result of mating.

Then it spread rapidly in the Tibetan population.

Tibetans with the new gene were far better at living at high altitudes.

They then passed EPAS1 on to their descendants.

The reason Tibetans need EPAS1 is simple: Their mountainous home lies about 15,000 feet above sea level.

Up there, the air contains about half as much oxygen as is found lower down.

Scientists already knew that EPAS1 helped Tibetans do well up in the mountains.

Now they also knew where it came from.

Scientists still don't know exactly how EPAS1 works.

They do know what happens to people without it when they are high in the mountains, however.

In other words, they know what happens to pretty much everyone except Tibetans.

The bodies of people without EPAS1 react to the low level of oxygen by producing a lot of red blood cells.

Too many, in fact.

Having too many red blood cells can lead to various diseases.

Somehow, having EPAS1 stops this from happening to Tibetans.

At the same time, they are somehow able to get enough oxygen.

There is still a lot to learn about EPAS1.

But one thing is now clear: Tibetans have their long-lost cousins, the Denisovans, to thank for it.

