Gonpo Tso was born a princess, but her life has not been a fairy tale.

Gonpo spent her childhood dressed in fancy robes living in a castle in Tibet, an area near the Himalaya Mountains in Asia.

Gonpo is the princess of the Mei kingdom.

Her father was the king.

The kingdom was in the Tibetan village of Aba.

The Mei kingdom is now gone.

One night in 1958, life changed for 7-year-old Gonpo.

The Chinese army showed up at her home and forced her family to leave.

Ever since that night, Gonpo's life has not been easy.

"When people hear I am the daughter of a king, they imagine I must be really spoiled, but they don't know what I have experienced," Gonpo says.

Gonpo is now in her early 60s.

She looks nothing like a princess.

She is shy and does not usually talk about the past.

"I try not to talk about it because it makes me sad," she says.

In 1949, China invaded Tibet.

Gonpo's father knew how powerful the Chinese were, so he told the Mei people to not fight back against the Chinese military.

At first, Gonpo's father thought the Chinese might help Tibet.

After a few years, the Chinese forced him to give up his power.

They kicked his family out of their home.

The family was sent to live in the Chinese town of Chengdu.

Things were fine for Gonpo and her family at first.

Gonpo and her sister attended an elite school.

Her father was even given a job in the Chinese government.

Then a few years later, things changed again.

In 1966, there was a revolution in China.

A new government took over.

To keep her safe, Gonpo's parents sent her away by train, giving her a bag of candies for the ride.

She would never see her parents again.

That same year, her mother disappeared and her father drowned.

In 1968, Gonpo was sent to live on a farm 2,000 miles away that was run by the military.

She was forced to work and it was not easy.

There was one bright spot on the farm.

She met a handsome young Chinese man who was living there too.

Over the years, they fell in love and eventually married.

Gonpo and her husband left the farm.

They moved to a town in eastern China and settled into a quiet life.

Gonpo went to college and got a job teaching.

She had two daughters.

The community around them knew nothing about Gonpo's royal history.

Everything changed when someone discovered Gonpo's identity.

She was reported to the Chinese government.

From then on, Gonpo received special treatment from the government.

Her family was moved into a fancy new apartment.

In 1984, Gonpo was allowed to visit her village of Aba for the first time since she was a girl.

It had nearly been destroyed.

She cried.

Gonpo was not unhappy in China.

Still, in her heart she felt like her Tibetan culture was slipping away.

She decided to take a trip to India to visit the birthplace of Buddhism, the religion of the Tibetan people.

Gonpo also hoped to meet the Dalai Lama, an important leader of the Tibetans.

When Gonpo left for India in 1989, she planned to stay for a few months.

She brought her 10-year-old daughter along.

Gonpo started Tibetan language lessons and met the Dalai Lama.

Yet once she settled there, she decided to not return to China.

She was the only living child of the Mei king and felt a duty to stay.

She did not see her husband and younger daughter again for about 16 years.

She knew it made her husband sad.

However, she said he understood that "Tibet was bigger than family things."

