Forget climbing Mount Everest.

For most humans, just surviving _anywhere_ high in the Tibetan mountains would be challenge enough.

Tibetan people, however, have thrived up there for thousands of years.

A new study says that's thanks to a gene they inherited from an ancient relative of modern-day humans.

That relative, the Denisovan people, died out — they became extinct — tens of thousands of years ago.

Genes are the building blocks of the human body.

They get passed on from one generation to the next.

Genes decide what color eyes and hair someone has and can determine how tall or thin a person is.

They also play a role in health.

Having certain genes can put someone at risk for diseases.

The study shows that the Denisovans and modern-day Tibetans share something unusual: EPAS1.

This gene is in the bodies of Tibetans and has been passed down for generations and generations.

It is this, scientists think, that gives Tibetans an advantage over others at high altitudes.

No one knew the Denisovans ever roamed the Earth until four years ago.

It was then that an unusual finger bone was unearthed in a part of Siberia, Russia, near its border with China.

A study of the bone showed that Denisovans were related to both modern humans and another extinct relative of ours: the Neanderthals.

However, Denisovans seemed different enough to be considered a separate people.

Scientists soon discovered something else: Like Neanderthals, Denisovans mated with other kinds of humans, including our ancestors.

Now it appears that Tibetans can trace part of their ancestry to this mysterious group.

In the new study, scientists collected blood samples from 40 Tibetans.

All of the samples contained EPAS1.

The scientists then studied blood samples from 1,000 non-Tibetans.

They found EPAS1 in only two of the 40 Chinese people they looked at and in no one else.

Tibet and China border each other, and China governs Tibet.

So it was not surprising that at least a few Chinese turned out to have EPAS1 as well.

Most likely, they got it from a Tibetan ancestor.

Still, that left 998 out of 1,000 non-Tibetans without EPAS1.

The question, then, was this: If EPAS1 is only found in Tibetans, where did it come from?

Could it have come, the scientists wondered, from either Neanderthals or Denisovans?

The next step was to look for traces of EPAS1 among those two extinct peoples.

Bingo — they found a match: The Denisovans had EPAS1 too!

There was still an unanswered question, though: Just how did EPAS1 end up in modern Tibetans?

The scientists looked at two different theories.

Were Denisovans and Tibetans descended from a common ancestor that gave EPAS1 to both?

Or did humans get it by mating with Denisovans?

Early humans and Denisovans probably split off from a common ancestor around half a million years ago.

It's very unlikely that EPAS1 would stay in both populations for so long.

Alternatively, EPAS1 could have been passed from Denisovans to Tibetans more recently, as a result of mating.

Once transferred, it would have spread rapidly in the Tibetan population.

Those who had it would be far more likely to be able to live at high altitudes.

They, in turn, would pass EPAS1 down to their descendants.

The reason Tibetans need EPAS1 is simple: Their mountainous home lies about 15,000 feet above sea level, on average.

Up there, the air contains about half as much oxygen as is found lower down.

Scientists already knew that EPAS1 helped Tibetans do well high up in the mountains.

Now they also know where it came from.

Scientists still don't know exactly how EPAS1 does what it does, though.

What they do know is what happens to people without it when they are high up in the mountains.

The bodies of people without EPAS1 — pretty much everybody but Tibetans — react to the low level of oxygen by producing a lot of red blood cells.

Too many, in fact.

Having too many red blood cells can lead to various diseases.

Somehow, having EPAS1 stops this from happening to Tibetans.

At the same time, they are somehow able to get enough oxygen.

There is still a lot to learn about EPAS1.

But one thing is now clear: Tibetans have their long-lost cousins, the Denisovans, to thank for it.

