Gonpo Tso was a princess.

She was a happy child.

Gonpo grew up in Tibet.

It is near China.

Her family lived in a castle.

Gonpo's father was a king.

The people in the village loved him.

His Mei kingdom is now gone.

Gonpo's life changed in 1958.

The Chinese army came to her home.

They made her family pack up and leave.

Gonpo was only 7 years old.

Ever since that night, life has not been easy for Gonpo.

Gonpo is now in her 60s.

She does not look like a princess.

She is shy.

She does not talk much about her life.

"I try not to talk about it because it makes me sad," she said.

When Gonpo's family lost their home they were sent to Chengdu.

It is a city in China.

At first, things were good in Chengdu.

Gonpo went to a fancy school.

Her father was given a job in the Chinese government.

A few years later, things got worse.

The government in China changed.

Gonpo was sent away from her parents.

She never saw them again.

In 1968, Gonpo was sent to live on a farm 2,000 miles away.

She worked hard on the farm.

Gonpo met a young Chinese man there.

They fell in love and got married.

Gonpo and her husband moved to a new town in China.

Life was quiet.

Gonpo went to college.

She was a teacher.

They had two daughters.

The people in the town did not know Gonpo was a princess.

One day, the Chinese government learned the truth.

Gonpo's family was moved to a new apartment.

The government gave her special things.

Gonpo was not unhappy in China.

In her heart though, she felt like she was forgetting about Tibet.

She was allowed to visit her old village just one time.

Gonpo cried.

She decided to visit India.

Gonpo went to India in 1989.

She planned to stay for just a few months.

She brought one daughter with her.

Gonpo took Tibetan language lessons.

She also met the Dalai Lama.

He is the leader of the TIbetans.

Once she settled there, Gonpo did not return to China.

She was the only living child of the Mei king.

Gonpo felt like she had to stay.

She did not see her husband or younger daughter for many years.

Gonpo knew it made her husband sad.

However, he knew that for Gonpo, Tibet was more important than family.

