To buy cigarettes, you have to be at least 18 years old.

But when it comes to farming tobacco for cigarettes, age does not seem to matter.

According to a new report, children as young as 7 are working long hours in tobacco fields.

They are working in extremely hot weather.

The tobacco leaves they harvest have dangerous chemicals on them: nicotine and pesticides.

The new report is from Human Rights Watch.

That human rights group talked with more than 140 children.

The children work on farms in the South.

They work in North Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee and Virginia.

Most of the country's tobacco is grown in those four states.

The group admits that most of what they found is not against the law.

Nonetheless, it is calling on state governments and tobacco companies to do better.

It is asking them to do more to protect children.

"The U.S. has failed America's families," said Margaret Wurth.

She helped write the report.

Our country is not "protecting child farm workers," Wurth said.

Children "working on tobacco farms get so sick that they throw up."

They are "covered by pesticides and have no real protective gear."

Children interviewed by the group said they sometimes felt sick while working on tobacco farms.

They reported various problems: headaches, upset stomachs and vomiting.

Most likely, the children were affected by something called Green Tobacco Sickness.

This occurs when nicotine is absorbed through the skin.

Nicotine is a chemical found on the tobacco as well as in cigarettes.

The children also said they worked long hours in very hot weather.

They were not given enough breaks.

They did not have protection from the sun or from chemicals.

They weren't even paid properly for the extra hours they put in.

Children as young as 12 can be hired to work on a farm of any size.

And children of any age can work on small farms.

Human Rights Watch has met with many cigarette and tobacco companies.

The group asked them to help prevent child labor.

The companies are worried about child labor, the group said.

To help limit it, they have developed rules for the growers who supply them with tobacco.

Growers have to follow child labor laws.

Still, those efforts have only gone so far.

"The conditions are inhumane," said 17-year-old Erick Garcia, of North Carolina.

"They should improve them."

Garcia has been working in tobacco field since he was 11.

Additionally, Garcia said kids should mostly be focused on school and should not be in the fields.

"That's not a place for children," he said.

Republican Kentucky state Senator Paul Hornback said he does not believe new laws are needed.

Hornback owns a tobacco farm himself.

"People get pretty extreme about trying to protect everybody from everything," Hornback said.

"It's hard manual labor," he admitted.

"But there's nothing wrong with hard manual labor."

