Americans like tomatoes.

They are found in foods like burgers and tacos.  Many of those tomatoes come from a single place.

They are grown near the small Florida town of Immokalee.

The workers who pick those tomatoes do not have an easy life.

They work very hard.  For many years, Immokalee tomato workers were paid very little. In the 1990s, they earned no more than $10,000 a year.  Most of the workers were from Mexico and Central America.

Many were teenagers.

They were often treated very badly.

Sometimes they were kept almost like prisoners.

In 1996 the workers decided it was time to fight back.

They got together and formed the Coalition of Immokalee Workers.

The group asked farm owners to give workers more pay.

Almost every farmer said no.

Then workers had an idea.

They would go directly to the big companies that buy so many tomatoes.

The workers decided to start with Taco Bell.  Back then, Taco Bell refused to pay farmers more than a certain low price for tomatoes.

In turn, farmers refused to pay workers much.  The workers decided to see if Taco Bell would pay more.

The coalition wrote to Taco Bell.

They did not get any answer.

The workers then decided to start a boycott.

The idea was to get people to stop ordering Taco Bell's food.

Then the company would have to listen.

The Taco Bell protests started in 2004. After four years, Taco Bell finally gave in.

It signed on to something called the Fair Food Program.  The company agreed to pay a penny more for each pound of tomatoes.

The extra money goes directly to the workers. Taco Bell also agreed to buy tomatoes only from farms that do not mistreat workers.

Since then, the workers have gone after many other big companies.

Many have signed on to the Fair Food Program.  Some big companies still refuse to pay more.

One is called Publix.

In 2012, tomato workers showed up in front of Publix's main office.

For six days they refused to eat any food.

A movie called "Food Chains" was made about their protest.

Actress Eva Longoria helped make it.

Still, Publix still has not changed.

The extra penny for each pound of tomatoes has made a huge difference for workers.

It comes to around $100 extra a week.

Workers now make $17,000 a year.

Farmers are also treating workers much better than before.

