Lucas Benitez was 17 and newly arrived from Mexico.

One hot day he was staking a row of tomatoes on a scorched farm outside Immokalee, Florida. Sweat drenched his long-sleeve shirt and soaked his thick black hair. Quick on his feet, Benitez finished ahead of his co-workers, then stopped to wait for the others to catch up.

Benitez recalled what happened next.

His boss drove up and began shouting at him.

He wanted Benitez to help unload a truck instead of taking a time-wasting break.

Even more than that, he wanted to show Benitez who was in control.

Benitez, 120 pounds, insisted on staying put.

Why should he be punished for his speed, when he was accomplishing the same tasks as the rest of the crew?

The 200-pound boss threw a punch, but the teen blocked it with one hand, a tomato stake in the other, ready for a fight.

He looked the boss in the eye and saw wide-eyed shock.

"It was the first time anyone had said anything to him," recalled Benitez, now 40.

Not long after that incident, Benitez became one of the leaders of a new farmworker-led movement.

The movement began following an attack on another worker.

In 1996, a 16-year-old tomato worker named Edgar asked his boss for a water break.

The boss refused.

When Edgar went to get water anyway, he was beaten savagely and his nose was broken.

Benitez spread news of the beating, waving Edgar's bloodied shirt at a rally in sleepy Immokalee.

"When you beat one of us, you beat us all," he told the crowd.

Benitez and seven other workers formed the Coalition of Immokalee Workers.

Soon, they would become known as one of the most successful farmworker organizing groups in the country.

Almost every Florida tomato Americans eat comes from a single place — the fields surrounding Immokalee.

In the 1990s, tomato workers there were paid about 30 cents for picking a 32-pound bucket of tomatoes.

They earned no more than $10,000 a year for back-breaking, dangerous labor.  Most of the workers were immigrants from Mexico and Central America, and many were teenagers.

Workers were often treated brutally, and were sometimes kept in almost slave-like conditions.

They were frequently exposed to dangerous chemicals that farmers spray on tomatoes.

After the coalition was formed, workers began asking farm owners for a pay increase, but almost none would pay anything more.

Then workers had an idea: Why not skip over the farmers and go directly to the big companies that buy so many tomatoes?

If the workers could get the companies to agree to changes, the farms would have to go along.

The workers decided to start with Taco Bell.

The restaurant chain was known for buying huge quantities of tomatoes at very low prices.  The workers wrote to Taco Bell, but got no response.

They then decided to organize a boycott.

If they could get enough people to stop buying Taco Bell's products, the company would have to listen.

In 2004 the coalition began organizing a series of Taco Bell protests, which many students soon supported.

The students got 22 high schools and colleges to "Boot the Bell" from school cafeterias.

After four years, Taco Bell finally gave in: The company agreed to pay a penny more per pound of tomatoes, with the extra money going directly to workers.

It also signed on to the Fair Food Program, which bound it to buy only from farms that treat workers decently.

The coalition soon launched campaigns against other big companies.

In time, McDonald's, Whole Foods, Burger King, Subway, Chipotle, Trader Joe's, Wal-Mart and Fresh Market all signed on to the Fair Food Program.

However, two major food companies still refuse to sign the agreement — Wendy's and Publix.

In 2012, Benitez and fellow Immokalee workers staged a six-day fast in front of Publix headquarters.

Their protest appears in an Academy Award-nominated documentary called "Food Chains," which actress Eva Longoria helped produce.

The penny-a-pound increase has made a huge difference in workers' lives.

It amounts to as much as $100 extra a week, and has lifted farmworkers' salaries from about $10,000 to $17,000 a year. The Fair Food Program has also brought huge improvements in work conditions.  The coalition hopes to see similar programs spread to workers who pick other crops.

"The dream for us is to create a new agricultural industry in this country," Benitez said.

Farmworkers should "receive the same treatment as an office worker for an honest, hard job."

