Teeth are covered by a thin layer of enamel, a hard substance that protects them from wear and tear.

For many years, scientists have been studying the origin of enamel, and one group of scientists has just put forth a new theory.

According to a study published in late September in the scientific journal Nature, enamel evolved from the scales on the skin of fish.

Scientists have long known of the connection between scales and teeth.

Sharks, for example, are covered in dermal denticles, or "skin teeth," overlapping tooth-like scales that let sharks cut through the water with little drag.

Some bony fishes, such as the North American gar (also known as Lepisosteus), have scales that are covered with ganoine.

Ganoine is a substance similar to human tooth enamel.

Fossils show that some ancient bony fishes that evolved into land-dwelling creatures had ganoine-covered scales, too.

The new study, authored by Per Ahlberg at Uppsala University in Sweden, takes a closer look at ganoine, and shines new light on the evolutionary origins of enamel.

Ahlberg said scientists have been studying enamel "ever since the middle years of the 20th century."

Most of this research was paleontological, attempting to understand the history of plants and animals, often by looking at fossils.

In the new study, Ahlberg and his team drew on a new kind of science, along with paleontology: genomics.

Genomics is the study of genetic information stored in DNA.

Genetic analysis of the Lepisosteus showed the fish has the genes for two of our three enamel proteins, and that these genes are part of the blueprint for the Lepisosteus's skin.

In other words, by looking at the fish's genes, the scientists determined that the substance coating the Lepisosteus' scales was very similar to the enamel found on teeth.

"In our study we have been able to show on the basis of genomic data that ganoine, an enamel-like surface tissue of primitive ray-finned fishes, is indeed enamel," Ahlberg said.

Having shown that ganoine is a kind of enamel, the team then turned to the fossil record to determine how long ganoine has appeared on fish scales.

They examined the Psarolepis from China and the Andreolepis from Sweden, two fish that are more than 400 million years old.

In Andreolepis, only the scales showed signs of enamel.

In Psarolepsis, even though some of the fish's scales carried enamel, the teeth did not.

Ahlberg explained that these are two of the earliest known bony fishes.

"The fact that they both lack tooth enamel is thus highly significant," he said.

It suggests that enamel most likely did not originate in teeth.

Rather, it probably first appeared in scales.

Ahlberg and his team plan to continue researching both genes and fossils to investigate how animals developed.

He noted that the history of evolution includes many curious twists.

The new study shows that tissue that develops in one part of the body can spread to other parts of the body and take on new roles.

"Looking at our own teeth and the important role that enamel plays in their function," he said, "you would swear that the tissue had evolved there; and yet it did not."

