A group of thunderstorms marched across the Midwest bringing rare, November tornadoes whirling into town.

Luckily, weather forecasters were able to find where the worst of the storms would go.

Their predictions of where the tornadoes were headed were combined with television and radio warnings.

City officials also used text-message alerts and storm sirens.

They almost certainly saved lives.

The storms blew through 12 states.

The strong winds flattened whole neighborhoods in minutes.

Only eight people were killed.

The storms could have hurt many more people.

By Monday, another reason for the low number of deaths came out.

In the hardest-hit town, most families were in church.

"I don't think we had one church damaged," said Gary Manier, mayor of Washington, Ill. Washington was hit by the storms.

The tornado cut a path bigger than two football fields in Washington.

It damaged or destroyed as many as 500 homes.

The weather also hit parts of the Midwest, from Michigan to western New York.

Daniel Bennett was about to give a sermon at his Washington church.

There were 600 to 700 people waiting to listen to him when he heard a beeping sound.

Then another.

And another.

About 24 phones started going off in the service, he said.

"And everybody started looking down."

The beeping was a text message from the National Weather Service.

It warned that a twister, or tornado, was near them.

Bennett stopped the service and told everyone to get to a safe place.

Many townspeople said those text messages helped keep people safe.

It's got to be connected to how they could get the warnings so quickly, Bennett said.

In Indiana, Taylor Glenna heard emergency sirens go off.

He got a message on his cellphone.

A friend also called to warn him the storm was close.

Glenna went outside and saw icy hail falling from the sky.

Then he heard a loud boom.

He ran to his basement just in time.

On Monday, Glenna looked at the damage on crutches.

He hurt his leg when the wind knocked his home off its base.

"I would say we had pretty good warning," Glenna said.

"We just didn't listen to it."

Forecasting has gotten better.

Now there are faster computers.

Scientists can guess what the weather will do using math.

Weather forecasters tell when large storms will form.

In the past 10 years they have doubled how far in the future they can go.

Bill Bunting is the chief forecaster at the National Weather Service.

He said it wasn't clear until Saturday that a large storm could hit.

That's when information from weather stations, weather balloons and satellites came together.

It suggested there was more than enough water in the air for a big storm.

Water is fuel for storms.

The storms started because of unusually warm, wet air from Louisiana to Michigan.

It was then hit by an upper-level cold front.

That crash of hot and cold, dry and wet, is what makes tornadoes.

The storm moved fast.

That meant the storm hit more places before it died down.

It touched more people.

But in places where it hit, the system may have been slightly less damaging because it was moving so fast.

About 90 minutes after the tornado plowed through Washington, rain and high winds hit downtown Chicago.

Officials at Soldier Field, a football field, emptied the stands.

They ordered the NFL teams, the Bears and the Baltimore Ravens, off the field.

Fans were allowed back to their seats shortly after 2 p.m.

The game started again after about a two-hour delay.

Still, this has been an easy year for twisters in the U.S.

The number of twisters is low compared to previous years.

