An advance warning for a tornado means minutes, not hours.

People in Moore, Oklahoma, on May 20 got 16 minutes.

In Newcastle it was only five minutes.

That was the town nearest to where the tornado first formed.

The mile-wide twister killed 24 people.

Tornadoes used to strike without any warning at all.

Weather forecasters have worked since the 1970s to get the average warning time to 13 minutes.

They use weather balloons, radar and people watching from the ground.

Now they want to give people hours of warning – not just minutes.

To do this, they want to send aircraft with no pilots right into a developing storm.

Those unmanned aircraft are also called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

Pulling that off would require more than the right technology.

The government would need to be more flexible about rules that block most unmanned flights.

Most of the work on unmanned aircraft vehicles has been for military strikes or spying so far.

But researchers are looking to use them in science.

That includes researching severe weather like tornadoes.

Oklahoma is one of the states leading the charge.

That make sense.

Nineteen tornadoes touched down there in the last two weeks of May alone.

Engineering teachers and students at Oklahoma State University are building and designing special aircraft to survive high winds.

Weather researchers at the University of Oklahoma are building sensors and advising the OSU researchers.

"We have the (unmanned aircraft) expertise, we have the weather expertise and, by golly, we have the weather," said Stephen McKeever, an Oklahoma government and university official.

"In many senses, we're the perfect laboratory to do this kind of thing."

The small aircraft weigh up to 55 pounds.They can cost from $10,000 to $100,000.

Pilots on the ground would control them remotely.

Sensors would collect data on temperature, humidity and pressure.

This is essential information for predicting a tornado.

Researchers also plan to improve forecasting by monitoring the atmosphere before and after storms form.

Oklahoma State professor Jamey Jacob first started working on drones to explore Mars in the 1980s.

His focus has shifted to twisters and the questions still puzzling scientists: how, why and when tornadoes form.

"If you live in Oklahoma, you have an interest in tornadoes," Jacob said.

Jacob guides teams of students on design and assembly.

One team had scheduled for May 20 a test flight for an aircraft built for a government public safety drone program.

But that was the day the tornado hit Moore.

They delayed the flight by two days and successfully launched the plane into clear skies.

The aircraft also can be used to help fight wildfires, protect crops and inspect pipes.

Quiet ones can also be used to locate survivors after a disaster, because they would not drown out cries for help from the wreckage.

The technology is also safer than storm chasing when it comes to confirming there is a tornado.

That is a big deal.

Three veteran storm chasers and researchers just died in a tornado that struck the Oklahoma City suburb of El Reno.

Oklahoma Gov.

Mary Fallin created a committee on unmanned aircraft two years ago.

The committee met May 31, hours before the El Reno storm hit the Oklahoma City area.

Committee members discussed the severe weather predicted for that night.

They knew what information they could gather if only they could get aircraft in the air.

But right now it is illegal to operate unmanned aircraft in U.S. airspace.

Some groups can ask for a special certificate to fly the aircraft.

But then the government requires notice of 48 hours before the aircraft actually goes up.

The government also says that the pilot must keep the aircraft in his or her sight at all times.

This is impossible when it comes to tornadoes that form within hours and are hidden by rain.

Researchers say they are frustrated at how long it takes to change the rules.

But changes are coming.

In a 2012 law, Congress set up a way to let unmanned aircraft into U.S. airspace by September 2015.

The government is preparing to set up six test sites around the nation for the research and development of unmanned aircraft.

Officials have received 50 applications from 37 states, including Oklahoma.

Decisions are due in December.

