You only get a very short warning when there is a tornado coming.

People in Moore, Oklahoma, got 16 minutes last month before the tornado that killed 24 people hit.

People in Newcastle got only five minutes.

Newcastle was the town closest to where the tornado got started.

Tornadoes used to strike without any warning at all.

But weather forecasters have worked since the 1970s to raise the warning time.

Now it is an average of 13 minutes.

They use weather balloons, radar and people watching from the ground to know when a twister is coming.

Now they want to be able to warn people hours ahead of time.

To do this, they want send airplanes with no pilots into a growing storm.

These planes are called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

But they would need more than the right kind of technology.

They would also need the government to change its rules.

Right now the government will not let most drones fly over the United States.

Most of the work on drones has been for the military or for spying.

But researchers want to use them in science.

That includes researching severe weather like tornadoes.

Oklahoma is one state pushing to do this.

That make sense.

Nineteen tornadoes hit the state in the last two weeks of May alone.

Teachers and students at Oklahoma State University are building special aircraft to survive high winds.

Weather scientists at the University of Oklahoma are building devices to measure the weather.

They are also working with Oklahoma State.

"By golly, we have the weather," to go along with knowledge about aircraft, said Stephen McKeever.

He is an Oklahoma government and university official.

"We're the perfect laboratory to do this kind of thing."

The planes weigh up to 55 pounds.

They can cost as much as $100,000.

A pilot controls them from the ground.

It is sort of like how you might fly a toy airplane.

The planes would collect information that is really important for predicting a tornado.

Oklahoma State professor Jamey Jacob used to work with drones to explore Mars in the 1980s.

Now he wants to use them to look at tornadoes.

His goal is to figure out how, why and when they form.

Jacob has a team of students that design and build these aircraft.

Using drones would be a safer way to track tornadoes.

That's a big deal for people who study tornadoes.

Researchers often go storm chasing to know whether there is a tornado.

Three storm chasers and scientists just died in a tornado that struck near Oklahoma City.

Oklahoma Governor Mary Fallin created a committee on drones two years ago.

The committee met on May 31 just hours before the storm hit the Oklahoma City area.

Committee members talk about the bad weather predicted for that night.

They knew they could gather good information if only they could get the drones in the air.

But right now it is against the law to fly drones in U.S. skies.

Some groups can ask for special permission to fly the aircraft.

But then the government makes them wait 48 hours before the aircraft actually goes up.

The government also says that the remote pilot must keep the aircraft in sight at all times.

Following those rules would be impossible when it comes to tornadoes.

The storms can form within hours and heavy rains could easily hide a drone from view.

Researchers say they are frustrated by how much time it takes to change these rules.

But changes are coming.

Congress passed a law last year to try to let unmanned aircraft fly over the United States by 2015.

The government is setting up six test areas for the research and development of drones.

Officials have received 50 applications from 37 states, including Oklahoma.

They will decide where the tests will be held in December.

