Brad Erwin was in junior high on Aug. 28, 1990, when a tornado struck Plainfield, Illinois.

Much  of his hometown was destroyed, including two schools.

Twenty-nine people died during the storm.

More would have been killed if it had struck a day later, Erwin believes.

The start the school year was set for Aug. 29.

Classrooms would have been filled with hundreds of children.

Now he spends all his time trying to prevent such a disaster.

Erwin runs an architecture company in Springfield, Missouri.

It designs and builds tornado safe rooms in schools.

The safe rooms are structures with the strongest possible walls and ceilings.

They are built to stand up to winds stronger than those from Monday's tornado near Oklahoma City.

That twister destroyed two schools.

Erwin's company is 3 years old.

Since it began, it has worked on 37 tornado safe rooms at schools and community centers.

The company also has an office in Joplin, Missouri, where it built 16 safe rooms in schools across the city.

The money to build them was donated to the town.

A huge tornado hit Joplin in May 2011.

It killed 161 people.

Tornadoes are rated on the Fujita scale from 1-5.

An F1 is the weakest.

Joplin's 2011 tornado and the one that struck near Oklahoma City on Monday were both F5s because the twisters killed and injured people.

Whenever there's a tornado, people get interested in Erwin's company.

On Tuesday alone, he got six calls from schools and businesses.

"Unfortunately, it takes events like these to remind us that we have to protect ourselves," he said.

Hurricane Katrina in 2005 was one such reminder.

Other tornadoes in recent years have led to a boom in safe rooms across the country.

They're built to fit large numbers of people.

The structures must be able to survive getting hit by metal, wood and other debris flying at 250 miles per hour, Erwin says.

Concrete walls are built from factory-made slabs 14 inches thick.

Any window glass must be able to withstand getting hit by flying wood.

They test this by firing a piece of lumber at it ... from a cannon.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency is a part of the government that deals with disasters.

It wants cities and towns to build safe rooms.

It offers to pay three-fourths of the cost if school districts or local governments ask for the money.

Fifty-eight tornado safe rooms have been built at schools or community sites across Missouri since 2004.

Eighty-six more are in the planning stages.

No such safe rooms have been built in the St. Louis area, the state's largest city.

Nearly all of the tornado safe rooms are being built in rural areas, mostly in the southern part of the state.

Crowder College in Neosho, Missouri, has one of the largest tornado shelters in the state.

But it still gets plenty of use on sunny days.

Davidson Hall is a two-story building.

It is home to the college's biology, chemistry, and health and sciences programs.

It has classrooms, hallways and lounges.

"Every part of it is functional on a daily basis," said Amy Rand, who works for the college.

"There is not any space that is only used during a storm."

The building cost $4 million.

It opened in 2011 and can hold up to 3,000 people.

And the school is currently working on a plan to build a similar shelter at its Webb City campus.

In January, a $2.5 million safe room opened in Jasper, Missouri, at the local school.

The room is used as a cafeteria and gym.

There's enough space inside for 1,615 people — more than all those that live in the town.

The room must be open to anyone in town whenever the sirens sound.

In the past month, Superintendent Rick Stark has had to go to the school in the middle of the night to open the room three times.

"I have to take it very seriously," he said.

"You never know when a warning is going to turn into something."

In northwestern Missouri, the Mid-Buchanan School District has asked for money to build a safe room for 1,000 people.

It would be at a school used by children in preschool through 12th grade.

"Obviously your odds of being hit by a tornado are slim," Superintendent John James said.

"But to have the peace of mind that you have a building that will withstand an F5 tornado and you could have your entire school safe is a nice thing to have."

