Tornados come with little warning.

People may only know a few minutes ahead of time that a storm is on its way.

Often, that's not enough time to prepare.

But scientists have worked to get warnings earlier.

They use balloons and radar.

And they have people watching from the ground.

Now they want to warn people hours ahead of time.

They want to send airplanes with no pilots into a storm.

These planes are called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone).

But first, they need to get permission.

Most drones are used by the military and spies.

Only the government can decide if a drone can fly.

Oklahoma wants to use drones for science.

It makes sense.

Nineteen tornadoes hit the state in just two weeks.

Oklahoma college students and their teachers are building the drone.

It will be sturdy enough to survive high winds.

Scientists at another Oklahoma university are building weather equipment.

The equipment will go into the drone.

It will detect tornadoes.

The planes weigh up to 55 pounds.

They can cost as much as $100,000.

A pilot flies them from the ground like a toy airplane.

They measure the weather in many ways to know if a tornado may strike.

Jamey Jacob used to work with drones.

He teaches at Oklahoma State.

He used to explore Mars with drones.

Now he wants to use them to look at tornadoes.

Jacob wants to figure out tornadoes.

His students help design and build the planes.

It's a safer way to track tornadoes.

That's a big deal for people who study them.

Three storm chasers and scientists just died in a tornado.

The governor of Oklahoma set up a group to study drones.

It's two years old.

It met May 31 just before a storm hit.

The members knew they could get good information with the drones.

But it's against the law right now to fly drones in the United States.

Some groups can ask for special permission.

But then the government makes them wait two days.

And the government says the pilot must keep watching the plane.

Those rules don't work with tornadoes.

The storms form in hours.

And the rain hides the plane so you can't see it.

Scientists are upset by how long it takes.

But change is coming.

Congress passed a law to let drones fly in the U.S. by 2015.

