On Aug. 28, 1990, a tornado struck Plainfield, Illinois.

Brad Erwin was in junior high school.

Much  of his hometown was destroyed, including two schools.

The tornado killed 29 people.

But more could have died if it struck a day later, Erwin believes.

School was set to start on Aug. 29.

Classrooms would have been filled with children.

Now he spends all his time trying to stop such a disaster.

Erwin is an architect.

His job is to design plans for buildings.

His company is based in Springfield, Missouri.

It creates tornado safe rooms in schools.

The safe rooms are made of very strong walls and ceilings.

They are built to stand up to winds stronger than those from Monday's tornado near Oklahoma City.

That twister destroyed two schools.

Erwin's company is 3 years old.

Since it began, it has worked on 37 tornado safe rooms.

They are at schools and community centers.

The business also has an office in Joplin, Missouri, where it built 16 safe rooms.

A huge tornado hit Joplin in May 2011.

It killed 161 people.

Tornadoes are rated on the Fujita scale from 1-5.

An F1 is the weakest.

Joplin's 2011 tornado was an F5.

So was the one in Oklahoma on Monday.

Whenever there is a tornado, people become interested in Erwin's company.

He got six calls from schools and businesses just on Tuesday.

"Unfortunately, it takes events like these to remind us that we have to protect ourselves," he said.

Hurricane Katrina in 2005 was one such reminder.

Across the country, cities and towns are building safe rooms.

They are made to fit large numbers of people at community centers and in schools.

The rooms must be able to survive getting hit by objects flying at 250 miles per hour, Erwin says.

The walls are made of concrete 14 inches thick.

The window glass can withstand getting hit by flying wood.

They test this by firing a piece of lumber at it ... from a cannon.

The U.S. government wants cities and towns to build safe rooms.

It offers to pay three-fourths of the cost if school districts or towns ask for the money.

Fifty-eight tornado safe rooms have been built at schools or community sites across Missouri since 2004.

Eighty-six more are planned.

No such safe rooms have been built in the St. Louis area, the state's largest city.

Nearly all of the tornado safe rooms are being built in the country.

Most are in the southern part of the state.

Crowder College in Neosho, Missouri, has one of the largest tornado shelters in the state.

The building cost $4 million to construct.

It opened in 2011 and can hold up to 3,000 people.

And the school is currently working on a plan to build a similar shelter at its other location.

In January, a safe room opened in Jasper, Missouri, at the local school.

The room is used as a cafeteria and gym.

There is enough space inside for 1,615 people.

There are only 940 people in the whole town.

The room must be open to anyone in Jasper whenever the sirens sound.

In the past month, Superintendent Rick Stark has had to go to the school in the middle of the night to open the room three times.

"I have to take it very seriously," he said.

"You never know when a warning is going to turn into something."

In northwestern Missouri, the Mid-Buchanan School District has asked for money to build a safe room for 1,000 people at the school.

"Obviously your odds of being hit by a tornado are slim," Superintendent John James said.

"But to have the peace of mind that you have a building that will withstand an F5 tornado and you could have your entire school safe is a nice thing to have."

