Brad Erwin was in junior high on Aug. 28, 1990, when a tornado destroyed much of his hometown of Plainfield, Illinois, including two schools.

Twenty-nine people died during the storm.

More could have been killed if it had struck a day later, Erwin believes.

Hundreds of children were to fill classrooms and start the school year on Aug. 29.

Now he spends all his time trying to prevent such a thing from happening.

Erwin runs an architecture company in Springfield, Missouri, that designs and builds tornado safe rooms in schools.

The safe rooms are structures with walls and ceilings so strong they should resist winds stronger than those that destroyed schools in Oklahoma City this week.

Erwin's company, Paragon Architecture, started three years ago.

Since then, it has worked on 37 tornado safe rooms at schools and community centers across Missouri.

The business also has an office in Joplin, Missouri, where it worked with the school district to build 16 safe rooms in schools across the city.

The money to build them came from grants from the federal government.

A massive tornado hit Joplin in May 2011, killing 161 people.

Tornadoes are rated on the Fujita scale from 1-5.

An F1 is the weakest category.

Joplin's 2011 tornado and the one that struck near Oklahoma City on Monday were both rated F5 because they caused deaths and injuries.

Whenever there's a tornado, Erwin sees a jump in interest.

On Tuesday alone, he received half a dozen calls from schools and businesses.

"Unfortunately, it takes events like these to remind us that we have to protect ourselves," he said.

Hurricane Katrina in 2005 and tornadoes in recent years triggered a nationwide boom in safe rooms.

They're designed to hold large numbers of people at community centers and in schools.

The structures must be able to survive getting struck by metal, wood and other debris driven by 250 mile-per-hour winds, Erwin says.

Walls are built from factory-made concrete slabs and insulation, 14 inches thick.

Any window glass must be able to withstand a 2-by-4 piece of lumber shot at it from a cannon.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency encourages the construction of safe rooms.

It offers to pay three-fourths of the cost if school districts or local governments apply for a grant.

Tornado safe rooms have been constructed at 58 schools or community sites across the state since 2004.

An additional 86 are being planned.

In Illinois, "Interest in the grant program is continuing," said Patti Thompson, who works for the state's Emergency Management Agency.

"We expect there may be more in the future."

She wasn't immediately able to provide a list of safe room locations.

No such safe rooms have been built in the St. Louis area — at least none using federal money.

Nearly all of the tornado safe rooms are being built in rural areas, mostly in the southern part of the state.

Crowder College in Neosho, Missouri, has one of the largest tornado shelters in the state.

But it still gets plenty of use on days when the sky is clear.

Davidson Hall is a two-story structure housing the biology, chemistry, and health and sciences programs.

It has classrooms, hallways and lounges.

"Every part of it is functional on a daily basis," said Amy Rand, who works for the college.

"There is not any space that is only used during a storm."

The $4 million structure opened in 2011 and can hold up to 3,000 people.

And the school is working on a plan to build a similar shelter at its Webb City campus.

In January, a $2.5 million safe room opened in Jasper, Missouri, at the local school.

The room is used as a cafeteria and gym.

There's enough space inside for 1,615 people — more than the town's population.

The room must be open to anyone in town whenever the sirens sound.

In the past month, Superintendent Rick Stark has had to go to the school in the middle of the night to open the room three times.

"I have to take it very seriously," he said.

"You never know when a warning is going to turn into something."

In northwestern Missouri, the Mid-Buchanan School District has applied for a grant to build a safe room for 1,000 people.

It would be on a campus used by children in preschool through 12th grade.

"Obviously your odds of being hit by a tornado are slim," Superintendent John James said.

"But to have the peace of mind that you have a building that will withstand an F5 tornado and you could have your entire school safe is a nice thing to have."

