WASHINGTON — Though they help run our country, our leaders in Washington can be amazingly clueless.

They should see how the rest of the world sees us.

Other nations watch and listen to whatever we say or do.

Extremists in some of those countries do as well.

The cluelessness of lawmakers explains why it released the torture report now.

It has been 13 years since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The report details the actions of the CIA.

It is a spy agency that finds out information to prevent attacks on the U.S.

It tried to get information out of suspects after that horrible attack.

The report admits that the CIA tortured people.

Now the report has been splashed across TV screens, newspapers and websites.

It will put American lives at risk.

It gives extremists one more reason to attack the U.S. To be clear, the report only gave us a few new details.

We've known for years how the CIA got information out of suspects.

In fact, news came out years ago about the CIA's actions.

We knew then that they kept suspects from sleeping, chained them to walls and threatened them.

At the time, the government and American people began to talk about whether the U.S. should ever torture people.

We even agreed on when torture makes sense.

Most Americans believe that we should only use torture in a few cases.

One situation would be if the United States knew an attack was about to happen that could kill many people.

It's been years since we decided this.

Lawmaker Diane Feinstein wrote in the report that the days after Sept. 11 were scary.

People believed that more attacks were coming.

In fact, Feinstein pointed out that, after Sept. 11, the CIA was encouraged "to do whatever it could to prevent another attack."

She even noted that Congress "pushes" the CIA "to act quickly" to stop attacks.

Now we realize that what we did was terrible.

At the time, it seemed necessary.

Feinstein said that she hopes the report will help in the future.

She wants it to be a warning.

She hopes it will make sure that the United States never does this again.

But extremist groups plot every day to attack America.

The report gives them one more tool.

They'll use it to rally their fighters and convince new ones to join them.

The report could also make it harder for the CIA to get information.

We depend on spy information about extremists from countries in Europe, the Middle East, and elsewhere.

We need it to prevent attacks.

Now, other governments and spy agencies may help us less.

America talked seriously about torture years ago.

The report does not add anything new.

It just makes more attacks more likely to happen.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Lawrence J. Haas, a former communications director for Vice President Al Gore, is a senior fellow at the American Foreign Policy Council.

Readers may write him at AFPC, 1112 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy, TNS or Newsela.

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Lawmakers released a report on CIA torture.

It is a good step.

Americans want to know about all the ways our government has fought terror.

Horrifying details are in the report.

Even still, it is not likely to put Americans in danger.

We already knew that the American spy agency, the CIA, used torture to get information from suspects after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

What makes people want to harm Americans is the torture itself.

The Senate report changes nothing.

The spy agency's actions had already been called torture around the world.

Last summer, the European Court of Human Rights decided that the U.S. tortured Abu Zubaydah.

He was a prisoner who was captured in 2002 and was thought to be an al-Qaida member.

Al-Qaida was the group behind the Sept. 11 attacks.

CIA members tortured him using a technique that made him feel like he was drowning.

It is called waterboarding.

Yet, the report said that the CIA did not gain any important information from him.

The United States has also been criticized by the United Nations.

The group is made up of almost all of the world's countries.

The group tries to help countries work together to achieve peace.

The U.S. signed the United Nations Convention Against Torture.

It is a law which makes torture a crime anywhere in the world.

Just like other countries that signed it, we are supposed to obey it.

The torture was part of how we acted after Sept. 11.

Along with that was our mistake of invading Afghanistan.

We should have worked with Afghanistan's government to capture those responsible for the attacks in New York.

Instead, we took over the country.

Now we are leaving Afghanistan, but we're leaving it with a lot of conflicts going on.

Al-Qaida will still be able to do its work there, just like it did before Sept. 11.

We also invaded Iraq because we said al-Qaida and Iraq were working together.

It wasn't true.

It is these actions that make us a target for extremists.

We are seen as bullies.

Our position in the fighting between Israel and the Palestinians does not help.

Most countries recognize Palestine as a country.

We do not.

Extremists in the Middle East see this as another reason to hate us.

Congress had to release this report about torture.

Part of its job is to check up on the actions of presidents.

The safety of America depends on how we deal with all of our problems around the world, not just this one.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: John B. Quigley is a distinguished professor of law at The Ohio State University.

Readers may write to him at Moritz College of Law, 55 West 12th St., Columbus, Ohio 43210.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy, TNS or Newsela.

