WASHINGTON — Though they help rule the world's most important nation, American leaders can be amazingly clueless.

They might want to see how the rest of the world sees us.

Other nations watch and listen closely to whatever we say or do.

Extremists in those nations do as well.

The cluelessness of lawmakers explains why the Senate Intelligence Committee released its torture report now.

It has been 13 years since the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

The report details how our spy agency, the CIA, got information out of extremist suspects in the frightening months after that fateful day.

The report admits that the CIA used torture.

Now the report has been splashed across TV screens, newspapers and websites.

The report's spread will put American lives at risk.

It gives extremists one more reason to attack the U.S. To be clear, the report only gave more details of CIA activities.

We've known for many years that the CIA has used harsh ways get information from enemies.

In fact, news surfaced years ago about the CIA's actions.

We knew then that our spies prevented suspects from sleeping, chained them to walls, and threatened them with death.

At the time, the government and the American people began a serious national debate over whether the United States should ever torture.

We even reached a general agreement.

Most Americans believe that we should avoid any torture except in the most extreme cases.

An obvious situation is if the U.S. faced the immediate threat of an attack that could kill hundreds or thousands of people.

Now it's years after Americans debated the issue.

The report was written by the Senate Intelligence Committee, a group of lawmakers in the Senate, which is a part of Congress.

The head of the committee was Diane Feinstein, a senator from California.

Feinstein wrote in the report that the days after Sept. 11 were full of fear.

Many people believed that much greater attacks were coming.

In fact, Feinstein noted that, after Sept. 11, the CIA was encouraged "to do whatever it could to prevent another attack."

She went on to write that the "Intelligence Committee as well often pushes intelligence agencies to act quickly in response to threats and world events."

That, by the way, is no different than how our nation's leaders have behaved at other perilous times.

During the Civil War, for instance, President Abraham Lincoln suspended habeas corpus.

It is a Latin name for a law that prevents Americans from unlawful imprisonment.

Like we did then, we now realize these decisions were horrifying.

But in times of fear, they seem necessary.

Feinstein says that she hopes the report will be a warning for the future.

She hopes it will make sure that, even when facing danger, the United States never again abandons its values.

But the extremists plot every day to attack America.

The report gives them one more tool.

They'll use it to rally their fighters and convince new ones to join them.

That means more militants will give themselves more reasons to launch more attacks against more Americans.

Now, governments and spy agencies which the U.S. works with around the world may keep their distance from us.

We rely on information from countries in Europe, the Middle East, and elsewhere.

We need information to prevent attacks.

Less knowledge about the plans of extremists will leave us more open to an attack.

America debated torture long ago.

Rather than add to that debate, the committee's report is just making American deaths more likely.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Lawrence J. Haas, a former communications director for Vice President Al Gore, is a senior fellow at the American Foreign Policy Council.

Readers may write him at AFPC, 1112 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy, TNS or Newsela.

COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Senate Intelligence Committee's release of its report on CIA torture is a welcome step toward openness.

The methods used in the "war on terror" are of great interest to Americans.

Horrifying details were included in the report.

Still, the release is not likely to lead to any immediate increased risk to Americans.

It is no secret that the CIA used torture in questioning suspects after Sept. 11, 2001.

What makes people want to harm Americans is the torture itself.

The Senate report changes nothing.

The questioning methods had already been called torture around the world.

Last summer, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the CIA tortured Abu Zubaydah.

He was captured in Pakistan in 2002 and was believed to be a member of al-Qaida, the extremist group behind the Sept. 11 attacks.

Harsh tactics were used against him.

CIA members used a technique that made him feel like he was drowning.

Yet, the Senate report says it did not help gain any significant information from him.

The United States has also been criticized by the United Nations for how it questioned suspected extremists after Sept. 11.

The United Nations includes most of the world's countries.

The group works to keep peace between countries.

The U.S. signed the United Nations Convention Against Torture.

It is a law that we are supposed to obey.

By signing it, we made torture a crime under U.S. law as well.

The torture was part of how we reacted to Sept. 11.

Along with that was our mistake of invading Afghanistan.

Instead of dealing with Afghanistan's government to capture those responsible for the attacks in New York, we took over the country.

Now we are trying to remove ourselves from Afghanistan, but we're leaving it with messy conflicts.

Al-Qaida will still be able to work there, just like it did in 2001.

The CIA torture was carried out also to prove that al-Qaida and Iraq were working together.

We used that as an excuse to invade Iraq, but it wasn't true.

These types of actions make us a target for extremists.

They also cause people around the world to see the U.S. as a bully.

Our position in the dispute between Israel and the Palestinians does not help.

Even today, we are almost the only ones that don't recognize Palestine as a country.

Our position in that conflict gives extremists another reason to hate us.

The Senate had to release this report about torture.

Part of its job is to check up on the actions of presidents, including how they respond to terror.

The safety of America depends on how we deal with all international problems, not just this one.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: John B. Quigley is a distinguished professor of law at The Ohio State University.

Readers may write to him at Moritz College of Law, 55 West 12th St., Columbus, Ohio 43210.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy, TNS or Newsela.

