Senate investigators released an extremely critical report on CIA interrogations Tuesday.

The findings accuse the spy agency of hurting prisoners during interviews in a way that is against the law.

The CIA also claimed that the harsh questioning saved American lives, but couldn't provide proof that they did so.

After Sept. 11, 2001, when al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the CIA started questioning people.

To get answers from the people they were questioning, sometimes the CIA would put pressure on them verbally and physically.

The questioning was worse than the government told Congress or the public, said the report from the Senate Intelligence Committee.

It is the first time the information has been made public after years of debate about the CIA's brutal handling of prisoners.

Only five hundred pages of the report were made public.

About 6,700 pages of the full investigation still remain classified.

President Barack Obama declared the torture to be "contrary to our values" and pledged, "I will continue to use my authority as president to make sure we never resort to those methods again."

Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committee chairman, said the findings are a stain on the country's history.

"Under any common meaning of the term, CIA detainees were tortured," she declared.

Tactics used included weeks of sleep deprivation, slapping and slamming of detainees against walls, confining them to small boxes, keeping them isolated for prolonged periods and threatening them with death.

Three people in questioning faced a type of torture called waterboarding.

It makes the person feel like they are drowning.

Many developed psychological problems.

The "enhanced interrogation techniques" also didn't produce the results that really mattered, the report says in its controversial conclusion.

It says that the CIA cables, emails and interview transcripts seem to say that the big reason the CIA used the torture techniques was false.

The torture did not help to stop terror plans or save American lives.

In a statement, the CIA said the report "tells part of the story" but "there are too many flaws for it to stand as the official record of the program."

Some Republican leaders objected to the report's release.

They challenged the report's claim that the tough tactics didn't work.

The interrogation program "helped us identify and capture important al-Qaida terrorists," stop their plans to attack the United States "and take down Osama bin Laden," Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia said in a joint statement.

Not all Republicans felt this way, however.

Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona was tortured in Vietnam as a prisoner of war.

He welcomed the report and agreed with its findings.

"We gave up much in the expectation that torture would make us safer," he said in a Senate speech.

"Too much."

The report was released after months of debate about what should be censored.

The government was concerned about people overseas becoming upset at the United States.

American embassies and military sites all over the world were taking extra precautions.

People who used to work for the CIA said the report's findings were false.

So did some Senate Republicans.

They accused Democrats of not being accurate and of only choosing to release evidence that supported what they wanted to find.

CIA officials still say they gained a lot of important information that still guides counterterrorism efforts.

"The program led to the capture of al-Qaida leaders and took them off the battlefield," said George Tenet.

He was the CIA director when the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks occurred.

He said it saved "thousands of American lives."

Democratic Senator Harry Reid disagreed.

"It got us nothing except a bad name," he said.

President George W. Bush approved the program in 2002 but didn't learn about the details until 2006.

At that time Bush expressed discomfort with one of the images of a detainee who was being tortured.

After an al-Qaida worker named Abu Zubaydah was arrested in Pakistan, the CIA received permission to use waterboarding, sleep deprivation, close confinement and other techniques.

Agency officials added even more torture techniques to the list, according to the report.

Others received "ice baths" and death threats.

At least three who were imprisoned were told their families would suffer.

The CIA officers threatened to harm their children, sexually abuse the mother of one man, and cut the throat of another man's mother.

Zubaydah was held in a secret facility in Thailand.

Early on, with CIA officials believing he had information on another terror attack, Zubaydah was left isolated for 47 days without questioning, the report says.

Later, he was subjected to many techniques.

He later suffered mental problems.

During a waterboarding session, Zubaydah became "completely unresponsive with bubbles rising through his open full mouth," according to internal CIA records.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind, received the waterboarding treatment 183 times.

Though officers noted he wasn't giving them any more information, they still tortured him for 10 more days.

He was waterboarded for not confirming a "nuclear suitcase" plot the CIA later deemed a scam.

Another time, his waterboarding produced a made-up confession about recruiting black Muslims in Montana.

After reviewing 6 million documents from the CIA, investigators said they could find no example of unique, life-saving intelligence that the torture helped them to get.

The report claims it proves the CIA's assertion that its practices led to Osama bin Laden's killing was false.

The agency says its questioning of detainee Ammar al-Baluchi revealed a known person who was taking messages to and from bin Laden.

