On Tuesday, Senate investigators delivered a controversial report about CIA interrogations.

The findings accuse the spy agency of torturing prisoners beyond its legal limits and claiming that the harsh questioning saved American lives, without backing up the stories.

Treatment in secret prisons after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks was worse than the government told Congress or the public, said the report from the Senate Intelligence Committee.

It is the first official public release of these findings after years of debate about the CIA's brutal treatment of prisoners.

Only 500 pages of the report were released, which included a summary and conclusions.

There remains 6,700 pages of the full investigation that are still classified.

President Barack Obama declared the past practices to be "contrary to our values" and pledged, "I will continue to use my authority as president to make sure we never resort to those methods again."

Democratic Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committee chairman, branded the findings a stain on the nation's history.

"Under any common meaning of the term, CIA detainees were tortured," she declared, commanding the Senate floor for an extended accounting of the harsh techniques identified in the report.

Tactics used included weeks of sleep deprivation, slapping and slamming of detainees against walls, confining them to small boxes, keeping them isolated for prolonged periods and threatening them with death.

Three detainees faced the simulated drowning technique known as waterboarding.

Many developed psychological problems.

But the "enhanced interrogation techniques" didn't produce the results that really mattered, the report says in its most controversial conclusion.

It cites CIA cables, emails and interview transcripts to contradict the central justification for torture — that it thwarted terror plots and saved American lives.

In a statement, the CIA said the report "tells part of the story" but "there are too many flaws for it to stand as the official record of the program."

Some Republican leaders objected to the report's release and challenged its contention that tough tactics didn't work.

The interrogation program "helped us identify and capture important al-Qaida terrorists, (stop) their ongoing plotting and take down Osama bin Laden," Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky and Senator Saxby Chambliss of Georgia, the top Republican on the intelligence panel, said in a joint statement.

But Republican Senator John McCain of Arizona, who was tortured in Vietnam as a prisoner of war, welcomed the report and mainly agreed with its findings.

"We gave up much in the expectation that torture would make us safer," he said in a Senate speech.

"Too much."

The report was released after months of negotiations with the administration about what should and shouldn't be revealed.

It was issued amid concerns of an anti-American backlash overseas.

American embassies and military sites worldwide were taking extra precautions.

Former CIA officials argued against the report's findings.

So did some Senate Republicans, who accused Democrats of inaccuracies, sloppy analysis and cherry-picking evidence to reach a predetermined conclusion.

CIA officials maintain they gained important information that still guides counterterrorism efforts.

"The program led to the capture of al-Qaida leaders and took them off the battlefield," George Tenet, CIA director when the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks occurred, said in recent days.

He said it saved "thousands of American lives."

Not so, said Democratic Senator Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader.

"It got us nothing except a bad name."

President George W. Bush approved the program in 2002, but he wasn't briefed by the CIA about the details until 2006.

At that time Bush expressed discomfort with the "image of a detainee, chained to the ceiling, clothed in a diaper and forced to go to the bathroom on himself."

After Abu Zubaydah, who worked for al-Qaida, was arrested in Pakistan, the CIA received permission to use torture techniques.

They were allowed to use waterboarding, sleep deprivation, close confinement and more.

The report says agency officials added other illegal techniques into the mix.

Others received "ice baths" and death threats.

At least three in captivity were told their families would suffer, with CIA officers threatening to harm their children, sexually abuse the mother of one man, and cut the throat of another man's mother.

Zubaydah was held in a secret facility in Thailand, called "detention Site Green" in the report.

Early on, with CIA officials believing he had information on another terror plot, Zubaydah was left isolated for 47 days without questioning, the report says.

Later, he was subjected to the assortment of harsh torture methods.

He later suffered mental problems.

During a waterboarding session, Zubaydah became "completely unresponsive with bubbles rising through his open full mouth," according to internal CIA records.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the 9/11 mastermind, received the waterboarding treatment 183 times.

Though officers noted he wasn't becoming more compliant, they waterboarded him for 10 more days.

He was waterboarded for not confirming a "nuclear suitcase" plot the CIA later deemed a scam.

Another time, his waterboarding produced a made-up confession about recruiting black Muslims in Montana.

After reviewing 6 million agency documents, investigators said they could find no example of unique, life-saving piece of information gained from the abusive techniques — another sweeping conclusion the CIA and Republicans contest.

The report claims to debunk the CIA's assertion its practices led to bin Laden's killing.

The agency says its interrogation of detainee Ammar al-Baluchi revealed a known person who was taking messages to and from bin Laden.

