WASHINGTON — Though they preside over the world's most important nation, our leaders in Washington can be startlingly oblivious to the audiences beyond our shores that watch and listen closely to whatever we say or do.

That's the only rational explanation for why — 13 years after the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001 — Senate Intelligence Committee Democrats issued a graphic, self-flagellating report about the CIA's "enhanced interrogation" methods in the frightening days, weeks and months after that fateful day.

With its provocative detail splashed across the TV screens, front pages and websites of our leading media, the report will undoubtedly endanger American lives by giving extremists one more rallying cry to attack U.S. interests, strengthening their recruiting efforts, and forcing other governments and intelligence services to show that they're keeping their distance from Uncle Sam.

To be clear, the report was revealing only in its raw detail of CIA activities against particular detainees, not in the broad subject matter.

We've known for many years that the CIA used unsavory methods.

In fact, when news surfaced years ago that the CIA deprived suspects of sleep, chained them to walls, threatened them with gruesome death and so on, government officials, opinion leaders and the broad public began a serious and cathartic national debate over whether the United States should ever torture.

Despite the outliers, we even reached a general consensus that we should avoid anything that smacks of torture and consider employing it only in the most extreme cases — such as when the United States faces the imminent threat of a catastrophic attack that could kill hundreds, if not thousands, of people.

That's all fine years after the fact but, as the Senate Intelligence Committee Chair Diane Feinstein, a Democrat from California, acknowledged in her "Forward" to the report, the days after Sept. 11, 2001 were not ones in which our government and intelligence services could take a leisurely approach to national security.

Instead, they were the days of overwhelming fear that much greater attacks were coming.

In fact, Feinstein noted that, after Sept. 11, the CIA "was encouraged by political leaders and the public to do whatever it could to prevent another attack," and that, as a general matter, the "Intelligence Committee as well often pushes intelligence agencies to act quickly in response to threats and world events."

That, by the way, is no different than how our nation's leaders have behaved at other perilous times, such as when Abraham Lincoln suspended the writ of habeas corpus during the Civil War.

What later seems heinous often seems vital at the time.

Feinstein says that she hopes the report will serve as a warning for the future, as a preemptive measure to ensure that, even when facing national security perils, the United States never again abandons its values.

Indeed, she and her Democratic colleagues were so determined to render their judgments against the CIA's post-Sept. 11 methods that they never even interviewed the officials whose activities they judged so harshly.

Now, the extremists of al-Qaida, Islamic State and other dangerous groups who plot every day to attack America and its global interests will have one more rallying cry and recruiting tool.

That means more extremists with more motivation to plot and launch more attacks against more Americans.

Now, governments and intelligence agencies with which Washington has worked regularly, whether in Europe, the Middle East, or elsewhere, will hesitate before aligning themselves too closely with the United States.

That means less intelligence from around the world will flow to Washington, leaving us more vulnerable to plots that our intelligence services lack the information to prevent.

America debated torture and rendered its judgment long ago.

Rather than advance that debate, the committee's report is just making American deaths more likely.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Lawrence J. Haas, a former communications director for Vice President Al Gore, is a senior fellow at the American Foreign Policy Council.

Readers may write him at AFPC, 1112 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy or TNS.

COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Senate Intelligence Committee's release of its report on CIA torture is a welcome step toward transparency.

The methods used to wage the "war on terror" are of more than a little public interest.

Despite gruesome details included in the report about what was done to detainees, the release is not likely to lead to any immediate increased risk to Americans.

It has been no secret for some time now that the CIA used techniques amounting to torture in its post-Sept. 11, 2001, interrogations.

What has augmented the ranks of those inclined to cause harm to Americans is the torture itself, not its description in the Senate report.

The interrogation methods had already been called torture by other authoritative bodies.

Last summer, the European Court of Human Rights ordered Poland to pay money damages to Abu Zubaydah, who was tortured in Poland at a "black site" made available to the CIA by the Polish government.

The court found that the methods used against Zubaydah constituted torture as internationally defined.

The court found Poland complicit in torture perpetrated by the CIA.

The European Court is no rogue outfit.

Its judges are drawn from countries that are our closest allies.

It was in fact the capture of Zubaydah in March 2002 in Pakistan that prompted the CIA to opt for harsh tactics in interrogation.

In the case of Zubaydah, the Senate report says, harsh tactics including waterboarding did not result in any significant information from him.

The United States has also been pilloried for its post-Sept. 11 interrogations by the U.N. Committee Against Torture, which monitors the Convention Against Torture that we signed.

To a great extent, what the Senate Intelligence Committee reported confirmed, albeit in greater detail, is what outside monitors have already found.

The aspects of the Senate report that trouble Americans — whether the CIA lied to Congress, and whether the torture produced actionable intelligence — are of less moment abroad.

What matters in world public opinion is what we did.

The torture was part of an oversized reaction to Sept. 11 that included an ill-conceived invasion of Afghanistan.

Instead of dealing with the Afghanistan government to gain custody of those responsible for the attacks in New York, we took over the country.

Now we are trying to extricate ourselves from Afghanistan, but without correcting the instability that let al-Qaida operate.

The CIA torture was carried out, moreover, not only to ascertain threats from al-Qaida, but to establish a connection between al-Qaida and Iraq, as a pretext to invade Iraq.

No such connection was ever established.

It is all these actions taken together that make us an attractive target for a new generation of extremists.

Not surprisingly, our actions are interpreted as arrogance and as a reflection of an attitude of superiority.

Our continuing stance in the dispute over historic Palestine does not help in convincing those who would harm us that we have changed our ways.

Even today, we stand practically alone in refusing to acknowledge Palestine as a nation-state, and in protecting Israel in the U.N. Security Council.

It made sense to come clean on torture, in part because torture is a crime under U.S. law.

A federal statute incorporates the U.N. Convention Against Torture, making torture committed anywhere in the world a crime.

Charles Taylor, son of the former Liberian president of the same name, is currently serving a 97-year sentence in federal prison for orchestrating torture in Liberia when he headed a government "anti-terrorism" unit under his father.

Regardless of whether any U.S. official is prosecuted, the Senate in its oversight role had to release this report about torture.

In the long term, the safety of America will depend on how we deal with foreign policy issues overall, not just this one.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: John B. Quigley is a distinguished professor of law at The Ohio State University.

Readers may write to him at Moritz College of Law, 55 West 12th St., Columbus, Ohio 43210.

> > This essay is available to McClatchy and Tribune News Service subscribers.

McClatchy and TNS  did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy or TNS.

