On Tuesday, some lawmakers put out a troubling report about the CIA.

Their report detailed how the CIA questions enemies.

The CIA is the U.S. agency that spies on groups and countries.

Its job is to gather information to keep the U.S. safe.

It can do this by sending out spies, or bringing in people for questioning.

Lawmakers said the CIA hurt prisoners during interviews in a way that is against the law, such as using violence.

The CIA claimed that the harsh questioning saved American lives.

However, lawmakers said the CIA couldn't give proof of that.

On Sept. 11, 2001, a group called al-Qaida attacked the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, killing thousands of Americans.

The CIA started questioning people it thought might be enemies of the United States.

The lawmakers said the CIA would torture the enemies without telling lawmakers or the public.

Only some parts of the report were published.

More than 6,000 pages are being kept secret.

President Barack Obama said the torture was against the country's values.

He promised to make sure the CIA never used torture to get information again.

Democratic lawmaker Dianne Feinstein was on the committee that wrote the report.

She said the findings were a dark mark on the country's history.

The people captured by the CIA were "tortured," she said.

The CIA forced the prisoners to stay awake for days.

The spies hurt them by throwing them against walls.

They also put them in small boxes and threatened to kill them.

At the end of the report, the lawmakers said the torture also didn't get the CIA any more helpful information.

They said the torture did not help stop terror plans or save American lives.

The CIA said the report "tells part of the story."

It also said the report had some errors.

Some Republican lawmakers didn't like the report and did not want it to be made public.

Republicans are one group of lawmakers.

They often disagree with Democrats, another group of lawmakers.

The Republicans challenged the report.

They said it was false to say that torture didn't help get more information.

Two Republican lawmakers said what the spies did helped the U.S. find enemies.

The torture helped stop their plans to attack the United States.

It also helped the U.S. find and kill al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden, they said.

Not all Republicans felt this way, however.

Republican lawmaker John McCain was tortured during the Vietnam War as a prisoner of war.

He was glad the report was released and agreed with what it said.

The report was released after months of arguing over what should be revealed.

The government was worried people overseas would be upset at the United States.

American government buildings all over the world were trying to increase security.

People who used to work for the CIA said the report's findings were false.

So did some Republican lawmakers.

They accused Democrats of not being accurate and of only choosing to release evidence that supported what they wanted to find.

Spy officials still say they gained a lot of important information that still guides counterterrorism efforts.

President George W. Bush approved the of the CIA program in 2002.

Still, he didn't learn all about the torture until 2006.

At that time Bush said he was uncomfortable with an image he was shown of a prisoner being hurt.

A terror suspect was captured in Pakistan.

U.S. spies got permission from the government to torture him.

They would not let him sleep, and kept him in a small space.

They also used water to make him think he was drowning.

Other prisoners had to take baths in ice.

The CIA told them they were going to kill their families.

The terror suspect was held in a secret building in Thailand.

The CIA thought he had information on another terror attack.

He was left alone for 47 days without questioning, the report says.

The spies then tortured him many times.

He later suffered mental problems.

Another prisoner was tortured at least 183 times.

The spies noted that he wasn't giving them any more information.

Still, they tortured him for 10 more days.

They even tortured him to get information about a terror threat that they later found out was fake.

Lawmakers reviewed 6 million documents from the CIA.

They said they couldn't find proof that any of the information saved lives.

They couldn't find information that had protected the United States.

The CIA had said that torture helped them find out where bin Laden was hiding.

The lawmakers say their report found this was false.

The CIA says one prisoner told them about someone who was taking messages to and from bin Laden.

