Toy-related injuries for American children are on the rise.

A new study from Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio, shows that between 1990 and 2011, such injuries jumped by about 40 percent.

In 1990, infants, toddlers, children and teens were being injured at a rate of 18.9 per 10,000.

By 2011, that rate had jumped to 26.4 per 10,000, according to the study.

The researchers looked at data collected from hospitals for their study.

They found that children were most likely to suffer a toy-related injury at 2 years old.

Kids under the age of five made up a little over half of the injured patients.

These estimates are based on data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System.

It is run by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the government agency in charge of making sure consumer products are safe.

The commission collects patient data from about 100 hospitals that have 24-hour emergency rooms.

The information is then used to calculate injuries for the entire country.

With about 3 billion model planes, hula hoops, building block sets and other toys sold in the U.S. every year, the researchers wrote, "the importance of toys in society" cannot be dismissed.

Most of the time, kids emerge unhurt from their play sessions.

But not always.

One type of toy was called out more than any other for causing the rise in injuries: foot-powered scooters.

The researchers found that the total number of injuries involving scooters and other ride-on toys like wagons, tricycles and skateboards increased by 74 percent.

The number of injuries jumped from 41,418 in 1990 to 71,929 in 2011.

In fact, 35 percent of all toy-related injuries were caused by ride-on toys, making them the toy responsible for more injuries than any other.

Scooters helped make falls and crashes the most common types of toy-related injuries, accounting for 46 percent of falls and 22 percent of crashes.

Put another way, 60 percent of all falls were the result of playing with ride-on toys.

According to the report, accidents related to scooters were also more severe than other kinds.

For instance, kids playing with ride-on toys were 3.2 times more likely to suffer a fracture or dislocation compared with kids using other kinds of toys.

Overall, fractures and similar injuries accounted for 11 percent of all toy-related accidents.

The researchers also found that kids who went to emergency rooms after hurting themselves on ride-on toys were 38 percent more likely than other kids to be admitted to the hospital.

In the two decades of the study, 43 percent of all toy-related hospital admissions were due to mishaps with ride-on toys.

The researchers also found interesting facts about injuries involving all toys, not just ride-on toys.

For example: Four out of five injuries happened at home.

Sixty-three percent of the injuries involved boys.

Toy-related injuries were more frequent during the spring and summer months of April through September (57 percent of injuries) than during the fall and winter months of October through March (43 percent).

A majority (98 percent) of kids seen in emergency rooms went home without being admitted to the hospital.

The authors of the study felt that many of the injuries caused to children could have been prevented if toys were designed to be much safer.

