Back in 1950, Eiji Toyoda visited a Ford plant to learn how Americans made cars.

The visit by a member of Japan's most important manufacturing family changed the way Toyota Motor Corp. produced cars.

And that in turn ended up altering the global auto industry.

Toyoda, who is credited with developing the car company's efficient manufacturing processes and who helped spearhead Toyota's push into the U.S. auto market, died Tuesday.

He was 100.

"Clearly Eiji was the person who laid the groundwork for what Toyota is today," said automotive researcher David Cole.

"He was a real visionary and inspirational leader who understood what it would take to make Toyota a successful company."

Toyoda, a cousin of the Japanese automaker's founder Kiichiro Toyoda, died of heart failure at Toyota Memorial Hospital in Toyota City, central Japan.

The family used the Toyota name for the business because they believed it sounded better.

"This is the Japanese equivalent of Henry Ford passing," said Leslie Kendall, curator of the Petersen Automotive Museum in Los Angeles.

A Trailblazing Executive Toyoda "helped blaze a new trail in the way auto companies are run," Kendall said.

Toyoda showed how companies can cut down on waste on how employees should be treated, Kendall added.

Born Sept. 12, 1913, in Nagoya City, Toyoda graduated from the University of Tokyo in 1936 with a degree in mechanical engineering.

He joined Toyoda Automatic Loom Works Ltd., a textile mill founded by his father and uncle, that same year.

About a year later, he moved to the company's new automotive branch.

Toyoda quickly became drawn to the making of automobiles.

He dove into factory operations and began supervising activities on the shop floor.

Having grown up at the family textile mill, Eiji Toyoda loved machines.

"From my childhood, machines and business were always there right in front of me," he said in a 1999 Time Magazine interview.

"I probably developed an understanding of both."

He rose through the ranks, becoming a Toyota director by 1945.

During World War II, which ended that year, most of the company's automobile production had been put on hold.

But by 1950 things had picked back up again.

Lessons Learned From The Motor City That was the year Toyoda toured the Ford factory in Dearborn, Mich. His experience there was the root of the ideas he employed to retool Toyota's manufacturing.

"We were producing 40 cars a day," he said in the Time interview.

"Ford was making 8,000 units, a 200-times difference.

The gap was enormous."

Toyoda changed Toyota's manufacturing approach.

The company began making cars in small batches, receiving just enough parts at the factory to complete a production run efficiently.

This reduced the need to stockpile supplies at the factory and was the start of the production method known as "kanban" or "just in time" delivery.

That method has become standard in the global auto industry.

"The Toyota folks have credit for that work," said James Rubenstein, an auto industry analyst.

Today, Toyota is the world's biggest car builder.

"It is like GM was in the old days," Rubenstein said.

Toyopet A Dud, Corona A Hit Toyoda became vice president of Toyota in 1960 and president in 1967.

He also was responsible for Toyota setting up a sales and marketing arm that was separate from the company's manufacturing operations.

Among other accomplishments, he directed the development of the Corolla, which became one of the world's best-selling cars.

Toyoda also went against skeptics who believed that a Japanese automaker couldn't create a luxury brand.

He pushed Toyota into the bigger, more expensive vehicles that became the Lexus line in 1989.

These came to rival the big German luxury sedans produced by Mercedes-Benz and BMW.

Toyota entered the American market after an executive, Shotaro Kamiya, visited the U.S. in the mid-1950s and noticed sales of the Volkswagen Beetle, the most popular import car at the time.

Kamiya went back to Japan and with Toyoda developed the plan to crack the U.S. market.

They exported their first cars to the States in August of 1957.

At first, Toyota pinned its hopes on a slow, dull, four-door sedan called the Toyopet Crown.

But it wasn't very good.

The first Toyotas sold in the U.S. handled poorly when driven over 60 miles per hour and tended to overheat in mountains or deserts.

Toyota's U.S. sales in its first year were tiny: only 288 vehicles.

Toyoda told his sales force to focus on the Jeep-like Land Cruiser until the company could launch its Corona sedan in 1965.

Although still a small car, the Corona addressed the problems that were evident in the Toyopet.

It became the automaker's first big seller in the U.S.

Dodge, Ford And Chevy Seek To Catch Up Another Toyoda project, the Corolla, came out in the late 1960s.

This quickly built a U.S. reputation for its low cost and reliability.

It was also very fuel-efficient –– that is, it got a lot of miles out of a gallon of gas.

By 1972, Toyota passed Volkswagen to become the top import brand in America.

So far in 2013, the automaker has sold more than 1.5 million Toyota, Lexus and Scion vehicles here.

It sells more than now 14 percent of the vehicles purchased in the United States.

The 1973 OPEC oil crisis cemented demand for Toyota's lower-priced cars, which got better mileage than Detroit's automobiles.

This left U.S. automakers scrambling to come up with more fuel-efficient models that could compete.

Only recently has Detroit caught up, with its latest generation of vehicles such as the Ford Focus, Chevrolet Cruze and Dodge Dart.

Toyoda retired in 1994, but remained involved with the company.

He is is survived by three sons, Kanshiro, Tetsuro and Shuhei.

All three work for companies connected to Toyota.

