Toy sales in the United States have been slowing in recent years.

This year, people are buying again and sales are back up.

That is good news for toy companies.

These days, toys have to compete to get kids' attention.

Many kids have started choosing video games and mobile apps over Barbie dolls and stuffed bears.

After several years of poor sales, though, the U.S. toy industry is expected to have a very strong year.

The NPD Group Inc. is a company that studies the toy industry.

According to NPD, toy sales are expected to rise 6.2 percent to $19.9 billion in 2015, the biggest increase in at least 10 years.

The 2015 estimates includes the final three months of the year when sales pick up due to the holidays.

Sales in October, November and December are expected to reach $9.6 million, a 5 percent increase.

Last year, there was only a 3.6 percent gain during the holidays.

The strong year of sales comes after 10 years of slow growth and declines.

What is giving toys a boost?

According to experts, there are at least three factors fueling the growth of toy sales.

Toys based on Hollywood movies are becoming more and more popular.

At the same time, improving technology is making toys more advanced, allowing them to do things like talk back to children.

Finally, toy companies are having more success reaching out to older kids.

Successful movies have contributed to increased toy sales.

For example, demand for toys related to the movie "Frozen" helped the toy industry achieve a rare gain last year.

"Frozen" tells the story of a princess who sets off to find her sister with icy powers.

Toys based on the film have been extremely popular.

In fact, "Frozen" was the top toy brand last year according to NPD, reaching $531 million in sales.

The new "Star Wars" movie comes out on December 18.

It is bringing with it another batch of popular movie-based toys.

Hundreds of playthings, from puzzles to action figures related to "Star Wars," are expected to boost sales for 2015. Business expert Marty Brochstein says that one "Star Wars" toy is already selling out.

The "Kylo Ren" Deluxe LightSaber, which features motion sensor-controlled sound effects is flying off store shelves.

He says "Star Wars" appeals to both children and adults.

"It's multi-generational," Brochstein says.

Hasbro, the nation's second-largest toy company, reported a jump in sales this year, helped by toys related to "Star Wars."

Hasbro has the major merchandising licensing rights to make Star Wars toys from now until 2020.

It is also teaming up with The Walt Disney Company to make "Frozen" dolls in 2016.

David Brandon is the new head of the store Toys R Us.

He says the toy store is placing big bets this holiday season on brands like "Star Wars" to help push up sales.

"It will be very interesting to see at the end of the holiday season where the growth comes from.

And how much growth there is," Brandon says.

Another reason experts think that more toys are being sold has to do with technology.

Toymakers have begun using computer chip technology, which is getting cheaper and more powerful, in toys.

As a result, toys are becoming more advanced.

"The selection is much greater than in the past," said Jim Silver, editor-in-chief of an online toy review site called TTPM.

He added that technology is making toys more appealing to young kids and teens.

Remote-controlled cars and flying droids can now be controlled by smartphones.

Robotic toys are becoming more life-like and now include voice recognition features.

For example, Hasbro makes a toy unicorn called StarLily My Magical Unicorn.

It responds to voice and touch with more than 100 sound and motion combinations.

Mattel, the nation's largest toy company, is also hoping technology will help it reverse years of slumping sales.

"You want to make sure that you give them enough that they're going to want to walk away from their iPads and phones," Mattel's Executive Vice President Geoff Walker said.

Mattel's new Barbie features speech recognition and can have a two-way conversation with girls.

Another popular toy is "Smart Bear," an interactive plush bear that links to a smartphone app to help kids learn.

Toys continue to be popular with younger kids, but toymakers are also focusing on grabbing the attention of the tween and preteen crowds.

Kids between 8 and 12 years old account for 22 percent of toy sales, according to NPD.

However, they are also the biggest users of mobile devices.

Rather than buying toys, many preteens prefer video games and apps.

Toymakers believe they can get these kids' attention because features like voice recognition are more affordable, allowing toys to become more advanced.

For example, a toy robot called Meccano Meccanoid G15 allows kids to build and program their own personal 4-foot-tall robot that records and plays back audio, and it learns from them.

It has more than 1,200 parts and tons of computer memory.

Toys are getting updated to appeal teenagers, too.

Hasbro has created a version of its Nerf gun called Nerf Rival for kids older than 14.

It shoots balls 100 feet per second.

Think paint ball meets Nerf.

Still, it could be a hard sell.

It's hard for toys to compete these days.

Fourteen-year-old Jackson Roberts from Manhattan tried out the Nerf Rival.

"It's fun," he said.

"But I don't know how long I would play with this until I got bored."

On Roberts' holiday wish list: a 3-D printer and a droid that takes pictures.

