Imagine paying $20 and sitting down inside a Space Age car in Los Angeles.

About half an hour later, you see the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco.

The same drive would take about six hours.

Without bad traffic.

A flight is about 90 minutes, after you have gotten to and through the airport.

Los Angeles billionaire Elon Musk thinks the super-fast trip is possible.

Musk already made electric cars cool.

He revolutionized how people pay for things online.

He changed spaceflight missions for NASA.

Now he is taking on California's public transportation system.

On Monday, Musk showed off the design of his Hyperloop.

It is a $6 billion high-speed transportation system powered by the sun.

The line would travel up to 760 miles per hour, Musk said.

Capsules would hold 28 people each.

Passengers would feel like they were on an airplane.

California is already trying to build its own bullet train.

It would cost $68 billion.

Musk says his system is better and cheaper.

"It would be great to have an alternative to flying or driving," he said.

But only if it is better than those two choices.

The state's bullet train would not be, he said.

It would instead be "both one of the most expensive per mile, and one of the slowest in the world."

If he were anybody else, Musk would probably be called crazy.

But Musk has a history to back him up.

He started and sold PayPal to EBay for $1.5 billion.

Then Musk started the rocket company SpaceX.

He also [co-founded](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) and runs electric car giant Tesla.

Now he sees a new way to travel.

This one operates a little like the air tubes that move envelopes at neighborhood banks.

Scientist and TV host Michio Kaku said normally he would think the idea was almost nuts.

But Musk is involved.

"You have to take him seriously.

The guy is a doer."

The Hyperloop's cars would move at speeds of 300 to 760 mph.

The cars would shoot through a steel tube on a cushion of air.

They would be like pucks gliding on an air hockey table.

A magnetic system would speed them up along the way.

The tube would have solar panels on top.

The panels would generate much more energy than the Hyperloop would use, Musk said.

The trip would be 382 miles.

The tube would connect two stations, one in Los Angeles and the other in San Francisco.

More stations could be added later.

Musk said 7.4 million people could take the Hyperloop a year.

The California bullet train planners expect many more riders.

They see at least 20 million a year.

But outside experts don't agree.

They doubt that a lot of drivers or airline passengers will be attracted to the bullet train.

The California bullet train authority said Musk's plan is worth considering.

But authority Chairman Dan Richard also said Musk would have things to worry about if he went forward.

He would be building the project across earthquake zones.

He would have to protect environmental areas and animals.

He would have to avoid hurting businesses and communities.

People are already critical of the plan.

They say the design is unusual.

It has not been examined by outside experts.

They question if the money Musk talks about makes sense.

The California bullet train will make stops on its way to San Francisco.

The winding path added to the cost, and resulted in slower projected trip times.

People might not support Musk's plan if the Hyperloop does not make the same stops.

Musk also would have to deal with California politics to get the plan approved.

"Musk has been able to get away with what he has done because he does it with his own money," said Lou Thompson.

He heads review panel that oversees the bullet train project.

"You get into the public arena, and that is a different game."

