ATTLE - Suicide haunts Indian Country.

Native American youth are at risk.

Washington state looked at the number of suicides by native youth.

It found the number was more than double that of any other group.

Tribes are fighting back.

Tribal leaders of the Lummi Nation started a youth program last year.

Its goal is to stop suicide before it happens.

The Native Aspirations Program is working with the Colville, Spokane and Yakama tribes to train members to prevent suicide.

Native Aspirations has helped 65 tribes across the country fight suicide for the past five years.

Suicide is the second-biggest killer of native youth after accidents.

But that might not reveal the whole truth, experts say.

It could be higher.

Some car accidents are actually suicides.

So are some overdoses or gun accidents, explained Victoria Wagner.

She heads the Youth Suicide Prevention Program.

It works with schools and parent groups.

They learn the warning signs of suicide and ways to prevent it.

"There are a lot of suicides that are not reported as such," Wagner said.

In Indian Country, poverty and isolation are common.

Both can contribute to suicide.

So can drug and alcohol abuse or family problems.

"There is this feeling of being trapped, and having nowhere to go," Wagner said.

The shortage of help for mental health problems makes it even harder.

Students at Lummi Youth Academy recently met for a special class.

The topic was stopping suicide.

They were focusing on the positive.

"How do we make life less to do with pain, and more to do with beauty?"

asked Shasta Cano-Martin.

She heads the Academy.

Two youth coaches helped kids write lists of things that make them feel good about themselves.

They also listed things that could lead to risky behavior.

"No support," offered one teenager.

"Feeling like you don't belong," said another.

"Abuse," said another.

"Failure," came a tiny voice.

She seemed too young to know the feeling.

But clearly, she did.

Yet the kids were also quick with long lists of things that build confidence.

Succeeding on tests.

Nailing a basket on the court.

Hugs.

Doing something nice for someone else.

Beating drugs and alcohol.

Having the urge to try.

Succeeding beyond expectations.

Kyla Frajman, 21, said suicide was no stranger.

"I thought about it a lot, but always fought my way through it," said Frajman.

She is a member of the Cowichan First Nation in British Columbia.

"I don't do it myself," she said of suicide, "because I don't want the younger kids to think it's allowed."

But she has a friend going through a rough time.

"When I don't hear from him, I worry about it."

Experts who track the problem of native youth suicide fear it will get worse.

Mental health services for Indian people are already scarce.

And now they're facing cuts.

Washington D.C. won't be sending as much money as before.

Indian Health Services pays for health care for tribes.

Today it covers just over half of the needed care.

Lots of health problems aren't being treated.

Many are mental health problems, said Erin Bailey, director of the Center for Native American Youth.

The suicide rate among native youth is 2-1/2 times that of any other group of young people in the U.S. "It is definitely a national problem, a national emergency," Bailey said.

Patricia Whitefoot directs Indian Education for the Toppenish School District.

She said her students' parents call suicide prevention is a top priority.

Native students took a "wellness walk" last Friday.

It uses [Native American](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) customs and culture to encourage self esteem, she said.

It's just one step in what will have to be a longer journey, Whitefoot said.

"Teachers are so busy paying attention to test scores, how much time is there for addressing these major health issues in our community?

And, as teachers, that has not been their training."

Vanessa Smartlowit is in the Yakama Nation's health department.

She said the tribe is seeking to help its youth.

They're trying everything from pep talks to anti-bullying plans.

Even simple things.

Talking circles.

Bead-working classes.

Cultural activities.

"Just something for them to learn and keep busy," can help, she said.

Suicide is a danger that has to be talked about, Wagner said.

It is no longer an off-limits topic.

"You are not planting the idea," Wagner said.

"It is already there."

