The sacred forests of the Yakama people are popular with outlaws who grow marijuana.

The growing season is long.

The soil is rich where the tribe hunts and gathers food.

A year has passed since Washington state legalized adult marijuana use.

Before, people could only use the drug for medical reasons.

State officials are about to grant licenses to grow, process and sell what once was against the law.

But the Yakama have battled substance abuse on their reservation and the tribe wants no part of it.

Many communities have looked for ways to keep marijuana out.

Few have arguments as powerful or needs as urgent as the Yakama Nation.

That's why George Colby stepped up to the microphone during a loud autumn meeting with the state board that enforces laws about alcohol and drugs.

He had a stern warning for people thinking about doing business growing marijuana in central Washington.

"The Yakama Nation will come after you," Colby promised the crowd.

"And under our treaty, all we have to do is pick up the phone and call the federal government and tell you to get off of our land."

The tribe is ruled by a 158-year-old treaty prohibiting strong alcohol within its boundaries.

It runs one of the few alcohol-free casinos in America.

Yet the harsh toll of drug and alcohol abuse scars nearly every family on the reservation, from Yakama Chairman Harry Smiskin's on down.

Smiskin wrote in a recent opinion article on the seattlepi.com website that the Yakama do not want anyone to use, grow or sell marijuana on their land.

"We have had a long and unpleasant history with marijuana — just as we have had with alcohol.

We fight them both on our lands," he wrote.

Concern about substance abuse dates from at least the 19th century, when the Yakama signed the Treaty of 1855.

The treaty is the tribe's sole governing document, which protects the Yakama's interests.

The treaty is celebrated every summer with two parades, a powwow, a rodeo and a royal court.

Under the agreement, the Yakama reservation consists of just over a million acres; the tribe gave up more than 12 million acres to the federal government.

But it retained the right to fish, hunt and gather traditional foods there, and to not allow strong alcohol.

Brian Frederickson soars above the reservation in a helicopter every summer looking for signs of people growing marijuana.

Frederickson said he opposed legalizing marijuana, a substance he has worked so hard to get rid of.

"This is the different planting style they're using now," the burly lieutenant said as his computer screen filled with an aerial photograph showing a thick canopy of pine trees and a few pot plants peeking out beneath them.

"In this grow they put a lot of effort into it.

All the drip irrigation line was buried.

You couldn't see it from the air."

Alcohol has hurt a lot of people here, said Frederickson, who works with the Yakama Nation tribal police force, and he doesn't understand why people don't think marijuana will hurt people too.

"We went from one substance that's legal.

Now we have two to deal with," he said.

Eleanor Davis had a personal reason to vote against Initiative 502 which legalized the recreational use of marijuana.

She's a tribal elder and spent 20 years counseling young men and women with substance abuse problems.

Davis, 67, comes from "five or six generations of alcoholism."

It's easier to tally her sober family members than the ones who are still struggling.

Then there are those she's lost — a list that includes a 23-year-old daughter who died of alcohol poisoning.

And it includes her dead daughter's 21-year-old boy.

The 21-year-old grandson, whose Indian name was Kush-a,  got drunk and got behind the wheel of his car after a party.

It's been five years, and a small white cross still marks the place on the highway where he died in the auto accident.

Davis, who has been sober for 27 years, remembers what her grandmother said after he passed away.

"You have to go out in the community, and you have to let people know," she said.

About alcohol, and now, about marijuana.

Because buying it will now be as easy as buying a six-pack of beer.

"It's just going to create more damage to our people," she said.

"And they just don't need that."

