The land is important to the people of the Yakama Nation.

The forest near Mount Adams is where the tribe hunts and gathers food.

But outlaws are also using the land.

They are growing marijuana plants in the rich soil.

The plants get turned into drugs.

A year ago, Washington state changed the laws about marijuana.

Adults are now allowed to use it.

Before, it was only allowed as medicine.

Now, the state is about to give people permission to grow and sell it.

But the Yakama people want no part of it.

For years, they have battled with problems that come from drinking and doing drugs on their reservation.

They don't want anyone growing or selling marijuana on their land.

That's why George Colby stood up at a loud autumn meeting with the state.

He had a strong warning for people who were thinking about growing marijuana where the tribe lives: "Don't do that."

"The Yakama Nation will come after you," Colby promised.

"All we have to do is pick up the phone and call the federal government and tell you to get off of our land."

Ever since the law was changed, people around the state have been trying to find ways to keep marijuana away from where they live.

It's very important for the Yakama.

They feel strongly about drugs and alcohol.

Almost every family has had problems with it.

The tribe will not let people have strong alcohol on its land.

Harry Smiskin is a top leader in the tribe.

He wrote an opinion article on why they don't want marijuana to be allowed.

"We have had a long and unpleasant history with marijuana — just as we have had with alcohol.

We fight them both on our lands," he wrote.

Brian Frederickson is one of the people who is worried about marijuana.

He works for the tribe's police.

He flies in a helicopter above the reservation.

He looks for signs of marijuana growing.

Each year, his team catches more and more.

But each year the growers get trickier.

They find new ways to hide the crop.

He is against allowing all adults to use marijuana.

He has worked so hard to get rid of it.

Alcohol has hurt a lot of people here, Frederickson said.

He thinks marijuana will hurt people too.

Eleanor Davis had a reason to be against marijuana.

She's a tribal leader.

She tried to help young men and women with drug and alcohol problems for 20 years.

A lot of people in her family have had problems with drugs and alcohol.

Her 23-year-old daughter died from alcohol poisoning.

Her daughter's son died too because of alcohol.

He was 21 years old and his Indian name was Kush-a.

One night, he drove his car after drinking too much alcohol and he got into a crash.

There is a small white cross on the highway where he died.

Davis quit drinking alcohol 27 years ago.

She remembered what her grandmother said after Kush-a passed away.

She told Davis to tell people about the dangers of alcohol and marijuana.

It will now be as easy to buy marijuana as it is to buy beer, she said.

It will hurt her people more, Davis said.

"And they just don't need that," she said.

