ATTLE - Suicide hangs over Indian Country.

It claims more lives of native youth than those in any other population.

And not only in Washington state, but nationally.

Statistics released from the state of Washington show that suicides among native youth from 10 to 24 years old were more than double the rate of any other ethnic group.

Tribes are fighting back.

Leaders of the Lummi Nation last year added youth suicide prevention to a long-standing social services program.

The Colville, Spokane and Yakama tribes also are using prevention grants and training through the Native Aspirations Program.

The Spokane-based program has helped 65 tribes across the country combat suicide for the past five years.

Suicide is the second-biggest killer of native youth after accidents.

Still, experts say they may be under-counting the number of suicides.

"The car accident, the gun death, the overdose, there are a lot of suicides that are not reported as such," said Victoria Wagner, the head of the Youth Suicide Prevention Program.

The Seattle-based group works with schools and parent groups to teach the warning signs of suicide and prevention strategies.

In Indian Country, the risk of youth suicide is increased by poverty and isolation.

But lack of resources to treat mental health problems, substance abuse and family turmoil have an effect too, Wagner said.

"There is this feeling of being trapped, and having nowhere to go."

At a recent prevention training session at the Lummi Youth Academy outside Bellingham, the emphasis was on the positive.

"How do we make life less to do with pain, and more to do with beauty?"

asked executive director Shasta Cano-Martin.

Two youth coaches led the kids in writing lists of things that built their self-esteem.

They also identified the root causes that could lead to risky behavior.

"No support," offered one teenager.

"Feeling like you don't belong," said another.

"Abuse," said another.

"Failure," came a tiny voice from a child who seemed too young to know the feeling, but clearly did.

But the kids were also quick with long lists of things that lead to feelings of self-worth and confidence.

Succeeding on tests.

Nailing a basket on the court.

Hugs.

Doing something nice for someone else.

Sobriety.

Having the urge to try, and succeeding beyond expectations.

Kyla Frajman, 21, said suicide was no stranger to her.

"I thought about it a lot, but always fought my way through it," said Frajman, a member of the Cowichan First Nation in British Columbia.

"I don't do it myself," she said of suicide, "because I don't want the younger kids to think it's allowed."

But she has a friend she knows is going through a rough patch.

"When I don't hear from him, I worry about it."

Experts who track the problem of native youth suicide fear it will get worse.

Congress can't agree how much Washington D.C. should spend.

The dispute has triggered automatic cuts to many programs nationwide.

That includes funding for mental health services for [Indian people](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american), which were already scarce to begin with.

Indian Health Services is the U.S. government program that funds health care services for tribes.

Today it covers only about 52 percent of the needed care.

Mental health accounts for more than a third of the unmet need, said Erin Bailey, director of the Center for Native American Youth.

As in Washington state, the suicide rate among native youth nationally is 2-1/2 times that of any other youth population.

"It is definitely a national problem, a national emergency," Bailey said.

"This is weighing especially hard on our hearts at this time, with native communities facing cuts for native health care."

Patricia Whitefoot, director of Indian Education for the Toppenish School District, said suicide prevention is a top priority identified by parents of her students.

Native students took a wellness walk last Friday to emphasize the positive role that culture can play in this, she said.

It's just one step in what will have to be a longer journey, she said.

"Teachers are so busy paying attention to test scores, how much time is there for addressing these major health issues in our community?

And, as teachers, that has not been their training."

At the Yakama Nation, the tribe is seeking to help its youth with everything from motivational speakers to dealing with bullying in schools, said Vanessa Smartlowit, who works for the tribe's behavioral-health department.

Even simple things, like talking circles, bead-working classes and cultural activities.

"Just something for them to learn and keep busy," can help, she said.

Taboo no longer, suicide is a danger that has to be talked about, Wagner said.

"You are not planting the idea," Wagner said.

"It is already there."

