For millions of years, the biggest dinosaurs on the planet steered clear of the tropics, and now scientists think they know why.

Late in the Triassic Period — some 212 million years ago — the massive sauropodomorphs were commonly found in northern latitudes (present-day Europe) and southern latitudes (present-day Argentina).

According to the fossil record, these long-necked plant eaters were completely absent from the tropical region in between.

It wasn't until the Jurassic Period, about 30 million to 40 million years after the origin of dinosaurs, that these big guys started to show up closer to the equator.

Sauropodomorphs include sauropods like Brontosaurus and Diplodocus.

So why did it take them so many tens of millions of years to venture toward the middle of our planet?

A new study in the scientific journal known as PNAS (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences) suggests that the answer may have been the weather.

Researchers who led the study concluded that the Triassic Period's high levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide led to frequent weather changes in tropical regions.

That made the low-numbered latitudes near the equator especially unappealing to sauropodomorphs.

"It was not a happy place for them to be hanging out," said Nathan Smith of the Dinosaur Institute at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, California.

Smith was part of an international team of scientists that created the first high-resolution snapshot of the paleoenvironment in the tropical region of the great continent of Pangea.

The team used fossils found in the Chama Basin of north-central New Mexico.

Back in the Triassic, the land mass that is now New Mexico was closer to the equator, Smith explained.

Smith's team collected fossil bones and analyzed tiny pollen grains to see which plants and animals had been present during the Triassic.

They also looked at fossilized charcoal to see how hot it burned and gathered data on how much atmospheric carbon had been in the tropics at the time.

Researchers learned that weather in Pangea's low latitudes frequently alternated between extreme humidity and drought during the Triassic.

Hot-burning wildfires wiped out vegetation, leading to big changes in the abundance of plants.

They also determined that atmospheric carbon dioxide was four to six times modern levels.

Despite the uncertain living conditions, scientists did find evidence of animal life in the region: small-bodied meat-eating dinosaurs and a number of reptiles that are relatives of modern-day crocodiles.

Smith's team concluded that these reptiles were more resistant to fluctuation in their environment than dinosaurs, perhaps because they did not need as much food.

"Dinosaurs are fast-growing and have high metabolic needs," Smith said.

"It makes sense that if you are going to have these wild swinging fluctuations, that the animals that are biggest and growing fastest are the ones that are suffering."

Paleontologists are still not certain why larger dinosaurs were able to flourish in this area millions of years later.

Some suggest that climate change and a mass extinction event that wiped out the large-bodied crocodiles may have had something to do with it.

"We don't have a great explanation of what allowed them to springboard into the tropics," Smith said.

"In all likelihood, it was a combination of factors."

