After the global uproar over the death of a Zimbabwean lion called Cecil, the hunting industry responded.

By killing animals, it said, trophy hunters are actually saving Africa's wildlife.

Trophy hunting, the industry contended, gives the wild animals, like lions and leopards, an economic value to local communities.

Villagers might otherwise see them as hated vermin that invade farms and kill livestock and must be exterminated at all costs.

So although some are killed by hunters, greater numbers are saved.

Yet some research suggests an alternative theory: Hunting has hidden consequences that take a far greater toll on lion populations than people realize.

Craig Packer is the director of the Lion Research Center at the University of Minnesota.

He has led a series of studies identifying overhunting as the major reason for the steep decline in lion populations in Tanzania, the biggest lion-hunting country in Africa.

At the root of the problem, he believes, is the preference of trophy hunters for large male lions.

When a hunter kills and takes home one big male trophy, other males fight and kill one another for dominance, Packer said.

The male lions might also kill off the cubs and attack females who try to defend them.

In Tanzania, Packer said, the big, older trophy males became so few that hunters started killing immature maneless lions.

"If you are shooting that many young males, it means you've shot all the big ones.

It was incredibly poorly managed.

It's a very efficient way to promote the social instability that will cause a population to decline," he said.

Julian Rademeyer is the author of "Killing for Profit," a book about poaching in southern Africa.

He said professional hunters face huge pressure to ensure that foreign hunters go home with the big trophies they are after.

Professional hunters in Zimbabwe were arrested for their role in the killing of Cecil by American dentist Walter Palmer from Minnesota over the summer.

"They will do pretty much anything to get your trophy.

There's immense pressure on hunting outfits to get those trophies," Rademeyer said.

African countries have rules the regulate how many lions can be killed.

"In instances where you have widespread corruption and regulations are not adhered to, it just becomes a killing frenzy and that's what's happening in Zimbabwe."

From 2002 to 2009, 1,363 lion trophies were exported from Tanzania.

The figure ignores the many lions that were killed after the hunts were over, and the effect on breeding.

According to Packer's research, intensive hunting has caused sharp declines in lion populations in Tanzania, not just in hunting areas but also in national parks.

According to the International Union for Conservation of Nature, a global environmental organization based in Switzerland, the lion population in Tanzania declined 66 percent from 1993 to 2014.

A 2009 study by Packer and other scientists concluded that areas with the greatest "sport hunting have shown the steepest population declines in African lions" over the past 25 years.

A 2011 study he carried out called for reductions in the number of lion hunts allowed each year, called quotas.

It said that "the intensity of trophy hunting was the only significant factor" in declines in male trophy lions.

Packer's reports led the Tanzanian government to cut hunting quotas and introduce a law against shooting immature males.

But he said the law has rarely been enforced because of widespread corruption in the industry.

The global population of lions has dropped from 100,000 in the 1980s to an estimated 30,000, but could be much lower.

In Kenya, where hunting was banned in 1977, the lion population has dropped from 15,000 to about 2,000 in 15 years.

The hunting industry often mentions this to demonstrate that hunting is not the problem.

In Kenya, lions roam free.

Nomadic cattle-herding people often kill them with poison to protect their cattle.

By contrast, South Africa, which has a big trophy hunting industry popular with Americans, has about 9,000 lions.

The Professional Hunters' Association of South Africa says that trophy hunts contribute about $90 million to that country's economy each year.

However, only about 2,800 of South Africa's lions are wild.

Nearly 70 percent are bred in captivity, often used as cubs in petting zoos.

They are then sold off to hunting companies where foreign trophy hunters shoot semi-tame lions fenced into small areas.

Critics argue that trophy hunting brings little economic benefit to local communities.

"That's the biggest myth about sport hunting, that it gives value to lions," Packer said.

A 2013 study by Economists at Large, an Australian organization that is made up of conservation-minded economists, found that on average only 3 percent of money generated by trophy hunting winds up in the hands of local people.

Hunting also only brought in small amounts of money to African countries.

It amounted to only 1.2 percent of all tourism revenue in South Africa, 2.3 percent in Tanzania and 3.2 percent in Zimbabwe, the study found.

"Across Africa, local communities receive minimal benefit from trophy hunting," the report said.

