In July, an American hunter killed a popular lion in Africa.

Cecil was the lion's name.

He lived in a national park in Zimbabwe, in Africa.

It was against the law to hunt Cecil.

People around the world were very angry.

Many said that lion hunting is wrong and should stop.

Hunting groups do not agree.

Hunters say they are actually saving Africa's wildlife.

Hunters from around the world travel to Africa.

They pay African guides.

The guides lead them to the animals.

African villagers make money by being guides, the hunting groups say.

The money makes lions valuable to the villages.

Hunters say they are trying to save lions instead of killing them.

Some experts do not agree.

They say that there are fewer lions in the world because of hunting.

Craig Packer is an expert on lions.

He works at the University of Minnesota.

Packer says hunting is the main reason there are so few lions in Tanzania.

It is the biggest lion-hunting country in Africa.

He said the problem is that hunters want to shoot large male lions.

When a hunter kills a big male lion, other male lions fight each other.

They fight to become the leader.

Many are killed, Packer said.

Male lions might even kill some cubs.

They also might attack female lions who defend them.

In Tanzania, there are very few big, older males left.

Hunters now kill younger lions.

In 2009, Packer did a study.

Too much hunting leads to far fewer lions, he found.

Packer's study led Tanzania to make important changes.

Now, hunters cannot kill as many lions.

It also against the law to shoot younger males.

Unfortunately, some hunters ignore these laws.

In the 1980s, there were 100,000 lions in the world.

Now there are about 30,000.

South Africa is popular with hunters.

It is especially popular with American hunters.

South Africa has about 9,000 lions.

Only about 2,800 of them are wild.

About 7 out of 10 lions are born in cages.

The cubs are often used in petting zoos.

When they get bigger, hunting companies buy them.

Hunters shoot the lions in fenced-in areas.

The Professional Hunters' Association of South Africa represents hunting companies.

It says the country makes about $90 million from hunting each year.

Most of that money is kept by the government.

Very little money goes to people in the villages.

A report said villagers get just $3 from every $100.

