In July, a lion named Cecil was killed by an American hunter in Zimbabwe.

People around the world were angry.

Cecil lived in a national park and it was against the law to hunt him.

Hunters have responded to the anger.

By killing animals, hunters say they actually help to save Africa's wildlife.

Hunters from around the world travel to Africa and pay to kill wild animals.

The hunters believe it brings money to villages that need it.

Hunters say they make the wild animals more valuable to villagers.

Otherwise, they say, villagers would just see the animals as invaders that kill their farm animals and so they should be killed.

Although some lions are killed in hunting, these hunters say that more lions are actually saved.

Some scientists have a different theory.

They say that hunting has a far greater effect on the number of lions left in the world than people realize.

Craig Packer runs the Lion Research Center at the University of Minnesota.

He has led studies showing that overhunting is the main reason for the steep drop in lions in Tanzania.

It is the biggest lion-hunting country in Africa.

He believes the real problem is that hunters prefer large male lions.

When a hunter kills a big male lion, other male lions fight to become the leader.

Many are killed, Packer said.

The male lions might also kill off some cubs and attack female lions who defend them.

In Tanzania, there are now so few big, older males that hunters started killing younger lions.

"If you are shooting that many young males, it means you've shot all the big ones," he said.

Julian Rademeyer is the author of "Killing for Profit."

The book is about illegal hunting in southern Africa.

Professional hunters guide the foreign hunters.

The professional hunters face huge pressure to make sure that foreign hunters go home with big animals.

Professional hunters in Zimbabwe were arrested for leading the foreign hunters to Cecil.

The famous lion was killed by American dentist Walter Palmer from Minnesota.

Cecil was lured from the national park where he lived.

"They will do pretty much anything to get your trophy.

There's immense pressure on hunting outfits to get those trophies," Rademeyer said.

They ignore hunting rules.

A 2009 study found that places with the most hunting had the greatest decline in lions.

Packer's reports led the Tanzanian government to cut the number of lions that could be killed each year.

The African country also passed a law against shooting younger males.

Packer said hunters do not pay much attention to it.

In the 1980s, the world population of lions was 100,000.

Now it is about 30,000.

Kenya outlawed hunting in 1977.

Yet the lion population there has dropped from 15,000 to about 2,000 in 15 years.

Hunters says this proves that they are not the problem.

In Kenya, lions roam free.

Some Kenyans kill them with poison to protect their cattle.

It is different in South Africa.

Hunting is big business there.

It is especially popular with American hunters.

South Africa has about 9,000 lions, nearly one-third of the global total.

The Professional Hunters' Association of South Africa says that country makes about $90 million each year from foreign hunters.

Yet only about 2,800 of South Africa's lions are wild.

About 7 out of 10 lions are born in cages.

The cubs are often used in petting zoos.

When they get bigger, they are sold to hunting companies.

Foreign hunters shoot the partly tame lions in small, fenced-in areas.

Some people argue that hunting brings little money to villages.

An Australian group wanted to know if this is true.

It did a study in 2013.

The study found that only $3 out of every $100 spent by hunters winds up in the hands of villagers.

Across Africa, local communities receive little benefit from hunting, the report said.

