For millions of years, the biggest dinosaurs on the planet steered clear of the tropics, and now scientists think they know why.

Sauropodomorphs were massive, long-necked plant eaters.

Late in the Triassic Period — about 212 million years ago — they became common in what is now Europe in the north and in what is now Argentina in the south.

Yet scientists say sauropodomorph fossils from that time period have never been found in the tropical region near the Earth's equator.

It wasn't until the Jurassic Period, about 30 million to 40 million years after the first dinosaurs appeared on Earth, that these big guys started to show up closer to the equator.

Sauropodomorphs include sauropods like Brontosaurus and Diplodocus.

So why did it take sauropodomorphs millions of years to make their way into the middle of our planet?

One group of scientists believe the weather might have been to blame.

These researchers just published a new study in the scientific magazine known as PNAS (Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences).

According to the scientists' report, the atmosphere contained high levels of carbon dioxide during the Triassic Period.

All that extra carbon dioxide led to frequent weather changes in tropical climates.

It made the region near the equator especially unattractive to sauropodomorphs.

"It was not a happy place for them to be hanging out," said Nathan Smith, who led the study by the international team of scientists.

Smith is also in charge of the Dinosaur Institute at the Natural History Museum in Los Angeles County, California.

He and his fellow scientists used their research to create a snapshot of what the environment would have been like in the tropical region of the great supercontinent called Pangea.

They used fossils found in New Mexico's Chama Basin.

Back in Triassic times, the area we know as New Mexico was actually closer to the equator, Smith explained.

It was part of Earth's only continent then, Pangea, which later split into all of the continents humans live on today.

The team collected fossil bones and studied tiny pollen grains to see which plants and animals had been present in the Triassic.

They also gathered information on how much carbon had been in the tropical atmosphere at the time.

Researchers learned that, during the Triassic, the weather in tropical areas of Pangea frequently alternated between extreme humidity and terribly dry conditions.

Wildfires wiped out vegetation, causing big changes in the availability of plants.

The team also determined that the tropical atmosphere contained four to six times as much carbon dioxide as it does today.

Despite such tough living conditions, scientists did find evidence of animal life in the region: small-bodied meat-eating dinosaurs and a number of big reptiles that are relatives of modern-day crocodiles.

Smith's team concluded that those reptiles were better at dealing with changes in their environment than sauropodomorphs were.

They suggested this might have something to do with the fact that the reptiles didn't need as much food as large dinosaurs.

"Dinosaurs are fast-growing and have high metabolic needs," Smith said.

He explained that being such huge, fast-developing animals made wild changes in the weather more challenging for sauropodomorphs than they were for smaller animals that were able to adapt.

Still, larger dinosaurs eventually found a way to flourish in this area millions of years later and scientists aren't sure why.

Some believe climate change and a mass extinction event of the big crocodiles may have had something to do with it.

"We don't have a great explanation," said Smith.

"In all likelihood, it was a combination of factors."

