RAMID LAKE, Nev. - Brian Dunn flicked his fly line into the desert lake.

Before long, a 6-pound, 25-inch-long cutthroat trout was splashing in his net.

What made his catch special was a yellow ID tag.

This was no ordinary fish.

Scientists once thought it was extinct.

Dunn had caught a Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat.

The Lahontan is the largest inland trout in North America.

"It's a great day when you can bring back a species from extinction," Dunn said.

"It's kind of sad these events are so rare."

The trout is shaped like a torpedo.

It has orange cheeks and pink stripes and can grow as large as salmon.

The lake where it lived was once part of a much larger body of water called Lake Lahontan.

Its comeback from near extinction is a rare win for threatened and [endangered species](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species).

Its story was made possible by the hard work of a biologist working in one of the most empty corners of the West.

The fish was reintroduced in 2006 at Pyramid Lake.

Now, trout are being caught weighing more than 20 pounds.

The biggest one ever found was a 41-pounder caught in 1925.

A new world record may be on the horizon.

Last year, Lahontan cutthroats laid eggs in a nearby stream for the first time in more than 70 years.

"This is such an exciting story because this was such a unique fish," said Mary Peacock, a professor at the University of Nevada.

"You can see pictures from the early part of the 1900s with people holding really large trout out of Tahoe or Pyramid.

We thought those fish were gone.

This puts this fish back into people's imagination."

Too much fishing in the 1920s and 30s hurt the cutthroat.

But what really caused them to disappear was a dam built south of the lake on the Truckee River.

The dam sent lots of water to nearby farmers.

Snowmelt that once gushed into Pyramid Lake each spring turned into a trickle.

The lake level dropped.

Finally, trout no longer could reach the Truckee River to lay their eggs.

"The last known run left the lake during the high-water year of 1938," Terry Hickman and Robert Behnke wrote in 1979.

"No water was available in later years and ... this magnificent trout was believed to be extinct."

But they added: "There is the possibility that an introduction of the original Pyramid Lake cutthroat may have persisted in some remote, unknown waters."

Few streams are more remote than Morrison Creek, which tumbles 2 to 3 miles into the Great Salt Lake desert on the Nevada-Utah border.

That's where Don Duff found himself in the mid-1970s.

A fisheries biologist at the time, Duff was searching for a trout native to the Great Salt Lake region: the Bonneville cutthroat.

But the fish he caught in the creek didn't look like a Bonneville.

He sent samples to Behnke, the region's top cutthroat expert.

After examining physical features and reading historical accounts, Behnke thought that the fish were Lahontan cutthroats from Pyramid Lake.

But he couldn't prove it.

"Although there is no possible method of taxonomic comparison to verify Pyramid Lake as the source," he wrote in the paper with Hickman, "the circumstantial evidence is convincing."

But the fish's discovery did not ensure its recovery.

Fewer than 400 fish were thought to live in Morrison Creek.

Growing more in a hatchery was a challenge no agency wanted to embrace.

"It was something that everybody fought, that nobody would believe," said Bryce Nielson, a biologist.

"Nobody really wanted to bother with it."

But that wasn't good enough for Nielson.

He began setting up Lahontan life-support on his own.

Almost by himself, he built a small fish hatchery at the base of Morrison Creek on a ranch owned by a fish-friendly landowner.

Often, eggs didn't hatch.

And those that did rarely survived.

But he, the landowner, and another friend kept trying.

In 1995, the first eggs from Nielson's facility were shipped across Nevada to the Lahontan National Fish Hatchery Complex, where Pilot Peak cutthroats are now breeding in the hundreds of thousands.

But did they really come from Pyramid Lake?

Only a DNA test could say for sure.

And with the old giants gone from the lake, where would the genetic material come from?

The answer came in the 2000s with a Jurassic Park-like breakthrough.

Researchers found a way to take DNA from museum exhibits.

Peacock tracked down tissue samples from the original Pyramid Lake cutthroats in museums across America.

She compared their DNA with the DNA of more than four dozen other Lahontan populations in Nevada, California, Oregon and the Pilot Peak cutthroats.

What she discovered rocked the fishing community: No DNA more closely matched the museum samples than the Pilot Peak cutthroat.

A lost legend had been found.

