RAMID LAKE, Nev. - Hour after hour, Brian Dunn lofted his fly line into the turquoise-blue water of this shimmering desert lake north of Reno.

Just after lunch, his line straightened and a smile spread on his face.

Before long, a 6-pound, 25-inch-long cutthroat trout was splashing in the net.

What made his catch special was a yellow ID tag near its dorsal fin, indicating this was no ordinary fish but one scientists once thought was extinct: the Pyramid Lake Lahontan cutthroat, the largest inland trout in North America.

"It's a great day when you can bring back a species from extinction," said Dunn, a technology consultant.

"It's kind of sad these events are so rare."

The torpedo-shaped trout with orange-red cheeks and sequined, rose-pink stripes that grows as large as salmon inhabited Pyramid Lake when it was part of a much larger body of water called Lake Lahontan tens of thousands of years ago.

From near extinction to stunning recovery, its comeback is a rare win for threatened and [endangered species](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species) made possible by the uncommon commitment of a fisheries biologist laboring in one of the most remote corners of the West.

Some of the most dramatic chapters of the de-extinction story are playing out now.

At Pyramid Lake, where the fish was reintroduced in 2006, leviathans are being landed in excess of 20 pounds.

There is talk that a new world record - the current  one is a 41-pounder caught in 1925 - may be on the horizon.

Another reintroduction at Fallen Leaf Lake near Lake Tahoe in California in 2002 also is paying off: Last year, Lahontan cutthroats spawned there in a tributary for the first time in more than 70 years.

"This is such an exciting story because this was such a unique fish," said Mary Peacock, a biology professor at the University of Nevada.

"You can see pictures from the early part of the 1900s with people holding really large trout out of Tahoe or Pyramid.

We thought those fish were gone."

"This puts this fish back into people's imagination," she added.

"I cannot emphasize how important that is."

By the 1920s and '30s, overfishing was taking a toll but fish remained abundant.

The mortal blow came from the construction of a dam south of the lake on the Truckee River, which diverted large amounts of water to nearby farmers.

The surge of snowmelt that once gushed into Pyramid Lake each spring shrank dramatically.

The lake level dropped until, finally, trout no longer could reach their spawning grounds in the Truckee River.

"The last known run left the lake during the high-water year of 1938," fisheries scientists Terry Hickman and Robert Behnke wrote in 1979.

"No water was available in later years and ... this magnificent trout was believed to be extinct."

But they added: "There is the possibility that an introduction of the original Pyramid Lake cutthroat may have persisted in some remote, unknown waters."

Few streams are more remote than Morrison Creek, which tumbles 2 to 3 miles off Pilot Peak into the Great Salt Lake desert on the Nevada-Utah border.

That's where Don Duff found himself in the mid-1970s.

Duff, who was at the time working for the government as a biologist, was searching for a trout native to the Great Salt Lake region: the Bonneville cutthroat.

But the scrawny fish he caught in the creek didn't look like a Bonneville.

He sent samples to Behnke, the region's top cutthroat expert, who believed after examining physical features and reading historical accounts, that the fish were Lahontan cutthroats from Pyramid Lake.

But he couldn't prove it.

The fish's discovery, though, did not ensure its recovery.

Fewer than 400 fish were estimated to live in Morrison Creek.

Turning them into larger numbers in a hatchery setting was a challenge no agency wanted to embrace.

"It was something that everybody fought, that nobody would believe," said Bryce Nielson, who was a biologist for the state of Utah at the time.

"Nobody really wanted to bother with it."

That wasn't good enough for Nielson.

He began administering Lahontan life-support on his own.

With little official support, he built a rustic fish hatchery at the base of Morrison Creek on a small ranch owned by a fish-friendly landowner.

Often, eggs didn't hatch.

Those that did seldom survived.

But he, the landowner and another friend kept trying.

In 1995, the first eggs from Nielson's facility were shipped across Nevada to the Lahontan National Fish Hatchery Complex, where cutthroats are now spawned in the hundreds of thousands.

But were they really from Pyramid Lake?

Only a DNA test could say for sure.

And with the old giants gone from the lake - replaced by a different strain of Lahontan - where would the genetic material come from?

The answer came in the 2000s with a Jurassic Park–like breakthrough that gave researchers a way to extract DNA from museum specimens preserved in a chemical called formaldehyde.

"Formaldehyde binds to DNA and breaks it up.

That was problematic," Peacock said.

"We didn't have a way of dealing with bits and pieces of DNA.

But now we can."

From the Smithsonian Institution, the California Academy of Sciences and elsewhere, she tracked down tissue samples from the original giant Pyramid Lake species.

She compared their DNA with the DNA of more than four dozen other Lahontan populations in Nevada, California, Oregon and the Pilot Peak cutthroats.

What she discovered rocked the fishing community: No DNA more closely matched the museum samples than the cutthroat from Pilot Peak.

A lost legend had been found.

"These are the descendants of the original strain," Peacock said.

