It sounds so simple, it's hard to believe it would work.

Thieves are dressing as truck drivers to steal valuable cargo.

They load the goods onto their own tractor-trailers and then drive away with them.

Over time, this type of crime has become more and more common.

It has allowed thieves to make off with millions of dollars in goods each year.

They often steal food and drinks.

And experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal cargo.

A generation ago, thieves simply stole loaded trucks out of parking lots.

But then the industry had started using tracking devices, high-tech locks and other protection.

Now, thieves are changing how they do business, too.

Using the Internet, thieves can look at huge amounts of information about the trucking industry.

Online databases allow them to take the names of real truckers.

They can also look for the goods they want to steal.

Using the Internet, they can get the right paperwork to pretend to be someone else.

The thefts cause problems for companies.

But shoppers can also be hurt.

Prices rise and unsafe food and drugs could reach store shelves.

News reports across the country have told of a few of the thefts.

Thieves stole 80,000 pounds of walnuts worth $300,000 in California.

They took $200,000 worth of Muenster cheese in Wisconsin.

They made off with rib-eye steaks valued at $82,000 in Texas.

Hughson Nut Inc. was a victim twice last year.

It lost two loads valued at $189,000.

Each time, the impostor truckers showed up at the California nut processor on a Friday.

The thieves had all the proper paperwork to pick up a load of almonds.

On the Monday following the second theft, a customer called to complain that the almonds had never arrived in Arizona.

Raquel Andrade, who works for Hughson, recalled getting a sinking feeling.

"Uh-oh.

I think it happened again."

Few people know about the thefts.

They are not often discussed outside the world of commercial trucking.

Companies that have been victimized usually don't want to talk about their losses.

But crime reports and interviews with law enforcement and industry leaders reveal an alarming pattern.

The thefts increase prices and could put Americans' health and safety at risk.

In the end, the person buying the goods ends up paying for this, said Keith Lewis.

He is the vice president of CargoNet.

It is a theft-prevention network that provides information to the insurance industry.

The cost goes beyond adding a few cents to prices.

The total cost of stolen cargo can easily become millions of dollars.

Take stolen medication, for example.

Other shipments of the same medication might also need to be taken off shelves.

This is to make sure no one gets the stolen medicine.

The thieves could have poisoned it or switched it with something else.

The thieves target mostly shipments of food and drinks.

These are easy to sell illegally and hard to trace.

Some end up on the shelves of small grocery stores.

Others go to huge warehouses.

The most common crime is still the theft of trailers left alone in parking lots or at truck stops.

But some experts say the new trucking scams are growing.

Of the average three to five truckloads stolen each day in the United States, at least one involves a fake pickup.

Some experts say that the internet plays a large part in these thefts.

The Web makes it easier for someone to pretend to be someone else.

Within a few years, one expert said that these types of crimes will become the most common kind of cargo theft.

Food and drinks were the most commonly stolen goods, accounting for almost a fourth of all thefts last year.

This was followed by metals, electronics and household goods.

One reason food shipments are popular targets is because they have a lower value than electronics or medications, which are often more heavily protected.

Plus, food generally does not have any serial numbers to trace.

Trucking and insurance companies are fighting back.

They're urging people handling the shipments to take extra caution by checking information before giving goods to unfamiliar truckers.

Another suggestion is to get a thumbprint from the truck driver.

