General Motors has a new plan to sell more pickup trucks.

GM is not dropping its prices.

That is what you would expect a company to do.

Instead, it is raising them.

This may sound like a strange way to sell more trucks.

But GM is increasing the cost of its 2014 Chevrolet Silverado truck by more than 8 percent.

The truck was first rolled out in the spring.

The price of the GMC Sierra truck will also go up.

Auto experts think this pricing twist is just the first part of a plan to sell more trucks.

They expect GM to start offering deals next month.

These deals are called incentives in the auto industry.

GM might offer thousands of dollars off the price of a truck.

This will lower the final price.

Buyers will feel like they are getting a good value.

But whether buyers actually get a good deal depends on the discount's size.

In September, GM sold a lot fewer pickup trucks than its two biggest rivals.

Ford sold 10 percent more F-Series pickup trucks.

The F-series are the best-selling trucks in the U.S. Chrysler's Ram did almost as well.

The Detroit Three –– as GM, Ford and Chrysler are called –– sell most of the pickup trucks in the country.

The Detroit Three sell 90 percent of trucks sold in America.

The Toyota Tundra and Nissan Titan make up the rest.

Ford and Chrysler offered buyers good deals last month, said Jesse Toprak.

Toprak works for the TrueCar.com auto pricing website.

It is common for car makers to raise prices and then offer deals.

People think they are saving money.

Truck buyers especially like a good deal, Toprak said.

GM's goal is to sell more trucks, he said.

The price of trucks built after Oct. 7 will go up.

The prices of pickups on car lots now will stay the same.

GM may be paying attention to new buying habits.

Car buyers have become bargain hunters.

They do not care as much about the listed price.

Most buyers do research on the Internet.

Many auto websites suggest prices below the list price, Toprak said.

The websites are not connected to car companies.

Smart buyers know how to get a better deal, he said.

In May, Nissan Motor Co. did the opposite of GM.

The Japanese automaker cut its prices.

It wanted  its cars to do well in Internet searches.

Nissan sales are up 13 percent since then.

GM spokesman Jim Cain would not talk about future deals.

The current ones end on Oct. 31.

He said the deals do help sell cars.

Some of the deals can help pay for the cars, said Tom Kool.

Kool runs a small Chevrolet dealership in Michigan.

Last month, GM spent less on deals, according to TrueCar.

Chrysler and Ford offered bigger deals on their 2013 models.

GM will raise the price on the Silverado from $24,585 to $26,670.

This includes shipping.

A truck with a crew cab will go from $33,195 to $35,095.

A crew cab is able to seat the most passengers.

Cain said the increase has been planned for a long time.

The Silverado now will cost $1,780 more than Chrysler's Ram Truck.

It will cost $1,605 more than Ford's F-150.

Cain says GM has the newest truck in the market so it can charge higher prices.

The Silverado also has the most features.

It also goes farther on a gallon of gas.

