To steal huge shipments of valuable cargo, thieves are using a tactic that sounds so simple, it's hard to believe it would work.

They dress as truck drivers, load the freight onto their own tractor-trailers, and drive away with it.

Over time, this type of commercial identity theft has become more and more common.

It has allowed con men to make off each year with millions of dollars in merchandise, often food and beverages.

And experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal freight.

A generation ago, thieves simply stole loaded trucks out of parking lots.

But more and more, the industry had started using GPS devices, high-tech locks and other security measures -- forcing criminals to change their strategies, too.

Experts say the Internet is helping to drive the scams.

The Web offers thieves easy access to vast amounts of information about the trucking industry.

Online databases allow con men to assume the identities of real freight haulers and to trawl for specific goods they want to steal.

Of course, this hurts the trucking industry, which moves more than 68 percent of all domestic shipments.

But the thefts also affect consumers by causing a rise in prices and potentially allowing unsafe food and drugs to reach store shelves.

News media from across the country have reported on just a few of the thefts.

They included: 80,000 pounds of walnuts worth $300,000 in California, $200,000 worth of Muenster cheese in Wisconsin, rib-eye steaks valued at $82,000 in Texas, and 25,000 pounds of king crab worth $400,000 in California.

Hughson Nut Inc. fell victim twice last year, losing two loads valued at $189,000.

Each time, the impostor truckers showed up at the Livingston, Calif., nut processor on a Friday.

They had all the proper paperwork to pick up a load of almonds.

On the Monday following the second theft, a customer called to complain that the almonds had never arrived in Arizona.

The company's quality assurance manager, Raquel Andrade, recalled getting a sinking feeling: "Uh-oh.

I think it happened again."

The thefts are little-known and seldom discussed outside the world of commercial trucking.

Companies that have been victimized often don't want to talk about their losses.

But crime reports and Associated Press interviews with law enforcement and industry leaders reveal an alarming pattern.

The thefts hurt commerce.

They also increase consumer prices and potentially put Americans' health and safety at risk.

"In the end, the consumer winds up paying the toll on this," said Keith Lewis, vice president of CargoNet, a theft-prevention network that provides information to the insurance industry.

The economic results go beyond adding a few nickels or dimes to retail prices.

The total damages caused by stealing cargo easily run into the millions of dollars.

The costs are much more than the value of the lost shipments.

For example, a stolen load of pharmaceuticals might require a worldwide recall of every drug with that lot number to make sure none of the drugs end up back in the market in case they get tampered with.

The scheme works like this: Thieves assume the identity of a trucking company, often by reactivating a non-active Department of Transportation carrier number from a government website for as little as $300.

That lets them pretend to be a long-established firm with a seemingly good safety record.

The fraud often includes paperwork such as insurance policies, fake driver's licenses and other documents.

Then the con artists offer low bids to freight brokers who handle shipping for numerous companies.

When the truckers show up at a company, everything seems legitimate.

But once driven away, the goods are never seen again.

The thieves target mostly shipments of food and beverages, which are easy to sell on the black market and hard to trace.

Some end up on the shelves of small grocery stores.

Others go to huge distribution warehouses like the one authorities raided in August in North Hollywood, Calif.

It was filled with stolen steaks, shrimp, energy drinks, ice cream and other frozen foods.

Last year, carriers reported nearly 1,200 cargo thefts of all kinds nationwide, about the same as the previous year, according to CargoNet, a division of Verisk Crime Analytics.

CargoNet estimated losses that year at nearly $216 million.

Since many thefts go unreported, the real figure is almost certainly far higher.

The most common crime is still the "straight theft" of trailers left unattended in parking lots or at truck stops.

But CargoNet says the new trucking scams are growing at a rapid 6 percent each quarter.

The thefts emerged three or four years ago and are now "the latest, greatest thing" for organized groups seeking to steal freight, said J.J. Coughlin, vice president for law enforcement services at LoJack SCI, a supply chain protection company.

LoJack examined 947 cargo thefts last year and identified 45 of them as fake pickups.

So far this year, the number of fake pickups has probably already doubled, Coughlin said.

The average loss last year was more than $170,000 per incident.

Experienced thieves know where the major manufacturers are located.

And some are savvy enough to pick out which brand of electronics or appliances to steal by bidding on loads posted online.

Someone wanting to steal a truckload of copper, for instance, would target shipments coming out of Carrollton, Ga., where a major copper-wire manufacturer is located.

Food and beverages were the most commonly stolen items, accounting for 23 percent of all thefts last year, followed by metals at 16 percent, and electronics and household goods at 12 percent each, according to CargoNet's 2012 report.

The trucking and insurance industries are fighting back.

They're urging freight brokers to take extra precautions, such as checking information before awarding shipping contracts to unfamiliar truckers.

The California Farm Bureau Federation warns about clues that could indicate a suspicious hauler: temporary name placards or identification numbers on the truck, abrupt changes in the time of the pickup and lack of a GPS tracking system on the truck.

Another suggestion is to get a thumbprint from the truck driver.

