Thieves stealing food cargo are using a tactic that sounds so simple, it's hard to believe it would work.

They are dressing as truck drivers to steal goods.

They load the goods onto their own tractor-trailers and then drive away with them.

Over time, this type of crime has become more and more common.

It has allowed con men to make off each year with millions of dollars in merchandise, often food and drinks.

And experts say the practice is growing so rapidly that it will soon become the most common way to steal goods.

A generation ago, thieves simply stole loaded trucks out of parking lots.

But then the industry had started using tracking devices, high-tech locks and other security measures.

Now, criminals are changing how they do business, too.

Experts say the Internet is helping to drive the thefts.

The Web lets thieves look at vast amounts of information about the trucking industry.

Online databases allow them to take the names of real freight haulers and to look for the goods they want to steal.

Besides hurting the nation's trucking industry, the thefts cause problems for consumers.

Prices go up and unsafe food and drugs could reach store shelves.

News reports across the country have told of just a few of the thefts.

They included: 80,000 pounds of walnuts worth $300,000 in California, $200,000 worth of Muenster cheese in Wisconsin, and rib-eye steaks valued at $82,000 in Texas.

Hughson Nut Inc. fell victim twice last year, losing two loads valued at $189,000.

Each time, the impostor truckers showed up at the California nut processor on a Friday.

They had all the proper paperwork to pick up a load of almonds.

On the Monday following the second theft, a customer called to complain that the almonds had never arrived in Arizona.

The company's quality assurance manager, Raquel Andrade, recalled getting a sinking feeling: "Uh-oh.

I think it happened again."

The thefts are little-known and seldom discussed outside the world of commercial trucking.

Companies often don't want to talk about their losses.

But crime reports and interviews with law enforcement and industry leaders reveal an alarming pattern.

The thefts hurt commerce.

They also increase consumer prices and potentially put Americans' health and safety at risk.

"In the end, the consumer winds up paying the toll on this," said Keith Lewis.

He is the vice president of CargoNet, a theft-prevention network that provides information to the insurance industry.

The economic results go beyond adding a few cents to retail prices.

The total damages could easily run into the millions of dollars.

The costs are much more than the value of the lost shipments.

For example, a stolen load of medication might require a worldwide recall of every drug with that lot number.

Authorities want to make sure none of the drugs end up back in the market in case someone does something to them.

The scheme works like this: Thieves pretend to be from a trucking company that already exists.

Then they use paperwork such as insurance policies, fake driver's licenses and other documents to back up their lying.

Then they offer low prices to ship the goods.

When the truckers show up at a company, everything seems in order.

But the goods are never seen again once the trucks leave.

The thieves target mostly shipments of food and drinks, which are easy to sell illegally and hard to trace.

Some end up on the shelves of small grocery stores.

Others go to huge warehouses like the one authorities raided in August in North Hollywood, Calif.

It was filled with stolen steaks, shrimp, energy drinks, ice cream and other frozen foods.

Last year, carriers reported nearly 1,200 cargo thefts of all kinds nationwide.

This was about the same as the previous year, according to CargoNet.

The most common crime is still the "straight theft" of trailers left unattended in parking lots or at truck stops.

But CargoNet says the new trucking scams are growing at a rapid 6 percent each quarter.

The thefts emerged three or four years ago.

Now they are "the latest, greatest thing" for groups looking to steal goods, said J.J. Coughlin, who works at LoJack SCI, a supply chain protection company.

LoJack examined 947 cargo thefts last year.

It identified 45 of them as fake pickups.

So far this year, the number of fake pickups has probably already doubled, Coughlin said.

The average loss last year was more than $170,000 per incident.

Some experts say that the Internet plays a large part in these thefts.

The Web makes it easier for someone to pretend to be someone else.

Within a few years, one expert said that identity theft-related scams are expected to become the most common method of cargo theft.

Experienced thieves know where the major manufacturers are located.

And some are savvy enough to pick out which brand of electronics or appliances to steal by bidding on loads posted online.

For instance, someone wanting to steal a truckload of copper would target shipments coming out of Carrollton, Ga., where a major copper-wire manufacturer is located.

Food and drinks were the most commonly stolen items, accounting for 23 percent of all thefts last year, followed by metals at 16 percent, and electronics and household goods at 12 percent each, according to CargoNet's 2012 report.

One reason food shipments are popular targets is because they have a lower value than electronics or medications, which are often more heavily protected.

Plus, food generally does not have any serial numbers to trace.

The trucking and insurance industries are fighting back.

They're urging people handling the shipments to take extra caution by checking information before awarding contracts to unfamiliar truckers.

The California Farm Bureau Federation warns about clues that could indicate a suspicious hauler: temporary name cards or identification numbers on the truck, abrupt changes in the time of the pickup, and the lack of a tracking system on the truck.

Another suggestion is to get a thumbprint from the truck driver.

