Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump often speaks of a deportation program that began in the 1950s under President Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose nickname was Ike.

Trump calls this plan proof that he can successfully and kindly remove, or deport, people living in the United States without permission.

He talked about it again during the Republican debate on Nov. 10.

He said "you don't get nicer, you don't get friendlier" than President Eisenhower, whose 1952 campaign for the White House used the slogan, "I Like Ike."

Trump, while talking about Eisenhower's deportation program during the televised Republican debate, said, "They moved 1.5 million out" of the United States."

He added: "We have no choice."

The program was known by a name that is now viewed as a racial slur.

For the most part, historians have viewed the deportation program of the 1950s as a dark moment in America's past.

Trump also does not talk about another government program from the same time that allowed hundreds of thousands of migrant farmworkers to stay in the country legally.

Trump did not call the program by name on Nov. 11 in an interview on "The O'Reilly Factor," a television talk show.

''I don't like the term at all," he said.

Yet he defended the program when TV talk show host Bill O'Reilly described the harsh treatment of the people who were deported.

"I've heard it both ways.

I've heard good reports, I've heard bad reports," Trump said.

"We would do it in a very humane way."

"He's only got part of the story," said Mae Ngai, a professor of history at Columbia University in New York.

The 1950s deportation program was named after a term for Mexicans who crossed the Rio Grande River.

That term later came to be viewed as a racial slur.

The river makes up part of the Mexican-United States border.

The 1954 program sought to catch and deport farmworkers who had crossed the border illegally looking for work.

The project, Ngai said, began with 750 government officers.

They used jeeps, trucks, buses and airplanes on a nationwide search to find people who had come to the United States without legal permission.

They caught 3,000 people a day and 170,000 during the program's first three months.

In an interview on Nov. 11, Trump indicated he would do something similar with the estimated 11 million people in the United States illegally.

"You're going to have a deportation force, and you're going to do it humanely," he said.

Critics of the 1950s deportation program say its conditions were anything but humane. .

Many of the migrants were transported in crowded buses.

Then they were dumped on the Mexican side of the border like they were animals, some said at the time.

In one incident, Ngai said, 88 Mexicans died after they were left outside in 112-degree heat.

Some of the migrants were deported far into Mexico under terrible conditions.

The idea was to prevent them from re-entering the United States by train or ship.

At one point, a group of prisoners rebelled on a ship sending them back to Mexico.

A government investigation later said the conditions were like an "18th century slave ship."

However, Trump praised the program during the Republican debate on Nov. 10.

"Moved a 1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the border.

They came back.

Moved them again beyond the border, they came back.

Didn't like it."

Trump said.

"Moved them way south.

They never came back."

Trump also does not mention the fact that the deportation program was started to work alongside a guest worker program.

Hundreds of thousands of Mexican farmworkers did enter the country legally under the program.

The deportation effort began as a way to pressure employers into using the legal guest workers, instead of hiring illegal workers.

Trump has said that 1.5 million were deported.

However, most reports suggest that far fewer people were actually deported.

Trump included both those who chose to leave the country as well as people who returned after being deported and were sent away again.

Trump has not explained how he would find people living in the country illegally.

He also has not said how he would determine "the good ones" whom he would allow to return.

Two other Republican presidential candidates — Governor John Kasich of Ohio and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida — rejected Trump's plan during the debate.

Both Republican presidential candidates said it was cruel and not realistic.

"To send them back, 500,000 a month, is just not, not possible," Bush said.

"And it's not embracing American values, and it would tear communities apart, and it would send a signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is."

