Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump often speaks of the deportation efforts of the Eisenhower administration in the 1950s.

He calls it proof that he can successfully and humanely deport the estimated 11 million people living in the country illegally.

He did so again during the Republican debate on Nov. 10, saying "you don't get nicer, you don't get friendlier" than President Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose nickname Ike appeared on "I Like Ike" campaign buttons in his 1952 race for the White House.

"They moved 1.5 million out," the billionaire candidate said of Eisenhower's deportation program.

"We have no choice.

We have no choice."

But the program, whose name used a term later seen as a racial slur, was complicated and largely viewed by historians as a dark moment in America's past.

Trump also does not mention that it was designed to work along with another government program that allowed hundreds of thousands of migrant farm workers to stay in the country legally.

Trump would not call the program by name on Nov. 11 in an interview on "The O'Reilly Factor," a television talk show.

''I don't like the term at all," he said.

But he nonetheless defended what TV talk show host Bill O'Reilly described as brutal treatment of those who were deported.

"I've heard it both ways.

I've heard good reports, I've heard bad reports," Trump said.

"We would do it in a very humane way."

Trump "only got part of the story," said Mae Ngai, a professor of history at Columbia University in New York.

The operation was named after a term for Mexicans who crossed the Rio Grande, the river that makes up part of the Mexican-United States border.

The term is now viewed a racial slur.

The 1954 program was aimed at apprehending and deporting agricultural workers who had crossed the border illegally looking for work.

According to a summary of the project from the Texas State Historical Association, the United States Border Patrol began an "operation of search and seizure of all unauthorized immigrants."

It was aided by municipal, county, state, and federal authorities, as well as the military.

The project, Ngai said, began with 750 government officers, who used jeeps, trucks, buses and airplanes to capture migrants nationwide, including in the cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco and Chicago.

They caught 3,000 people a day and 170,000 during its first three months.

In an interview on Nov. 11 on MSNBC's "Morning Joe," Trump indicated he would take a similar approach.

"You're going to have a deportation force, and you're going to do it humanely," he said.

Critics of the program say the Eisenhower deportation program's conditions were anything but humane.

Many of the migrants were transported in crowded buses and dumped on the other side of the border in a manner some at the time compared to the treatment of livestock.

In one incident, Ngai said, 88 apprehended Mexicans died of sunstroke after being exposed to 112-degree heat.

Some of the migrants were sent deep into the interior of Mexico in an attempt to prevent them from re-entering the United States by train or cargo ship.

The terrible conditions of the deportations drew the attention of government officials.

At one point, a group of prisoners rioted on a ship sending them back to Mexico.

A congressional investigation later called it an "18th century slave ship" and a prisoner "hell ship."

However, Trump praised the Eisenhower-era deportation program during the Republican debate on Nov. 10.

"Moved a 1.5 million illegal immigrants out of this country, moved them just beyond the border.

They came back.

Moved them again beyond the border, they came back.

Didn't like it," Trump said.

"Moved them way south.

They never came back."

Trump also leaves out of his story the fact that the deportation program was developed to accompany a guest-worker program that began in the 1940s.

The program was aimed at allowing Mexican farmworkers to enter the country and work in the United States legally.

Hundreds of thousands of farmworkers did enter the country legally under the guest-worker program.

The deportation effort was started as a way to pressure employers into using farm workers in the country legally.

"It was like a carrot and a stick," Ngai said.

While Trump has put the number of deportations at 1.5 million, most reports suggest that far fewer people were deported.

His numbers included those who chose to leave the country voluntarily as well as people who returned after being deported and were sent away again.

Trump has yet to explain precisely how he would find those living in the country illegally, or how he would determine "the good ones" whom he would allow to return.

Two of Trump's rivals for the Republican presidential nomination — Ohio Governor John Kasich and Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida — rejected his plan during the GOP debate on Nov. 10.

Both Republican presidential candidates called Trump's plan unrealistic and cruel.

"To send them back, 500,000 a month, is just not, not possible," Bush said.

"And it's not embracing American values, and it would tear communities apart, and it would send a signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is."

