Donald Trump is running for president.

He wants everyone who came to the United States against the law to leave.

There are about 11 million of them.

Trump often talks about a program from the 1950s.

It forced farm workers who came without permission to leave.

He said the program proves that he could successfully and kindly send them back to their home countries.

He praised the 1950s program again during the Republican debate on Nov. 10.

Trump is a Republican.

Whoever wins the Republican nomination would run for president against a Democrat.

The Democrats are in the White House now.

President Barack Obama is a Democrat.

But Obama is not running for re-election.

The Democratic presidential candidates include Hillary Rodham Clinton, a U.S. secretary of state, U.S. senator and first lady, as well as Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Martin O'Malley, who used to be the governor of Maryland.

During the debate, candidates spoke on TV about their ideas.

Trump said, "You don't get nicer, you don't get friendlier" than President Dwight D. Eisenhower.

The program was started by the President in the 1950s.

"They moved 1.5 million out" of the United States, the billionaire candidate said.

"We have no choice."

Historians do not agree with Trump.

For the most part, they see the program as a dark moment in America's past.

Trump defended the deportation program on Nov. 11 on "The O'Reilly Factor."

It is a television talk show.

Host Bill O'Reilly described the terrible treatment of the farm workers who were forced to leave.

"I've heard it both ways.

I've heard good reports, I've heard bad reports," Trump said.

He said he would send people back in a gentle, kind way.

"He's only got part of the story," Mae Ngai said.

She is a professor of history at Columbia University in New York.

The program began with 750 government officers.

They used jeeps, trucks, buses and airplanes to find farmworkers who crossed the Mexican-American border against the law.

The officers caught 3,000 people a day.

About 170,000 were caught during the program's first three months.

Some experts say the government treated the farmworkers badly.

Many of them were put on crowded buses.

Then they were dropped off on the Mexican side of the border.

At one point, Ngai said, 88 Mexicans died.

They were left outside in 112-degree heat.

In another case, Mexicans were sent back on a ship.

The conditions were so bad that they fought back.

Lawmakers looked into what happened.

They said the ship was like a slave ship from the 1700s.

Trump does not talk about another government program from the same time.

The other program gave permission to hundreds of thousands of farmworkers from Mexico to stay.

The government wanted farmers to hire those workers.

They did not want farmers to hire workers who came against the law.

The two programs worked together.

Trump also has not explained how he would find the people who are not supposed to be here.

He also said he would allow the "good ones" to return.

He did not say how he would figure out who the "good ones" are.

Two Republican candidates spoke out against Trump's plan during the debate.

One was Ohio Governor John Kasich.

The other candidate was Jeb Bush, the former governor of Florida.

Both of them said Trump's plan was cruel and difficult to carry out.

"To send them back, 500,000 a month, is just not, not possible," Bush said.

He added that it is against American values.

"It would send a signal that we're not the kind of country that I know America is."

