Donald Trump is running for president.

The race for president is in two parts.

The first part is known as the primaries.

Republican candidates run against other Republicans in the Republican primary.

Democrats run against Democrats in the Democratic primary.

Then, the winner of the Republican primary runs against the winner of the Democratic primary.

The second race happens in 2016.

It is known as the election.

The people picked to run in that race are called the nominees.

The winner of the election becomes president.

On Nov. 10, Republican candidates got together for a debate.

They all said what they would do if elected president.

They gave speeches on TV.

Trump is a Republican.

He said that millions of people are living in the country against the law.

He would make them all leave.

Trump praised a program from the 1950s.

It forced farmworkers to leave the United States.

Most of them were from Mexico.

They crossed the border without permission.

They were looking for work.

Trump likes the program.

He said it was nice and friendly.

He called it proof that he could send farmworkers back to their own countries in a kind way.

Historians do not agree with Trump.

Most of them call the 1950s program an ugly moment in America's past.

The program began with 750 government officers.

They used jeeps, trucks, buses and airplanes to find the farm workers.

The officers caught 3,000 people a day.

They caught about 170,000 during the program's first three months.

Many people say the government treated the farmworkers badly.

The government put them on crowded buses.

Then they were dumped on the Mexican side of the border.

At one point, 88 Mexicans died, said Mae Ngai, a history professor.

The Mexican workers were left outside in very hot weather.

Two Republican candidates spoke out against Trump's plan.

One of the candidates was Ohio Governor John Kasich.

The other one was Jeb Bush.

He used to be the governor of Florida.

Both of them said Trump's plan was cruel.

They also said it would be hard to carry out.

Bush said Trump's plan is against American values.

He said that America is a better country than that.

