In 2013, two brothers exploded bombs at the Boston Marathon.

Earlier this year, a jury of 12 people heard from witnesses who were at the marathon.

They looked at the evidence, or proof, of what happened.

They decided that one of the brothers, Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, was guilty of the bombing.

The other brother was killed in a shootout with police.

A week ago, the jury had to answer another question.

What should happen to Tsarnaev?

A judge reminded them that they had two choices.

They could sentence Tsarnaev to spend the rest of his life in prison.

Or they could decide he should be put to death.

This serious choice was theirs, the judge said.

On Friday, they sentenced Tsarnaev to death.

It took them 14 hours to decide.

On April 15, 2013, Tsarnaev and his brother, Tamerlan, exploded two bombs at the race.

The bombs killed three people, including a child.

More than 250 other people were hurt.

In April, the jury found Tsarnaev guilty of 30 crimes.

To sentence Tsarnaev to death, the jury had to all agree on it.

If even one jury member said no to the death penalty, Tsarnaev would have to spend the rest of his life in prison.

The jury was told to consider two things.

They had to think about anything that made the crime bad enough for a death sentence.

They also had to consider anything that would argue for life in prison instead.

Lawyers for the government last week argued in front of the jury.

They retold details about the bombings.

Steven Mellin is one of the government lawyers.

He said that Tsarnaev did not care about the lives of his victims.

He did not care how their deaths would affect their friends and family.

"His actions have earned him a sentence of death," Mellin said.

Tsarnaev's lawyers admitted that he took part in the bombing.

They told the jury to show mercy because he is so young.

Tsarnaev was 19 when the bombing took place.

They said his older brother had control over him.

They said Tamerlan made all the plans for the bombing.

Judy Clarke, Tsarnaev's lawyer, said Tamerlan had a strong personality.

She gave examples of how Tamerlan had power over his younger brother.

Clarke also said Tsarnaev could change.

Sister Helen Prejean is a Catholic nun and is against the death sentence.

She said she spoke to Tsarnaev and he said that he was truly sorry for the bombing.

"The law values life," Clarke said to the jury.

She told them that they do not have to vote to kill Tsarnaev.

Before making its decision, the judge told the jury to do several things.

They had to agree that Tsarnaev was 18 years old.

The law prevents a death sentence for anyone younger than 18 at the time of the crime.

The jury also could not consider information they may have seen in newspapers or on television.

The jury also had to decide if the government proved "beyond a reasonable doubt" that he deserved to die.

This means there cannot be any other good explanation for what happened.

The jury members also had to all agree to sentence him to death, the judge said.

They all did.

