Athletes who play sports on synthetic fields are all too familiar with the tiny specks of black rubber that litter the turf.

The shredded bits of used car and truck tires — called crumb rubber — can embed themselves in carpets, in car mats and in homes after practice.

They are used to fill almost every synthetic field in the country.

And now, some people are wondering how safe the little pellets actually are.

Most studies on crumb rubber have found minimal to no health risks from the pellets.

A number of organizations have conducted analyses on the turf fields, including the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the University of California (UC), Berkeley.

But despite this research, some communities and school districts are still concerned about the safety of the fields.

As towns consider upgrading their facilities to synthetic turf, the topic comes up for debate.

A growing number of parents, athletes and groups are questioning the safety of crumb rubber's ingredients.

They claim that the pellets contain dangerous materials, such as carcinogens and toxic chemicals, which are used in tire manufacturing.

They argue the chemicals can be swallowed, inhaled or absorbed through the pellets.

Some studies have detected toxins such as benzene and carbon tetrachloride at turf fields.

The studies found such minor amounts of these chemicals in the pellets that they were deemed safe.

There is no concrete evidence that crumb rubber poses a health risk.

But many scientists think there hasn't been enough research into the turf fields.

They think that before the pellets are declared safe, researchers need to examine the fields over time and under varying temperatures and weather.

Turf companies maintain that crumb rubber is safe.

They say that it doesn't contain dangerous ingredients from the tire manufacturing process.

FieldTurf, a turf company, has asked that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) research the products further.

Last year, NBC News raised the public's safety concerns with an investigation into turf's health risks.

"We're certainly confident in the safety of the product, and we have absolutely no problem with more study being done," said Darren Gill, a FieldTurf spokesman.

"I think once people do the research and get past the glitzy, glamorous headlines from NBC, I think they look at the science and realize that there's 10,000 fields in America and really no real information to the contrary that these fields are anything but safe."

The EPA and the Consumer Product Safety Commission have published studies in the past declaring the rubber fields safe.

They have since backed away from these claims, stating that their own research is "very limited."

The EPA admits that it is "not possible to extend the results beyond the four study sites or to reach any more comprehensive conclusions without the consideration of additional data."

The Consumer Product Safety Commission added a large, red banner at the top of its website above the evaluation.

The disclaimer cautions that the "staff's assessment was subject to specified limitations including sample size.

The exposure assessment did not include chemicals or other toxic metals, beyond lead."

The crumb rubber issue has gained national attention because the material covers fields, parks and playgrounds where both kids and professional athletes play.

MetLife Stadium, home to the NFL Giants and Jets, has a turf field.

Ninety-eight percent of the 11,000 synthetic turf athletic fields in the United States use crumb rubber, according to the Synthetic Turf Council.

Turf fields are popular across the nation because they are weather-resistant, easier to maintain than grass and usable year-round.

They last 10 to 15 years.

Crumb rubber is also the cheapest choice compared to other alternatives, like organic fill and sneaker rubber.

Crumb rubber is considered recycled material.

The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, a piece of legislation, states that the rubber is not considered tire waste.

The law is supposed to protect the public and environment from hazardous waste.

Because of the recycled material's classification, crumb rubber is no longer held to the same scrutiny as tires.

This has been a point of major dispute for critics.

Turf manufacturers advertise recycling as part of the benefits of their fields.

Research largely supports turf companies' claims that crumb rubber is safe.

The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation conducted a study and declared that crumb rubber fields pose "no significant environmental threat to air or water quality and poses no significant health concerns."

UC Berkeley has also examined the material.

It concluded in a research review that "the materials are both cost-effective and safe."

Turf might also have another benefit: greater safety than grass fields.

Studies conducted by Montana State University and West Texas A&amp;M University found fewer concussions, severe injuries and ligament tears among high school athletes playing on turf.

Not everyone is convinced that crumb rubber fields are safe.

The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation and the Los Angeles Unified School District no longer install crumb rubber fields.

In December,  a state senator from California proposed a bill that would prevent cities and school districts from installing them for three years.

Keith Verkem's 13-year-old son plays soccer on a turf field.

Verkem is concerned about the crumb rubber.

The material "that we make tires out of is not healthy," Verkem said.

"Do we want to find out years later that there is a link?"

Most researchers don't think there is a link.

But the researchers cannot say for sure and parents like Verkem don't want to take that risk.

