Look around a sports field.

You might see more than athletes and soccer balls.

Many sports fields are made from turf, which is fake grass.

There are tiny bits of rubber on these fields.

These pieces are called crumb rubber.

Crumb rubber is made from used car tires.

The small pieces fill in the space between the blades of fake grass.

Crumb rubber is used on fields, parks and playgrounds.

The material covers the ground where both kids and athletes play.

There are about 11,000 turf fields across the country.

Most of these fields use crumb rubber.

Turf fields are popular.

They are easier to take care of than grass fields.

The turf fields can be used all year.

They can also be used during different types of weather.

Turf fields last 10 to 15 years.

Crumb rubber costs a lot less than other materials.

However, some schools and communities think that crumb rubber is unsafe.

People think that the rubber contains unsafe materials.

Athletes might swallow or breathe in dangerous chemicals.

Companies that make the fake grass fields say the product is safe.

These companies believe that the rubber does not have dangerous ingredients.

Darren Gill works at a company called FieldTurf.

The company makes fake grass fields.

Gill said that the turf is safe.

He has no problem with more research studies being done on the turf, he added.

Two government groups have published studies about the turf.

The studies say that the fields are safe for play.

However, these groups no longer believe in their research as much as before.

One of these groups is called the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).

The EPA wrote about a study of the turf on its website.

Now, the EPA has a new message online that warns readers about the research.

The EPA says that more research should be done.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission is another agency that studied the fields.

It also put a note on its website.

The research only looked at a few fields, it said.

According to the website, the research is limited.

A research group in New York studied crumb rubber.

It found that crumb rubber is not as dangerous as people thought.

The fields are not bad for the air or water.

The researchers said that the rubber does not affect a person's health.

Even with this research, not everyone thinks that crumb rubber fields are safe.

New York City no longer builds crumb rubber fields.

Some California schools do not use them anymore, either.

One politician in California even wants to stop cities and schools from building them for three years.

Keith Verkem's 13-year-old son plays soccer on a turf field.

He worries about crumb rubber.

The material "that we make tires out of is not healthy," Verkem said.

"Do we want to find out years later that there is a link?"

Most researchers don't think there is a link.

But the researchers cannot say for sure.

This worries parents like Verkem.

