Balls aren't the only thing that are flying around athletic fields these days.

Many athletes can probably recognize tiny specks of black rubber that cover artificial turf.

The rubber pellets can be tossed around the field during play.

The bits of rubber are called crumb rubber.

The pellets are shredded bits of used car tires.

They can get stuck in carpets and car mats after practice on the field.

Crumb rubber is used on synthetic, or fake, athletic fields.

The rubber pieces fill in the space between blades of fake grass.

Now, some people are wondering if crumb rubber is safe.

Most studies on crumb rubber have found that the pellets do not pose a health risk.

Even with this evidence, some communities and schools are still concerned.

Many are unsure about building synthetic fields that have crumb rubber.

Many parents and athletes have complained about the pellets.

They think that the rubber contains dangerous materials.

These chemicals, they say, can be swallowed, inhaled or absorbed by athletes.

Some research has found the rubber does contain toxic chemicals.

Benzene and carbon tetrachloride are two materials that were detected.

However, scientists who studied the fields found that there were only small amounts of the chemicals.

Therefore, the fields were considered safe.

Turf companies say that crumb rubber is safe.

The companies believe that the rubber does not contain dangerous ingredients.

Darren Gill is a spokesman at a turf company called FieldTurf.

He said the company is confident that the product is safe.

Gill said he has no problem with more studies being done on the company's product.

Two federal agencies — the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Product Safety Commission — have also published studies about rubber crumb.

The studies both declared these fields safe.

However, the organizations no longer seem as certain about their conclusions.

The EPA published the study on its website.

Now, the agency has a message on the website that says the study is "very limited."

It warns readers that the study only looked at four sites.

The EPA stated that more data might need to be examined.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission also put a note on its website.

The banner gave readers more information about the study.

It said that researchers only studied a small number of fields and that the results are limited as well.

The safety of athletic fields has become a national issue.

Crumb rubber is used on fields, parks and playgrounds and covers ground where both kids and professional athletes play.

There are about 11,000 synthetic turf athletic fields across the country.

Of those, 98 percent — over 10,700 — use crumb rubber.

Turf fields are a popular choice for these facilities across the nation.

The fields are weather-resistant, easier to maintain than grass and can be used year-round.

They last 10 to 15 years.

Crumb rubber is also cheaper than other materials used on athletic fields.

Research has been done that supports what turf companies say about the fields.

This research largely confirms that rubber crumb is safe on the field.

A major research group in New York did a study on crumb rubber.

It found that crumb rubber fields are not a threat to the air or water quality.

These researchers from New York said rubber crumb poses no significant health concerns.

Turf is also safer than regular grass.

Some studies have found that fewer athletes are injured on turf than grass fields.

Even with this research, not everyone thinks that crumb rubber fields are a good choice.

The New York City Department of Parks and Recreation no longer installs crumb fields in parks.

Some California schools do not use them anymore, either.

One state senator in California even wants to stop cities and schools from building them for three years.

Keith Verkem's 13-year-old son plays soccer on a turf field.

He worries about crumb rubber.

The material "that we make tires out of is not healthy," Verkem said.

"Do we want to find out years later that there is a link?"

Most researchers don't think there is a link.

But the researchers cannot say for sure and this worries parents like Verkem.

