Women sang ballads over the new graves of victims of Turkey's worst mining disaster.

Near them, backhoes dug row upon row of graves.

Hearses lined up outside the cemetery with yet more dead miners.

Rescue teams recovered another nine victims, raising the death toll to at least 283.

Another 141 people are still missing, according to government figures.

Tuesday's disaster has set off protests around Turkey, many of them aimed at Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Blackening his reputation further, one of Erdogan's aides was accused of kicking a protester on the ground.

At a graveyard in the western town of Soma, women wailed loudly in mourning.

They swayed and sang songs about their relatives as the bodies were taken from coffins and lowered into their graves.

Pictures of the lost relatives were pinned onto their clothing.

"The love of my life is gone," some sang, chanting the names of dead miners.

No miner has been brought out alive since dawn on Wednesday from the coal mine where the underground explosion and fire took place.

In Soma, coal mining has been the main industry for decades.

Many mourners said they spent their whole lives fearing something like this would happen.

"The wives of the miners kiss their husbands in the morning.

When they come back, even if they are five minutes late, everyone starts calling.

You never know what is going to happen," said Gulizar Donmez.

She is the daughter and wife of miners and the neighbor of one of the victims.

On Thursday, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz announced that a fire inside the mine was dying down.

He hope that rescuers would soon be able to speed up their search for those missing.

Erdogan was not welcome during a visit to the area Wednesday.

Hundreds of people attacked his car.

He was forced to take refuge at a supermarket after angry crowds called him a murderer and a thief, and fought with police.

Turkish newspapers Cumhuriyet, Milliyet and others on Thursday printed photographs they said were of an Erdogan aide kicking a protester.

The pictures show the protester on the ground held down by special forces police.

An official in the prime minister's office said the issue was private.

He confirmed there was a scuffle as Erdogan entered a building.

But he denied he had hit the protester.

Turkish President Abdullah Gul described the events in Soma as "a huge disaster."

"The pain is felt by us all," he said.

During a visit to Soma, local residents shouted insults at him, demanding more should be done to reach survivors.

Erdogan seemed blind to residents' grief.

He called the mining accidents "ordinary things" that occur in many other countries and compared them to 19th-century mine accidents in Great Britain.

Erdogan has made no secret of his desire to become Turkey's president.

His party won local elections in March despite a corruption scandal that forced him to fire four government ministers in December.

He and family members have also been accused of taking bribes, which he denies.

He calls the accusations part of a plot to bring his government down.

Protests broke out in Istanbul, Ankara and other cities Wednesday over the deaths and poor safety conditions at mines around the country.

In Istanbul, a group chanted anti-government slogans.

They also carried a large banner that read: "It's not an accident, it's murder."

In Istanbul and Izmir, authorities used water cannons and tear gas to break up the protests.

Many Turkish workers joined a one-day strike to demand better conditions.

Yildiz, the energy minister, said the search for survivors had been slowed by a mine fire.

Rescue operations have stopped several times as burning coal inside made it too dangerous for rescue teams to enter.

Authorities said Tuesday's disaster was caused by an explosion and a fire at a power unit in the mine.

Most deaths were caused by carbon monoxide poisoning.

Yildiz said emergency crews said the fire has gotten smaller.

"God willing, in two or three hours if we are able to extinguish this fire, we will be able to hasten our (rescue) work," he said.

The government has said 787 people were inside the coal mine at the time of the explosion.

A total of 383 were rescued, many of whom were injured.

The death toll made it Turkey's worst mining accident.

Mining accidents are common in Turkey, which has poor safety conditions.

Erdogan promised that Tuesday's tragedy would be investigated thoroughly and no carelessness will be ignored.

Turkey's Labor and Social Security Ministry said the mine had been inspected five times since 2012.

The most recent inspection was in March, when no safety violations were detected.

But the country's main opposition party said Erdogan's party had recently voted down a proposal to investigate a series of small-scale accidents at the mines around Soma.

