Ahmet Guvener got an exemption to keep his daughter from taking religion classes required by her school.

But the alternatives the school offered her were more religious classes.

Guvener and his family are Christians; he is a pastor who heads the Protestant Church in the city of Diyarbakir, in southeast Turkey.

His daughter had to choose from three electives or fail the school year.

But the choices were a course on the life of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, a study of Islam's holy book, the Quran, or basic religious knowledge.

"It seriously damaged my child's psychology," said Guvener.

He accuses the school of forcing religious education on the students, but the teachers union denies that claim.

Guvener said his daughter's school told him it only offered religious education because there was no demand for any other electives.

He could not believe that, out of 900 students, no one asked for math or English.

The school offered her an astronomy class after he spoke to the media about her case.

Many parents, teachers and students are complaining that the government is adding more religion in the schools.

Thousands of people in Turkey have protested in the streets recently.

They demanded that the government stop trying to impose Muslim religious ideas in the schools.

Turkey is located between Europe and the Middle East.

It is a majority Muslim county, but it has followed secular, or non-religious, laws.

Turkey's first president, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, tried to make the country more secular and Western.

In the past, the education system had banned Islamic headscarves in schools.

Children begin the school day reciting a pledge of allegiance to Ataturk.

Recently, the government has lifted the headscarf ban and stopped the pledge of allegiance.

The government said it allowed headscarves to give students freedom.

But at the same time, it banned tattoos and dyed hair in schools.

Traditional Muslims ban tattoos and piercings, and they insist women must cover their hair with headscarves.

Supporters of secular tradition say President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is taking a new path and they are protesting against it.

They say Erdogan, a Muslim whose wife wears a headscarf in public, is building an Islamic education system.

They point out he has said his goal is to raise "pious generations."

That is, he wants the Turkish people to be more religious.

Erdogan's political group, the Justice and Development Party, insists it is only following what the majority of the people want.

It says the new education policies overturn the restrictions on religious education imposed by the military.

The military, which followed Ataturk's secular values, forced an Islamic government out of power in 1997 and closed some religious schools.

Protests have broken out around Turkey.

In Istanbul and other Turkish cities, thousands marched to support secular and scientific education.

Hundreds of students and teachers stayed home from school to protest.

Police broke up a demonstration in Izmir, the third-largest city in Turkey.

News reports said at least 10 people were arrested for organizing the school absences.

Protesters asked the government to stop trying to impose the Sunni faith.

Sunni is a sect, or group, in the Islamic religion.

It is followed by the majority of Turks.

Protesters also demanded respect for Alevi Shiite students.

The Alevi Shiite Muslims are a sect that makes up Turkey's largest religious minority.

Turkey's national education advisory council has recommended more religious education and religion classes that begin at younger ages.

This could be a hint of the future.

President Erdogan supports adding required Ottoman language classes at high schools.

The recommendation was later limited to religious schools only.

Ottoman is an older version of Turkish, written in Arabic script; it was abandoned after Ataturk introduced the Latin alphabet in 1928 to make Turkey more western.

"There are those who are disturbed by our children being taught Ottoman," Erdogan declared.

"Whether they want it or not, Ottoman will be learned and be taught."

Educators who support the government say Turkey is going back to its cultural roots.

Education in Turkey was going against the people's own culture and civilization, said Ali Yalcin, deputy head of the pro-government teachers union which proposed many of the recommendations.

He denies schools are trying to force religion on the students.

What they are trying to do is open up religious education.

It's what the people want, he said.

Critics say the government is focused on adding religion in schools, but ignores the Turkish education system's serious failings.

According to a report, Turkish students did poorly in reading, mathematics and science.

Turkey ranked 44th out of 65 countries in those subjects.

The real problems in schools are being brushed aside, said Sakine Esen Yilmaz.

He is a leader of the Education and Science Laborer's Union, a liberal group that opposes the increase of religion in schools.

Yilmaz said teachers have classes of 50 to 60 students.

Schools have no labs, libraries or sports facilities, he said.

Religious education does not mean students will grow more religious, said Abbas Guclu, an education expert.

Young people spend more time online, watching TV or on social media, he explained.

"It's not possible to control the youth of today," he said.

