Many parents in Turkey are angry about the country's schools.

The parents say the schools are teaching their children about the Muslim religion.

Ahmet Guvener wanted to excuse his daughter from religion classes because she is a Christian.

Ahmet is a pastor in the Protestant Church.

The school offered his daughter three other classes.

If she didn't take one, she would fail for the school year.

But all the classes were about Islam, the religion of Muslims.

Guvener said the school told him nobody wanted other choices.

He could not believe that no one had wanted to take math or English.

Later, the school offered his daughter an astronomy class after he spoke out.

Turkey is a country between Europe and the Middle East.

Most of the people are Muslim and follow the Islamic religion.

In the past, Turkey has followed secular laws.

That means religion is separate from government and it is not taught in schools.

Schools in Turkey had banned headscarves.

Traditional Islamic women wear scarves to cover their heads.

Now, the schools allow headscarves.

School officials said the students are free to choose.

But the schools also banned tattoos and dyed hair at the same time.

Many people in Turkey are angry at the president.

President Recep Tayyip Edogan is a traditional Muslim.

He has changed the rules in the country.

He has said he wants to raise young people who are religious.

Erdogan's supporters says he is just listening to what the majority or what most people want.

Some Turks are protesting the new school rules.

They want the government to stop trying to force the Sunni religion on the students.

The majority of Turks believe in the Sunni religion.

Thousands of people marched in Istanbul and other cities.

Hundreds of students and teachers stayed home from school.

More than 10 people were arrested for organizing the absences.

National school officials have asked for more religious classes.

They also want them to start at earlier grades.

This could be a hint of more changes in the future.

President Erdogan also wants high school kids to take Ottoman language classes.

Ottoman is an older version of Turkish.

It was abandoned when Turkey became a modern, new country.

Some teachers say the schools are going back to Turkey's tradition.

They say Turkey is a Muslim and Arab country.

One of them is Ali Yalcin, a leader of the teachers union that supports the president.

He said the secular schools were hurting the country's traditional culture.

Yalcin denies schools are trying to force religion on the students.

What they are trying to do is offer the choice of religious education, he said.

That is what most people in Turkey want, he explained.

Other teachers said the fighting ignores real problems in the schools.

They say the students are not getting a good education in Turkey's schools.

Many schools have no labs or libraries, said Sakine Esen Yilmaz.

He is a leader of a teachers group that is against the new rules.

Classes do not make students more religious, said Abbas Guclu.

He is an education expert.

He said young people spend more time watching TV or online.

"It's not possible to control the youth of today," he said.

