Violence continued between police and protesters this week in Turkey.

The trouble started when young people gathered to try to stop the government from tearing down a park.

The police sprayed tear gas to make them flee.

About 10,000 people were in the crowd.

Four people have been killed since the protests started on May 28.

Doctors believe that 5,000 people have been injured.

About 13.9 million people live in Istanbul.

It is one of the largest cities in the world.

It also spreads over two continents.

One half of Istanbul lies in Europe, while the other half sits in Asia.

The city is connected by bridges across one of the busiest waterways on the planet, the Bosporus Strait.

Istanbul is an important city for trade.

Turkey is also one of the United States' closest friends in the region.

Turkey is larger than the state of Texas.

Istanbul is a very modern city, but other parts of Turkey are less developed.

Around 99 percent of Turks have a Muslim background.

However, religion and politics are supposed to remain separate, just as they are in the U.S. Turkey's leader is Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Some people feel that Erdogan has tried to force religious laws onto the people.

This is just one reason for the protests against him.

The first protests were over a very popular park.

There are plans to replace Gezi Park with a shopping center.

The park is one of the few green spaces for the people of Istanbul.

One protester asked: "What if they tried to demolish Central Park in New York to build a mall?

That's happening here."

Riot police forcefully removed the first protest.

After that, the demonstrations grew much bigger.

The protests are now against the police and the government.

The people protesting are both young and old.

They have lots of different kinds of jobs.

Teachers, doctors, lawyers, office workers and students are all protesting together.

On Tuesday, riot police once again removed people from the park.

They used tear gas, water cannons and armored cars.

There were reports that several hundred protesters were injured.

Several ambulances were seen at the scene.

Online videos showed people panicking as they breathed in the tear gas.

During the removal, some people threw firebombs at the police.

The protesters said they had never seen these people before.

Some reported seeing the mysterious bombers holding walkie-talkies.

Some believe that they were secret policemen who were sent to the park to start a fight.

Police also stormed a courthouse after protests against Erdogan there.

At least 44 lawyers were arrested.

One lawyer said there were "terrible scenes."

Thousands of lawyers came onto the streets to protest about this on Wednesday.

Prime Minister Erdogan defended the use of police force against the protesters.

He said the police officers had done a good job.

He accused the protesters of committing crimes.

Erdogan promised to "pursue" the protesters who he described as "terrorists."

"No one will escape," he also threatened.

"What should we have done?"

the prime minister asked.

"Kneeled down in front of these people and asked them to please remove their banners?"

Erdogan believes the protests were organized by a foreign country to damage Turkey.

There might be a public vote to decide on the future of the park.

The U.N. and U.S. government told Turkey to respect the protesters' rights.

Caitlin Hayden is a spokeswoman for the U.S. National Security Council.

Hayden said that she is "concerned by any attempts to punish" people for "exercising their right to free speech."

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon called for the government and the protesters to talk to each other to resolve the dispute.

