Violence between police and protesters continued this week in Turkey.

Demonstrators against the government have gathered in Istanbul's Taksim Square since May 28.

The police tried to remove them again on Tuesday.

Officers fired tear gas into a group of around 10,000 people.

Four people have been killed since the clashes began.

Doctors believe that nearly 5,000 people have been injured.

Istanbul has 13.9 million residents and is one of the largest cities in the world.

It also spreads over two continents.

One half of Istanbul is in Europe while the other half of the city is in Asia.

The city is connected by bridges and ferries across one of the busiest waterways on the planet.

Istanbul plays a major role in global trade and Turkey has long had friendly relations with the U.S. Turkey is larger than the state of Texas.

It has borders with Greece in the west and Iran in the east.

Istanbul is a very modern city, but other parts of Turkey are less developed.

Around 99 percent of Turks have a Muslim background.

But religion is officially separated from politics in Turkey.

Some people feel Turkey's leader, Prime Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has tried to force religious laws onto the people.

Erdogan's opponents say this is just one reason why they are demonstrating against him.

The protests started when people discovered that a popular park was going to be paved over.

A shopping center is planned to be built in its place.

Gezi Park is a favorite place for many Turkish people.

A protester held a sign that said: "What if they tried to demolish Central Park in New York to build a mall?

That's happening here."

Riot police violently removed the first protest from the park.

After that, the demonstrations grew much bigger.

The protests are now against the police, against Erdogan, and the government.

The demonstrators are both young and old.

They have lots of different kinds of jobs.

Teachers, lawyers, office workers and students are all protesting together.

On Tuesday morning, riot police once again removed people from the park.

They used tear gas, water cannons and armored vehicles.

There were reports that several hundred people were injured.

Several ambulances were seen at the scene.

Online videos showed protesters panicking as they inhaled the tear gas, which makes it hard to breathe.

During the removal, some people threw firebombs at the police.

The protesters said they had never seen the bombers before, and others said they saw the bombers carrying walkie-talkies.

Some believe that they were secret policemen who were sent to the park to start a fight and make the protesters look violent.

Police also stormed a courthouse after lawyers protested against Erdogan there.

At least 44 lawyers were arrested.

The President of the Turkish Lawyers' Association, Metin Feyzioglu, told reporters that there were "terrible scenes."

Thousands of lawyers came onto the streets on Wednesday to support their colleagues and protest their treatment.

Prime Minister Erdogan defended the use of police force against the demonstrators.

He said the police officers had done a good job.

He accused the protesters of committing crimes.

Erdogan promised to "pursue" the demonstrators who he described as "terrorists."

No one will escape, he also threatened.

"What should we have done?"

the prime minister asked.

"Kneeled down in front of these people and asked them to please remove their banners?"

Erdogan said the protests are organized by a foreign country to damage Turkey economically.

There might be a public vote to decide on the future of the park.

The U.N. and U.S. government told Turkey to respect the protesters' rights.

Caitlin Hayden is a spokeswoman for the U.S. National Security Council.

Hayden said that she is "concerned by any attempts to punish" people for "exercising their right to free speech."

U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon called for a conversation between the government and the protesters to resolve the dispute.

