At a graveyard in the Turkish town of Soma, women wailed loudly in mourning.

They swayed and sang about their men, who died in Turkey's worst mining disaster.

Near them were row upon row of freshly dug graves.

Pictures of the lost relatives were pinned onto the women's clothing.

"The love of my life is gone," some sang, chanting the names of dead miners.

At least 283 miners died in the disaster.

Another 141 people are still missing, according to government figures.

Tuesday's disaster has set off protests around Turkey, many of them aimed at Turkey's leader, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.

Blackening his reputation further, one of Erdogan's aides was accused of kicking a protester.

No miner has been brought out alive from the coal mine since dawn on Wednesday.

In Soma, coal mining has been the main industry for decades.

Many women said they spent their whole lives fearing something like this would happen.

"The wives of the miners kiss their husbands in the morning.

When they come back, even if they are five minutes late, everyone starts calling.

You never know what is going to happen," said Gulizar Donmez.

She is the daughter and wife of miners and the neighbor of one of the victims.

On Thursday, Energy Minister Taner Yildiz announced that a fire inside the mine was dying down.

He said rescuers would soon speed up their search for the missing.

Erdogan was not welcome during a visit to the area Wednesday.

Hundreds of people attacked his car.

He was forced to duck into a supermarket after angry crowds called him a murderer and a thief, and fought with police.

Turkish newspapers on Thursday printed photographs they said were of an Erdogan aide kicking a protester.

They identified the aide as Yusuf Yerkel.

The pictures show the protester on the ground held down by police.

An official in the prime minister's office said the issue was private.

He confirmed there was a scuffle as Erdogan entered a building.

But he denied he had hit the protester.

Turkish President Abdullah Gul called the mining accident "a huge disaster."

"The pain is felt by us all," he said.

During a visit to Soma, local residents shouted insults at him.

They demanded that more should be done to reach survivors alive in the mine.

Erdogan seemed blind to people's grief.

He called the mining accidents "ordinary things."

He said they happened in many other countries and compared them to 19th-century mine accidents in Great Britain.

Erdogan wants to become Turkey's president, but his government is under a cloud.

He had to fire four top government officials in December after they were accused of taking bribes.

He and family members have also been accused of illegally taking money from companies that want to do business with the government.

Erdogan denies doing anything wrong.

He said people were plotting to make him lose the election.

Around Turkey, people protested in several cities over the mining disaster and poor safety conditions at mines around the country.

Many Turkish workers are demanding better conditions.

In Istanbul, a group chanted anti-government slogans.

They also carried a large banner that read: "It's not an accident, it's murder."

In two cities, police used force to break up the protests.

Energy Minister Taner Yildiz said the search for miners has slowed down.

A fire inside the mine made it too dangerous for rescue teams to enter.

However, it looked like the fire was shrinking.

Yildiz said that if, God willing, workers can put out the fire, the search will go quicker.

Tuesday's disaster was caused by an explosion at a power unit in the mine.

The government has said 787 people were inside the coal mine at the time.

A total of 383 were rescued, many of whom were injured.

This is Turkey's worst mining accident.

Mining accidents are common in Turkey.

Turkish mines have poor safety conditions.

Erdogan promised that Tuesday's mining disaster would be investigated thoroughly.

The mine had been inspected five times since 2012.

The most recent inspection was in March.

No safety violations were detected then.

But Erdogan's government recently decided against investigating a series of small accidents at the mines around Soma.

