At St. Paul's Episcopal School in Alabama, football players have a new preseason task: the social media talk.

It's about more than minding their manners.

Coach Steve Mask warns players not to post about when they get hurt.

Players' injuries can scare away recruiters.

Promising on Twitter to play for a college is also discouraged.

One recent former player tweeted commitments to four different schools without informing any coaches.

"He came across as being not reliable," Mask said.

"He gets a little joy out of the attention, but it's not worth it."

This season, Mask is taking his players' online personalities very seriously.

He even assigned an assistant to monitor their accounts.

College programs are increasingly using Twitter, Instagram and other social media accounts to make decisions about a player's character.

One wrong comment can cost a scholarship offer.

Recently one of Penn State's coaches, Herb Hand, voiced his frustration about a player on Twitter.

He said he "dropped another prospect" because of his social media presence.

"Actually glad I got to see the 'real' person before we offered him," he tweeted.

Hand said his wife scolded him for the tone of the tweet.

Cruel, maybe, but fair.

"You want to recruit guys with strong character," he said.

"Somebody messaged me, 'Sometimes kids are worried more about being a character than having character.'"

Hand and other coaches say they can usually tell when a post raises a problem about a prospect.

"There's a difference though when you're talking about information that may be degrading to women, referencing drug use, and anything that has to do with cyberbullying and stuff like that.

There's certain things you don't want to be part of your program," Hand said.

Hand is not alone in his views on social media.

Duke coach David Cutcliffe said he cut off a recruit this year because of the player's social media activity.

"It's just insane what some of them think is OK," he said.

"When I know it's them and I read it and I see some of the things out there, if I'm on the road, I'll call a coach — let his high school coach know we're no longer interested."

NCAA rules regarding contact between recruits and football coaches have become more restrictive in recent years.

Coaches cannot text recruits and opportunities to meet face to face have decreased.

Social media have helped coaches fill the information gap in recruiting.

Arkansas coach Bret Bielema said social media are now part of his standard checklist for recruits.

"The third box is for social media" along with grade-point average and test scores, he said.

"I distinctly remember a player last year who signed, was a big-time kid, had an interest in us, and his Twitter handle was something that I can't repeat in here.

I just kind of said, what are we doing here?

This is about as obvious as it gets about what kind of thing we're dealing with here, so we backed out altogether," Bielema said.

Hand said he tries to educate high school coaches and tells players how to avoid social media missteps.

"If you talk to a guy and he doesn't adjust things, that's another red flag for you," he said.

"If they're not going to take coaching on this, what are they going to do on third-and-short when you need them to make a block?"

Bruce Rollinson is starting his 26th season as coach of Southern California powerhouse Mater Dei High School.

He said he added the social media talk to his routine about three years ago.

He borrowed some of the dos and don'ts USC gives its athletes.

"Don't harass anybody," Rollinson said.

"Don't bring up race, religion, sexual orientation and physical conditions."

University of South Carolina football player Chris Lammons said he got the message in high school and cleaned up his Twitter act, despite what his friends were doing.

He said it was part of the transition to being a man.

"When you're growing up, you probably want to get a big time job somewhere," he said.

"They look back at your Twitter account and they see the things you're putting out."

