The $2 bill does not get a lot of respect.

It is more likely to be found tucked inside a dresser drawer or wallet than a cash register.

Just 3 percent of all paper money circulating in the country are $2 bills.

Now, it's about to get its time in the limelight.

John Bennardo of Florida is filming a documentary that will tell the story of the two and its "magic."

Bennardo owns Immagine Productions and is a Lynn University professor of film and television editing.

"I think everyone's curious about it," he said.

"When you spend one, there's always a reaction."

The bill with Thomas Jefferson on the front and the signing of the Declaration of Independence on the back is more than just a collector's item.

It's a piece of a longtime Clemson University tradition, for example.

It has also been used as a tool to show a group's spending power.

While many save $2 bills, others make a point to spend them.

They want to see what happens next.

Bennardo was always one to save them.

By last summer, he had 11 of them in a desk drawer, sitting inside an old checkbook box.

They were never to be spent.

It got him thinking: What is it about the two?

And "The 2 Dollar Bill Documentary" was born.

Amy Byer Shainman, a Florida resident who is also passionate about the bill, joined on as executive producer.

She said she has kept a two her high school crush gave her for more than 25 years without knowing why.

After raising about $18,000 for the project online, Bennardo got to work last summer.

Some of his stops were in South Florida.

There's Ettra Gallery in Delray Beach, where he talked to a man who turns $2 bills into art.

Then there's his Miami shoot with American Healthy Vending.

The company explained why most machines don't take twos.

Beyond that, he has traveled to several states — including Texas, New York, Michigan and Oregon.

He has interviewed about 50 people in all.

Along the way, Bennardo discovered a whole society of others who share his and Byer Shainman's enthusiasm for the offbeat bill.

Among them is Heather McCabe from New York City.

She requests $2 bills from her bank and spends them at local businesses in hopes of seeing the form of currency catch on.

She chronicles the reactions she gets on her blog, Two Buckaroo.

McCabe, 39, started spending twos about 15 years ago because she liked the added conversation with people behind the counter.

"It became something a little more special," she said.

"And plus, it always felt like an experiment, like, 'What's going to happen when I spend this $2 bill?'

It never gets old."

Most people smile at the sight of the unusual bill and share a story about their experiences with it, McCabe said, while some take two singles out of their own wallets so they can pocket the deuce.

Others refuse it, though McCabe said that's the least common outcome.

Many people believe the bill, which the federal government began issuing in 1862, was taken out of circulation.

Because of that, you can find regular old $2 bills offered for up to double their value on eBay, when they can easily be picked up at the bank for, well, $2.

There was a 10-year period that the government stopped printing twos.

But that ended in 1976, when they were brought back for the U.S. bicentennial.

If they had just disappeared, Bennardo said, "we wouldn't have this great piece of Americana saved.

And I wouldn't have a movie."

As of last year there were a billion $2 bills in circulation, according to the Federal Reserve.

Forty-five million more went into production in October at the Bureau of Engraving and Printing in Texas — and Bennardo was there, filming.

The two has been embraced by some groups and industries.

Several groups have used them to prove that they matter.

Bennardo interviewed supporters of legalizing medical marijuana in Michigan, who deliberately spent twos around the state to show their spending power.

Similar campaigns have been launched by other groups.

Those include unemployed steel company workers in Utah in 2003 and members of the NAACP in the 1980s.

Clemson University students spend $2 bills stamped with tiger paws in cities that host the school for football bowl games.

The tradition began in 1977, when Georgia Tech decided to stop playing football against the school.

The tiger is the Clemson mascot.

Matthew Zaklad is another $2 bill enthusiast.

For him, the appeal of the currency is the way it brightens people's days and the connections it forges.

"They are one of those rare things that consistently triggers a memory of something good and often familial," said Zaklad.

