Parents will be sending their kids to and from school and other activities in a new way this fall.

More and more parents are looking to companies like Uber, Lyft and others to drive their kids.

The companies offer ride-hailing services.

The services let people ask for a ride using an app on a smartphone.

There is a lot of demand for the rides.

In fact, several new companies have been started just to drive children.

Still, it is not clear if they will take the place of kids calling parents for a ride.

Uber and Lyft say users must be at least 18.

That has not stopped some parents from letting their children use the services alone.

The companies say it is against their rules for kids to travel alone.

Katie Dally works at Lyft.

She said the company does not let kids travel alone in Lyft cars.

Uber spokeswoman Brooke Anderson declined to talk about it.

Uber and Lyft rule the ride-hailing business.

The business has grown fast over the past few years.

Uber is the biggest of the companies.

It was started in 2009 in San Francisco, California.

It is now worth more than $50 billion, The Wall Street Journal said.

Uber has added uberFAMILY in some cities.

UberFAMILY charges an extra $10 for a car that has a child's car seat.

The service is not for children traveling alone, Anderson said.

Several new companies offer rides to children.

They mostly use female drivers.

Shuddle and HopSkipDrive are two of those companies.

The drivers are also caregivers.

The companies want parents to be comfortable with putting their kids in cars with strangers.

The services check their drivers out carefully.

The companies also have apps to keep track of where the cars with the kids are.

Drivers do more than just drive children.

They are trained to sign kids out of school and help them check in at after-school activities.

Joanna McFarland runs HopSkipDrive.

She said her company's drivers are called "caredrivers."

McFarland started the company in March with two other moms.

They started the company after struggling to get their kids to activities every day.

The extra safety and service cost money.

Shuddle and HopSkipDrive charge more than Uber or Lyft, the companies said.

HopSkipDrive gives rides to children age 7 and older.

It is in Los Angeles, California, and has 150 drivers.

Almost all of HopSkipDrive's drivers are women.

The drivers have at least five years of child-care experience.

The first back-to-school season looks to be busy for both new services.

Parents have been asking all summer about back-to-school, McFarland said.

Shuddle started in October in San Francisco.

It also offers ride-hailing for children.

The company has built a crew of 200 mostly female drivers.

The drivers are moms, teachers, nannies and other caregivers.

Shuddle boss Nick Allen said demand is already building for back-to-school.

Jeremiah Owyang is an expert on business.

He said just a ride-hailing service for children may not make much money.

He said the companies could add other services.

They could offer tutoring or food delivery for moms too, he said.

Allen disagrees.

He said offering rides for kids can be a big business.

Parents and kids are busier than ever, he said.

