Forget the big yellow school bus.

This fall, more and more kids will be heading back to school via Uber, Lyft and other services that let you ask for a ride using an app on your smartphone.

A growing number of families are relying on the services to move kids to and from school, after-school activities and other destinations.

Demand is very strong.

In fact, several new companies have launched to meet the need to transport children.

Investors, who hope to make money if the companies are successful, have already given the companies millions of dollars to get started.

Whether the "can you pick me up" call from a child will be fully replaced by an app remains to be seen.

Uber and Lyft require users to be at least 18.

However, that hasn't stopped some parents from letting their children use the services on a regular basis.

The practice creates an unofficial market for ride-hailing services, according to industry experts and media reports.

The practice was neither confirmed nor approved of by either company.

It violates their rules.

"We do not allow unaccompanied minors on the Lyft platform," said Katie Dally, a Lyft spokeswoman.

Uber spokeswoman Brooke Anderson declined to comment on the practice.

The new ride-hailing industry is dominated by Uber and Lyft and has grown fast over the past few years.

The companies use private drivers and are an alternative to taxis and public transportation.

Uber is the biggest of the companies.

It was started in 2009 and is now worth more than $50 billion, according to a report last month in the Wall Street Journal.

Numerous reports indicate that the San Francisco, California, company is losing money as it pushes to rapidly expand.

Uber has introduced uberFAMILY in New York City and Washington, D.C. UberFAMILY charges an extra $10 for a car that arrives with a child's car seat.

It may launch the service — which is not designed for children to travel alone — soon in Chicago, Illinois, Anderson said.

Several new competitors, including Shuddle and HopSkipDrive, are offering rides to children using a staff of mostly female drivers.

The drivers double as caregivers and there are safeguards aimed at making parents comfortable with putting their kids in cars with strangers.

Unlike Uber and Lyft, ride-hailing services aimed at children are more likely to operate in the suburbs.

Most rides are scheduled in advance.

They feature more thorough driver checks, specialized insurance, tracking apps to monitor progress and responsibilities that extend beyond transportation.

Drivers are trained and allowed to sign kids out of school and help them check in at after-school activities.

"We call them 'caredrivers' because they are caregivers first and drivers second," said HopSkipDrive co-founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Joanna McFarland.

She has a business degree from Stanford University and is one of three moms who launched the service in March.

The extra safety and service cost money.

Shuddle and HopSkipDrive ride fees are higher than Uber's or Lyft's, executives said.

HopSkipDrive provides rides to children age 7 and older and now operates in Los Angeles, California, with 150 drivers signed on.

Almost all of HopSkipDrive's drivers are women, all with at least five years of child care experience.

The idea for HopSkipDrive grew out of the founders' frustration over getting their own kids to activities every day.

They changed from chauffeurs to businesspeople, with $3.9 million to start the business.

The first back-to-school season looks to be busy for both new services.

Parents have been asking all summer about back-to-school, McFarland said.

Shuddle started October in San Francisco.

It also specializes in ride-hailing for children.

The company has raised $12 million in funding from investors and has built a crew of 200 mostly female drivers to transport kids throughout the San Francisco Bay Area.

The drivers are moms, teachers, nannies and other caregivers.

Shuddle CEO Nick Allen said demand is already building for back-to-school.

"As we head back to school, we're seeing a lot of interest, a lot of activity," Allen said.

Jeremiah Owyang is a business expert.

He said that ride-hailing services for children may not make enough money just by transporting kids to be great businesses.

"I think it's slicing it very thin just to do rides for children," Owyang said.

"If they could couple that with other services such as tutoring or food delivery for moms" they could get more customers.

Yet Allen is confident, saying feedback from early users has been positive, with many using it to navigate the demands of back-to-school.

He said ride-hailing for children is a "very big niche" that isn't served by other solutions.

"Parents are busier and busier, kids are busier and busier, and the support that was typically done by the school and the school district is on decline," Allen said.

"That opens up a perfect opportunity for us."

