As a college student at UCLA in the 1970s, Helen Singleton often visited the student union building.

She would stop by to see a mural she and six other students painted on a wall.

It was a tribute to African-American history and the civil rights struggle.

The artwork was a sepia-toned collage.

It was also a self-portrait of sorts.

It showed the faces of the students who created it staring at the interior of Ackerman Union, their faces and hair made up of small images of famous African-Americans.

After graduating in 1974, Singleton took a job at UCLA.

Over the years she occasionally stopped at the mural to look at the artwork and think about her classmates.

Then one day in 1992, she saw the mural was gone.

A wall stood in its place.

"I was devastated," said Singleton.

In 1970, when Singleton helped create the mural, she was a 37-year-old mother.

Singleton, now 81 years old, was afraid the artwork had been painted over.

But after a few phone calls she discovered that a wall had been placed in front of the mural.

"We wanted to get it out" from behind the wall, she remembers.

"But nobody was sure how to."

So the mural remained behind the wall.

Its absence from view left generations of students unaware of a slice of UCLA history.

The school experienced the activism of the Vietnam War era and, in particular, the nation's civil rights struggle.

The idea for the artwork was born of a violent campus protest on May 5, 1970, in Ohio.

The day before, students were protesting the Vietnam War at a university there.

Soldiers from the National Guard tried to stop the demonstrations.

They shot several students who were there.

Students were enraged, starting more protests around the country, including at UCLA.

The UCLA protest prompted university officials to declare the first state of emergency in the school's history.

More than 70 were arrested, and a dozen students and 10 police officers were injured in clashes.

Singleton was against the war but didn't take part in the protests.

She had to care for her young children.

But when she heard that other art students were discussing ways to respond, she joined in.

The students knew that the UCLA administration was planning to repaint parts of Ackerman.

They persuaded the school to give them $300 to put a mural on the inside of a wall.

The seven began by having their photo taken, including an eighth person needed to fill out the frame.

Then they gathered Ebony magazines and books and chose photos of important figures from African-American history.

They cut out photos of Martin Luther King Jr., Muhammad Ali and Angela Davis, a UCLA professor fired in 1969 for her involvement with the Communist and Blank Panther parties, among others.

Small images from those photos and many others became a collage filling most of the mural.

The mural measured 10 feet by 27 feet.

The artwork was covered during a 1992 renovation of the building.

The campus newspaper wrote about the mural in 2010.

Later, Afrikan Student Union members went to the site to try to catch a glimpse.

Crouching by an exit door, they could see a slice of the mural.

"We could only see about 5 inches, but there was something there," said Kamilah Moore, the group's chairwoman.

Moore and others raised funds to help pay to take down the fronting wall.

Singleton joined them earlier this year when workers began the task.

She put a hand on her chest and exhaled in relief.

"It was still there," she said.

The mural was dirty and had water damage in places.

It took several months to finish cleaning and repairing the painting.

The mural was officially unveiled last Wednesday.

Moore, a senior political science major, said she hoped the display would be a reminder of history to newer generations of students and help recruit black students to UCLA.

Just fewer than four out of 100 undergraduates at the university last fall were African-American — a percentage critics say is too small.

Singleton said she was happy to see her restored work, but there was one bittersweet note.

She and other UCLA staff tried to find others pictured in the mural but could not track them down.

Singleton thought that the other four women may have gotten married and changed their last names, making them harder to find.

"I really would like to see them again," she said.

"It's been a long time."

