The eastern European country of Ukraine is in a crisis.

Ukraine is located right next to Russia, a country Ukrainians worry could invade.

Ukraine used to be a part of Russia until the early 1990s.

Some Ukrainians want to rejoin Russia and others are strongly against it.

The disagreement has caused violent protests.

A series of protests even made Ukraine's pro-Russia leader leave the country.

Meanwhile, Russian forces moved in to take Crimea, which used to be part of southern Ukraine.

In a historic Ukrainian church, worshipers can visit two donation boxes.

One is "For the church" and the other is "To support our armed forces."

On a recent night, church members gave money to each.

Boxes to support Ukraine's armed forces can be found everywhere.

They are in shops.

They are along Kiev's Independence Square, or Maidan.

They are in thousands of other spots around the country.

In the past month, the boxes have gathered about 116 million Ukrainian hryvnia.

That comes to $10 million in U.S. dollars.

For a modern military, that is next to nothing.

But Ukraine's deputy minister of defense gave his thanks this week.

The military is very short on money.

"The money will be used to support our forces, with equipment and ammunition, uniforms," and food, the minister said.

"It has been a great help."

It might seem odd that Ukraine's military has to go begging just to afford bullets.

But to those who study the military here, there's no surprise.

Ukraine gave a list of needs to NATO in its conflict with Russia.

NATO is the military partnership between the United States and Western European states.

The list was full of basic military items.

Ukraine needed helmets, body armor and field radios.

It also asked for tents, sleeping bags and ground cover tarps.

"The NATO response was 'Are you really so poor as this?'"

said Serhiy Zhurets.

He runs a research center in the Ukrainian capital.

He also advises the Ukrainian military.

"The answer was yes.

It still is yes; the situation isn't getting better."

How bad is it?

Only 1 in 10 Ukrainian soldiers have body armor.

The country has lost at least three helicopters.

It can't afford to get a single new one.

Outside of a U.S. gift of 300,000 ready-to-eat meals (MREs), nobody has offered much help.

The military has come up with a budget plan in recent years.

It wants to replace its old weapons and machinery.

The plan calls for about 131 billion hryvnia a year, or about $11.3 billion.

Last year, the government thought that Ukraine faces no dangers from the outside.

So it allocated just 15.6 billion hryvnia.

That's $1.3 billion in U.S. dollars.

In previous years, it had been as low as 9 billion hryvnia.

Compare this to other countries.

In 2011 the U.S. military spent more than $700 billion.

Ukraine's neighbor Poland spends about $10 billion on its military.

Russia's defense budget is about $75 billion.

"We have old weapons and soldiers in need of better training," a Ukrainian expert said.

"It's simple: We need more money.

We do today, and we have for years."

Dmytro Tymchuk is a military researcher.

He said the state of the Ukrainian military was so bad that it couldn't even afford to take some of the help it needed.

For instance, he said Ukraine would like drones.

[Drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone) are planes that can fly without human pilots.

Recently, Ukraine lost three helicopters.

It even had one pilot and one crew member killed.

"Drones would mean we wouldn't have to put our people at risk," Tymchuk said.

"But we don't have anyone with the training to fly the drone.

Do we ask the United States to loan us drone pilots?

Would we have them be involved if a war with Russia erupts, and thus start World War III?

Of course not."

Ukraine does own one drone.

But it has never flown.

And no one is trained to operate it.

