The Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea has become the focus of a power struggle between Russian President Vladimir Putin and Western countries including the United States.

Putin has defied calls from the West to pull back his troops from the area.

He insists that Russia has a right to protect its interests and those of Russian-speakers in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine.

Meanwhile, hundreds of armed men surrounded a Ukrainian military base in the region on Sunday.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry called Russia's military move into Ukraine "an incredible act of aggression."

His comments came a day after Russian forces took over the strategic Black Sea peninsula from Ukraine.

The troops did not have to fire a shot.

Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said there was no reason for Russia to invade Ukraine.

He warned that "we are on the brink of disaster."

But so far, his new government and other countries have been powerless to stop Russia.

Armed men in unmarked uniforms have moved freely about Crimea.

They've occupied airports, smashed equipment at an air base and surrounded a Ukrainian military base.

Russia has long wanted to take back the lush Crimean peninsula, which was part of Russia until 1954.

Part of its navy, called the Black Sea Fleet, is stationed there.

And nearly 60 percent of the people who live in Crimea consider themselves Russian.

Ukraine's population of 46 million has divided loyalties between Russia and Europe.

Much of western Ukraine wants closer ties with the European Union, a group of mostly Western European countries which trade with one another.

However, Ukraine's eastern and southern regions — like Crimea — look to Russia for support.

The Ukrainian military base at Perevalne on the Crimean peninsula has been surrounded by unidentified troops.

They came in a line of at least 13 trucks and four armored vehicles with mounted machine guns.

The trucks carried 30 soldiers each and had Russian license plates.

A dozen Ukrainian soldiers placed a tank at the base's gate.

The two sides are in a tense standoff.

Ukraine's acting president, Oleksandr Turchynov, announced late Saturday that he had ordered Ukraine's armed forces to be on full alert.

He did this because of the threat of "potential aggression."

He also said he had ordered increased security at nuclear power plants, airports and other strategic locations.

The U.S. and other Western governments have few options to counter Russia's military moves.

NATO's secretary general said Russia had violated U.N. rules with its military action in Ukraine.

He urged Moscow to "de-escalate the tensions."

NATO is a military alliance between the United States, Canada and parts of Europe.

Ukraine is not a NATO member.

This means the U.S. and Europe are not obliged to come to its defense.

But Ukraine has taken part in some of NATO's military exercises.

It has also contributed troops to NATO peacekeeping operations.

Kerry was interviewed on Sunday news shows in the U.S.

He raised the possibility that the U.S. might not attend the G-8 summit.

That meeting of eight of the richest nations is to be held in June in Sochi, the Russian town that just hosted the Winter Olympics.

He also discussed a possible trade freeze with Russia and other punishments.

Kerry said everyone is prepared "to go to the hilt" to isolate Russia.

President Barack Obama spoke with Putin by telephone for 90 minutes Saturday.

He expressed his "deep concern" about the situation, the White House said.

Obama said that Russia was breaking international law.

In Moscow, thousands marched Sunday to support the invasion.

At least 10,000 people bearing Russian flags marched freely through the city.

But dozens of people demonstrating in Moscow's Red Square against an invasion were quickly seized by Russian riot police.

Russia's parliament gave Putin a green light to use military force in Ukraine on Saturday.

The new Ukrainian government came to power last week following months of pro-democracy protests against a pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovych.

People did not like that he decided to develop closer ties between Ukraine and Russia, instead of between Ukraine and the European Union.

Yanukovych fled to Russia after more than 80 people died, most of them demonstrators killed by police.

He insists he's still president.

Since then, tensions have risen sharply between the two countries.

The Interfax news agency reported that the leader of Crimea's legislature said the local authorities did not recognize the government in Kiev, Ukraine's capital.

He said a planned vote on March 30 would ask voters about their views on the region's future.

The White House said the U.S. will stop participating in planning meetings for the G-8 economic summit.

French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said on Europe 1 radio that planning for the summit should be put on hold.

France "condemns the Russian military escalation" in Ukraine, and Moscow must "realize that decisions have costs," he said Sunday.

"We are on a very dangerous track of increasing tensions," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said in a statement.

"(But) it is still possible to turn around.

A new division of Europe can still be prevented."

