Vera Kap paints eggs.

To many people, they look like beautiful holiday decorations.

But Kap knows they're so much more.

Kap's eggs are called pysanky.

They are decorated the Ukrainian way.

Ukraine is a country in Eastern Europe.

To Kap, the eggs aren't just nice to look at.

They are a part of her Ukrainian roots.

And they are proof that the good old ways can outlast hard times.

Pysanky (pronounced PIH-sahn-kih) are decorated eggs made for Easter.

Their colors and shapes have special meanings for Ukrainians.

Kap is the child of Ukrainian-born parents.

She learned to make pysanky from her mother.

Among Ukrainians, pysanky is "passed from mother to daughter," she said.

This has been going on for hundreds of years.

The way pysanky-making has lasted so long amazes Kap.

It survived years of war.

It survived Communist rule.

During that time, it was against the law to do religious activities.

In 1991, Ukraine became a free country again.

Suddenly, many pysanky eggs started showing up.

"So somebody had to have done them in secret for years and years," Kap said.

The shapes and colors on pysanky eggs have special meanings.

A triangle, for example, stands for the Holy Trinity: God, Jesus and the Holy Spirit.

The color yellow stands for happiness.

Red stands for God's love.

The egg itself represents something too: the reawakening of the earth after winter.

Pysanky are very complicated to make.

Eggs must be soaked in dye over and over.

For her pysanky, Kap uses chicken and goose eggs.

She starts by drawing on the egg with a pencil.

Then, she covers her lines with wax.

That way, the lines stay white during the dyeing.

The egg gets soaked in dye several times.

Each time, Kap uses a different color.

Kap puts wax on parts of the egg after each dyeing.

This protects those parts from the next dye.

That way they keep their color.

After the last dyeing, she melts off the wax.

Kap spends two or three months each year making pysanky.

A single egg takes three to five hours to finish.

Usually, she works seven to eight hours a day.

People sometimes tell Kap she should try something new: say, adding sparkles or glitter to her eggs.

Kap isn't interested: She plans to stick with the old ways.

