The United States and western European countries are in a tense stare down with Russia.

The subject of the dispute is the Ukrainian peninsula of Crimea.

Western countries want Russian President Vladimir Putin to pull Russian troops back from Crimea.

They say that Russia is illegally invading Ukraine.

Putin insists that Russia has a right to protect its interests.

He says it is also protecting Russian-speakers in Crimea and elsewhere in Ukraine.

Meanwhile, hundreds of armed men surrounded a Ukrainian military base in the region on Sunday.

U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry spoke out Sunday against Russia's military move.

His comments came a day after Russian forces took over Crimea.

The troops did not have to fire a shot.

Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk said there was no reason for Russia to invade Ukraine.

He warned that "we are on the brink of disaster."

But so far, his new government and other countries have been powerless to stop Russia.

Armed men in unmarked uniforms have moved freely about Crimea.

Russia has long wanted to take back the Crimean peninsula.

The area was part of Russia until 1954.

Russia's Black Sea Fleet is stationed there.

Nearly six out of 10 people in Crimea consider themselves Russian.

Ukraine's population of 46 million has divided loyalties between Russia and Europe.

Much of western Ukraine wants closer ties with the European Union, a group of European countries that trade together.

But, Ukraine's eastern and southern regions — like Crimea — look to Russia for support.

The Ukrainian military base at Perevalne on the Crimean peninsula was surrounded by unidentified troops.

They came in at least 13 trucks and four armored vehicles with mounted machine guns.

Each truck carried 30 soldiers.

The trucks had Russian license plates.

A dozen Ukrainian soldiers placed a tank at the gate of the military base.

The two sides are in a tense standoff.

Ukraine's new president is Oleksandr Turchynov.

He announced late Saturday that he had ordered Ukraine's armed forces to be on full alert.

There is not a lot the U.S. and other Western governments can do.

NATO's secretary general said Russia had violated U.N. rules with its military action in Ukraine.

He urged Moscow to step back.

NATO is a military partnership between the United States, Canada and parts of Europe.

Ukraine is not a NATO member.

This means the U.S. and Europe do not have to come to its defense.

But Ukraine has taken part in some of NATO's military exercises.

It has also contributed troops when NATO needed them.

Kerry was interviewed on Sunday news shows in the U.S.

He said the U.S. might stay away from the G-8 summit.

That meeting of eight of the richest nations is to be held in June in Sochi, Russia.

He also discussed possible ways that Russia could be punished.

President Barack Obama spoke with Putin by telephone Saturday.

He expressed his "deep concern" about the situation, the White House said.

Obama said that Russia was breaking international law.

Thousands marched in Moscow Sunday.

They supported Russian troops going into Crimea.

At least 10,000 people bearing Russian flags marched freely through the city.

But dozens of people demonstrated against an invasion.

They were quickly arrested by Russian police.

Russia's parliament gave Putin permission to use military force in Ukraine on Saturday.

The new Ukrainian government came to power last week.

This happened after months of pro-democracy protests against Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych.

People did not like that he decided to turn Ukraine toward Russia instead of the European Union.

Yanukovych fled to Russia after more than 80 people died, most of them demonstrators killed by police.

He insists he's still president.

Since then, things have gotten much worse between Russia and Ukraine.

A Russian news agency reported that a leader in Crimea said the local authorities did not recognize the government in Kiev.

Kiev is Ukraine's capital.

The leader said Crimea would vote on March 30 about the region's future.

The White House said the U.S. will stop participating in meetings about the G-8 summit in Russia.

French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius said that planning for the summit should be put on hold.

"We are on a very dangerous track," German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier said.

"(But) it is still possible to turn around.

A new division of Europe can still be prevented."

