A farmer named Inna Zakharova walked up the hill slowly.

She was walking toward her barn in Slovyansk, a city in eastern Ukraine.

Her driver followed closely behind her in a minivan.

She waved her arms at Ukrainian soldiers guarding a nearby television tower.

She knew her car might look suspicious.

She hoped her hand-waving would show the soldiers she meant no harm.

Ukraine is an unstable country with two fighting sides.

Ukraine used to be a part of the Soviet Union, a large country that included Russia.

It split into several countries in 1991.

Some Russian-speakers in Ukraine want the country to join Russia again, but many fear it.

The disagreement has caused dangerous protests in Ukraine.

The protests even caused the country's president to flee.

A new government was put in place temporarily while Ukrainians wait for elections.

The television tower near the Zakharova's barn is important.

The people who want to be part of Russia went to the television tower.

They had gunmen change all the T.V.

stations to Russian stations with a pro-Russia message.

The Ukrainian soldiers took back control of the tower.

The stations were Ukrainian once again.

Caught between two fighting sides, farmer Inna Zakharova is like many Ukrainians in the east.

She is struggling to go on with life, even with bloody battles going on.

She says that the fighting could ruin her crops and cost her the farm.

"I am an ordinary woman and an ordinary farmer," Zakharova said.

"Why do they have to turn this land into a battlefield?"

The fighting in Slovyansk stopped for a while on Sunday.

Other cities in Ukraine saw fighting.

In southern Ukraine, a violent clash caused a fire.

Forty-three people died in the fire.

At the same time, a police station was surrounded by several hundred pro-Russia supporters.

Some protesters were arrested during the earlier fighting.

The pro-Russia supporters wanted them out of jail.

In the end, police released 67 people.

In Slovyansk, fallen trees, car tires and old trucks block the small streets.

There aren't many cars.

The cars that are there have to drive on sidewalks or what's left of the lawns.

More than 12 people have been killed and many have been injured in Slovyansk.

On Sunday, when streets were calm, a few people went outside.

They were looking to see which shops were open.

Some locals walked with their children.

Others fed pigeons in the main square.

Outside Slovyansk, soldiers from the Ukrainian government, army and national guard were preparing positions on the roads.

They were making it harder to leave or go into the city.

A Ukrainian army official said they will keep stopping the pro-Russia supporters from sneaking out of Slovyansk.

Soldiers are also stopping them from getting help or more weapons.

"We are dealing not with an army," the officer said.

These people are armed Russians who are paid to fight.

I understand that people are uncomfortable, he said.

They will thank us "when we are done with these thugs and criminals."

