The farmer walked slowly up the hill toward her barn in Slovyansk, a city in eastern Ukraine.

Her driver followed closely behind her in a minivan.

She waved her arms at Ukrainian soldiers guarding a nearby television tower.

She knew her vehicle might look suspicious.

She hoped her hand-waving would show the soldiers she meant no harm.

Ukraine is an unstable country with two fighting sides.

Ukraine used to be a part of the Soviet Union, a large country that included Russia.

Some Russian-speakers in Ukraine want to be a part of Russia again, but many fear it.

The disagreement has caused dangerous protests in Ukraine.

The protests even caused the country's president to flee.

A new government was put in place temporarily while Ukrainians wait for elections.

The television tower was important.

The people who want to be a part of Russia again wanted control of it.

They wanted to play only stations with a pro-Russia message.

They had gunmen go to the television tower to change all the stations to Russian stations instead of Ukrainian ones.

The Ukrainian soldiers took back control of the tower.

It was a small battle in a long fight that has turned much of eastern Ukraine into a battleground.

Caught between two sides, farmer Inna Zakharova is like so many Ukrainians in the east.

She is struggling to go on with life, although there is chaos and violence.

"My season plans go down the drain with this war," Zakharova, 35, said Sunday.

"I am not involved in politics, I am an ordinary woman and an ordinary farmer," she said.

"Why do they have to turn this land into a battlefield?"

Vitaly Kolesnik, an electric worker, was also stopped by the soldiers.

He was trying to reach a power line near the television tower.

Soldiers threatened to shoot him.

Kolesnik just wanted to see what was wrong with the power line.

The tower appeared to have been damaged during fighting two days earlier.

It cut off power supplies to at least three small towns.

It was hot outside and it left people nearby with no air conditioning.

The fighting in Slovyansk stopped for a while on Sunday.

Meanwhile, other cities in Ukraine saw fighting.

In southern Ukraine, a violent clash caused a fire.

Forty-three people died in the fire.

At the same time, a police station was surrounded by several hundred pro-Russia supporters.

They demanded the release of protesters who were arrested during the earlier fighting.

In the end, police released 67 people.

In Slovyansk, fallen trees, piles of auto tires and ancient trucks block the narrow streets.

Cars have to drive on sidewalks or what's left of the lawns.

Fighting in Slovyansk killed more than 12 people and injured many more.

With Sunday's small wave of calm, a few people appeared in the streets, looking to see which shops were open.

Some locals walked with their children, others fed pigeons in the main square.

But outside Slovyansk, troops from the Ukrainian government, army and national guard were increasing security around the town.

They set up checkpoints on every road going in and out of the city and searched cars.

A Ukrainian army official said they will continue to prevent the pro-Russia supporters from sneaking out of Slovyansk.

Soldiers are also stopping rebels from getting help or more weapons.

"We are dealing not with an army" but with several armed Russians who are paid to fight, said the officer, who gave his name only as Sergei.

He said he understood that people are uncomfortable, but they will thank his soldiers "when we are done with these thugs and criminals," he said.

