Russian tanks and military vehicles fired missiles at a border post in southeastern Ukraine Thursday, a top Ukrainian official said.

Ukraine's border guards were overmatched and fled.

Russian troops then rolled into the country, he said.

The U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) provided evidence that Russian had invaded southeastern Ukraine.

NATO is a military partnership among countries that agree to defend one another from threats.

A top NATO official said at least 1,000 Russian troops have poured into Ukraine and fought with Ukrainian soldiers.

He said another 20,000 Russian troops were right over the Russian border.

"Russian forces have entered Ukraine," Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko declared Thursday.

The southeastern town of Novoazovsk appeared under the control of Russia and rebels in Ukraine that want to join Russia.

The move spreads the war to southeastern Ukraine.

Rebels backed by Russia and Ukraine's military have been fighting north of Novoazovsk for months.

The rebels consider themselves to be ethnically Russian.

They want the parts of Ukraine they live in to separate from Ukraine and join Russia.

Fears are growing that Russia is widening the conflict.

It could push the U.S. and some European countries to block trade and business by Russian companies.

Some blocks on trade, or sanctions, already exist.

The earlier sanctions were meant to punish Russia for taking over the Ukrainian region of Crimea in March.

Russia sees Crimea as part of Russia.

Until 1954, it was part of Russia and more than half of the Crimeans consider themselves Russian.

Sanctions were increased following the downing of a Malaysian airplane, which was blamed on a Russian missile fired by the separatists.

Brigadier General Nico Tak told reporters at NATO headquarters in Belgium that Russia's goal was to keep the separatists from being defeated by Ukrainian forces.

He believes Russia wants to destabilize the country "indefinitely."

"Over the past two weeks we have noted a significant escalation in both the level and sophistication of Russia's military interference in Ukraine," Tak said.

He believes Russia is attempting to swing the fighting in favor of the separatists.

Tak says the Ukrainian military had been winning the battle.

NATO also produced satellite images.

NATO said they prove that Russian combat soldiers are operating inside Ukraine.

"We have also detected large quantities of advanced weapons, including air defense systems, artillery, tanks, and armored personnel carriers," he said.

Tak said the weapons are being "transferred to separatist forces in eastern Ukraine."

He called the situation "increasingly grave."

Alexander Zakharchenko is the leader of the insurgency.

He said in an interview on Russian television that 3,000 to 4,000 Russians have fought on the separatist side since the conflict began in April.

The U.S. government accused Russia of helping rebel forces expand their fight.

It accuses Russia of sending in tanks, rocket launchers and armored vehicles.

U.S. State Department spokeswoman Jen Psaki said Wednesday that Russia was being dishonest about its actions, even to its own people.

Russian forces, she said, are being sent 30 miles (48 kilometers) inside Ukraine, without them or their families knowing where they are going.

She mentioned reports of burials in Russia for those who have died in Ukraine.

On Thursday morning, an Associated Press journalist saw rebel checkpoints outside Novoazovsk.

He was told he could not enter.

Novoazovsk lies along the road connecting Russia to the Russia-controlled Crimean Peninsula.

It had come under shelling for three days.

On Wednesday the rebels entered it.

The area had previously escaped the fighting that has engulfed areas to the north.

The only way rebels could have reached the southeast was coming through Russia.

The fighting in southeastern Ukraine raised fears that the separatists are seeking to create a land link between Russia and Crimea.

If successful, it could give them or Russia control over the entire Sea of Azov.

The sea is prized for the gas and mineral riches that energy experts believe it contains.

Ukraine already lost roughly half its coastline in March when Russia took over Crimea.

Joseph Dempsey is a military expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in London.

He said recent images in eastern Ukraine showed a type of tank that "is not known to have been exported" by Russia.

The tank's presence, Dempsey said, "strongly supports the contention that Russia is supplying arms to separatist forces."

Journalists on the border have seen the rebels with a wide range of unmarked military equipment — including tanks and missile launchers.

The journalists have run into many Russians among the rebel fighters.

Ukraine also captured 10 Russian soldiers Monday near the Russian border.

In Donetsk, the largest rebel-held city, 11 people were killed by shelling overnight, the city said Thursday.

