Casual observers might call Vera Kap's eggs beautiful.

They might note how detailed and carefully done they are.

But Kap knows they're so much more.

Kap, who lives in West Akron, Ohio, is a pysanky artist.

She decorates Easter eggs using methods and visual patterns that have been part of Ukrainian culture for centuries.

To her, the eggs aren't just springtime ornaments.

They're a connection to her roots and proof that tradition can triumph over hardship and tyranny.

Kap will display examples of her work this weekend at Elegant Egg &amp; More, an annual show of eggshell art.

This year, the show is being held in Our Lady of the Elms in West Akron.

Pysanky (PIH-sahn-kih) are eggs decorated with a process that employs wax and dyes, using colors and symbols that have special meanings in Ukrainian tradition.

A single egg is a pysanka.

Kap, the child of Ukrainian-born parents, learned the art from her mother when she was growing up in Cleveland.

"This is something that's passed from mother to daughter" in Ukrainian culture, she said.

"For centuries."

The tradition is believed to have started in pre-Christian times.

Indeed, it may possibly go as far back as the Trypillian culture, an ancient Eastern European civilization.

When Christianity spread to Ukraine, the pre-Christian symbols used on the eggs were given Christian associations.

Pysanky became a form of folk art connected to Easter.

The endurance of the art form amazes Kap.

It survived years of war and hunger.

It survived Communist rule, when religious practices were outlawed.

When the Soviet Union broke up and Ukraine went back to being its own country in 1991, the work of many Ukrainian pysanky artists suddenly emerged, she said.

"So somebody had to have done them in secret for years and years."

Pysanky are created using an elaborate process.

The eggs are dyed in several stages, and wax is applied to prevent coloring in certain parts of the eggshell.

The process of drawing the designs onto the eggs with wax is called writing, Kap said.

That's because the term pysanky comes from the verb pysaty, meaning "to write," and because the wax is applied with a sort of pen called a kistka.

A rich symbolism is used in the designs.

Geometric shapes and simple pictures have particular meanings: A triangle, for example, stands for the Holy Trinity, while a rooster symbolizes fertility.

Likewise, the colors have special associations — black with mortality, yellow with youth and happiness, red with divine love and the passion of Christ, and so on.

Even the egg is symbolic: It represents the reawakening of the earth after winter and the rebirth of humankind to eternal life in Christ.

For her pysanky, Kap uses chicken and goose eggs with the centers blown out.

She washes the eggs beforehand in water and vinegar so the dyes will take, she said.

She starts by sketching a design onto an egg in pencil.

Then, she uses an electric kistka — a tool that works a little like a glue gun — ­to cover those lines with a fine bead of wax.

That way, they stay white throughout the dyeing process.

The egg then goes into the first in a series of dye baths.

Kap starts with the lightest color, then gets a darker and darker color until she moves onto the darkest color.

After each dip into a jar of dye, Kap applies wax to parts of the egg.

These are the areas she wants to remain the color of the dye she has just used.

After the final dye bath, she melts off the wax with a candle flame to expose the multicolored design underneath.

She then covers the egg with three coats of gloss.

Kap turns her dining room over to the pysanky-making process for two or three months each year.

She might spend seven or eight hours a day on her art, she said.

A single egg might take three to five hours of work to complete.

Kap said she has designed only two pysanky of her own, because the process takes so much time.

Mostly, she copies designs others have created.

She's inspired by pysanky she sees in books and on the Internet, she said.

People sometimes suggest she decorate her eggs with additions like rhinestones or glitter, she said.

Kap pays them no mind: She's determined to stick with the old ways.

It's all about preserving a bit of her culture, she said.

"I just feel that if we're going to pass along a tradition, then it should be" accurate and true to the original.

