The University of North Carolina (UNC) has been hurt by a major case of cheating.

It's not just students who were being dishonest.

It was the chairman of a department at the school.

For almost 20 years, UNC had fake classes.

Students did not have to show up.

All they had to do for their grade was turn in one research paper at the end of the term.

The research papers always received A's and B's — whether they were good or not.

The latest investigation has uncovered new details.

It found that more than 3,100 students took part in these fake classes from 1993 to 2011.

More than half of those students were athletes.

Sports are very important at many schools, including UNC.

Athletes are only allowed to play as long as they get good grades.

These schools often want to help their athletes in many ways.

Some of those ways, like extra tutoring, are good.

But the classes that did not exist went too far.

Now UNC has found itself in deep trouble.

The fake classes scam went like this: Counselors encouraged athletes to take certain classes in the African and Afro-American Studies department (AFAM).

These classes never really took place.

The students got grades of A or B without learning anything or doing any work.

An office secretary, Deborah Crowder, would look over the students' research papers and assign grades.

She would sign the name of the department chairman, Julius Nyang'oro, to grade lists.

Both Crowder and Nyang'oro are now retired.

Carol Folt is the new leader at UNC.

She said the fake classes could have been caught sooner.

She explained that two exceptions to the rules helped Crowder and Nyang'oro keep the cheating going for so long.

First, the AFAM department was not examined like other academic departments because it did not have a graduate students.

It only had undergraduate students.

Second, the chairman of AFAM was not reviewed by fellow professors because he was a department chairman.

The investigation also found that school leaders saw warning signs.

Nevertheless, they did not take action.

"It really isn't something that you could look at as only one thing," Folt said.

"We have to accept full responsibility for it."

UNC is now facing investigations from two groups.

Both want to make sure that UNC is being honest and following the rules.

The first group gives colleges and universities a stamp of approval.

It's a group that officially says, "This school is honest.

Its degrees are worth something."

The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools is investigating UNC.

Belle Wheelan works with the group.

She wants UNC to show that it is following all the rules.

"What we would do is ask them: is this bigger than you thought it was, what are you going to do now?

It's a mess," Wheelan said.

The NCAA, the group in charge of college sports, is also investigating UNC.

It wants to find out if student-athletes were given special treatment that was not allowed.

If the NCAA finds that UNC broke rules relating to student-athletes, the school could have wins and championships taken away from its sports teams.

In December, university leaders will discuss the cheating at a meeting.

