At the University of North Carolina (UNC), an academic fraud scandal — which featured fake classes and fake grades — was allowed to continue for nearly two decades before it ended in 2011, a new investigation has found.

The school is now struggling to deal with fallout from the scandal.

The latest investigation found that university leaders, faculty members and staff missed or ignored red flags that could have stopped the problem years earlier.

More than 3,100 students — about half of them athletes — benefited from fake classes that gave high grades in the African and Afro-American Studies department (AFAM).

Former U.S. Justice Department official Kenneth Wainstein's report notes that the fake classes ended in 2011 and since then, the university has re-made the department and put new policies in place.

Still, UNC must wait to find out whether the damaging new details will lead to more problems.

There are two organizations watching the UNC report closely.

One is a group that accredits colleges and universities: the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools' (SACS) Commission on Colleges examines schools to make sure they are offering a high- quality education.

In other words, it accredits them.

The other group, the NCAA, is in charge of college sports.

It is examining the scandal in relation to UNC's sports programs to see if athletes received special treatment and whether the school's leaders were really in control.

"Bad actions of a relatively few number of people were definitely compounded by inaction and the lack of really appropriate checks and balances," Chancellor Carol Folt said Thursday.

"And it was together that really allowed this to persist for such a length of time."

The report gave disturbing details: athletic counselors encouraged athletes to sign up for the fake classes, which from 1993 to 2011 did not require attendance.

They only required a research paper that would always receive a grade of A or B regardless of quality, after being looked over by an office secretary, who also signed the chairman's name to grade lists.

Those two people — former Chairman Julius Nyang'oro and retired administrator Deborah Crowder — were at the center of the scheme.

Wainstein's report, though, also noted that other school officials who had suspicions or specific concerns failed to act on them.

All this added up to missed chances to stop the fraud, which allowed it to escalate.

The university is now facing questions about its accreditation — whether it is an honest institution that is providing high-quality education to its students.

The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools' Commission on Colleges had UNC on its watch list until this summer.

It also required the school to allow students who took a fake class to take another for free.

In the next few days, the commission will send UNC a letter asking school leaders to show that they are complying with standards needed for the seal of approval, commission President Belle Wheelan said.

"What we would do is ask them: is this bigger than you thought it was, what are you going to do now?

It's a mess," Wheelan said.

The school's 77-member board will address the issue in its December meeting, she said.

"We are interested in more than anything in making sure that the students don't run into problems trying to explain any degrees that they have after the fact as a result of this," Wheelan said.

One of the agency's core requirements for accreditation is that the university have clear control over "all aspects of its educational program," including athletics.

With the NCAA investigation, the issue of control is important as well.

What coaches knew is a key issue that could lead to sports wins and championships being taken away, or vacated.

"If we go back with the NCAA in our joint review, and ... if we've identified that we have played students who were ineligible, then obviously we would have to vacate wins at that time," UNC Athletic Director Bubba Cunningham said.

"But as long as the courses and the credits and everything count to the accrediting agency, we're very comfortable with our certification process — that our students were eligible to compete when they competed."

After years of a hands-off approach by school leaders, the university's fate now lies in the hands of these two groups.

Both the AFAM department and its chairman didn't face outside reviews.

Most academic departments are reviewed every five years, but AFAM was not because it did not have a graduate program giving out Master of Arts degrees or doctorates.

AFAM's chairman, Nyang'oro, wasn't reviewed by colleagues because he was a department chairman.

Folt, UNC's current leader, said the school would have caught the fraud sooner if it had not been for those two exemptions, which have since been removed.

There were other chances to stop the fraud, and Folt is holding everyone accountable.

"It really isn't something that you could look at as only one thing," the chancellor said.

"It had the combination, and that's why we have to make sure we can't be complacent about it.

We have to accept full responsibility for it."

