A house and log cabin outside Washington, D.C., were once part of a farm in the 1800s.

The farm was the home of Josiah Henson, a slave who escaped and wrote the story of his life.

A writer named Harriet Beecher Stowe used Henson's story in her book, "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

The book is about the difficult lives of slaves.

It helped with the movement to end slavery, which historians say led to the U.S. Civil War.

But the book was rejected in recent years because many critics believe it puts down African-Americans.

Today, the book and Josiah Henson are both getting new interest.

The county in Maryland where the house was built bought the house for $1 million.

They will turn it into a visitors center and museum.

Officials think the log cabin was there when Henson lived on the farm from 1795 to 1825.

But scientists are not so sure.

They analyzed the wood in the cabin, which was used as a kitchen, and found it dated to 1850.

The wood was still old, but was not the link they wanted to the man behind "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

"We were surprised," said Shirl Spicer, the museum manager for the Department of Parks in Montgomery County, Maryland.

"We weren't disappointed."

She showed people around the house, cabin and grounds and said the department was excited about having the land that was related to Henson.

The main house was built between 1800 and 1815, when Henson was there.

Documents show the house and land belonged to Isaac Riley, Henson's owner.

Archaeologists digging on the grounds have found objects from that time.

The officials are now more interested in Henson.

They changed the name of the farm from Riley House/Uncle Tom's Cabin to Josiah Henson Park.

The house is being developed as a museum, and the land as a park.

It should be finished in three or four years.

There are plans to fix the log kitchen.

Henson, who lived to age 93, was born in southern Maryland.

He was sold to Riley when he was 6 years old and reunited with his mother.

As a young man, he gained Riley's trust.

He supervised the farm, which grew wheat, corn, apples and tobacco, and he sold the vegetables at markets.

By 1825, Riley had money problems.

He put Henson in charge of escorting his slaves to his brother's farm in Kentucky.

When the group went through Ohio, which did not allow slavery, Henson refused to set himself or anyone else free.

He later tried to buy his freedom.

But he discovered that his owner had no plans to free him.

Henson was sent with Riley's son to the slave market in New Orleans.

Henson was ready to kill the owner's son to escape.

But when the son became ill, Henson nursed him.

They returned to Kentucky, and Henson realized he would have to escape to be free.

Northern states did not allow slavery.

Henson would have to run away to Canada to be free.

In Stowe's book, Uncle Tom endures hard times.

He is whipped to death for not telling the location of escaped slaves.

"Uncle Tom's Cabin" had a great effect on people during the Civil War and the fight against slavery.

Stowe definitely used Henson's story in her book, said David S. Reynolds, an English professor.

She also borrowed other stories, but Henson's was the most important, he said.

"He always took pride in that he was the basis for Uncle Tom," Reynolds said.

In the mid-1800s, there were few options for entertainment so people would often read out loud.

Because of this, there were about 10 readers for every copy of "Uncle Tom's Cabin" sold.

President Abraham Lincoln met Stowe in 1862.

It is said that he told her: "So you're the little woman who wrote the book that started this great war!"

There is still some question whether he really said that.

Violet J. Harris is an education professor at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.

"'Uncle Tom's Cabin' will always have a place in American literary culture and history because of its impact on individuals," Harris said.

