Everybody knows food goes on the table.

In the McConnaughey house, next to the guacamole and chips on the table, sits a robot.

The three teenage girls look at their robot.

Hannah, Haley and Annika begin to pull it apart.

Haley McConnaughey is 14.

She explains the complicated math problems she did.

She had to figure out the right size for the blades on the robot's propellers.

Haley's older sister Hannah wipes away some guacamole.

It fell onto the robot.

They are preparing to leave the country.

They will fly to Romania.

The Eastern European country is where the upcoming Black Sea International ROV Competition will take place.

An ROV is a remotely operated vehicle, like the robot they have built.

The contest is the largest one for underwater robotics in Europe.

Teams from all over the world will compete.

They will see whose robot can rescue a fake diver underwater.

The robot also has to turn off an underwater bomb.

The top three teams will be taken out to a real shipwreck.

There, the robots must find and bring back hidden treasure.

"The fact I get to do this before I have my driver's license is crazy," Hannah said.

Her team is the only U.S. team in the contest.

They will face high school and college underwater robotic teams from all over the world.

"It's incredible how much your life can change in three months," said Annika Hustard.

She just joined the team.

Her first robotics contest was in May.

The contest in Romania ends on Aug. 20.

The girls have spent their entire summer working on the robot.

They work 12 to 14 hours a day on it.

"This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience," Haley said.

Their robot cost about $500 to make.

It is made of parts given to them and whatever they had lying around.

They use PVC plastic pipes.

Printer parts are used for gears.

The hand is from a comb for horses.

The lights are LED strips used to light up pools.

A bicycle inner tube, cooking racks and pool "noodles" help the robot float.

The team formed a few years ago with elementary and middle school children.

They thought it would be just an after-school neighborhood nerd club.

Soon they started beating high schoolers.

Now they've won contests all over the world.

It wasn't easy.

Sometimes their robot would die 10 minutes before the contest.

The girls raised the money for their trip to Romania.

They are not in it just for themselves.

They want to encourage other girls to take an interest in science and math, so they visit county fairs with their robot.

"Everything we are doing proves girls can do exactly what guys can do, and better," Annika said.

