Everybody knows food goes on the table.

However, in the McConnaughey house, a robot sits in the middle of the table next to the guacamole and chips.

Three teenage girls wonder whether their machine will be ready for its next challenge.

Hannah, Haley and Annika begin to pull apart their robot.

Something doesn't feel right.

Haley McConnaughey, 14, explains the complicated math equations she did.

She had to figure out the right size for the blades on the robot's propellers.

Older sister Hannah quickly wiped away some guacamole that fell onto the machine.

The team asks themselves again: Can their underwater robot save a 200-pound diver trapped at sea?

They were preparing to leave home for Romania.

The country in Eastern Europe is where the upcoming Black Sea International ROV Competition will take place.

An ROV is a remotely operated vehicle, like the robot they have built.

The contest is the largest for underwater robotics in Europe.

Teams from all over the world will compete to see whose robot can rescue an underwater mannequin diver and turn off an underwater mine.

The top three will be taken out to a real shipwreck.

There, the robots must find and bring back hidden treasure.

"The fact I get to do this before I have my driver's license is crazy," said 17-year-old Hannah.

Her team is the only U.S. team in the contest.

They will face high school and college underwater robotic teams from Egypt, India, Iran, Poland, Russia and Romania.

"It's incredible how much your life can change in three months," said Annika Hustard.

Hustard recently joined the team, and only took part in her first robotics contest in May.

The contest in Romania ends on Aug. 20.

The girls have spent their entire summer working 12- to 14-hour days on their robot.

"This is a once-in-a-lifetime experience," Haley said.

"All the things we could do this summer will be here next summer."

Their robot cost about $500 to make.

It is made of parts given to them and whatever they had lying around.

They used PVC, or plastic pipes.

There is an old printer feeder used for gears.

The hand is a comb used on horses.

The lights are LED strips used to light up pools.

A bicycle inner tube, cooking racks and pool "noodles" keep the robot floating.

"To keep costs and time down, you take the things you have and then you adapt them to what you need," said Del Hardesty.

"That's inventing."

Hardesty, 64, has given the girls advice.

He was an engineer.

The girls started their team thinking that it would be an after-school neighborhood nerd club.

It was formed a few years ago with elementary and middle school children.

Soon it started beating high schoolers.

Now the team wins all over the world.

It wasn't easy.

Sometimes their robot died 10 minutes before the contest.

At one competition in 2012, the robot blew a fuse.

This stopped the team from advancing to the international.

The following year the girls came back stronger, and won 11th in the world.

The girls raised the money for their trip to Romania.

They are not doing it just for themselves.

They want to encourage other girls to take an interest in science, engineering and math, so they bring their robot to county fairs.

"Everything we are doing proves girls can do exactly what guys can do, and better," Annika said.

