Sara Navarro used to feel like she was being hunted.

She came to the United States illegally when she was 11 and knew she could be sent back anytime.

That changed in 2012 with a new government program, called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).

The program lets some immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents before age 16 stay here.

Navarro and other DACA participants still are not in the country legally and cannot begin the process of gaining citizenship.

But they can't be sent back to their country of birth.

"It definitely feels different," said Navarro, of North Philadelphia, who was born in Honduras.

"Now, we don't have to watch our backs.

We can live with our parents, and (the government) can't deport us."

But it was a bittersweet victory.

Navarro, now 23, and her younger sister, Raquel, were lucky, but their four older brothers and sisters were not.

They all came after their 16th birthdays and missed the DACA deadline, one by less than a year.

Navarro's family is one big, messy tangle of the lucky and the unlucky.

They fall into at least five immigration categories.

Some of her relatives are U.S. citizens or have what is called temporary protected status.

That protects them from being deported.

Although they haven't been caught, other relatives are undocumented, meaning they don't have the papers – or documents – to stay here legally.

The government has caught other relatives and has ordered them to be deported.

Anyone who wants to immigrate to the United States needs permission from the U.S. government.

For several years, lawmakers have been focusing on completely changing the  immigration system.

It's a process called "immigration reform."

The proposed federal law would increase legal immigration, decrease illegal immigration and let millions of illegal immigrants who are already here stay and begin the process of earning citizenship.

But Navarro's family is a picture of the system as it exists right now.

Their story began in the Honduran countryside.

Her family were farmers barely able to support themselves and small-time shopkeepers.

Her parents lacked the money to send their children to school.

So in 1994, they left their six children, ages 2 to 14, with family and paid $3,000 to illegally cross the Mexican border into the United States.

"(My husband and I) were going to come to the U.S. for just two years, save some money, and go home," said Navarro's mother, Maria Turcios, 52.

But she earned just $3.50 per hour as a seamstress and could not pay back the $3,000, so they stayed.

In 1998, Hurricane Mitch hit Honduras, leaving millions homeless.

For Turcios and her husband, it was a chance to stay in the United States legally.

The United States lets immigrants stay temporarily during disasters in their home countries.

"Returning seemed impossible," Turcios said.

So, in 2002, she and her husband decided to send for their children and had them smuggled across the border for a chance at a better life.

Daughter Navarro remembers long bus rides, then a long walk through the cold desert.

Most of her brothers and sisters entered undetected, but one of her sisters was stopped at the border.

The sister and her husband were charged with being here illegally, and immigration agents came looking for him.

"They couldn't find him, but they took my uncle and my two brothers-in-law," Navarro said.

"That's when my parents told us we couldn't tell anybody we were undocumented, because we would get in trouble."

For about eight years after that, Navarro lived in fear of being sent back to Honduras.

Her family moved, and then moved again, trying to stay ahead of the government.

Navarro said she felt hopeless, because she had no way of staying here legally.

She even thought of dropping out of school.

"I didn't decide to come here.

And many times I wished I hadn't come, because of all the pressure and the feeling of having no freedom at all," she said.

She felt that she didn't have the same possibilities as her other friends.

Then came DACA — and possibilities.

Now, Navarro is attending Community College of Philadelphia, and she is determined that whatever happens with DACA — which is only a temporary program — she won't go back to living in fear.

Although Turcios says she still lives in fear, the Philadelphia city government said its police no longer work with immigration agents.

Previously, undocumented individuals accused of any violation could be held in Philadelphia jails while they were going through deportation hearings.

Turcios says she is grateful for her temporary protected status, but wants more for her family.

"Thinking about the politics, with the president and Senate and the House of Representatives, it seems like for them that immigration reform is a game," she said.

"In the years I've been here, I've come to love the United States.

I've worked here and survived here.

It seems that the politicians don't love the United States.

They've created such a divided country."

