For Sara Navarro, being an undocumented immigrant used to feel a lot like being hunted.

That changed in 2012 with a new government program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).

The program protected from deportation some immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally by their parents before age 16.

Navarro and the DACA participants still are not in the country legally and cannot begin the path to citizenship, but they can't be sent back to their country of birth.

"It definitely feels different," said Navarro, of North Philadelphia, who was 11 when she arrived here from Honduras.

"Now, we don't have to watch our backs.

We can live with our parents, and they can't deport us."

But it was a bittersweet victory.

While Navarro, now 23, and her younger sister, Raquel, were lucky, their four older siblings were not.

They were all older than 16 when they came, and had all missed the DACA deadline, one by less than a year.

Navarro's family is one big, messy tangle of the lucky and the unlucky, the documented and the undocumented.

An undocumented immigrant does not have government authorization – or documents – to stay in the country legally and can be sent back.

Navarro's wider family represents a mix of at least five immigration statuses.

Some of her relatives are U.S. citizens or have what is called temporary protected status, which protects them from being deported.

Other relatives are undocumented-and-under-the-radar.

The government has caught some of her other relatives, who are evading deportation orders.

For several years, Washington has focused on overhauling the entire immigration system, in what they call "immigration reform."

The proposed federal law would increase legal immigration, decrease illegal immigration and let a certain number of illegal immigrants who are already here stay permanently and begin earning the requirements needed to become a citizen.

There are likely more than 11 million illegal immigrants.

Navarro's family is an example of the illegal immigration system as it exists right now.

Their story began in the Honduran countryside.

As farmers who barely supported themselves and small-time shopkeepers, her parents didn't have the money to send their children to school.

So the couple left their six children, ages 2 to 14, with family and paid $3,000 to be led illegally across the Mexican border in 1994.

"(My husband and I) were going to come to the U.S. for just two years, save some money, and go home," said Maria Turcios, 52.

But earning just $3.50 per hour as a seamstress, she could not pay back the $3,000 after two years, so they stayed.

In 1998, Hurricane Mitch hit Honduras, leaving millions homeless.

For Turcios and her husband, it was a chance to stay legally through temporary protection offered to immigrants who are in the United States during such catastrophes in their home countries.

"Returning seemed impossible," Turcios said.

So, in 2002, she and her husband decided to send for their children and had them smuggled across the border for a shot at a better life.

Over time, many from Turcios' extended family would make the journey from Honduras to the United States.

Daughter Navarro remembers long bus rides, then a long walk through the cold desert.

Most of her siblings entered undetected, but one of her sisters traveling separately was stopped at the border.

The sister and her husband were charged with being here illegally.

When the husband skipped their court date a few years later, federal immigration agents came to the Turcioses' house looking for him.

"They couldn't find him, but they took my uncle and my two brothers-in-law," Navarro said.

"That's when my parents told us we couldn't tell anybody we were undocumented, because we would get in trouble."

For about eight years after that, Navarro lived in fear.

The rest of the family moved, and then moved again, trying to stay ahead of government authorities.

Navarro felt hopeless, she said, because she had no way of staying here legally and considered dropping out of school.

"I didn't decide to come here.

And many times I wished I hadn't come, because of all the pressure and the feeling of having no freedom at all and not being able to go anywhere or have the same future as the rest of my friends, or go to the same schools — having to work twice as hard just to go to a two-year college," she said.

Then came DACA — and possibilities.

Now, Navarro is attending Community College of Philadelphia, and is working to pay her tuition, since people who stay here under the DACA plan cannot receive financial aid or student loans.

Navarro, who is Catholic, wants to become a nun and join a convent.

And she is determined that whatever happens with DACA — which is only a temporary program — she won't go back to living in fear.

Although Turcios says she still lives in fear, the Philadelphia city government said its police cannot work with federal immigration authorities.

Previously, undocumented immigrants could be held in Philadelphia jails for immigration purposes.

Turcios says she is grateful for her temporary protected status, but wants more for her family.

"Thinking about the politics, with the president and Senate and the House of Representatives, it seems like for them that immigration reform is a game," she said.

"In the years I've been here, I've come to love the United States.

I've worked here and survived here.

It seems that the politicians don't love the United States.

They've created such a divided country."

