For years, Sara Navarro lived in fear.

When she was 11, she snuck into the United States.

She knew that at anytime she could be sent back to Honduras.

Now, she doesn't have to look over her shoulder all the time.

The government is letting some people who came here illegally before age 16 stay, at least for the time being.

Navarro still cannot start the process to become a citizen.

But she can't be sent back to Honduras anytime soon.

"It definitely feels different," said Navarro.

She is now 23 and lives in North Philadelphia.

"Now, we don't have to watch our backs.

We can live with our parents, and (the government) can't deport us."

Navarro and her younger sister, Raquel, were lucky, but their four older brothers and sisters were not.

They were all older than 16 when they came here, so they could still be sent back to Honduras in Central America at anytime.

Navarro's family is a big, messy tangle of the lucky and the unlucky.

The lucky ones can stay here legally.

They are U.S. citizens or have what is called temporary protected status.

That protects them from being sent back.

Other relatives are undocumented, and don't have the papers – or documents – to stay here legally.

She also has family members who live in hiding.

The government has ordered them to be sent back.

Anyone who wants to come to the United States needs permission from the U.S. government to stay.

There are more than 11 million illegal immigrants living in the United States.

Lawmakers are working on new laws to let many of them stay and eventually become citizens.

The laws would also allow more immigrants to enter the United States lawfully.

They would work to lower the number of people entering illegally.

The laws are called "immigration reform."

The story of Navarro's family began in the Honduran countryside.

Her family were farmers and shopkeepers.

Her parents didn't have enough money to send their children to school.

In 1994, they left their six children, ages 2 to 14, with family members.

They paid $3,000 to be led illegally across the Mexican border into the United States.

"(My husband and I) were going to come to the U.S. for just two years, save some money, and go home," said Navarro's mother, Maria Turcios, 52.

But she earned just $3.50 per hour sewing.

She could not pay back the $3,000 they owed.

So they stayed.

In 1998, Hurricane Mitch hit Honduras.

Millions of people were left homeless.

For Turcios and her husband, it was a chance to stay in the United States legally.

The U.S. government lets immigrants stay temporarily during disasters like that.

"Returning seemed impossible," Turcios said.

In 2002, they sent for their children.

Daughter Navarro remembers long bus rides, then a long walk through the cold desert.

Most of her brothers and sisters entered.

But one of her sisters was stopped at the border.

Then, several relatives were sent back to Honduras.

"That's when my parents told us we couldn't tell anybody we were undocumented, because we would get in trouble."

For about eight years, Navarro lived in fear.

Her family moved, and then moved again.

They tried to stay ahead of the immigration police.

If they were caught, they would be sent back.

Navarro said she felt hopeless, because she had no way of staying here legally.

She even thought of dropping out of school.

"I didn't decide to come here.

And many times I wished I hadn't come, because of all the pressure and the feeling of having no freedom at all," she said.

In 2012, the government program began.

It is called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA).

It is not permanent program.

But for now Navarro is safe.

She is attending a community college.

Whatever happens, she said, she won't go back to living in fear.

