Harlean Beal Elementary School is one of the poorest schools in the country.

It is located in Fort Worth, Texas.

Recently, a charity offered to give it a new reading program.

Its principal jumped at the chance.

Alfreida Colvin, the principal, encourages reading every way she can.

The United Way gave Colvin's school a reading nook.

It gave books for students to keep.

Students also can use a reading website.

The program is called Club Connect Adopt-a-School.

Last week, the United Way began the program in poor schools across the country.

The United Way is the largest charity in the United States.

Colvin's school did not have much space to put the reading nook.

The only place was a cubbyhole next to her office.

She asked janitors to make a little curtain for a door.

United Way brought in some colorful beanbags and a rocking chair.

The reading nook was filled with books.

Someone even added a big stuffed lion.

"They're using it, and it is awesome," Colvin said.

Parents read to children there when they have lunch at school together.

Preschoolers use it during an after-school program.

Young readers curl up on the beanbags.

A man named Bill O'Dowd started the Club Connect program.

He is the head of Dolphin Entertainment.

His company makes television programs and movies for children and families.

People who graduate from high school have better lives, O'Dowd said.

Reading by third grade is important for success in school.

Third grade is an especially important year.

It is when children begin reading to learn, after learning to read, he said.

It is no secret that many students are behind in reading.

In 2013, the government tested children across the country.

About 1 out of 3 kids in fourth grade read well.

O'Dowd said he spoke with principals in many states.

The principals said they wanted help to keep children reading after school.

They also wanted children to read on the weekends and during the summer.

"There's definitely a great need in Tarrant  County," said Emily Furney.

She is with the United Way of Tarrant County.

Colvin's school is in Tarrant County.

"We'd love to be able to provide these resources for all of our schools," she said.

