Texas principal Alfreida Colvin encourages reading every way she can.

So when the country's largest charity offered to include her school in its new early reading program — Club Connect Adopt-a-School — she jumped at the chance.

The United Way gave the school a reading nook and books for students to keep.

Her students also received access to a reading website.

Last week, the United Way rolled out Club Connect nationwide after testing in Fort Worth, Texas, Miami and New Orleans.

It is the first time the nation's largest charity has adopted high-poverty schools, like Colvin's, across the country.

Colvin's school, Harlean Beal Elementary in Fort Worth, didn't have enough space for a reading nook.

The only available location for the reading nook was a cubbyhole next to her office where parents used to sit and browse through newsletters.

She asked janitors to make a little curtain for a door, and United Way brought in some colorful beanbags and a rocking chair.

Scholastic, the children's book publisher, contributed books.

Someone added a big stuffed lion.

"They're using it, and it is awesome," Colvin said.

Parents read to children there on the days they have lunch at school together, and preschoolers use it during an after-school program.

Young readers curl up on the beanbags.

The creator of the new United Way program, Bill O'Dowd, is chief executive and president of Dolphin Entertainment.

His company makes television programs and movies for children and families.

O'Dowd worked as the executive producer of Nickelodeon's teen drama series "Zoey101."

The Club Connect project is a partnership between the United Way, the National Association of Elementary School Principals and Scholastic.

"They've come  together to design what principals think will do the most to help them get every kid to read," O'Dowd said.

His fundraising and volunteer work for United Way led to the creation of Club Connect.

He said the work is part of a trend among charities to try to make sweeping changes in society.

The United Way decided to focus on teen pregnancy, keeping kids from crime and prison, and high school dropouts.

Experts have long said that high school graduation improves the odds for a better life,.

Research shows that reading by third grade is critical for later school success.

Third grade is when children stop learning to read and begin reading to learn, he said.

But it's no secret that many students are behind.

The National Assessment of Educational Progress in 2013 tested the reading levels of fourth graders.

It showed that only 32 percent of boys and 38 percent of girls were able to read well in fourth grade.

O'Dowd said he traveled to meet principals in many states.

The message he got was that they wanted help to keep children reading after school, on the weekends and during the summer.

The new program was designed for the nation's poorest schools, like Harlean Beal.

The program gives the students books and other resources they don't otherwise have at home.

Parents register their children to use the website, which promotes reading through games.

Celebrities read books to the children online.

The United Way sends the parents emails about the importance of reading, as well as coupons from companies "to encourage and reward them," O'Dowd said.

The website is also designed to work on mobile phones.

Many poor families don't have computers, but just about everyone has a phone, he added.

Club Connect has the potential to expand because many major companies give to the United Way.

O'Dowd said it costs about $10,000 per school.

Local United Way donors would decide whether to give money for the program in their area.

The Fort Worth donors included companies like Pier One, Basic Energy Services and a few individuals, said Emily Furney.

She is the vice president for community development of United Way of Tarrant County.

Colvin's school is located in Tarrant County.

"There's definitely a great need in Tarrant  County," Furney said.

"We'd love to be able to provide these resources for all of our schools," she said.

O'Dowd said there's potential to expand the program nationwide, because the United Way is in so many communities.

