Breanne Heath started with a patch of dirt on the South Side and a simple idea: a farm where visitors can pick their own fruit.

Now the nearly half-acre site has transformed into a pick-your-own farm in the city, offering fresh organic raspberries, ground cherries, rhubarb, pumpkins and other produce.

The garden is located in the Back of the Yard neighborhood in Chicago.

It will open this summer as The Pie Patch.

Heath is a community garden educator.

She was inspired to start the garden after realizing how difficult it was to pick fresh fruit around Chicago.

She loves picking apples and strawberries, but had to drive across state borders because there was not a local option.

Her goal is simple: Get more food to more people, she said, "if they're willing to pick it themselves."

The plot of land is owned by Su Casa Catholic Worker.

Su Casa is a nonprofit that provides food and shelter to Spanish-speaking women and children in Chicago.

Heath and Su Casa will work closely together to make the garden fruitful — in more ways than one.

While Health will manage the farm, she plans to donate some of the proceeds back to Su Casa's food pantry and soup kitchen.

Depending on how much fruit they sell in a day, Heath said, she will give Su Casa either half of the proceeds or some of the leftover produce.

Su Casa will also provide volunteers to work on the garden once it's up and running.

Preserving the space is a benefit to the community.

It is an example of using land creatively that was otherwise vacant.

Heath said she doesn't expect to make a profit on the farm but points to other benefits.

"It's something that I have to keep reminding my friends and family when I say, 'Oh, I just spent all my money on strawberry plants' or 'I just had to buy all these supplies,'" she said."

This is something that people might find value in, something that's good for the community.

It's more about doing something that is needed than doing something that is going to give me a profit."

Though there are other urban farms in the city, Heath said there is a unique appeal to a pick-your-own operation.

People are more aware of what they eat and prefer healthy local food, she said.

Growing your own food is a unique experience.

Sarah Krieger, a registered dietitian and nutritionist with the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics, supports the idea of "bringing the farm to the city."

Picking your own produce locally, she said, can have educational and nutritional benefits.

This is especially true for children.

"If they only see fruits and vegetables in the store, they think they grow right outside the grocery store," Krieger said.

"But if they get in the dirt, pick it right off the vine and eat it, it's a great learning tool."

Cecelia Pompeii, a clinical dietitian at University of Chicago's Comer Children's Hospital, said especially in a low-income neighborhood, an urban farm is a resource for people who may have access to only public transportation.

Pompeii, who has a healthy food blog with another dietitian, believes most people are starting to think more about how food is grown and sourced.

Still, she said, the topic is not "in the forefront of everyone's mind."

Having an urban farm like The Pie Patch may plant an idea about healthier eating as an alternative to unhealthy choices, like processed or fast food.

The goal of The Pie Patch is to provide low-cost, healthy options to local residents.

Part of the benefit of having people pick their own fruit is being able to cut out the costs of harvesting and transportation, which is an advantage to the business.

Some produce may be priced so people can buy it by the pound.

But mostly, customers will pay a flat rate for a container and be allowed to fill it regardless of weight.

The Pie Patch will also allow lower-income customers to pay the same rate for twice the amount of produce.The farm will be set up to scan and accept the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program card, which is like a credit card for food stamps.

The cards are set up to help feed people living on low wages.

The Pie Patch will offer a plethora, or huge variety, of produce depending on the season, including raspberries, rhubarb, grapes, strawberries, sweet potatoes, pumpkins and squash.

The earliest the farm will open is June.

Until then, Health will be busy finding space for about 3,000 strawberry plants.

Strawberries will be the farm's biggest crop, but they will not be ready until late spring 2016.

When she isn't spending time at The Pie Patch, Heath works as a garden and education manager at Peterson Garden Project.

The organization teaches people about community gardening.

In her free time, she will manage The Pie Patch.

She expects visitors will be able to pick fruit twice a week at the farm to start.

Heath called the space "peaceful" and said she hopes the farm can be a place where people "linger and have a picnic and just enjoy things."

Heath grew up spending her days outside among blackberries and flowers.

She hopes, she said, to provide other people with similar experiences.

