Curtis Morrison needed a home and medicine after he moved to Seattle from an Indian reservation in Montana.

The Chief Seattle Club helped him adjust to life in a big city.

It helped him get the medicine he needed and a place to live, he said.

"Other places didn't know what I was talking about, and nothing would happen," he said.

Now he has a chance at a new start.

The club gives free legal help to Native Americans through its Urban Indian Legal Clinic.

It helps people who don't get help often, say the organizers.

It lets them know their rights, says Olive Lefferson.

She's the coordinator and a member of the Blackfoot Indian Tribe.

The government says about 2.8 million [Native Americans](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=native+american) live in cities.

Seattle has one of the highest numbers in the country.

Almost 40,000 people in Seattle are American Indian or Alaska Native.

Many of them are poor, unemployed and homeless.

Lefferson said their problems are worse in cities.

They are far from their families and tribes.

They come to the Chief Seattle Club twice a month and get help from lawyers.

The lawyers come from different backgrounds but have one thing in common: They know Indian law and the Indian experience.

Lefferson said it's important for the people to come to a safe place.

It's also important to work with someone who knows Indians.

That way, they won't be afraid of being misunderstood, she said.

Natives usually keep to themselves and don't trust others.

But the lawyers try to help people solve their problems, said Lael-Echo-Hawk, a Seattle lawyer.

She's a Pawnee and was one of the people who started the legal clinic.

Ralph Forquera is the executive director at the Seattle Indian Health Board.

He said many of the Natives he works with have long legal records.

They didn't chose a life of crime, he said.

Their crimes come from poverty.

Some are small thefts or public drinking.

People in cities also don't get the same support that they get on the reservation.

Dunlap grew up on the Fond du Lac Reservation in Minnesota.

He never knew his family was poor.

"In reservation poverty, you always had an auntie to feed you," Dunlap said.

"Urban poverty for Natives is different."

The government provides health and education on the reservations, said Chris Stearns.

He is a Navajo lawyer who specializes in Indian law.

Those things are harder to find in Seattle.

"When you come to the cities or urban areas, they're not there," said Stearns.

The legal system often hasn't worked in the past for people who come to the clinic.

That makes it hard for them to understand the system and make it work, said Sean Cecil.

He is a Seattle lawyer who volunteers for the clinic.

Dunlap said the legal clinic set an example.

"There's no other place like this in Indian Country," Dunlap said.

A man walked in as Dunlap and Lefferson spoke.

He wore a beaded necklace and had long gray hair.

Dunlap asked him how he slept the night before.

He said he slept good, but his back hurt.

His bed had been a concrete sidewalk.

