The U.S. and Chinese presidents announced they had come to an agreement on a joint effort to fight climate change on Wednesday.

Both laid out ambitious new plans to cut pollution in their own countries.

At a news conference in the Chinese capital, President Barack Obama said he had agreed that the U.S. would cut greenhouse gas emissions at least 26 percent by 2025.

The new target would double the U.S.'s current pace of carbon reduction.

Chinese President Xi Jinping announced a stepped-up time frame for carbon reduction and for increasing China's use of nuclear, wind and solar energy.

"This is a major milestone in the U.S.-China relationship," Obama said.

"It shows what's possible when we work together on an urgent challenge."

The president called the new goals ambitious, but achievable.

The deal could lead to significant change for the climate, observers said.

It sets a bolder timeline for two countries that, together, account for more than a third of global greenhouse gas emissions.

"History may look back and say this was the turning point," said Congressman Henry Waxman, who serves on the House Energy Committee.

The deal was immediately challenged by Obama's Republican critics in Washington.

The president's opponents have pledged to make it a priority to roll back his measures on the environment when they assume the majority in Congress next year.

The White House did not immediately say whether Obama will propose legislation or use his executive powers to enact changes without lawmakers.

However, his environmental team does expect a fight on the kinds of regulations necessary to carry out his new goals.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell spoke out against the agreement immediately.

"This unrealistic plan," he said, "would ensure higher utility rates and far fewer jobs."

The agreement could help put the world on "a straight path to 80 percent reductions in emissions over 2005 levels by 2050," said Ken Lieberthal, an expert on U.S.-Chinese relations at the Brookings Institution.

The reductions are the kind scientists have recommended to avert the greatest temperature rises associated with climate change.

Lieberthal says for real change to occur, targets would have to be met and other countries would have to follow the U.S. and China's lead.

Obama administration officials do think the agreement may spur other leaders to take bolder steps.

They are hoping to see real movement during upcoming global climate negotiations, which will be taking place before a summit in Paris next year.

The new agreement arrives days after dozens of scientists, backed by the United Nations, issued a sweeping review of the latest climate change research.

Climate change, the scientists said, is already affecting life on every continent and in the oceans.

Furthermore, the window is closing rapidly for governments to avert the worst damage expected to occur this century.

At a U.N. summit in September to kick off the drafting of an international climate change accord, Obama spoke bluntly of American responsibility for global warming.

The president pledged to unveil ambitious steps over the next year to cut greenhouse gas emissions.

Following him at the summit was Chinese Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli.

China, Zhang said, would put forth a plan in early 2015 to put a cap on its greenhouse gases "as soon as possible" and scale back emissions thereafter.

The deal between the U.S. and China was finalized late Tuesday as Obama and Xi met at Xi's residence.

Their late-night session went two hours longer than scheduled.

Under the deal, Xi announced targets for capping carbon emissions around 2030 — earlier than currently planned.

He also announced plans to steadily increase the use of alternative energy, so that by 2030 it would account for 20 percent of the country's total energy use.

If that goal is met, energy from alternative sources would then exceed the energy provided by all of China's coal-fired power plants now.

It would be the equivalent of the United States' total electricity generation.

China will "have to up their game by quite a bit to meet their target" for that kind of alternative power generation, Lieberthal said.

China is now by far the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases.

Its severe air pollution has become a source of domestic discontent and international embarrassment that Chinese leaders can no longer ignore.

"Climate change is now Chinese business.

It's not just someone from the outside pressing" China, said Wang Yiwei, director of the Institute of International Affairs at People's University in Beijing.

China is now investing heavily in renewable and nuclear energy.

At the same time, its economy is slowing, which means there is less demand for heavily polluting coal.

By some estimates, China's coal consumption this year might actually drop 1 percent to 2 percent, for the first time in decades.

Beijing wants to shift its economic model toward one of less rapid, more "sustainable" growth and more sophisticated, less-polluting industries.

The announcement also helps set the tone for meetings leading up to final U.N. climate change agreement due to be signed in Paris in December 2015.

The purpose of the upcoming U.N. accord is to create a system that will verify the cuts that countries pledge.

For real progress to be made, Lieberthal added, Russia, Saudi Arabia and India will all need to commit to cuts.

Obama's plans to fight climate change face obstacles other than Congress.

The administration's rules on power plants could be weakened or overturned if courts decide against them.

A new president in 2016 could also reverse the rules, Lieberthal pointed out.

