The U.S. and Chinese presidents announced a new joint effort to fight climate change on Wednesday.

Both laid out ambitious plans to cut pollution in their own countries.

President Barack Obama said he had agreed that the U.S. would cut greenhouse gas emissions at least 26 percent by 2025.

The new goal aims to reduce greenhouse gases at double the speed as the U.S. was shooting for before.

It would commit the U.S. to significantly reducing its use of fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas.

Carbon dioxide, or CO2, released by burning fossil fuels, is the main greenhouse gas that causes climate change.

Chinese President Xi Jinping also announced a stepped-up time frame for carbon reduction.

He said that China would increase its use of alternative energy sources, such as nuclear, wind and solar energy.

"This is a major milestone in the U.S.-China relationship," Obama said.

"It shows what's possible when we work together on an urgent challenge."

The president called the new goals ambitious, but achievable.

The deal could lead to significant improvements, observers said.

It sets a bolder timeline for two countries that, together, account for more than a third of global greenhouse gas emissions.

"History may look back and say this was the turning point," said Congressman Henry Waxman.

The deal was immediately challenged by Obama's Republican critics in Washington.

The president's opponents have pledged to roll back his measures on the environment.

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell spoke out against the agreement immediately.

"This unrealistic plan," he said, would lead to higher electricity costs and "far fewer jobs."

The new agreement could lead to significant change, said Ken Lieberthal, an expert on U.S.-China relations and climate change.

If all goes well, he said, we may see 80 percent reductions in emissions by 2050, compared with what they were in 2005.

Scientists have said that only reductions of that size will prevent a rise in temperature.

For real change to occur, reduction targets would have to be met.

Lieberthal said other countries would have to follow the lead of the U.S. and China, and commit to cuts for progress to be made.

Obama administration officials do think the agreement may push other leaders to take bold steps.

They are hoping to see real movement during talks leading up to a global climate change summit to be held in Paris next year.

The new agreement arrives days after a United Nations report offered a sweeping review of the latest climate change research.

The dozens of scientists involved in the report concluded that climate change is already affecting life on every continent and in the oceans.

Furthermore, if governments don't act quickly, it will soon be too late to prevent the worst of the expected damage.

Even before Wednesday's announcement, Obama had already signaled his desire to step up the fight against climate change.

At a U.N. summit about climate change in September, he spoke bluntly of American responsibility for global warming.

The president pledged to unveil ambitious steps over the next year to cut greenhouse gas emissions.

Following him at the September summit was Chinese Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli.

China, Zhang said, would put forth a plan in early 2015 to put a cap on its greenhouse gases "as soon as possible."

The deal between the U.S. and China was finalized late Tuesday night as Obama and Xi met at Xi's residence.

Under the deal, Xi announced targets for capping carbon emissions around 2030 — earlier than currently planned.

He also announced plans to steadily increase the use of alternative energy.

By 2030, he pledged, alternative energy will account for 20 percent of the country's total energy use.

At that level, it would exceed the energy provided by all of China's coal burning power plants now.

It would equal the U.S.'s total electricity production.

China will "have to up their game by quite a bit to meet their target" for that level of alternative power generation, Lieberthal said.

China is now by far the world's largest producer of greenhouse gases.

Its severe air pollution has upset people in China and and embarrassed China internationally.

"Climate change is now Chinese business.

It's not just someone from the outside pressing" China, said Wang Yiwei, director of the Institute of International Affairs at People's University in Beijing.

China is now investing heavily in alternative energy.

At the same time, China's government wants to shift the country away from rapid growth and heavily polluting industries.

It hopes to encourage less rapid growth and more sophisticated, less-polluting industries.

Here in the U.S., Obama's plans to fight climate change face obstacles other than a Republican-dominated Congress.

The administration's rules on power plants could be weakened or overturned if courts decide against them.

A new president in 2016 could also reverse the rules, Lieberthal pointed out.

