A bull charges down the muddy track.

A man riding a horse chases it.

The man, wearing a crash helmet and an American-flag shirt, slips in behind the galloping beast.

He grabs its tail.

Then, he wraps the tail around his fist and leans far off his saddle.

The bull tumbles and rolls.

After a bit, it bounces back up and lumbers down the track.

This is coleo.

It's a fast and risky sport.

Like a rodeo, it's hard on man and on the bull.

In this part of South America, people grow up with coleo.

Farm workers who have to chase down runaway cattle learn it on the job.

This part of Colombia is the worldwide center of the sport.

Competitors are called coleadores.

They come here from around Latin America and beyond.

At one event, there were Venezuelans in colorful shirts.

There were Mexicans with their big sombreros.

And then there were the men from South Florida.

They were wearing cowboy boots and hats.

Coleo in the United States has had a rough time.

In 2003 the Humane Society looked at contests in South Florida to see if bulls were getting hurt.

It didn't like what it saw: Bulls were breaking legs and fracturing their tails.

The American Coleo Federation says it has improved the sport.

To make it safer for both riders and bulls, it has shortened the track.

And it has shortened the time a coleador has to flip a bull.

Francisco Palmero is head of the Coleo Federation.

He said coleo is not so different from rodeos.

In rodeos, cowboys grab bulls by the head.

"We're doing exactly the same thing, but we grab them by the tail."

Still, Laura Bevan, who works for the Humane Society, has her doubts.

Anytime you grab an animal by the tail and flip it, it's very dangerous for that animal, she said.

"I don't think there's a way to change it to make it better."

In Colombia, danger is part of the show.

While many riders wear helmets and face masks, others rush in with nothing but a straw hat.

Some even go barefoot.

During a two-day event, one rider was thrown and trampled by his horse.

Audience members were clipped by galloping coleadores.

And several bulls had to be hauled off the track by the "bull ambulance," a bulldozer.

It wasn't clear, though, whether the bulls were really hurt.

They may simply have been refusing to get up.

Jorge Tapia is a member of Team USA.

He lives in South Florida.

He went with four teammates to this small Colombian town to try to win some of the $40,000 in prize money.

Tapia said the sport is growing in the United States.

People are trying to make coleo safer for the bulls, he said.

But the sport remains dangerous for the horsemen.

"Could you die out here?

Yes, you could die out here," he said as he wrapped one hand in white tape.

Asked whether he was injured, he shrugged it off.

"I'm not injured, just sore."

Coleo rules are different from country to country.

In Colombia, though, it works like this: If a rider can roll a bull once, he gets 20 points.

A double roll gets him 30 points.

A triple roll is as rare as a grand slam, and is worth 40 points.

John Alejandro Useche, 25, is one of Colombia's top coleadores.

He can flip 1,100-pound bulls side-over-side like rolling logs.

Useche claims that only riders from Colombia and Venezuela can make a bull roll three times.

But he says Team USA has excellent skills.

"Their level of competition is very, very high," he says.

"One of these days, they're going to beat us here in Colombia."

During a recent event in this small town, the U.S. coleadores came close: They took third prize and were named the best visiting team.

