A bull the size of small car barrels down the muddy track, chased by a man on horseback.

The man, wearing a crash helmet and an American-flag shirt, slips in behind the galloping beast.

He snatches its tail, wraps it around his fist and leans far off his saddle.

The bull tumbles and rolls, before bouncing up and lumbering down the track.

Welcome to the world of coleo, a high-speed, high-risk sport that's hard on man, bull and audience alike.

In this part of South America, coleo is something people grow up doing.

It is learned by farmhands who have to chase down runaway cattle.

But these llanos, or plains, are also the worldwide center of coleo.

Competitors are drawn here from around Latin America and beyond.

During a recent event, there were Venezuelans in their tricolor shirts and Mexicans with their chaps and wagon-wheel sombreros.

And then there were the men from South Florida, who were wearing cowboy hats and boots.

Coleo in the United States has had a rough time.

Ten years ago, the Humane Society investigated contests in South Florida.

It didn't like what it saw: Bulls were breaking legs and fracturing their tails.

The American Coleo Federation, which is based in Miami, says it has improved the sport since then.

To make it safer for both athletes and animals, it has shortened the track.

And it has shortened the amount of time a coleador has to flip a bull.

Some argue that coleo is safer than calf-roping.

And Francisco Palmero, the head of the Coleo Federation, said coleo is not so different from rodeos.

In rodeos, cowboys grab bulls by the head.

"We're doing exactly the same thing, but we grab them by the tail," he said.

Laura Bevan works for the Humane Society.

She said her group has not had any recent complaints.

But she doubts coleo has been made safer.

"Anytime you're talking about taking an animal, grabbing its tail and flipping it," it's very dangerous for the animal, she said.

"I don't think there's a way to change it to make it better."

In Colombia, however, danger is part of the show.

While many riders wear helmets and face masks, others rush in with nothing but a straw hat.

Some cattle wranglers even go barefoot.

During a recent two-day event, one rider was thrown and trampled by his horse.

Audience members were clipped by galloping coleadores.

And several bulls had to be hauled off the track by the "bull ambulance," a bulldozer.

It wasn't clear, though, whether the bulls couldn't get up or simply refused to.

Jorge Tapia, from South Florida, is a member of Team USA.

He traveled to this small Colombian town to try to win some of the $40,000 in prize money.

Tapia said the sport is growing in the United States.

He and some friends held contests in June and August that attracted about 5,000 people, he said.

And while his group is trying to make it safer for the bulls, it remains dangerous for the horsemen.

"Could you die out here?

Yes, you could die out here," he said as he wrapped one hand in white tape.

Asked whether he was injured, he shrugged it off.

"I'm not injured, just sore."

Coleo rules are different from country to country, but in Colombia it works like this: If a rider can roll a bull once, he gets 20 points.

A double roll gets him 30 points.

A triple roll is as rare as a grand slam in baseball, and is worth 40 points.

John Alejandro Useche, 25, is one of Colombia's top coleadores.

Thin and spindly, he somehow manages to force 1,100-pound bulls to flip side-over-side like rolling logs.

He claims that only riders from Colombia and Venezuela have the ability to make a bull roll three times.

But he says Team USA has excellent skills.

"Their level of competition is very, very high," he says.

"One of these days, they're going to beat us here in Colombia."

During a recent event in this small town, the U.S. coleadores came close: They took third prize and were named the best visiting team.

