Africa's wild elephants are being killed for their valuable ivory tusks.

Someday there could be no more elephants.

They would become extinct.

How can they be saved?

Wildlife groups have zeroed in on the question since China and the United States agreed to stop ivory selling in both countries.

They will put a ban in place.

Many welcomed the announcement from the White House on Sept. 25.

Yet they wondered about the details.

They also wondered how soon the ban would happen.

Peter Knights is head of WildAid.

His group helps protect elephants from the poachers who kill them for their tusks.

In 2009, China legalized the import of some ivory.

He said after that "poaching started to go up dramatically across Africa."

Knights hopes that the ban will have an equal effect in lowering poaching.

Some rich Chinese like to buy ivory jewelry, art and fancy carvings made of ivory.

Born Free Foundation, a wildlife group, says thousands of elephants are killed every year for their tusks.

China buys the most ivory in the world.

The United States is second.

China signed an agreement along with other countries.

This worldwide treaty was designed to protect species from extinction due to the wildlife trade.

In 1989, the convention declared the African elephant an endangered species.

Yet in 2008, a special case was made.

China was allowed to buy 62 tons of ivory that was stored in Botswana, South Africa, Namibia and Zimbabwe.

China imported the ivory in 2009.

China's government gives a certain amount each year to carving factories.

Recently, China's demand for ivory has exploded.

People in the country are making more money, and some want to spend it on ivory.

Save the Elephants, an animal rights group, says the price of elephant tusks has more than doubled.

Chinese President Xi Jinping and President Barack Obama had several meetings.

Then the White House made an announcement.

It said the United States and China will stop allowing imports and exports of ivory soon.

Hunters will not be allowed to bring ivory into the United States or China and sell it.

The two countries will cooperate.

They will teach people about elephants becoming extinct and train more police offers to make sure people follow the rules.

The White House did not say when the new plan would start.

The announcement was also made in China.

Experts say that the ban will do good.

It probably will not stop the ivory trade completely though, they say.

Grace Gabriel is with the International Fund for Animal Welfare in Asia.

"It is definitely a step in the right direction," she said.

It is good that President Xi Jinping now realizes the elephants are suffering, Gabriel added.

He knows that China is contributing to this problem.

However, experts say the ban needs to happen soon.

The Environmental Investigation Agency group says nearly all of China's ivory is from smuggled tusks.

China allows some businesses to sell older ivory.

Gabriel said that ivory sellers often sneak in smuggled, poached ivory instead.

A Chinese court sentenced an ivory seller to 15 years in prison.

He illegally brought 7.7 tons of ivory into China.

The law is very unclear.

People do not know what is legal and illegal, Gabriel said.

"Some places you buy are legal, some places are illegal.

And everybody is so confused," she added.

There is no ban in Hong Kong.

Experts say that could be a problem.

Hong Kong is bustling port city controlled by China.

Still, Hong Kong has its own law system.

It is a weak link in protecting wildlife.

In May, Beijing destroyed nearly 1,500 pounds of poached elephant tusks and ivory carvings.

The illegal ivory had made it into Chinese stores.

Environmental groups around the world praised the effort.

Hong Kong began destroying a 28-ton stockpile of ivory in the spring.

