Minutes after arriving by bus at an outlet mall in California, a dozen or so Chinese tourists hustled out to buy luggage that would soon be stuffed with high-end clothes, shoes and bags.

But not Guoshing Cui, a Samsung supervisor from Guangzhou.

He made a beeline for the Coach store, where he picked out three expensive handbags.

He paid more than $800 from a wad of $100 bills.

The bags were gifts for family and friends in China.

Coach goods sell there for two to three times the price in the United States.

"It's a smart move," he said of his purchases.

That kind of power shopping has made Chinese tourists the highest-spending overseas visitors to the United States.

This in turn makes them among the most valued customers for U.S. outlet malls, shopping centers and tour bus operators.

Chinese tourists spend about $3,000 per visit to California, compared with $1,900 for other overseas visitors, according to the latest government statistics.

About one-third of the spending goes for gifts and souvenirs.

"What we know about Chinese visitors is they don't like to lay on the beaches," said Ernest Wooden Jr., president of the Los Angeles Tourism and Convention Board.

"What they do like is shopping."

The Chinese money helped set a record for spending by foreign visitors to the United States -- $168.1 billion in 2012, according to U.S. officials.

China's strong economy and its growing middle class mean that more Chinese citizens have money to travel and spend, according to tourism experts.

The middle class in China numbered 247 million people in 2011.

That is 18 percent of the population.

It is projected to grow to more than 600 million by 2020.

Visitors to California from China are typically professionals, executives or managers.

They have an average annual income of $66,900.

That compares with an average income of about $5,000 for all Chinese residents.

To bring in more Chinese spending, store owners, hotel managers and tour guides in Southern California are going out of their way to welcome Chinese tourists.

Twenty of the 130 stores at the Desert Hills Premium Outlets have Mandarin-speaking sales clerks such as Jeffrey Hsu, who works at the mall's Ugg Australia store.

"I think we understand their customs," Hsu said.

"When someone comes to a foreign country, they want to bring back gifts for their family and friends."

Spending by Chinese travelers has grown fast in the past few years.

It now exceeds that of other high-spending visitors, including travelers from Japan, Australia, Brazil and South Korea.

The customs and characteristics of their economy back home shape how foreign visitors spend their time and money when they are in the United States.

Australians, for example, have a similar culture to people in the United States and are more likely than other travelers to visit museums, art galleries and historical places.

"We are fascinated by peoples of different cultures," said James McKay, an engineer from Melbourne, whose recent visit to the United States included a tour of Alcatraz, the former prison island in San Francisco.

He visited the Pearl Harbor memorial in Hawaii and Ground Zero in New York.

He also took a historic tour of Disneyland with his wife, Karen.

Japanese tourists spend heavily at restaurants because certain foods, especially red meat, are much more expensive at home, according to travel surveys.

That may explain why Morton's steakhouse in Beverly Hills, Calif., is hugely popular among Japanese tourists.

"Don't even put fish or chicken in front of them," Joanna Sanchez, a spokeswoman for the restaurant, said of Japanese visitors.

"They come for steak."

But Chinese tourists tend not to shop for themselves.

Most of their purchase -- usually high-end clothes and accessories shown in American movies and magazines -- are gifts for friends and family.

Chinese tourists in the United States target brands such as Coach, Ugg, Polo, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger and Neiman Marcus.

Steep Chinese taxes make such brands two to three times more expensive in China, said Helen Koo, president of America Asia Tours in Monterey Park, Calif. "Many tourists feel that the savings more than pay for the entire trip," she said.

Many Chinese visitors also stock up on vitamins in the United States because they are suspicious of the quality of supplements sold in China.

To stretch their travel budgets, Chinese tourists prefer shopping at outlet malls.

"We see many visitors head to the luggage store, get a suitcase and then it's, 'OK, we are going to fill the bag,' " said Michele Rothstein of Simon Property Group.

Simon is one of the country's largest mall operators.

Ding Sheng, a tourist from Guangzhou, China, said he took a tour to Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills and was planning to see the casinos of Las Vegas and the Grand Canyon.

But he said a shopping outing to the Cabazon outlet mall was the highlight of the trip.

Although Chinese tourists spend heavily on gifts and souvenirs, the travelers typically skimp on food and lodging, tour guides say.

For example, the tour group that chartered a bus to the Desert Hills Premium Outlets stayed about 75 miles away at an economy hotel and ate at Chinese buffet restaurants.

"Even when they stay at a cheap hotel, they spend a lot on shopping," said Nathan Xue, a tour guide for TPI America.

In fact, the Chinese travelers spent so much during the visit to the outlet mall that it took Xue an extra hour after his tour bus was scheduled to leave to pull the Chinese tourists away from the stores.

And when the shoppers finally returned to the bus, it took another 20 minutes for them to stuff their bulging bags of clothes, shoes and luggage into the bus's cargo hold.

