The bus brought a group of Chinese tourists to a California mall.

Most hurried to buy suitcases.

They were going to stuff them with expensive clothes, shoes and purses.

But not Guoshing Cui.

He went straight to the Coach store and picked out three expensive handbags.

He paid more than $800, using $100 bills.

The bags were gifts for family and friends in China.

Coach goods sell there for two to three times the price in the United States.

"It's a smart move," he said of his purchases.

That kind of shopping has made Chinese tourists the highest-spending visitors to the United States.

That is why malls, hotels and tour bus operators want them.

Chinese tourists spend about $3,000 each time they visit California.

Other overseas visitors only spend about $1,900, the government reported.

About one-third of the spending is on gifts and souvenirs.

"They don't like to lay on the beaches," said Ernest Wooden Jr., a tourism official.

"What they do like is shopping."

Visitors to the United States spent more than ever in 2012: $168.1 billion.

Chinese tourists helped set that new record.

China has a strong economy and a growing middle class.

This means more Chinese people have money to travel and to spend.

China had 247 million middle-class people in 2011.

There are expected to be 600 million by 2020.

Visitors to California from China usually have good jobs.

They make $66,900 a year on average.

That is about 13 times more than the average worker in China earns.

Store owners in Southern California really try to get Chinese tourists to shop.

Some stores have salespeople who speak their language.

One of those salespeople is Jeffrey Hsu.

He speaks Mandarin, one of China's main languages.

He works at the Ugg Australia store.

"I think we understand their customs," Hsu said.

"When someone comes to a foreign country, they want to bring back gifts for their family and friends."

People from different countries tend to follow a certain pattern on vacation.

Those patterns are shaped by conditions back home.

Australians have a similar culture to the U.S.

They are more likely than other travelers to visit museums and landmarks.

Japanese people spend a lot at restaurants.

This is because foods like red meat cost much more at home.

"Don't even put fish or chicken in front of them," Joanna Sanchez, a spokeswoman for Morton's steakhouse, said of Japanese visitors.

"They come for steak."

The Chinese tourists usually do not shop for themselves.

They buy gifts for friends and family.

Chinese tourists buy expensive clothes and other things that they see in American movies and magazines.

They look for names like Coach, Nike and Polo.

High Chinese taxes make these products much more expensive in China.

"Many tourists feel that the savings more than pay for the entire trip," one tour company executive said.

Many Chinese visitors also stock up on vitamins in the United States.

They are not sure if the vitamins in China are as good.

Chinese tourists like shopping at outlet malls.

This is a way to get more for their money.

Outlet malls are miles from major cities.

Each store sells only one brand.

They can sell goods at lower prices than department stores.

Ding Sheng is a tourist from China.

He took a tour to Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.

He was planning to see the casinos of Las Vegas and the Grand Canyon.

But he said a shopping outing to the outlet mall was the highlight of the trip.

Chinese tourists may spend lots of money on gifts and souvenirs.

But the travelers usually do not spend much on food and lodging, tour guides say.

"Even when they stay at a cheap hotel, they spend a lot on shopping," said Nathan Xue, a tour guide.

