More and more people are finding they can make money by selling their used cellphones and electronics.

Best Buy Co. Inc. has seen the change.

It launched a trade-in program in 2009 for things like cellphones, video games and the computers to play them on.

It's gotten more popular every year.

It's now accepting more than 11,000 different kinds.

The number of electronics traded in "has doubled every year since 2009," said Jeff Shelman, a Best Buy spokesman.

The numbers keep growing as well at Pawn America's 29 Midwest stores.

In 2013, sales of used cellphones were up by more than one-tenth.

Laptop sales increased as well.

So have tablets like iPads and Kindles.

The secondhand market for electronics is "super-hot," said Karl Hattman.

He works for Pawn America.

He said people "are more accepting of buying secondhand goods."

There are a lot of used machines people can buy.

There are plenty of people who want the latest and greatest technology.

They are willing to get rid of a still-valuable model from a year or two ago.

They can get  $50 to $200 or more for them.

They used to just leave them in a drawer and forget about them.

People are now getting new smartphones every 12 to 18 months.

It's less often for tablets and laptops, said Louis Ramirez at DealNews.com.

New kinds are coming out very quickly.

And they are trying to keep their electronics in good shape.

They keep the manual and the box they came in, Ramirez said.

They've learned that they get more money for them that way.

People have a flurry of different ways to unload their old electronics.

Stores have gotten into the act.

They let shoppers take the cost of what they are trading in off of whatever they want to buy.

It's called store credit.

Many websites will also pay money to people who mail in used electronics.

One such website is Gazelle.com.

Anthony Scarsella works for Gazelle.com.

He said when Apple came out with new iPhones, Gazelle began getting 600 offers a second from people trying to sell their old phones.

One retailer is taking the next step.

NYT Franchise Co. in Wayzata, Minn., just opened Device Pitstop in Minnetonka, Minn.

It buys and sells used and repaired electronics.

Laptop prices range from $99 to $500.

Tablets go from $159 to $400, and smartphones from $100 to $300.

A lot of people think small electronics can't be fixed and they can't sell them, said Dave Brennan.

He helps teach people about running stores at the University of St. Thomas.

But many think even a tablet with a cracked screen can be worth something.

Brennan said stores need to make shoppers feel safe about buying used electronics.

They should have workers who know a lot about electronics.

And they should offer some sort of a warranty.

People want to know that if if there is a problem, the store will fix it.

Like, what happens if you buy something and it breaks?

A warranty will take care of that.

It means if it breaks, the store will fix it or give you a new one.

Device Pitstop includes a warranty for 90 days after you buy something, said Mike Smith.

He is one of the heads of the company.

Smith thinks the used electronics market will continue to grow.

The store used to get mostly young men.

But now, he says it's getting older people and families, too.

They like being able to see and test used electronics in person.

That's something you can't do online, he pointed out.

