As new electronic devices come out, more people are selling their old ones for quick cash.

Best Buy Co. Inc. launched a trade-in program in 2009 for items such as cellphones, video games and the computers to play them on.

It's gotten more popular every year and is now accepting more than 11,000 different items.

"The trade-in volume has doubled every year since 2009," Jeff Shelman, a Best Buy spokesman, wrote in an email.

The numbers keep growing as well at Pawn America's 29 Midwest locations.

In 2013, sales of used cellphones were up 14 percent.

Laptop sales increased 30 percent, and tablet sales doubled.

"The secondhand market for personal electronics is super-hot," said Karl Hattman, regional manager for Pawn America.

"Consumers are more accepting of buying secondhand goods."

Fortunately for bargain hunters, there are also plenty of consumers who want the latest and greatest technology.

They are willing to get rid of a still-valuable model from a year or two ago.

With the value of the items ranging from $50 to $200 or more, they aren't sitting forgotten in a drawer anymore.

Consumers are now upgrading their smartphones every 12 to 18 months.

It's less often for tablets and laptops, said Louis Ramirez at DealNews.com.

"Manufacturers are refreshing their product lines so quickly that it's creating a bump for used electronics," he said.

The consumers are adapting as well.

"People are trying to maintain their devices in mint condition, and keep the original box and manual," Ramirez said.

"They've learned that they get more cash or credit for them."

They have a flurry of options to unload their old, but not too old, technology.

Pawnshops have been a popular go-to for many years.

Retailers such as Best Buy, Target, Wal-Mart and Radio Shack have gotten into the act as well.

It offers store credit in exchange for used personal electronics online or in stores.

Many sites will pay cash to people who mail in used devices (Gazelle.com, BuyBackWorld.com and Nextworth.com).

In response, companies such as Usell.com have popped up to list bids from multiple resellers.

Anthony Scarsella, who's in charge of gadgets or devices for Gazelle.com, gave an example.

He recalled when Apple CEO Tim Cook debuted the iPhone 5S and 5C models.

Within an hour, Gazelle began getting 600 offers per second on earlier models.

Manufacturers are joining in.

Apple offers store credit while Samsung offers a prepaid Visa card.

"Why let Amazon take their lunch when manufacturers can buy these items directly from the consumer?"

Ramirez said.

One retailer is going a step further.

NYT Franchise Co. in Wayzata, Minn., just opened Device Pitstop in Minnetonka, Minn.

It buys and sells used and refurbished smartphones, laptops, tablets and all-in-one computers from brands including Apple, Android, Acer, Compaq, Dell, HP, IBM, Sony and Toshiba.

Laptop prices range from $99 to $500.

Tablets go from $159 to $400, and smartphones from $100 to $300.

The retailer offers a number of services, doing repairs, upgrades and servicing.

Employees inspect devices in the store.

They make such common repairs as fixing cracked screens in-house, usually within a few days.

"A lot of people think small electronic items can't be fixed" and sold, said Dave Brennan, co-director of the University of St. Thomas Institute for Retailing Excellence.

But many electronics can be fixed.

Consumers are starting to realize that even a tablet with a cracked screen may have value.

Brennan said retailers need to reassure customers.

They should employ staff with significant technical skills and they should offer some sort of a warranty.

"Auto dealers are now offering certified and warrantied used cars," Brennan said.

"Consumers want assurance that the retailer will correct any issues that come up if they buy used."

Device Pitstop includes a 90-day warranty on all products, said Mike Smith, vice president of operations.

Terri Harris took her work iPad into Device Pitstop for an estimate on repairing a cracked screen.

"I didn't even know if it was possible to replace it," said Harris, of Maple Plain, Minn. "I've had clear tape holding it together for a year."

For $150 the crack could be repaired, but Harris had to check with her employer to approve the expense.

Device Pitstop is a franchised retailer with seven locations in Las Vegas, Phoenix and Lexington, Ky. Smith said the company hopes to add 300 nationwide within five years.

Smith is confident the used personal electronics market will continue to grow.

"It used to be young males, but now we're getting an older demographic and families, too," he said.

"They like being able to see and test used items in person, and getting a warranty.

You won't get that on eBay."

