Drivers around the country are going faster and faster.

Forty years ago, the speed limit was mostly 55 miles per hour (mph).

Then it became 65 or 75 mph.

Now, some states are raising their limits to 80 or even 85 mph.

Safety experts say faster driving leads to more accidents and deaths.

High speeds play a part in 1 of every 3 highway deaths.

Drivers passing through Leeds, Utah, experience the change.

Just outside Leeds, the speed limit changes from 75 mph to 80 mph.

Drivers can do 80 mph for the next 250 miles — about four hours.

Russ Rader is an expert on driving safety.

He said higher speed limits lead to more crashes.

"Higher speed limits get people to their destinations faster," Rader said.

"But there's always a cost."

That cost would be more serious crashes and more deaths, he said.

"About 10,000 Americans die every year in crashes that are related to speed," Rader said.

"It's too many."

Thirteen states have raised their speed limits since 2005.

Most of them have set the highest limits at 70 or 75 mph.

Idaho and Wyoming have pushed them higher.

They have allowed cars to go 80 mph in some places.

Lawmakers in Montana are considering a speed limit of 85 mph.

It would match Texas for the fastest roads in the nation.

In Utah, officials support the faster speed limit.

They say there have been fewer accidents where the speed limit was raised.

Studies there show that more drivers are following the new limit, too.

It's not just the wide-open countryside that is seeing higher speeds.

Utah raised some speed limits on highways in the state capital Salt Lake City from 65 mph to 70 mph.

State highway official John Gleason said the higher limits help traffic flow more smoothly.

"We really don't think we're changing the speed that most people drive," Gleason said.

"We're changing the legal limit to reflect speeds they're already doing."

Safety experts generally do not like the higher speed limits.

In the West, some drivers definitely do.

"This is the West.

This is the way we roll," newspaper editor Robert Ehlert wrote.

For Ehlert, driving 80 mph is about freedom.

Truck driver Jake Hansen stopped for coffee at a gas station in Utah.

He had more time because of the higher speed limit.

"It does make a difference.

I can get ahead of schedule," Hansen said.

"You get there faster.

You unload faster."

A group of truck drivers and trucking companies is against higher speed limits, though.

The American Trucking Organization supports a 65 mph national speed limit.

"Our guys are out there on the road every day," said Sean McNally of the organization.

Higher speeds make accidents more likely, he said.

