A lot of people are mad at Uintah Elementary.

Last week, about 40 students had their $2 school lunches taken away at the Utah school.

Their parents owed money to the [school lunch program](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school+lunch), so the school threw away their food.

Now, the Salt Lake City school district is promising to make broad changes.

They say what happened will never happen again.

On Tuesday, child nutrition department director Kelly Orton delivered a report to the school board.

He blamed the lunch-seizing on two things.

The first was a failure to follow school rules.

The second was a failure to tell parents money was owed for their children's lunches.

"We took food trays away and embarrassed students, and for that I am sorry," Orton's report says.

"No child will have their meal tray taken away ever again."

Orton said new guidelines have been created for people in charge of the school kitchen.

The district also plans to do a better job of letting parents know about how much money their kids have for lunch.

Parents will receive messages when their child's lunch account is at $10 and when it's empty.

Once an account is empty, daily messages will track how much is owed.

The lunch-seizing occurred on Jan. 28.

Students trying to buy lunch had their meals thrown away, angering parents and stirring anger around the country.

The district has told a cafeteria manager and a district supervisor to not come to work.

The two workers are still being paid.

The report did not say whose decision it was to toss the lunches.

The children who had their meals thrown out were given milk and fruit instead.

This is standard practice when students don't have lunch money.

Several dozen parents attended the meeting.

Some said the report was vague and that the cafeteria worker put on leave was being unfairly blamed.

Some parents said they want Orton and his staff to be held accountable.

Lunchroom workers should not be held responsible for school rules, said Lynn Lonardo.

Her daughter's lunch, she added, was among those taken away last week.

But Heather Bennett, board vice president, said the two workers were not being punished.

District Superintendent McKell Withers said they were told not to come to work because they might be in danger.

Indeed, several threatening phone calls have been made to the school.

Police, however, have decided there is no real danger.

Bennett and other board members said they were just as upset as parents.

"We share your real horror," she said.

Orton admitted one big failing: His department didn't properly tell parents about a new electronic payment system.

Orton said the lunch program's new electronic system is faster and cheaper to run.

But it does not automatically send out messages when accounts dip, like the old system did.

Parents have to keep track of payments on their own.

The department, he said, failed to get that "information out effectively."

Orton said meals will never again be taken from kids.

And from now on, parents will be notified of low balances.

Students will still be able to receive meals for a week after accounts dip below zero.

Some parents weren't satisfied by the report.

It was still unclear, they said, what the payment system's problems were.

And it wasn't clear who was responsible for taking away the lunches.

"It was never answered who decided this," parent Sarah Turley said.

She said her own daughter was one of the kids who had their lunch tossed.

