About 40 students had their $2 school lunches taken away last week.

Their parents owed money to the [school's lunch program](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=school%20lunch), so the school threw their food away.

Now, a lot of parents are mad at the people who run the Utah school.

The lunches were taken back on Jan. 28.

Students trying to buy lunch had their meals thrown away.

Now parents and people all over the country are angry.

The children who had their meals thrown out were given milk and fruit instead.

That is what usually happens when students do not have lunch money.

The Salt Lake City school district is promising to make big changes.

They say what happened will never happen again.

On Tuesday, Kelly Orton, the man in charge of the district lunch program, spoke up at a school district meeting.

He blamed the lunch-seizing on two things.

The first was a failure to follow school rules.

The second was a failure to tell parents they owed money for their children's lunches.

"We took food trays away and embarrassed students," Orton declared.

"For that I am sorry," he said.

"No child will have their meal tray taken away ever again."

Orton said new rules have been created.

And, he said, the district will do a better job of notifying parents when money is owed.

Parents will now be told when their child's lunch account drops to $10.

And they will be told again when it is empty.

Once an account is empty, they will get a message every day.

This will let them see just how much they owe.

The report did not say who made the decision to toss the lunches.

But two people have been suspended.

One is a cafeteria worker, the other is a school official.

Several dozen parents attended the meeting.

Some said the report did not have enough details.

They also said the suspended cafeteria worker was being unfairly blamed.

Some parents said they want Orton to be held responsible.

Lunchroom workers should not be blamed, said Lynn Lonardo.

They do not make the rules.

Her own daughter's lunch, she added, was taken away last week.

But board Vice President Heather Bennett said parents misunderstood.

The workers were asked to take time off for their own safety, she said.

Indeed, several threatening phone calls have been made to the school.

But police have decided there is no real danger.

Bennett said she and other board members are just as upset as parents.

"We share your real horror," she said.

Orton admitted one big failing: His department did not properly tell parents about a new electronic payment system.

Orton said the lunch program's new electronic system is better overall.

But it does not automatically send out email messages when parents owe money.

That is something the old system did.

So parents were no longer being notified when accounts dipped.

They had to keep track of what they owed on their own.

The department, he said, failed to get that "information out effectively."

Orton said meals will never again be taken away from kids.

And from now on, parents will be notified of low balances.

And what if accounts dip below zero?

Students will still be able to receive meals for a week.

Some parents were not satisfied by the report.

It was still unclear, they said, what the payment system's problems were.

And it was not clear who was responsible for taking back the lunches.

"It was never answered who decided this," parent Sarah Turley said.

Her own daughter was one of the kids who had their lunch thrown out, she said.

