Speed limits are moving higher all over the country, especially in wide-open Western states like Utah and Montana.

Along Interstate 15, in the small town of Leeds, Utah, there is not much to see.

But just outside town, there is something exciting: The speed limit changes from 75 miles per hour (mph) to 80 mph.

The limit stays 80 mph for 250 more miles.

Drivers passing through this desert country can now zoom a little faster.

Still, many safety officials say higher speed limits will lead to more deaths on the roads.

High speeds play a part in 1 out of every 3 highway deaths.

The research on raising speed limits is clear, said Russ Rader of the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety.

It is a group that works to reduce car crashes.

"Higher speed limits get people to their destinations faster, but there's always a cost: Ultimately, there will be more severe crashes and more deaths on those roads," Rader said.

Thirteen states have raised their speed limits since 2005.

Among them are Georgia, Illinois, Maine, New Hampshire, Kentucky and Ohio.

Most of these have set the highest limits at 70 or 75 mph.

Idaho and Wyoming have gone further, allowing cars to go 80 mph in some places.

Lawmakers in Montana are considering a speed limit of 85 mph.

It would match Texas for fastest roads in the nation.

State officials say they are not encouraging people to drive faster.

They are just changing limits to match how people already drive.

Highway safety expert Kara Macek blames the speed increases on "peer pressure."

"When your neighbor increases its speed to 80, there's pressure to do the same," Macek said.

"Motorists are giving in to the need to get everywhere quickly — especially out West, where it takes forever to get places."

In Utah, highway officials say there are fewer crashes where the speed limit was raised to 80 mph.

More drivers are following the new limit too, a 2009 study showed.

High speeds are one thing out in the country, but another thing in the city.

Utah recently raised the speed limit from 65 mph to 70 mph on freeways around Salt Lake City, the state capital.

Utah highway official John Gleason said the higher limits help traffic run more smoothly.

"We really don't think we're changing the speed that most people drive," Gleason said.

"We're changing the legal limit to reflect speeds they're already doing."

Safety experts advise against raising speed limits on roads that are shared by cars, walkers, bikes, and buses.

New York City, for example, recently lowered speed limits from 30 to 25 mph to protect walkers.

"About 10,000 Americans die every year in crashes that are related to speed," Rader said.

"It's too many."

Today, fuel prices are low and cars use less gas than they once did.

There is little motivation to slow down.

Safety experts might not like the higher speed limits, but some in the West definitely do.

"The 80 mph speed limit is symbolic of my individuality and freedom," Robert Ehlert wrote in the Idaho Statesman newspaper.

"This is the West.

This is the way we roll."

At a gas station outside Leeds, truck driver Jake Hansen stopped for a break and some coffee.

He was not in a rush, thanks to the higher speed limit.

"It does make a difference — I can get ahead of schedule," Hansen, age 26, said.

"You get there faster.

You unload faster."

But a group of truck drivers and trucking companies is against higher speed limits.

The American Trucking Organization supports a 65 mph national speed limit.

"Our guys are out there on the road every day," the organization's Sean McNally said.

Higher speeds make accidents more likely and more serious, he said.

