Last week, a 9-year-old girl accidentally shot a firearms teacher at a shooting range.

The death is leading some people across the country to ask why a child was firing a high-powered weapon.

But those who like firearms and teach people how to use them have a different question.

What's the proper way to teach children about guns?

The teacher, Charles Vacca, was killed on Aug. 25 while teaching the girl to fire an Uzi submachine gun at the Last Stop outdoor range in Arizona.

The gun was invented to be used by soldiers.

Vacca, 39, was teaching the girl how to fire an Uzi.

She lost control of the weapon and accidentally shot Vacca.

Officials  are not releasing the names of the girl and her parents.

No one will be charged with a crime, according to local police.

Butch Jensen is a firearms instructor at the Southeast Regional Park Shooting Range in Arizona.

A shooting range is a place where people can practice to shoot guns.

Parents should be the ones to decide if their child is allowed to shoot a gun, he said.

The key is training.

A gun is a tool, and like any tool — be it a hammer or a kitchen knife — it requires proper instruction, he said.

"It was clear that she was a beginner, and you don't start a beginner in that type of firearm," Jensen said.

The range where Jensen works does not allow full automatic fire.

A firearm on full automatic fire shoots bullets in a steady stream while the trigger is pressed.

The Uzi the girl was shooting was on full automatic fire at the time of the accident.

At Jensen's range, there is no age limit for shooting at the range.

However, children under 16 must be closely watched by a parent.

There were no children Thursday morning at the outdoor range, where people fired toward a large ridge of dirt.

Blake Carrington took aim at a paper target.

Above him was a sign.

It read: "Safety is no accident."

Carrington has taught his 10-year-old daughter to shoot.

"I personally would never give my child a fully automatic weapon," he said.

"I feel terrible for that little girl having to live with that."

Carrington said he wasn't sure whether gun laws should be stricter for children.

"That's the thing about guns," he said.

"They will do exactly what the human tells them to do.

Poor decision making is what gets us."

Federal law does not allow children under 18 to own a gun.

However, it doesn't prevent children from firing them.

Arizona is one of 21 states that allows children under 18 to fire guns.

There must be adult supervision, though, said Lindsey Zwicker.

She is a lawyer with the Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence.

Currently, 28 states and the District of Columbia have laws about children and firearms.

Connecticut forbids children under 16 from handling a machine gun at a shooting range.

The law was passed after an 8-year-old boy died at a gun show.

He had lost control of an Uzi he was firing.

"When things like this happen, we do draw our attention to the law," Zwicker said.

"There is discussion on what can be done to prevent this in the future."

Standing near Carrington at the gun range was Tom.

He did not want his last name used for the article.

He worries the accident last week will give anti-gun people another reason to outlaw guns.

Tom said he shoots for sport and to exercise his Second Amendment rights.

The Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protects the right to have guns.

"I don't think you should keep kids away from firearms," he said.

"This shouldn't keep people from taking their kids to the range."

Still, Tom said he could not understand  why the 9-year-old girl was allowed to shoot an Uzi.

"I don't know what they were thinking," he said.

"My personal opinion is someone under 15 years of age playing with a submachine weapon is not a good idea."

Sean Yeandle is a firearms teacher.

He works at the Marksman Pistol Institute I.

He has never seen an Uzi shot there by anyone under 21 years old.

Children have to be at least 10 to shoot at the range and a parent has to be watching at all times.

Also, a teacher makes sure to stay behind the shooter for safety and to keep control of the gun.

As for teaching a child to shoot an Uzi, he said, that it's not worth the risk.

