Chance Mair has trouble showing his feelings sometimes.

Whether he is happy or sad, he sometimes does not know what to do.

He also finds it hard to tell how other people are feeling.

Mair has Asperger's syndrome.

His brain works a little differently than most people's brains.

It was certainly a happy night at Marysville Arts and Technology High School recently.

Mair and the school's 50 other 12th-graders were graduating.

Students filed into the auditorium in black gowns and royal-blue scarves.

For Mair it was not only that he was graduating.

He was the class valedictorian — the top student in his grade.

He would be giving the valedictorian speech.

Being a valedictorian is a big deal for anybody.

Giving a speech is a very big deal for someone with Asperger's syndrome.

Mair had never told most of his classmates that he has Asperger's.

"It's one of those things that for the longest time I didn't want to tell people," he said.

"But now that I'm graduating, I don't want to hold it back — I want people to know me for who I really am."

Mair grew up in Marysville, Washington.

As a child, he spent years learning how to do things that come naturally to other children.

Having Asperger's meant he did not talk much, and often did not understand how others were feeling.

Loud noises and strong flavors bothered him a great deal.

It was a struggle for him to let other children know he wanted to play with them.

Instead of saying anything, he would simply stand quietly by their side.

When he has to say something he can sometimes "get really nervous, really scared," he said.

"Sometimes it's not even a shyness, sometimes it's like a fear."

Bowling is one thing that has helped Mair get better at talking to people.

Mair became fascinated with the sport when he was about 5 years old.

He ended up playing with different teams in bowling alleys around the Marysville area.

One reason he liked bowling so much is that you can bowl how you want, and in your own style.

"There's no one kind of person, there's no one way you can bowl," he said.

Mair feels at home in a bowling alley, said his father, Derek Mair.

"Doesn't matter what bowling alley — he loves it."

At Marysville Arts and Technology high school, Mair was a member of the bowling team.

His favorite ball is a 15-pound, solid blue Hy-Road.

"It's the one I've been using the longest and the one I can always count on to get strikes.

It's never let me down," he said.

Mair has also always been very good at math.

His mother, Christine, remembers he would write numbers into the thousands back in kindergarten.

"I can count better than I can talk sometimes," he said.

By the time he was in high school, Mair was very advanced in math.

He was so good at it that he ended up taking courses at Everett Community College.

In August, Mair will start at Washington State University, where he will study math.

"I'm really happy that I've achieved so much and that I've gotten to this point in life," he said.

Many at Marysville High only learned about Mair's Asperger's when he gave his valedictorian speech.

During the speech Mair said his struggles are just like the struggles everyone faces in their lives.

Everyone has challenges they need to beat, he said.

It is just a matter of learning how and moving forward.

"Wherever our individual paths take us, there will be challenges," Mair told the other students.

There will be people and situations that say, "No we can't," he said.

"It's up to us to decide whether or not we listen to them."

"We choose whether we sink or swim, stand up or lay down, fight or fall, succeed or fail."

After he finished speaking, the entire audience cheered loudly.

Asperger's could not keep Chance Mair down.

