For 60 years a painting gathered dust in an attic in Norway.

It was thought to be a fake.

But this month experts found it was really painted by Vincent Van Gogh.

It is the first full-size painting by the famous painter to be discovered since 1928.

The work was created in 1888.

Its title is "Sunset at Montmajour."

It was sent to the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam.

Many of the Dutch artist's paintings are there.

Experts looked at Van Gogh's letters, the chemicals in the paint, and X-rays of the painting to make sure it was done by Van Gogh.

Axel Rueger of the museum said finding the painting was a "once-in-a-lifetime" event.

The museum would not say who the owner was.

He had brought the artwork to the museum in 2011 so experts could determine if it was truly a Van Gogh.

The artist's paintings are among the most expensive in the world.

Buyers pay tens of millions of dollars when one is put on sale.

The painting will be shown at the museum beginning Sept. 24.

"Sunset at Montmajour" is roughly 37-by-29-inches.

It shows twisting oak trees, bushes and sky.

It was painted when Van Gogh was using thick "impasto" brush strokes.

They became typical of his work in the final years of his short life.

Experts can say the exact day it was painted.

Van Gogh described it in a letter to his brother, Theo.

He said he had painted it the day before — July 4, 1888.

"At sunset I was on a stony heath where very small, twisted oaks grow," Van Gogh wrote.

"In the background a ruin on the hill and wheat fields in the valley."

But Van Gogh thought that the painting wasn't good enough.

Later he sent it to Theo to keep.

Van Gogh killed himself in 1890.

He sold only one painting during his lifetime.

Three researchers wrote an article in The Burlington Magazine.

They said the painting was recorded as number 180 in Theo's collection.

It was given the name "Sun Setting at Arles."

It was sold to a Frenchman named Maurice Fabre in 1901.

Fabre bought and sold art.

Fabre never wrote down that he sold the work.

The painting disappeared from history.

It only reappeared in 1970.

It was owned by Norwegian industrialist Christian Nicolai Mustad.

Mustad's family said he bought it in 1908 as a young man.

It was one of his first tries at art collecting.

He was soon told that it was a fake.

Mustad hid it in the attic out of embarrassment.

Mustad died in 1970.

Afterward, the famous art seller Daniel Wildenstein took another look at it.

He said he thought the painting was a fake Van Gogh.

It was sold to a collector.

The museum would not say who bought it or if it had been resold since then.

Teio Meedendorp worked on the magazine project.

He said the painting was done at a time when Van Gogh's style was changing.

Experts who looked at the painting before might have been confused by this.

The museum took a fresh look at the work in 2011.

Its experts had the help of a new collection of all of Van Gogh's letters.

They were able to tell the exact place "Sunset" depicts: Montmajour hill, near Arles, France.

The ruins of Montmajour Abbey can be seen behind it.

Van Gogh mentioned the painting in two other letters that same summer.

Meedendorp said the painting is part of a special group of Van Gogh's paintings.

He sometimes thought they weren't as good as people do today.

He said another Van Gogh could be found someday.

The artist completed more than 800 works.

He destroyed some when he wasn't satisfied with the results.

But there are others that are mentioned in his letters which haven't been found.

The Van Gogh Museum houses 140 Van Gogh paintings.

More than a million visitors come per year.

