The display at the Weiser Family Farms' stand at the Santa Monica farmers market was sparse, even by early spring standards - potatoes, some green shallots, garlic and a little sprouting broccoli.

The lilacs that signal the start of spring for many Southern Californians came and went weeks ago.

But a couple of stalls down, a shopper could find cherries, apricots, and even peaches and nectarines that tasted like midsummer.

That, in a nutshell, is the state of California's nearly $30 billion produce industry, which accounts for more than half of the fresh fruits and vegetables grown in America.

Fruit has been ripening and ready to pick at almost shockingly early dates.

At the same time, some vegetables have been in extremely short supply, resulting in much higher than normal prices.

Lettuces are selling at wholesale for twice what they were at this time last year.

The wholesale price is what supermarkets pay to distributors — or wholesalers — who buy the produce farmers grow and ship it to supermarkets.

Although the last four years of little rain have played a role in this agricultural drama, farmers also point to the effects of two exceedingly warm winters.

For shoppers, it means less salad and more dessert.

Warm weather pushes plants to grow faster and fruit to ripen earlier, and this year has been far warmer than normal.

Temperatures in the vegetable-producing Salinas Valley - typically in the low 60s in January and February - spiked to near 80 several times.

In Fresno, the center of California's fruit tree industry, winter temperatures hit 15 to 20 degrees higher than normal.

The higher temperatures have interrupted the tight schedule of planting and harvesting that farmers rely on to ensure a smooth supply of produce throughout the year.

Farmers plan their calendars precisely so that the harvest will move smoothly from one field to the next, with one crop becoming ready to pick just as the last is finishing up.

Warm weather pushes some fields to be ready to harvest much earlier, leaving a gap until the next set of fields is ready.

For the Weiser family, spring's lilacs were blooming in March and done by mid-April — when they usually are just getting started.

Much the same was true of their other spring crops, such as carrots and parsnips.

"We're usually a little light this time of year, but this spring, the timing is just different," said Alex Weiser, whose vegetables are on the menu at some of South California's finest restaurants.

Summer, on the other hand, will come early this year.

The Weisers took advantage of the warm weather to plant melons three weeks earlier, which should ripen in a couple of weeks rather than in mid-June.

After two warm winters in a row, Alex Weiser vows he'll be ready to avoid the spring gap next time around.

"Next year, we'll have more to sell because we can plan for it," he said.

"We can't take things for granted and just do what we normally would do.

Things just aren't the same as they used to be."

The effects of the warm weather certainly aren't limited to small farmers, as Brian Antle knows.

The third-generation grower at Salinas-based produce giant Tanimura & Antle says it became obvious early this winter that crops such as lettuce, celery, broccoli and cauliflower would mature two to three weeks ahead of schedule.

Making matters worse, a spell of cool temperatures in April slowed the growth in other fields with the same crops, widening the gap further.

"Usually you might see a gap in one commodity," Antle said.

But "everything across board is much higher (in price) than it usually is."

The shortages are reflected in the wholesale prices — the price the farmers sell a crop for — reported by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.

Red leaf lettuce has doubled in price from a year ago, and romaine lettuce is up 50 percent.

"As soon as we put our best-laid plans on paper, Mother Nature comes along," said Mark McBride of Coastline Family Farms, based in the Salinas Valley.

All winter, McBride's produce has been 10 to 21 days ahead of schedule, and for the next few weeks, he'll have much less to sell until other crops come in.

The situation is noticeably brighter for fruit lovers.

The warm winter weather has pushed Southern California's tree fruit such as cherries, apricots, even peaches and nectarines to an earlier start.

The cherry harvest, for example, started three weeks ahead of schedule, in mid- to late April, rather than May.

Partly as a result, cherries in the grocery store were a dollar a pound cheaper last week than a year before.

Warm winter weather can cause problems for tree fruits, which need cold weather in order to produce a healthy crop.

So far this year, that doesn't seem to be a major problem.

Although most farmers are predicting harvests that will be slightly smaller than average, they certainly won't be a disaster, as the cherry harvest was last year when it was less than one-third the typical size.

At the Santa Monica farmers market, chef Walter Manzke from the highly praised Republique restaurant was pulling a trolley laden with vegetables and fruits.

"Buying nectarines this early is usually a little questionable," Manzke said.

"I don't like getting fruit so early that you get sick of it before it really gets ripe and good.

"But at the same time, when it's good, it's good," Manzke said.

"These have real flavor.

You can't always count on the calendar to tell you when you're supposed to be eating something."

