The Weiser Family Farms' stand had potatoes, onions and garlic — and not much else.

But a couple of stalls down at the farmers market, a shopper could find all the fresh fruit he could want.

There were cherries, apricots, and even peaches and nectarines.

That, in a nutshell, is the situation in California.

The state does $30 billion a year in its fruit and vegetable business.

California grows more than half of the fresh produce in America.

Fruit has been ripening and ready to pick at surprisingly early dates.

At the same time, some vegetables have been in very short supply.

This has caused prices to be higher than usual.

Farmers are selling their lettuces for twice what they were at this time last year.

The price of cauliflower has doubled just since February.

There has been little rain for four years now.

That is one big reason.

However, two extremely warm winters also had an effect.

Warm weather pushes plants to grow faster and fruit to ripen earlier.

For shoppers, it means less salad and more fruit.

The higher temperatures have interrupted planting and harvesting.

Farmers set a schedule to make sure there is a supply of produce throughout the year.

Farmers plan their calendars.

They want one crop to be ready to pick just as the last one is finishing up.

For the Weiser family, lilacs were blooming in March and done a month later.

Mid-April is usually when the flowers are just getting started.

The same thing was true of their other spring crops, such as carrots and parsnips.

On the other hand, summer will come early.

The Weisers planted melons three weeks earlier.

They should ripen in a couple of weeks, instead of when they usually do in mid-June.

Brian Antle is a produce grower at Tanimura & Antle in Salinas.

He says it became clear early this winter that some vegetables would ripen two to three weeks early.

It may be hard to find some vegetables in grocery stores now because those crops ripened early.

When produce is hard to find, people must pay more to get it.

Red leaf lettuce has doubled in price from a year ago.

Romaine lettuce is up by half.

"As soon as we put our best-laid plans on paper, Mother Nature comes along," said Mark McBride.

He is with Coastline Family Farms based in the Salinas Valley.

All winter the farm has been 10 to 21 days ahead of schedule.

For the next few weeks, McBride will have much less to sell until other crops finish growing.

The situation is much brighter for fruit lovers.

The warm winter weather has pushed Southern California's fruit trees to bloom earlier.

The cherry harvest, for example, started three weeks ahead of schedule.

Usually, the cherry harvest begins in May.

Since there is so much fruit, prices have gone down.

Farmers will sell the fruit cheaper so it doesn't go bad.

Last week, cherry prices were a dollar a pound cheaper than a year before.

Well-known chef Walter Manzke paid a visit to the Santa Monica farmers market.

He pulled a cart piled high with vegetables and fruits.

Manzke said he usually does not like buying nectarines in May.

"I don't like getting fruit so early that you get sick of it before it really gets ripe and good," he said.

"But at the same time, when it's good, it's good," Manzke said.

"These have real flavor.

You can't always count on the calendar to tell you when you're supposed to be eating something."

