Waiting for hours in line to buy groceries, Helena Siso did not know or care who was to blame.

She just wanted the Venezuelan government to do something about it.

"This is very frustrating," said Siso, a secretary.

"Here I am on my lunch hour and I have to spend three hours in line to buy toilet paper.

Tomorrow, I'll have to come back to get corn flour.

I don't want the government to give me anything, just save me from submitting to these lines and this desperation."

Many Venezuelans like Siso were frustrated with the president, Nicolas Maduro, and his annual speech about how the country is doing.

In his speech, Maduro defended Venezuela's socialist government but did not offer help for the country's economy.

In a socialist economy, the government owns many businesses and individuals cannot buy and sell things on their own easily.

The government sets prices for most items, including food.

Venezuela has been a socialist country since Hugo Chavez was elected president in 1998.

He opposed U. S. policies and took over many Venezuelan businesses.

Maduro was Chavez's vice president.

He became president after Chavez died in 2013 and has followed most of his ideas.

Venezuelans have to wait in long lines for sugar, cooking oil, soap, rice and other things that are in short supply.

Last year, the cost of living went up faster than anywhere in Latin America.

Economists think Venezuela's economy will get worse this year.

They blame a fall in the price of oil.

Venezuela is a big oil producer and depends on exports, selling oil to other countries to keep its economy going.

But the price of oil has dropped 50 percent over the past few months, so Venezuela will earn less money from exports this year.

Maduro defended the socialist system in his speech, saying it is a fair way to spread the country's money around to people who need it.

He also said it protects Venezuela's economy from countries that want to harm it.

Maduro blames the United States for his country's economic problems.

He claims the United States is producing more of its own oil to make Venezuela's oil worth less and make his government weaker.

Construction worker Ramon Diaz waited in line at a supermarket in Caracas, the nation's capital.

He was bothered that many items, such as milk, do not get to the government stores where they sell at fixed prices.

Instead, thieves take them before they get to the store, then sell them on the black market at three times the price.

Siso said the lines are getting longer and tougher, as people get more frustrated.

She said she will not go shopping in her neighborhood, because the "law of the jungle" is what rules there.

"Those who push, shove and punch take everything and leave nothing for the rest of us," she said.

Jose Delgado, a janitor, was one of the few people standing in line who defended the government.

He blamed the shortages on businesses and shoppers buying lots of goods and storing them.

Delgado is among the many people who supported the late Hugo Chavez and are still behind the government.

Many Venezuelans said tougher times have not turned them against Maduro.

"I am with my comandante," Delgado said, calling Maduro by the same nickname Venezuelans called Chavez.

"The people in these lines buy more than they need and so that's why everything runs out so fast," he said.

The blame lies closer to home, with the government, said Zulay Gutierrez, a 30-year-old hotel employee.

She was waiting in line to buy diapers at a drugstore in Caracas.

"There are scarcities in everything, especially in children's things, like milk, vitamins, shampoo and diapers," she said.

"There is no soap to wash dishes or clothes.

When there is chicken or meat to buy, you have to fight your way through the line to buy it."

President Maduro announced an increase in the minimum wage for workers, which is the lowest amount someone can be paid for doing a job.

He offered more scholarships for high school and college students so they can afford school.

He also said it is time to raise the price of gasoline, but he did not say when.

The higher minimum wage did not impress many Venezuelans.

They said it will not be enough to make up for the rising prices and the cost of living.

Carlos Frias was not thinking about those details as he stood in line at a drug store.

"This is how I live every day, standing in line for milk and diapers," he said.

"The country's broke, and we are seeing the consequences."

