Waiting in line for hours to buy groceries at a supermarket in Caracas, Helena Siso didn't know or care who was to blame for the acute shortages of food and other goods plaguing Venezuela.

She just wanted the government to do something about it.

"This is very frustrating," said Siso, a 54-year-old secretary.

"Here I am on my lunch hour and I have to spend three hours in line to buy toilet paper.

Tomorrow, I'll have to come back to get corn flour.

I don't want the government to give me anything, just save me from submitting to these lines and this desperation."

Siso's comments were typical of the irritation many Venezuelans felt after their president made his annual speech about the state of the country.

President Nicolas Maduro did not offer any solutions for the growing crisis in the country's economy.

The country is low on money and prices for food and other basic necessities have been rising.

Still, Maduro defended the socialist model of Venezuela's government.

In a socialist economy, the government owns many businesses and individuals cannot always buy and sell things on their own freely.

The government sets prices for many items, including food, and keeps some prices low on purpose.

Venezuela has been a socialist country since Hugo Chavez was elected president in 1998 and took over many businesses.

He opposed many United States policies.

Maduro was Chavez's vice president and became president after Chavez died in 2013 and has followed most of the plans he put in place.

Venezuelans have to wait in long lines for sugar, cooking oil, soap, rice and other things that are in short supply.

The country's economy is getting worse and last year the prices of goods and other costs of living went up faster than anywhere else in Latin America.

Economists predict Venezuela's economy will get worse this year because the price of oil has dropped dramatically.

Venezuela is a big oil producer and depends on exports, selling oil to other countries, to keep its economy growing.

But the price of oil has dropped 50 percent in the past few months, so it will earn less money from exports this year.

Maduro defended the socialist system in his speech before Venezuela's National Assembly, saying it spreads Venezuela's wealth around in a fair way that helps the most people.

He said it also helps the country fight what he called acts of "economic warfare" it suffered in 2014.

Maduro blames the United States for his country's economic problems and claims the United States is producing more oil to drive down its price and make his government weaker.

Construction worker Ramon Diaz waited in line at a supermarket in Caracas.

He said what bothered him was that many items such as milk, which are meant to be sold at fixed prices in government stores, don't get there.

Instead, they are stolen and end up on the black market, where they sell at three times the prices the government ordered.

Siso said the lines are not only longer but more violent, a sign of rising frustration.

She will not go shopping in her neighborhood, because the "law of the jungle" is what rules there.

"Those who push, shove and punch take everything and leave nothing for the rest of us," she said.

Jose Delgado, a 42-year-old janitor, was one of the few people standing in line who defended the government.

He blamed the scarcity on hoarding.

"The people in these lines buy more than they need and so that's why everything runs out so fast," he said.

Delgado is among the many people who supported the late Hugo Chavez and are still behind the government.

Many Venezuelans said tougher times have not turned them against Maduro.

"I am with my comandante," Delgado said, calling Maduro by the same nickname Venezuelans called Chavez.

The blame lies closer to home, with the government, said Zulay Gutierrez, a 30-year-old hotel employee who was waiting in line to buy disposable diapers at a drugstore in Caracas.

"It's the government's fault," she said.

"There are scarcities in everything, especially in children's things, like milk, vitamins, shampoo and diapers.

There is no soap to wash dishes or clothes.

When there is chicken or meat to buy, you have to fight your way through the line to buy it."

President Maduro announced an increase in the minimum wage for workers, which is the least amount of money a person can get paid for work.

Maduro also said there would be more scholarships to help high school and college students afford schooling.

He also said it is time to raise the price of gasoline — which the government has kept very low in Venezuela — but did not say when.

The higher minimum wage did not impress many Venezuelans, who said it won't be enough to make up for the rising prices and the cost of living.

Carlos Frias wasn't thinking about those details as he stood in line at a drug store.

"This is how I live every day, standing in line for milk and diapers," he said.

"The country's broke, and we are seeing the consequences."

