To grow vegetables, the soil has to be just right.

If there is too much salt in it, vegetables will not grow.

Salt is a big problem for farmers in Chandipur.

It is a village in southwestern Bangladesh.

Bangladesh is a country in Asia that is surrounded by rivers.

There are many floods in Bangladesh.

When the weather is bad, the rivers get too full.

Then the water overflows.

This sends salty water flooding over the land.

The salt soaks into the soil.

Even once the water dries up, the salt stays behind.

The soil becomes unusable and farmers cannot grow enough food.

For the past three years, however, farmers in Bangladesh have grown crops in a new way.

They have started using something called "vertical gardens."

Vertical gardens grow up, instead of flat on the ground.

They are made of containers full of soil and vegetables.

The containers are usually small.

Still, they can produce a lot of food.

The containers are raised above the ground.

It protects soil and plants from floods.

The gardens can make it through a storm without being destroyed.

Shakuri Rani Debnath lives in Chandipur.

Her vertical garden produced a lot of food this summer.

She grew almost 450 pounds of vegetables.

Her fruits and vegetables included pumpkins, squash, cauliflower, tomatoes, spinach and chili peppers.

Flooding has always been a problem in Bangladesh.

The country is located where three of Asia's largest rivers meet.

Most of the land in Bangladesh is low and flat.

The weather there is very stormy.

When it rains, water floods the low, flat land.

This destroys the soil and leaves less land for farming.

It is a huge problem.

Bangladesh is one of the world's most crowded countries.

There are 156 million people in Bangladesh.

That is almost half as many as in the United States.

And all of them live in an area about the size of Iowa.

Growing enough food for all of those people is a challenge.

Losing land because of flooding makes things even harder.

This is why farmers in Bangladesh have started using vertical gardens.

They hope that vertical gardens can help grow enough food.

Farmers can grow vegetables without taking up much space.

Vertical gardens were brought to Bangladesh by WorldFish.

It is a group that works all over the world.

It helps people grow food.

In Bangladesh, WorldFish showed about 200 villagers how to make vertical gardens.

Growing the vertical gardens is easy.

There is a lot of rain in Bangladesh from July to October.

The rain washes some of the salt out of the soil.

So, villagers build vertical gardens around November.

The soil in November is less salty.

The vertical gardens keep the soil safe until planting season.

Shobitha Debna is a 35-year-old mother in Chandipur.

She has a vertical garden.

It takes up a small corner of her dirt yard.

Each season, it produces pumpkins, gourds, green beans, eggplant, beets, carrots, cabbage and more.

She has another vertical garden on her roof growing gourds.

Vertical gardens like Debna's produce a lot of extra food.

It really helps villagers in Bangladesh.

Many people there live on just a few dollars a day.

