New Yorkers observed Veterans Day on Monday, led by the nation's first four-star female general.

It was both part of the annual display of thanks to those who have served their country and an sign of the changing face of the military.

Led by President Barack Obama, civil and military officials across the nation placed wreaths on monuments to honor those who served in wars over the nation's history.

They also backed more employment opportunities for veterans.

"We join as one people to honor a debt we can never fully repay," Obama said at Arlington National Cemetery.

The cemetery is in Virginia, across the Potomac River from the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C.

In New York, Gen. Ann E. Dunwoody led the parade up Fifth Avenue to honor veterans.

Dunwoody retired last year after 37 years in the Army.

There are 21.2 million military veterans as of 2012 in the United States.

Of that group 1.6 million are women, according to the government.

In 1948, President Harry Truman officially ended discrimination in the armed forces.

In 2012, those identifying themselves as non-Hispanic whites made up 79.6 percent of the veterans.

African-Americans were the second largest at 11.3 percent and Hispanics were at 5.7 percent.

Among the ceremonies around the nation was one for two of the original Tuskegee Airmen, a group of African-American pilots in World War II.

Washington Mayor Vincent Gray and congressional delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton placed a wreath at the African-American Civil War Memorial.

A ceremony followed for two Tuskegee Airmen who live in Washington, D.C. Norton presented the Congressional Gold Medal, a symbol of appreciation, to one of the airmen; the other was honored in a similar ceremony in 2007.

The centerpiece of the nation's observance was the traditional televised laying of a wreath by the president at the Tomb of the Unknowns.

The tomb is located in Arlington National Cemetery, and is in honor of soldiers whose remains were never identified.

The usual 21-gun artillery salute was fired.

The president was joined by representatives of all of the services: Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines and Coast Guard.

The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric K. Shinseki, and others also attended.

Obama paid tribute to one of the nation's oldest veterans, Richard Overton, 107.

"This is the life of one American veteran, living proud and strong in the land he helped keep free," Obama said during proceedings at Arlington.

Earlier, the president hosted a breakfast at the White House for those who have served in the military and their families.

The holiday known as Veterans Day began as Armistice Day on Nov. 11, 1919.

It was meant to remember the end of World War I.

Congress created an annual observance in 1926 and Nov. 11 became a national holiday in 1939.

The holiday became Veterans Day in 1954 when Dwight D. Eisenhower was president.

Eisenhower had been the commander of all Allied forces in World War II.

Veterans Day was designed to honor all those who served in the military.

Memorial Day, at the end of May, remembers all those who died while serving.

Veterans are still alive from the range of wars that have been the landmarks of the 20th and 21st centuries.

According to the Census Bureau, there are 7.4 million Vietnam-era veterans and 5.4 million who served during the Gulf wars.

About 1.6 million served in World War II and 2.3 million served in Korea.

About a quarter — or 5.3 million veterans — served only in peacetime.

The military increasingly has become a career.

So it is not uncommon for soldiers to have served in more than one conflict.

More than 54,000 are still alive after serving during the Vietnam era and both Gulf wars.

Veterans have long been a political force within the United States.

The Continental Army was disbanded in 1783 after the Treaty of Paris ended the Revolutionary War.

But in June, veterans took to the streets demanding back pay.

They forced the U.S. Congress to flee from the then-capital of Philadelphia to New Jersey.

The country began paying military bonuses as soon as 1776.

By 1932, veterans were marching on Washington.

They were called the Bonus Army and were seeking bonuses promised to them in certificates issued by the government.

At least two veterans died in fights with federal troops.

Modern restaurants and merchants have also offered various bonuses, such as free meals, to attract veterans' business.

According to the government, 14.7 million veterans voted in the 2012 presidential election, a large turnout of 70 percent.

In an opinion article, first lady Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, the wife of the vice president, called on businesses to hire veterans.

"Our veterans are some of the most highly-skilled, hardest-working employees around.

They thrive in fast-paced, high-pressure environments, and they've got extensive experience building teams, managing complex logistics, and dealing with cutting-edge technology.

In short, our veterans are tremendous assets for our businesses, so we challenged companies across America to hire as many veterans as possible."

