On Tuesday, two dozen veterans who fought in World War II, Korea and Vietnam received the Medal of Honor from President Barack Obama.

The White House award ceremony was serious and tearful.

The honors came after many years of reviewing thousands of war records.

"As one family member has said, this is long overdue," Obama told the 24 veterans who received the award.

It was the single largest group of veterans honored since 1945.

The Medal of Honor is the highest award given to veterans for acts of courage.

It was established during the Civil War.

Since then, it has been awarded to more than 3,400 people.

Tuesday's presentation was particularly special.

In 2002 Congress ordered a review of thousands of war records.

The review was ordered to find out whether Latino and Jewish veterans were wrongly skipped over for the medal.

It was thought that some had been discriminated against because of their background.

"I'm busting with pride," said Charles Baldonado, 77.

His brother Joe R. Baldonado was among those honored.

Joe Baldonado, who was from Los Angeles, died at age 20 in Korea.

He used a machine gun to drive back enemy troops as grenades exploded around him.

Eventually, he was killed by one.

Obama has awarded the Medal of Honor to young veterans of the war in [Afghanistan](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=Afghanistan).

But the men honored on Tuesday were different.

Only three are still living: a 68-year-old retired postal worker, a 72-year-old retired salesman and great-grandfather, and a 76-year-old retiree who the president noted enjoys mowing the grass for his neighbors.

"Jose is such a humble guy," Obama said of Jose Rodela.

"He did not even mention this ceremony to his neighbors, who I think would be pretty shocked to turn on the news tonight and see that the guy who cuts their lawn is getting the Medal of Honor."

The military has not released the findings of its review.

Nor has it said which of the honorees had been skipped over for the Medal of Honor because of discrimination.

But in his remarks, the president spoke of setting wrongs right.

"This ceremony reminds us of one of the enduring qualities that makes America great," Obama said.

"No nation is perfect.

But here in America, we confront our imperfections and face a sometimes painful past, including the truth that some of these soldiers fought and died for a country that did not always see them as equal."

Rodela and Santiago Jesse Erevia, both of San Antonio, Texas, served in Vietnam.

Melvin Morris of Port St. John, Fla., served there as well.

They took turns standing by Obama as a military officer read about their achievements aloud.

Family members of the honorees who had already passed away joined the president as well.

Terrifying battle scenes were described.

"Their courage almost defies imagination," Obama said.

"When you read the records of these individuals, it's unimaginable the valor that they displayed: running into bullets, charging machine-gun nests and climbing aboard tanks and taking them out; covering their comrades so they could make it to safety; holding back enemies, wave after wave, even when the combat was hand-to-hand; manning their posts, some to their very last breaths, so that their comrades might live."

Some of the men honored included non-Latino and non-Jewish veterans.

The review turned up recipients of the Distinguished Service Cross, the second-highest military award.

The military said some of them deserved the Medal of Honor instead.

Details on all 24 recipients can be found at www.army.mil/medalofhonor/valor24/.

Obama had called Erevia, Rodela and Morris to tell them they would receive the honor.

He also called family members of veterans who had died.

Morris, 72, was one of the nation's first Green Berets.

The Berets are a small group of special forces.

They handle important and difficult missions.

Obama said that when he called Morris "his first reaction was, 'Oh, my God, what have I done?'

When I told him it was all good, the Medal of Honor, I could hear through the phone he almost passed out."

