Not long ago a large group of old photos was discovered in London, England.

Some of the faces in the photos are thoughtful.

Others are proud.

A few of the people are famous, but most are just ordinary people.

All are black.

The rare photos show blacks who lived in England more than 100 years ago, during the 19th century.

Most of the photos had been stored away and forgotten for many years.

Now for the first time the photos can be seen here in the United States.

They will be shown at the Cooper Gallery of African &amp; African American Art in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

The show is called "Black Chronicles II" and opened in September.

The people who put the show together say the photos have an important message for modern Americans.

Life in the U.S. is often hard for blacks.

There is a lack of trust between blacks and whites.

Vera Ingrid Grant heads the Cooper Gallery.

The British photos change our ideas about how blacks lived in the past, she said.

Learning that the past was different than we thought might "change how we view the present," she added.

Today most people think that life must have been very hard for blacks in 19th-century Britain.

They imagine that blacks there were kept out of sight and were mostly very poor.

The photos show that those ideas are not right.

In fact, blacks were a very visible part of British life, and many blacks did well.

Some had important jobs and some even managed to become rich.

Most of the pictures are very serious, with people dressed up in their best clothes.

A few show people fooling around for the camera, just like friends today might do.

Many of the more than 100 photos were taken for calling cards.

They were small cards with a person's picture on it, along with a few words.

The cards were meant to quickly show what a person was all about and were very popular at the time.

So many photos were "hidden in the attic" for years and simply forgotten, said Grant.

The stories that went with them were forgotten too.

The people in the photos range from students and businessmen to artists and soldiers, and even include a prince.

Most were just ordinary people, but some were famous at the time.

Sarah Forbes Bonetta was one of Queen Victoria's goddaughters.

Peter Jackson was a champion boxer.

Prince Alemayehu was a member of the Ethiopian royal family, and he moved to Britain as a young boy.

Grant thinks the British photos show something that is important for Americans to see.

Racism is still a big problem in the United States.

African-Americans can have a hard time receiving equal treatment, and white police officers sometimes treat blacks unfairly.

Many people think things were even worse before.

The British photos show that is not always true, and that life back then was very different than many people believe.

Blacks in the 1800s in Britain did better than once thought, and blacks and whites there got along better than imagined.

The photos change our ideas about how blacks lived in the past, Grant says.

Perhaps they can also make us think differently about what is possible in the present, she says.

Grant thinks another good thing could come out of the show.

It may make historians here look more closely at our own old, forgotten photos.

Many photos that record African-American life in the U.S. have never been studied, she said.

There could be exciting stories waiting to be discovered.

Some of those stories could change ideas about the history of the U.S. "What's waiting for us here?"

she asked.

