Some faces are thoughtful, while others are proud.

A few are famous, though most are just ordinary people.

All are black.

The pictures are from a collection of rare and striking photos of blacks who lived more than 100 years ago, in 19th-century England.

Many of the pictures were only recently discovered, while others are from private collections.

Now for the first time the photographs are going on display in the United States.

Organizers of the show say the photos have a powerful message for modern-day Americans divided by racism.

There is something healing about these beautiful images, said Vera Ingrid Grant, head of the Cooper Gallery of African &amp; African American Art, where the pictures will be shown.

The show, "Black Chronicles II," opened in September.

The photos change our ideas about how blacks lived in the past, she said.

In turn, that fresh understanding can "change how we view the present."

Researchers found the bulk of the photos in storage at London's Hulton Archive.

The pictures challenge the idea that Britons with African roots were all but invisible in 19th-century British society.

Life-size black-and-white prints are mixed with small snapshots.

They show ordinary people and the somewhat well-known.

Many of the pictures are formal, but a few capture people playfully fooling around for the camera, just as people today might goof around in a photo booth.

Together, the pictures help write what Grant calls a "missing chapter."

They show that blacks of the time were very present in daily public life.

More than that, they show that many blacks were better off and had a higher social position then we might imagine.

Many of the more than 100 photographs on display were taken for "cartes de visite," or calling cards.

These were small postcards with an image and a bit of text.

Wildly popular at the time, they were something like a modern Facebook profile.

They were meant to quickly sum up what a person was all about.

"How many of these stories were hidden in the attic and never saw the light of day?

Look what was covered up," said Grant.

The show features pictures of both distinguished and ordinary citizens.

They range from students and businessmen to artists, military men, missionaries and international royalty.

Some of the subjects are fairly well-known.

Sarah Forbes Bonetta was one of Queen Victoria's goddaughters, while Peter Jackson was a heavy-weight boxing champion.

Prince Alemayehu was a member of the Ethiopian royal family who, as a young boy, was taken to live in Britain.

The collection of photos was originally put together by British art historian Renée Mussai.

According to her, the main goal of the exhibition is to shine a spotlight on forgotten black figures.

She hopes the show will help them become part of how modern-day Britons see their country's past.

Grant believes the British photographs have something important to say to Americans too.

Here in the U.S., racism is still very much a problem.

By shaking up our ideas about how blacks lived in the past, the British photos could make us think differently about what is possible in the present, she said.

Grant also hopes the show will inspire historians to look more closely at old photos here.

Many photo collections that record African-American life in the United States have yet to be closely examined, she said.

The British photos, she said, raise the question, "What's waiting for us here?"

