Business students at one college soon will have a new way of learning.

But students won't be taught by teachers.

Instead, they'll learn by playing computer games.

Rasmussen College in Bloomington, Minnesota, offers degrees at campuses and online.

The college aims to make money from education, like a business.

Many other colleges just try to cover their costs.

Last week Rasmussen announced that it will offer courses based on games starting in July.

They will be a choice in its two-year degree in business management.

Rasmussen calls the program Flex Choice.

Officials say the games could make learning more fun.

The courses could also cut nearly $14,000 off the degree's cost.

That would save a student nearly half the cost of the degree.

In some cases, students will play a series of games.

The goal is to show how well students have learned.

Games may test how well they know computer programs used at companies.

Or, they'll measure how students handle customer complaints.

If they ace the games, they pass the course.

One course teaches students how to speak with a company's customers.

Students will play a computer game to test their ability to handle customer complaints.

The game may have them face an unhappy caller.

Students are then asked to choose from a list of possible responses.

They might say "We don't do that, ma'am."

Or they may say "I assure you we wouldn't try to trick you."

Or, "I understand it can be confusing."

Depending on the answers, the game grades how well they did, said Timothy Loatman.

He runs technology services for Rasmussen.

The game also offers feedback.

"We know that games are fun," said Matthew Petz of Rasmussen.

But studies suggest that they're also a good way to motivate students to learn.

The move is part of a large change in education.

It aims to measure exactly what students have learned.

Some say that teaching is less important in this approach.

Petz says the idea is for students to "show what they know."

In some cases, it may allow students to finish their studies more quickly.

Yet, some people don't agree with this new change in education.

One reason why is that some of the courses don't have teachers.

Instead of teachers, students will have "coaches."

These coaches are not experts in the subjects, says Petz.

Their job is to help support students as they study.

David Weerts is a professor of education at the University of Minnesota.

He said that gaming technology can be useful for teaching some skills.

But Weerts is cautious about the new system.

There is no proof yet "that people are gaining something from this."

Nancy Black, a professor at Metro State University, was even more doubtful.

"Where is the teaching in this?"

she said.

Black represents a group of Minnesota teachers.

She questioned how a game could test a student's judgment skills.

She's concerned that there's "no faculty whatsoever."

Rasmussen officials say students will have to take some classes led by faculty in order to graduate.

They also say they tested the idea first with 250 students.

Petz says the timing is right for this change.

"It really does cut time and money off a student's program," he said.

"We want to make sure that we build in those job-based skills that employers want, students want."

And, he says, "We've got to do it in a way that students can afford."

