Business students at one college soon will have a new, more fun way to earn credits.

But students won't learn from instructors — they'll learn by playing computer games.

Rasmussen College in Bloomington, Minnesota, is a for-profit college offering campus and online degree programs.

Last week it announced that beginning in July it will offer game-based courses as part of its two-year associate degree in business management.

Rasmussen is calling the program Flex Choice.

Officials say the new option will do more than inject some fun into a dry subject.

It could also save students as much as $14,000 in tuition — almost half the cost of the associate degree.

To help design online business courses in the program, Rasmussen hired a gaming company, GarageGames.

In some cases, students will play a series of games to show how well they've mastered the course material.

Games will test how they use software typical at companies or handle customer complaints, for instance.

If they ace the games, they get credit for the course.

"We know that games are fun," said Matthew Petz, vice president of academic affairs at Rasmussen.

But research also suggests that they're also a good way to motivate students to learn.

"This is an innovative way to deliver the material."

The move is part of a new direction in education that not everyone supports.

It's known as "competency-based education."

Instead of focusing as much on teaching, it aims more to measure "outcomes" — or what, exactly, the students have learned.

The idea, said Petz, is to allow students to "show what they know."

In some cases, it may allow students to complete their degrees more quickly.

But the gaming technology adds a new twist.

In one course, Customer Loyalty and Retention, students will play a computer game to test their ability to handle customer complaints.

Faced with an unhappy caller, for example, they're asked to choose from a list of possible responses including: "We don't do that, ma'am."

Other responses might include "I assure you we wouldn't try to trick you" or "I understand it can be confusing."

Depending on the answers, the game rates their performance and gives feedback, said Timothy Loatman.

He directs technology-based education services for Rasmussen.

"Mastering the game is certainly a way to prove and hone the skills," he said.

The Rasmussen plan, though, is likely to meet some doubts, in part because it eliminates the role of teachers from some of the courses.

Instead of teachers, students will be assigned "academic coaches."

These coaches are not experts in the subject matter, according to Petz.

Their job is to help support students in their independent study.

David Weerts, a professor of higher education at the University of Minnesota, said that gaming technology can be useful for teaching some skills.

But he said he was concerned about "this kind of robotized new system."

The risk, he said, is jumping into such a program without proof "that people are gaining something from this."

Nancy Black, an anthropology professor at Metro State University, was even more doubtful.

"Where is the teaching in this?"

said Black.

She's president of a union of faculty professors from Minnesota state universities.

Black questioned how a computer game could test a student's judgment skills, especially "with no faculty whatsoever."

Rasmussen officials point out that students will have to take some "faculty-led" classes in order to earn their degree.

They also say they tested the idea in a small pilot projects with 250 students.

Starting in July, it will be offered as an option in one program, the Associate Degree in Business Management.

But Petz says the timing is right for this change.

"It really does cut time and money off a student's program," he said.

"We want to make sure that we build in those job-based skills that employers want, students want, and we've got to do it in a way that students can afford."

