"Virtual reality" creates an imaginary world using computers.

Users can go anywhere in the imaginary world.

Experiencing it is like stepping inside a movie and being able to move around.

Right now, virtual reality (VR) is mostly used in video games.

Users who put on a VR helmet feel as if they are inside a video game.

They might find themselves in a spaceship, or driving a racing car or running from bad guys.

All that sounds like a lot of fun.

However, virtual reality still has a long way to go.

Helmets are still too big, and VR games make many people sick because the games feel so real.

VR makers are trying to fix those problems.

At the same time, they are also trying to figure out other uses for VR besides video games.

This week, a number of VR makers gathered at a meeting in Las Vegas.

They were there to let the public see their new technology.

VR maker Oculus showed off its new Rift headset.

Users who put it on were transported to an imaginary world where a deadly T-Rex awaited.

If they leaned in, they could almost feel its breath on them.

People using the headset also felt like they were lifted to the top of a tall building.

If they walked to the edge and leaned over, they could see traffic hundreds of feet below.

Another example involved a fight scene between two robots.

Users could watch the action from any direction they wanted.

They could be in front of the robots or behind them.

Nate Mitchell is an Oculus vice president.

His company will continue to work on video games, he said.

However, he says it could end up "that VR is more about film than games."

Hollywood is already very interested in using VR for movies.

At a famous film festival this month, 13 short VR movies will be shown.

The VR maker Jaunt has created a new VR movie camera.

It allows users to make their own VR movies.

Other companies are exploring uses of VR that have nothing to do with movies.

One wants to use VR to help people in different places hold meetings.

Another says VR could allow designers to test products before they are manufactured.

VR may even be used to help people who are looking to buy a car.

By putting on a VR headset, customers will be able to "see" the car they are interested in.

Then, they will be able to change its color until they find just what they want.

VR may also soon be used by the military for training.

Police and firefighters may begin using it for natural disaster drills.

As for virtual reality and the movies, there is still one big problem.

Not enough people own headsets, so it's difficult to get anyone to make VR movies.

Oculus' vice president isn't worried, though.

"I think in the next few years we'll get there," Mitchell said.

"It's still early days."

