Students at Cal State in Los Angeles are breeding fruit flies to learn how different traits are passed to future generations.

At other campuses, students are monitoring the heart rate of subjects on a treadmill.

These are fairly common lab experiments.

Yet one thing is different: The experiments are being conducted online.

Across the country, college students increasingly are using online simulations to replicate the hands-on experience of a typical lab.

Virtual labs are now used in nearly every scientific field, due to the popularity and cost savings of online learning.

Critics are dismayed by this development.

They insist that scientists need to learn practical skills through traditional lab work in order to conduct more advanced research.

Supporters of virtual labs say they're not suggesting that traditional labs should be abandoned.

They say virtual labs can be a valuable tool to teach basic science, while allowing colleges to save money.

The California State University system, the largest in the nation, is planning to greatly expand the use of virtual labs for general education science courses.

These courses are typically for non-science majors who are required to take a course with lab work to graduate.

Last spring, a project at Cal State LA compared the success of students participating in traditional labs with those using an online one.

They also tried a "flipped" lab model, where online students met in the classroom every two weeks.

Students in the flipped model stayed interested in the lab and got better grades, the study found.

It also made it possible to teach more students and save the school money.

A typical introductory biology course might include eight lab classes with 192 students.

With virtual labs, the university can teach many more students.

It can double the number of lab sessions available, said Robert Desharnais, who directs Cal State's Virtual Courseware Project.

The state's public colleges lost billions in state funding during the economic downturn, as jobs were lost and California had less money to give to its universities.

Governor Jerry Brown has called on educators to make up for those losses in part through greater use of new technologies.

At Cal State, there are not enough science labs and the number of students is growing rapidly, said Gerry Hanley, a university official.

As a result, "students end up taking these courses later or delaying graduation."

Cal Poly Pomona officials had to schedule a full day of lab classes on Saturdays and Sundays.

The weekend sessions quickly filled up, so this fall, the school is experimenting with virtual labs in some of those classes.

Computer simulations are now the standard for many types of research, Hanley said.

For example, they are commonly used to study the effect of earthquakes.

In a biology lab at Cal State LA, students recently conducted a group exercise online.

They designed experiments to test theories of natural selection.

The program allowed them to change physical traits, such as the size of a bird's beak, introduce predators and change the environment.

The program then provided instant feedback.

"The idea that virtual labs are a poor substitute" for the work that students will go on to do in the workplace "is not actually true anymore," Hanley said.

Cal State officials hope that making it easier for students to take lab courses will help people like Gerrymi Bernardo.

He is a design major who had to wait to take the class in his final quarter.

"As a working student, it's really convenient being able to do this at home on my own time," said Bernardo, 22.

Stephanie Ugalde said the virtual lab left her "disappointed not to be dissecting stuff."

"The computer shows you pictures and graphs, but it would be good to go out and see," said Ugalde, a food science major.

Some researchers worry that colleges are too quick to use online classes.

They say there is not enough research on whether online courses work.

Paulo Blikstein directs a learning technology lab at Stanford University.

His group is working on combining virtual learning with a more traditional lab experience.

Students use robotic equipment located off-site.

The equipment can be remotely controlled with a smartphone or computer.

The students can, for example, send a command to tell the robot to add a chemical to a petri dish and capture the results on video.

"The problems with virtual labs, many times, is that it's too clean and too simplified.

And then students understand it's not really happening, but just a simulation," Blikstein said.

"We're finding that affects their motivation."

