In the spring of 2012, Emma Whitehead was near death.

She was just 6 years old.

Emma was suffering from leukemia, a form of cancer.

The disease was found in 2010.

First doctors tried traditional cancer medicines to cure the little girl.

But after each treatment, Emma's cancer reappeared.

Emma's parents were desperate to save their only child.

So they decided to send her for an experimental treatment.

The treatment meant removing millions of Emma's T-cells.

A T-cell is a type of white blood cell.

The body needs T-cells for its immune system, which keeps the body from getting sick.

After doctor's removed Emma's T-cells, they started to infect them.

They treated them with a disabled form of HIV.

HIV is a virus that causes AIDS, which is a deadly disease.

For decades doctors have studied how to prevent HIV from infecting the body.

Now, they are infecting people on purpose.

But this is not the same dreaded virus.

"The virus has been engineered so it can't cause disease anymore," Dr. Carl June said.

Dr. June works at the University of Pennsylvania.

Instead, the virus attacks cancer cells, he explained.

The infected T-cells are injected back into the patient.

Doctors hope that  they will multiply.

"Each infused cell can kill more than 1,000 different tumor cells," June explains.

The experimental procedure made Emma very ill. She was placed on a ventilator to help her breathe.

Emma also had a fever of 105 degrees.

She lay swollen and unconscious in the hospital.

Emma's family prepared for her death.

But Emma did not die.

The T-cells started to fight the cancer in her system.

On the day of her 7th birthday, Emma woke up feeling better.

Her fever dropped.

She was able to breathe on her own.

She also was cancer-free.

"It was like the calm after the storm," June told Kauffman.

"The clouds went away and she woke up and there was no leukemia."

Emma was the first child to receive the experimental treatment.

Adults with leukemia have also tried the treatment.

Their cancer disappeared after they received the disabled HIV-infected cells.

But six adults who also had the treatment still have cancer.

One other child who received the treatment also still has leukemia.

Doctors do not know why the procedure works for some people and not for others.

They warn the patients who try it that it may not work.

That is because doctors are still researching this procedure.

They still have a lot of questions about it.

There are also some concerns about the side effects.

The modified T-cells not only destroy cancer cells.

They also destroy some healthy cells.

That means patients like Emma are at risk.

They can become sick from infection.

Their body might not be able to fight off common illnesses like healthy people.

Even though the procedure is not perfect, there is hope for this treatment.

A major medicine company gave $20 million to the researchers.

They will use the money to keep working on the treatment.

The medicine company wants to be able to offer the treatment to more patients some day.

For now, most leukemia patients try a bone-marrow transplant when all other options run out.

Bone marrow is the soft, spongy, fatty tissue inside your bones.

A bone-marrow transplant  replaces damaged or destroyed bone.

It is a very tough procedure for the patient.

And it does not always work.

It is also a very expensive procedure.

Using HIV-infected T-cells to cure leukemia is cheaper.

But researchers and leukemia patients just want to find a cure for the disease - no matter what the cost.

Just ask Emma's parents.

Last year their daughter was deathly ill.  Today she is cancer-free.

She is leading a healthy life.

She will be a third-grader this fall.

