Eye doctors in Baltimore are trying to help students read better.

The doctors are from Johns Hopkins Hospital.

They are testing the students' vision.

It is part of a study to figure out if students are having trouble reading because they cannot see.

It seems like a simple question.

Even so, doctors at Johns Hopkins say it has never been answered with a study like the one they are doing.

Alexander Dominguez is one of the students who could be helped.

The third-grader zoomed through worksheets at school.

He quickly became one of the best students.

Then he could not read a simple sentence on the board.

His teacher, Maygon Thompson, was puzzled.

"I thought he was kidding," Thompson said.

"But he's so serious about his work."

Megan Collins is a children's eye doctor at the hospital.

For the past six months, she has been checking students' vision, or eyesight, in 12 Baltimore elementary schools.

Alexander's school is one of them.

Collins is trying to see if vision problems are causing reading problems.

Collins said it would help a lot of students if the doctors found a connection between the two problems.

The doctors will first examine 300 students from 12 schools.

The students will be given glasses if they need them.

Doctors tested 250 students between January and March.

They found something they did not expect.

More than half the students needed glasses.

"We were very surprised," said Dr. David Friedman of Hopkins.

The number was twice as many as would typically have needed glasses, he said.

There are bigger reasons than bad eyesight for why some students cannot read, Friedman said.

Still, it would make a big difference if even a few could be helped by wearing glasses, he said.

Maryland tests eyesight in first grade and ninth grade.

This leaves a lot of time in between when problems could be missed.

Julie Gray has been teaching at Charles Carroll Barrister for 16 years.

Eye problems are the last thing she looks for when a student has trouble reading, she said.

"This is so helpful," she said of the study.

The city of Baltimore's health department tests school students eyesight.

A 2010 report said that the department did not have enough people to give the tests.

There also were not enough people to make sure students received glasses if they needed them.

Dr. Leana Wen runs the city's health department.

She said the department has improved since 2010.

Almost every student who is supposed to get a vision test gets one.

Still, there are problems, Wen said.

Only a small number of students who show vision problems on the test end up getting glasses, she said.

The health department is looking at new ways to get glasses to students.

Wen said Hopkins can help solve the problem.

The Hopkins study includes second- and third-grade students.

These are important grades.

Students who cannot read by the end of third grade are a lot less likely to finish school on time.

Students who need glasses receive two pair.

One is for home.

The other is for school.

Many students in the study, like Alexander, had been given glasses at some point and lost them or broke them.

Fewer than two-thirds of third-graders at Alexander's school passed a 2014 state test.

That means the study could make a big difference.

The school's principal said the vision study was important.

It could help show what the students really know, and if poor eyesight is getting in the way.

