Eye doctors are trying to help Baltimore students read better.

The doctors are from Johns Hopkins Hospital.

They are testing the students' eyesight, or vision.

It is part of a study.

The doctors want to figure out if students are having trouble reading because they cannot see well.

Dr. Megan Collins is a children's eye doctor at the hospital.

She has been checking vision in 12 Baltimore schools.

Alexander Dominguez is a third-grader at one of the schools.

He was one of the best students.

Then he could not read a simple sentence on the board.

His teacher did not know why.

The study could help Alexander and other students.

The doctors will examine 300 students to start the study.

Students will be given glasses if they need them.

Doctors already have tested 250 students.

They found something they did not expect.

More than half of them needed glasses.

Students in Maryland have their eyes tested in first grade.

They are tested again in ninth grade.

There is a lot of time in between.

Vision problems could be missed during that time.

Julie Gray has been teaching at Alexander's school for 16 years.

She does not usually look for eye problems when a student has trouble reading.

Now the study will look for eye problems.

"This is so helpful," she said.

A 2010 report looked at Baltimore's health department.

The department tests eyesight in the city's schools.

The report said the department did not have enough people to give the tests.

It also did not have enough people to make sure students who needed glasses received them.

Dr. Leana Wen is in charge of the health department.

She said the department has gotten better.

Almost all students get a vision test when they should.

Still, there are problems, Wen said.

Most of the students with vision problems do not get glasses.

Hopkins could help solve that problem, she said.

Students in the study who need glasses receive two pair.

One is for home.

The other is for school.

Alexander's principal said the study will make a difference.

It will help the school figure out what students really know.

It will show if bad eyesight is getting in the way.

