Alexander Dominguez breezed through worksheets in the month after he joined the third-grade class at Charles Carroll Barrister Elementary School and quickly became one of the best students.

So when the third-grader could not read a relatively simple sentence on the board, his teacher, Maygon Thompson, was puzzled.

"I thought he was kidding," said Thompson, a special educator at the school in Southwest Baltimore.

"But he's so serious about his work, it had to be something else."

A team of researchers at the Wilmer Eye Institute at Johns Hopkins Hospital might have figured out that "something else."

They're trying to answer a basic but overlooked question: Are students struggling to read because they can't see?

For the past six months, Dr. Megan Collins, a children's eye doctor at the hospital, has been conducting vision tests and giving glasses to students in a dozen Baltimore elementary schools.

She is trying to produce a first-of-its-kind study that attempts to link vision problems and literacy, or reading and writing, in groups of school children.

Whether students cannot read because they can't see, Collins said, is one of those "important research questions you think someone else has answered."

If the researchers can answer the question, Collins said, they can help change students' lives.

Studies have linked vision and literacy, Hopkins researchers say, but there has never been a big study on children with conclusions drawn from their reading performance in the classroom.

Their initial study will include a sample of 300 students from 12 schools who will have their eyes examined and, if needed, be measured for glasses.

The study begins with a reading exam, and students who receive glasses take another exam at the end of the school year.

So far, the results have been staggering — of the 250 students tested between January and March, 150 needed glasses.

"We were very surprised," said Dr. David Friedman of Hopkins.

"That's twice as many glasses as we typically prescribe" for a group like the students who were tested.

Friedman said that a large group of students had other challenges with reading, including a condition called dyslexia.

Still, if even 5 percent to 10 percent could be helped by wearing glasses, it would make a big difference, he said.

The Maryland State Department of Education requires students to have their vision tested only in the first grade and ninth grade, leaving a lot of time for problems to go unnoticed.

Julie Gray has been teaching at Charles Carroll Barrister for 16 years.

When a student is struggling to read, she said, vision problems are the last thing she is looking for.

"This is so helpful because it's not something teachers can easily identify," she said.

"We're not doctors."

The city also has a history of problems when it comes to ensuring that students are screened and treated properly.

The Abell Foundation reported in 2010 that the city's health department had insufficient staff and resources to test students and follow up to see if they received corrective care.

The department conducts vision tests for city students.

Dr. Leana Wen, Baltimore's new health commissioner, said the department has made significant improvements since then.

In the last school year, she said, the department increased its vision screening rate to 96 percent.

But challenges remain with follow-through, Wen said.

Fewer than 20 percent of students who test positive for vision problems end up getting glasses, she said.

Wen said lack of vision care is a "big problem" among city students, adding to educational barriers like truancy and drop-out rates.

The health department is looking at new ways to get glasses to students, such as mobile eye clinics.

Wen said Hopkins' approach is just the kind needed to tackle the problem.

Students receive glasses if they have specific vision problems, or if researchers decide they might do better in the classroom if they had glasses.

The study includes second- and third-grade students, who are at a critical time in their education.

Research shows that the third grade is a crossroads, particularly for low-income students.

Those who cannot read by the end of the third grade are four times less likely to graduate on time.

Bob Slavin, a Hopkins education professor, believes money and how the reading problem is labeled are the reasons the connection between vision and literacy has never been explored deeply.

Slavin is founder of a group that provides education programs to schools throughout the country.

"As long as we see it purely as a health problem, there's no money to solve it," he said.

"If you see it as something that's an education problem, the money is already there."

Students who need glasses receive two pair, for home and school.

In addition to limited access to vision care, many students in the study, like Alexander, were found to have been prescribed glasses at some point and lost them or broke them.

At Charles Carroll Barrister, where fewer than two-thirds of third-graders passed a 2014 state test, the impact of the study could be huge.

About one-third of the school's population speaks English as a second language.

"Our greatest struggle is figuring out what they really know and what is just a barrier," said David Wunder, principal of Charles Carroll Barrister.

"This study is really connecting a bridge for us."

