Mount Vesuvius is a once-fearsome volcano located in what is now southern Italy.

One summer day in A.D. 79, nearly 2,000 years ago, it began spewing lava and volcanic gas.

The eruption was devastating.

By the time it ended two days later, nearby cities and towns had been completely destroyed.

Some buildings and objects did survive, however.

Among them is a collection of charred, rolled-up scrolls, which had once served as some of the books of their day.

They have long been considered too fragile to safely unroll, so the content of most has remained a mystery.

It seemed as if they might remain forever unread.

That is, until now.

Using an advanced kind of X-ray technology, scientists for the first time have been able to read words inside the papyrus scrolls, without having to unroll them.

Their findings are described in a new study published in the magazine Nature Communications.

The new breakthrough is giving hope to scholars.

Until now, they have been unable to read these delicate scrolls without serious risk of destroying them.

The scrolls come from a library in Herculaneum, one of several Roman towns that, along with Pompeii, was destroyed by the eruption.

The library held hundreds of handwritten papyrus scrolls.

All were carbonized — meaning they were turned into dark, crumbly carbon — by a furnace-like blast of 608-degree-Fahrenheit gas produced by the volcano.

The book collection is "a unique cultural treasure," the study authors wrote.

The library is the only ancient library to have survived together with its books.

Most of the texts that have already been examined were previously unknown to scholars.

Scholars have been very eager to read these rare and valuable scrolls.

Despite the risk, researchers have tried to open them in various ways.

In the 1980s, two scrolls were opened using a method with one major problem: It required that the rolls be picked apart into small pieces.

After that failure, any further attempts to open the scrolls were called off.

Too many texts ended up being destroyed.

Researchers had also tried to X-ray the scrolls before, thinking that it might allow them to be read while avoiding the damage unrolling causes.

The problem was that the ancient writers used ink made of carbon.

Because the papyrus was carbonized from the blazing heat, both paper and ink are now made of roughly the same material.

Thus, both appeared the same when X-rayed, and it was practically impossible to tell ink and paper apart.

However, a team led by Vito Mocella realized they could use a different method, called X-ray phase-contrast tomography.

Unlike standard X-ray scans, X-ray phase-contrast tomography reveals certain shifts in the X-ray light that occur when the light passes through different substances.

It creates a 3-D image, which allows the researchers to see the raised bumps of the ink.

Because the words were raised just a little higher than the paper, the scientists were able to make out a few words and letters from two scrolls, one of which was still rolled.

Reading the scrolls was still very difficult, however.

The paper inside the rolled scroll was thoroughly warped by the blast of heat from Mount Vesuvius.

Some of the letters are probably distorted beyond recognition.

Nonetheless, the researchers were able to read a number of words and letters.

On an unrolled fragment of one scroll, they were able to make out the words for "would fall" and "would say."

In the twisted layers of another papyrus, which was still rolled up, they could pick out individual letters: alpha, nu, eta, epsilon and others.

One of the newly examined scrolls has a very distinctive handwriting style.

The writing resembles writing found in another scroll, which contains a text written by the philosopher Philodemus.

Mocella and the others believe both scrolls were written around 75 to 50 B.C.

If they are right, then the newly examined scroll most likely contains another text by Philodemus.

The newly discovered method is exciting news for other researchers.

It may give them a safe and reliable way to explore ancient texts that until now were off-limits.

The new method should prove to be very useful in gaining an understanding of "the many papyri still unopened," the study authors wrote.

It may also allow researchers to study texts that have not yet been discovered, the authors added.

Such texts could even include scrolls from "a second library" that may exist in a still unexcavated area beneath the library in Herculaneum.

