Mount Vesuvius was once a mighty volcano in southern Italy.

It erupted in A.D. 79.

Lava and gas poured out for two days.

Roman cities and towns nearby were wiped out.

Yet a few buildings and objects have been discovered.

One of the most important things that was found does not look like much.

It is a collection of hundreds of rolled-up paper-like bundles.

The bundles are scrolls – that is, long sheets of papyrus paper.

Scrolls were the books back then.

These handwritten scrolls come from a library in the town of Herculaneum.

The town was one of those destroyed by the volcano.

The scrolls were very badly burned by the volcano blast.

They were turned almost black and now crumble very easily.

In fact, it is very difficult to unroll them without destroying them.

For that reason, many have never been unrolled.

What is written inside remains a mystery.

A new discovery may change all that.

For the first time, scientists were able to read words inside the scrolls without unrolling them.

They used a special kind of X-ray.

In the past, scholars have made attempts to unroll the scrolls.

Some of these attempts turned out very badly.

In the 1980s, some of the scrolls were opened.

However, the scrolls first had to be broken into tiny pieces.

Too many were destroyed by doing that.

Scientists did not want to try that way again.

Later, scientists tried to X-ray the scrolls.

They thought that X-rays might let them read the scrolls without unrolling them.

But it turned out that regular X-rays did not work.

The problem was that the volcano blast had carbonized the papyrus.

That means it had turned the papyrus into carbon, a black material like charcoal.

The black ink the ancient writers used was made from carbon too.

So both the papyrus and ink looked the same when X-rayed.

It was impossible to tell them apart.

A team led by scientist Vito Mocella made the new discovery.

Mocella and the others figured out a way to solve the carbon problem.

Mocella's team did not use ordinary X-rays.

Instead, they used something called X-ray phase-contrast tomography.

It can see the letters because the ink on the scrolls is raised just a tiny bit.

The letters make bumps that can be seen.

Mocella's team was able to make out a few words and letters from two scrolls.

One of the scrolls was still rolled up.

Reading the words inside the scrolls is still very difficult, however.

It may be a long time before they can read more than a few words.

Still, the discovery is good news.

Scientists were able to learn much from what they could see.

Soon, scholars may be able to study more unopened scrolls.

