SHINGTON - The U.S. Justice Department sued North Carolina on Monday over a new state law that forces people to present a photo identification before voting and that limits early voting.

The lawsuit argues the measure discriminates against minorities.

It was the second time in recent months that the Democratic Obama administration has challenged a voting law in a Republican-led state.

In August, it sued to block a 2011 Texas voter-identification measure.

Attorney General Eric Holder said the North Carolina law imposes several "troubling new restrictions" on voters.

Those include reducing early voting days, eliminating same-day registration during the early-voting period and requiring photo identification.

Holder announced the lawsuit at a news conference joined by federal prosecutors based in North Carolina.

The Justice Department will try to show that the changes made by North Carolina were meant to limit the number of people able to vote, Holder said.

And that those changes result in the unequal voting access based on race, he explained.

The North Carolina law is one of a series enacted in Republican-governed states imposing new voting requirements.

Republicans argue that the changes are needed to combat voter fraud.

Democrats say that the laws are intended to make it harder for blacks and other people who are likely to vote Democratic cast their ballots.

Holder said his department could bring more voting rights cases.

"I fear that it will not be our last," he added.

The U.S. Supreme Court in June invalidated part of the 1965 U.S. Voting Rights Act that the federal government had previously relied upon to challenge state voting laws.

Republican Governor Pat McCrory signed North Carolina's voting changes into law in August.

"Common practices like boarding an airplane and purchasing Sudafed (a common decongestant) require photo ID, and we should expect nothing less for the protection of our right to vote," he said then.

In a statement on Monday, McCrory called the Justice Department's lawsuit an overreach with no merit.

"I believe that North Carolina is in the mainstream on this issue, and it's the Justice Department that's working in the fringes," he added.

Civil rights groups filed suit against the law immediately after it was signed, and Democratic U.S.

Senator Kay Hagan of North Carolina asked Holder to review the matter.

Holder said that by restricting access to the polls and the ease of voter participation, the law would shrink rather than expand people's ability to cast ballots.

He said he was especially troubled that the law would significantly shorten the early voting period.

U.S. elections generally are held on Tuesdays.

North Carolina and some other states allow people to vote early in part to make it more convenient to vote.

Shortening the early voting period affects minorities more than other voters, Holder said.

More than 70 percent of blacks who voted in the November 2008 and 2012 elections in North Carolina did so in this early period, according to the Justice Department.

The department's suit asks the court to block four provisions of the North Carolina law: *   -- cutting early voting from 17 to 10 days, though the overall number of early voting hours remains unchanged; *   -- the elimination of same-day voter registration during early voting; *   -- the prohibition on counting certain provisional ballots, which a voter fills out when there are questions about his or her registration; *   -- and the adoption of an ID requirement that is stricter than the Justice Department allows.

Changes in voting laws can affect voter turnout and swing close elections.

Civil rights advocates say recent changes echo the earlier, century-long fight to win voting rights for black Americans in the U.S. South.

The challenge to North Carolina would fall under the Voting Rights Act's Section 2.

That part of the law prohibits state voting practices or procedures that discriminate by race.

The federal government will have to prove that discrimination was both the intent behind the North Carolina law and its effect.

Requirements for voters to show identification have been a flashpoint.

The Justice Department has approved of them in some states such as Virginia that take steps to ensure that IDs are available at little to no cost.

But it has opposed the rules in states where it said the mandate would be a burden on the poor and minorities.

The department said that blacks comprised 23 percent of the North Carolina's registered voters.

But they accounted for 34 percent of registered voters who did not have a driver's license or other ID provided by the state.

The case was assigned to a federal judge in Winston-Salem, N.C.

