SHINGTON - The U.S. Justice Department sued North Carolina on Monday over a new state voting law.

The law forces people to present a photo identification before casting a ballot and limits early voting.

Attorney General Eric Holder argues the measure discriminates against minorities.

It was the second time in recent months that the Democratic Obama administration has challenged a voting law in a Republican-led state.

In August, it sued to block a 2011 Texas voter-identification measure.

Holder said the North Carolina law imposes several "troubling new restrictions" on voters.

It would reduce early voting days.

Voters would not be able to register the same day they voted if they voted early.

And the law puts a tough new photo-ID requirement in place.

The law was meant to make fewer people vote, he said.

It also was intended to "result in unequal access to the participation in the political process on account of race," Holder said during a news conference.

He was joined by federal prosecutors based in North Carolina.

The North Carolina law is one of a series enacted in Republican-governed states imposing new voting requirements.

Republicans argue that the changes are needed to combat voter fraud.

Democrats say that the laws are meant to make it harder for blacks and other people who are likely to vote Democratic cast their ballots.

Holder said his department could bring more voting rights cases.

"I fear that it will not be our last," he added.

The U.S. Supreme Court in June invalidated part of the 1965 U.S. Voting Rights Act that the federal government had previously relied upon to challenge state voting laws.

Republican Governor Pat McCrory signed North Carolina's voting changes into law in August.

He said then that people needed a photo ID to board an airplane and buy cold medicine.

"We should expect nothing less for the protection of our right to vote," he said.

On Monday, McCrory said there was no merit in the Justice Department's lawsuit.

"I believe that North Carolina is in the mainstream on this issue, and it's the Justice Department that's working in the fringes," he added.

Civil rights groups filed suit against the law immediately after it was signed.

Democratic U.S.

Senator Kay Hagan of North Carolina also asked Holder to review the matter.

Holder said he was especially troubled that the law would shorten the early voting period.

U.S. elections generally are held on Tuesdays.

North Carolina and some other states allow people to vote early.

Part of the reason for early voting is to make it more convenient to vote.

Shortening the early voting period affects minorities more than other voters, Holder said.

More than 70 percent of blacks who voted in the November 2008 and 2012 elections in North Carolina voted early, according to the Justice Department.

The department's suit asks the court to block four provisions of the North Carolina law: *   -- cutting early voting from 17 to 10 days.

The overall number of early voting hours remains unchanged; *   -- the elimination of same-day voter registration during early voting; *   -- the ban on counting certain provisional ballots.

Voters fill out those ballots when there are questions about his or her registration; *   -- and the adoption of an ID requirement that is stricter than the Justice Department allows.

Changes in voting laws can affect voter turnout and swing close elections.

Civil rights advocates say recent changes echo the earlier fight to win voting rights for black Americans in the U.S. South.

The challenge to North Carolina would fall under the Voting Rights Act's Section 2.

That part of the law prohibits state voting rules that discriminate by race.

The federal government will have to prove that discrimination was both the intent behind the North Carolina law and its effect.

Requiring voters to show identification has been a major issue.

The Justice Department has approved rules in some states such as Virginia.

Those states take steps to ensure that IDs are available at little to no cost.

But it has opposed the rules in states where it said the mandate would be a burden on the poor and minorities.

The department said that blacks made up 23 percent of the North Carolina's registered voters.

But they accounted for 34 percent of registered voters who did not have a driver's license or other ID provided by the state.

The case was assigned to a federal judge in Winston-Salem, N.C.

