The exhaust from motor vehicle is harmful to humans and the environment.

Many areas in the United States require emissions testing of motor vehicles.

Emissions testing checks the levels of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxide and other pollutants in vehicle exhaust.

Automakers have to make sure the emissions are low.

Volkswagen now admits it rigged the computers inside its diesel cars to cheat emissions tests.

The public is upset by the famous auto company's wrongdoing.

Buyers are angry.

The company's cheating has also hurt Volkswagen dealers.

The dealers do not work for Volkswagen.

No one can take them to court for the company's actions.

Yet they still find themselves caught in the middle.

The product they sell is in trouble and their customers are angry.

Dealers do not make Volkswagens, they sell them, said Brian Maas.

He is the president of a group that represents 50 VW dealers across California.

Maas said the dealers were trusted by their customers.

Now their own business partner, VW, has hurt them by being dishonest.

Volkswagen said it had placed "defeat devices" in as many as 11 million diesel engines.

The instruments helped the cars pass emissions tests.

However, things were different when the cars were on the road.

The exhaust gave off high amounts of pollution-causing nitrogen oxide.

The harmful gas was 40 times higher than the amount allowed by law in the United States.

Now, no new VW diesel-engine cars can be sold, and neither can some used ones.

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is an agency of the U.S. government.

The agency works to protect the environment and human health and safety.

The EPA has refused to allow the 2016 line of Volkswagen diesels.

VW has also ordered its dealers to stop selling new or used diesel cars.

Now dealers have to wait until Volkswagen fixes the diesel problem and recalls the cars.

Until then, they cannot do anything.

CarMax is a national used car chain with about 50,000 used cars in stock.

The stock includes hundreds of VW diesel cars with the device.

Government officials have not given them any direction on the situation yet, a spokesman for the company said.

Dealers were careful when speaking about the matter.

No one wanted to make public statements.

One dealer agreed to speak if he was not named.

He said he was glad that no one had died or been injured because of the company's cheating.

He hoped people understood that dealers did not cause the diesel problem.

Christian Scali is a lawyer in Los Angeles.

VW dealers hurt by the company could find a legal way to solve the problem, he said.

They could sue Volkswagen in court.

It could be that Volkswagen did wrong on purpose, Scali said.

In that case the company will have to answer to the government, the public and the dealers.

"The dealers would have a right to sue Volkswagen just as the public does," Scali said.

