The Volkswagen car company has admitted cheating emissions tests in the United States.

In the commotion over the automaker's wrongdoing and consumer outrage another victim has been forgotten — the Volkswagen dealer.

The dealers do not work for Volkswagen, nor are they liable by law for the automaker's offense.

They, however, find themselves caught in the middle.

The product they sell is tainted and the consumers they serve are furious, while the world waits to learn what the car company will do to resolve the problem.

"Our dealers don't manufacture Volkswagens, they sell them," said Brian Maas, president of the California New Car Dealers Association, which represents 50 VW dealers across the state.

"They have worked hard to build their brand and customer loyalty but have been harmed by the dishonesty of their own business partner, VW."

Following an independent investigation, Volkswagen has owned up to installing "defeat devices" in as many as 11 million diesel engines.

The devices helped cars to pass emissions tests in laboratory conditions.

In normal operation on the road, however, the engines switched from test mode and emitted pollution-causing nitrogen oxide up to 40 times more than the legal amount in the United States.

The result has been a total freeze on the sale of all new and some used VW diesel-engine cars.

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has refused to certify the 2016 line of Volkswagen diesels.

The company has ordered its dealers to stop selling new diesel cars and certified used ones.

Now dealers have to wait until Volkswagen finds a fix for the diesel problem and issues a product recall.

After that happens, VW dealers will perform the recall work and get the affected automobiles legally back on the road.

Until then, they can't do anything.

"Volkswagen's acknowledged misconduct regarding its vehicle emissions has been extremely disappointing, and dealers are deeply concerned about how this breach of trust will affect their customers," said Charles Cyrill.

He is the spokesman for the National Automobile Dealers Association.

The group represents 16,000 new car and truck sellers.

The independent national used car chain CarMax has an inventory of about 50,000 used cars in its network, including several hundred of the affected VW vehicles.

Government regulators have not given them any direction on the situation yet, a spokesman for CarMax said.

Individual dealers contacted were wary, and reluctant to speak publicly about the matter.

One dealer, who agreed to speak only if he was not named, said he was glad the emissions problem had not resulted in any deaths or injuries.

He said he hoped people understood that dealers did not cause the diesel problem.

"Unlike the runaway Toyotas or the GM ignition switches, no one has died because of this problem — and people seem to forget that," the manager of a prominent Southern California VW dealership said.

Los Angeles attorney Christian Scali has represented car dealers in class-action lawsuits — cases involving many people suing one defendant — in the past.

He said there may be a legal remedy for VW dealers hurt by the diesel deception.

If Volkswagen purposely set out to do wrong, they are going to have to answer to the government, the public and the dealers, Scali said.

"The dealers would have a right to sue Volkswagen just as the public does."

