On a Sunday in the Windy City that lived up to its nickname, Nik Wallenda walked high in the sky and lived up to his family's nickname.

They are known as the Flying Wallendas, famous for their daring high-wire acts.

Below him were cheering crowds.

Wallenda, a tightrope walker and daredevil, made two high-wire walks and broke two world records that day, all without a safety harness or net to catch him if he fell.

His first walk took him across the Chicago River on a cable stretched between two skyscrapers.

It took him 6 minutes, 51 seconds.

The cable was strung at a small angle so he would be walking uphill.

Wallenda set a world record for the steepest tightrope walk between two buildings.

"You guys watching think I'm crazy, but this is what I'm made for," Wallenda said after stepping onto the first wire.

While crossing the river, Wallenda was about 630 feet above the ground.

That's as tall as the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, or twice as tall as the Statue of Liberty.

It was windy up there, but Wallenda wasn't shaken.

"It's not bad, but [the cable] is definitely moving," he said.

Even high above the ground, Wallenda talked to the people below.

Police estimated that more than 50,000 people lined the streets to watch Wallenda's stunts.

"Listen to that roar," he said.

"I love Chicago and Chicago definitely loves me."

After successfully completing the first walk, Wallenda took an elevator down to the street, and returned to the first skyscraper for a second walk, this one blindfolded.

By crossing between two buildings blindfolded and more than 500 feet above the ground, Wallenda set another world record, for highest blindfolded walk ever.

The Discovery Channel showed Wallenda's walks live on television.

Since he used no safety equipment, the channel had to make a plan in case he fell.

Using a 10-second delay, the Discovery Channel planned to cut away from the live broadcast if Wallenda fell, producers said.

Wallenda had his own plan if he lost his balance or tripped: grab the wire and hold on.

His crew can reach him in about 90 seconds anywhere on the wire.

When he trains in Sarasota, Florida, Wallenda regularly practices falling and grabbing onto the cable.

The 35-year-old married father of three says he is strong enough to hold on to the cable for 20 minutes while waiting to be rescued.

Among the thousands of people who turned out to watch Wallenda and cheer him on were the Ross family of Tinley Park, Illinois.

Nikki and Rich Ross and their 7-year-old son Jake set up folding chairs at the intersection of State Street and Wacker Street.

They ate sub sandwiches as the excitement grew around them.

Rich Ross said the family had seen Wallenda cross the Grand Canyon on television, but that the atmosphere in Chicago on Sunday was much more exciting.

"It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience to see this firsthand instead of on TV," he said.

"It's incredible just to experience being down here."

Jake Ross said he was looking forward to seeing Wallenda walk blindfolded.

Jake has practiced tightrope walking himself, even though he says he is afraid of heights.

His father, Rich, said he hadn't considered covering his son's eyes in case Wallenda fell.

"There are a lot of safety precautions in place.

They have to have it completely safe before they let him walk," Ross said.

"It is a little windy, though."

