On a windy Sunday, daredevil Nik Wallenda walked on a tightrope strung between two skyscrapers in Chicago, and then one connecting two tall towers, breaking two world records in the process.

He's a seventh-generation member of the Flying Wallendas family, famous for high-wire feats like this.

It took Wallenda 6 minutes, 51 seconds to cross the Chicago River on a tightrope stretching from the Marina west tower to the Leo Burnett Building.

The wire was installed with an incline of 19 degrees.

By crossing it, Wallenda set the world record for steepest incline in a tightrope walk between two buildings.

After making the first crossing, Wallenda took an elevator back down to the street and returned to the west tower for another tightrope walk.

This time he was blindfolded as he crossed from the west tower to the east tower.

This walk, completed at more than 500 feet, was the highest blindfolded tightrope walk ever recorded.

"You guys watching think I'm crazy, but this is what I'm made for," Wallenda said after his first few steps on the first wire.

More than 50,000 spectators turned out to watch Wallenda's walks, which he undertook without a harness or safety net.

Even on a tightrope high above the city, Wallenda acknowledged the cheering crowds below during his first walk.

"Listen to that roar," he said.

"I love Chicago and Chicago definitely loves me."

While crossing above the Chicago River, Wallenda's average height was about 630 feet.

That's about the same height as the Gateway Arch in St. Louis or more than twice as tall as the Statue of Liberty.

Wallenda walked into the wind as he crossed the river, but he played down the effect of the wind.

"It's not bad, but it (the cable) is definitely moving," he said.

The Discovery Channel showed Wallenda's walks live, although they were broadcast with a 10-second delay that would allow the channel to cut away if he fell, producers said.

If Wallenda did lose his balance or slip, he planned to grab onto the wire and hang on.

He frequently practices slipping and then grabbing the cable at his training facilities in Sarasota, Florida.

The 35-year-old married father of three said he has enough strength to hang there for 20 minutes while waiting to be rescued.

His crew can reach him in about 90 seconds anywhere on the cable.

Wallenda had to make some last-minute changes to his game plan because of bad weather and some problems with the cable.

In order to make sure the cable had the proper tension, it was strung at a steep 19-degree angle.

Wallenda had planned — and practiced — to walk at a more moderate 15-degree incline.

Far below the tightrope, a large crowd gathered on the streets to watch the event.

Nikki and Rich Ross and their 7-year-old son Jake set up folding chairs at the intersection of State Street and Wacker Street.

The Rosses, of Tinley Park, Illinois, arrived at 4 p.m. and ate an early dinner of sub sandwiches as crowds started to gather around them.

The family watched Wallenda cross the Grand Canyon on a tightrope on television, Rich Ross said, but the atmosphere in Chicago on Sunday was much more exciting.

"It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience to see this firsthand instead of on TV," he said.

"It's incredible just to experience being down here."

Jake Ross said he most looked forward to seeing Wallenda walk blindfolded.

Jake added that he has practiced tightrope walking even though he is afraid of heights.

Rich Ross said he wasn't worried about a fall and hadn't thought about covering his son's eyes if it happened.

"There are a lot of safety precautions in place.

They have to have it completely safe before they let him walk," Ross said.

"It is a little windy, though."

