Nik Wallenda is a daredevil.

He takes risks and puts himself in dangerous situations for others to watch.

On Sunday, Wallenda was in Chicago, Illinois.

He walked on a tightrope stretched between two skyscrapers.

More than 50,000 people came out to watch and cheer him on.

Many more watched on live TV.

"You guys watching think I'm crazy, but this is what I'm made for," Wallenda said after stepping onto the wire.

Walking on a tightrope takes great balance.

A tightrope is a metal cable or rope stretched tight.

Acrobats can walk, jump, roll and do other tricks on tightropes stretched high above the ground.

His family, the Flying Wallendas, is famous for it.

Wallenda walked on a tightrope about 630 feet above the ground.

It was windy and he had no safety equipment.

If he slipped or lost his balance, Wallenda had only one hope: grab the tightrope and hold on.

While training in Florida, Wallenda regularly practices slipping and then grabbing the rope.

His crew can reach him in 90 seconds anywhere on the cable.

Wallenda said he is strong enough to hang on for 20 minutes if necessary.

Still, critics said Wallenda should have used a safety harness or net.

Wallenda's skywalk took him across the Chicago River, on a rope stretched between the Marina City west tower and the Leo Burnett building.

He crossed the distance in about 7 minutes.

Even during the walk, Wallenda responded to the cheering crowds below.

"Listen to that roar," he said.

"I love Chicago and Chicago definitely loves me."

Wallenda's tightrope was set at a steep uphill angle: 19 degrees.

It earned him a world record for the steepest walk between two buildings.

It was also a windy day, but Wallenda stayed calm.

"It's not bad, but [the cable] is definitely moving," he said.

After completing the first walk, Wallenda came back to the street by elevator.

He had another walk planned: this one blindfolded.

This time Wallenda crossed between the Marina City west and east towers.

He was about 500 feet above the ground.

He set another world record.

This one was for the highest blindfolded tightrope walk.

The Discovery Channel showed Wallenda's walks live on TV.

But the producers had to have a plan in case he fell.

They didn't want to show his death on live TV.

The channel used a 10-second delay so they could stop the live broadcast in case of an accident.

Tens of thousands of people filled the streets far below Wallenda's tightropes.

The Ross family was there: Nikki and Rich Ross and Jake, their 7-year-old son.

The Rosses had seen Wallenda cross the Grand Canyon on TV, but the atmosphere was much more exciting in Chicago, Rich said.

"It's a once-in-a-lifetime experience to see this firsthand instead of on TV," he said.

"It's incredible just to experience being down here."

Jake Ross said he was looking forward to seeing Wallenda walk blindfolded.

Jake has tried tightrope walking himself, even though he is afraid of heights.

His father Rich hadn't thought about covering his son's eyes in case Wallenda fell.

Wallenda wouldn't walk unless it was completely safe, Rich said.

"It is a little windy, though," he added.

