Wal-Mart managers in Texas have a new job.

The managers have to ask customers if they have a permit to carry a handgun.

A new law in Texas began on Jan. 1\.

People can openly carry guns in the state.

However, they must have permission.

Texas is the biggest state to allow citizens to carry handguns openly in a holster.

Last month, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. sent instructions to stores that sell alcohol.

Managers must make sure that customers with guns have licenses.

Cashiers or door greeters who see someone with a gun are to alert the highest-ranking employee.

He or she must ask the customer for the permit.

Before, a shopper could have been walking around with a concealed weapon and store workers would not have known.

For the last 20 years, Texans were allowed to carry hidden weapons.

Under the new law, stores must ask openly armed customers if they have a license.

The law has created a big problem for stores and restaurants.

They are being forced to take sides in one of the country's most emotional debates.

Pro-gun supporters are refusing to shop at stores that forbid firearms.

They say people should not be punished for exercising their constitutional right to carry guns.

The Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protects the right to own and carry guns.

Gun-control activists, meanwhile, are avoiding stores that allow customers to carry guns.

They say no one should have to shop where they feel unsafe.

Stuck in the middle are stores and restaurants that do not want to lose business from either side.

Dozens of them across Texas will not let customers openly carry guns. Other have chosen to let them.

Both sides have lost customers.

Wal-Mart's position is unusual because many of its stores sell beer and wine.

The Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission is in charge of giving stores and restaurants permits to sell alcohol.

It does not allow unlicensed handguns in places people can buy alcohol and take it somewhere else to drink.

A restaurant or store can lose its alcohol license if it lets someone carry a gun without a permit, said Chris Porter.

He is a spokesman for the state commission.

Some companies are trying to be in the middle.

They publicly oppose guns in their Texas stores.

Yet, they do not want to post signs that firearms are not allowed.

The coffee giant Starbucks Corp. and Target Corp. both do this.

Gun-control activists are against this kind of balancing act.

The Texas chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America has taken a stand against it.

"The strongest statement businesses can make for their customers' safety and care is getting that sign up," said Alexandra Chasse.

She is with the Texas chapter of Moms Demand Action.

Wal-Mart says it is asking customers to show a gun permit only in Texas stores that sell alcohol.

Wal-Mart itself sells rifles and shotguns.

Still, its position has begun to upset pro-gun activists.

"I find it offensive," said C.J.

Grisham, president of gun-rights group Open Carry Texas.

Grisham said that group members have been asked for permits at Wal-Mart.

"I don't want to be treated suspect by a place that I'm shopping at."

On Sunday night, Ashley Bravo de Rueda walked into a Wal-Mart to buy baby supplies and dog food.

She is 25 years old and wore her gun on her hip.

Almost immediately she was stopped by a store worker.

The worker said "Ma'am, you are more than welcome to carry a gun like that," she said.

Then the worker asked to see her gun license.

Bravo de Rueda said she was surprised.

Still, she showed the worker her permit and began to shop.

"The whole time I felt like I was looking over my shoulder," she said.

"To me, I'm lawfully carrying.

I should not be stopped for something that I am not doing wrong."

