Wal-Mart managers in Texas have a new job: asking customers if they have a permit to carry a handgun.

To follow a new Texas law, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. sent written instructions last month to stores that sell alcohol.

They told managers to make sure that customers who openly carry firearms have licenses.

Cashiers or door greeters who see someone with a gun are to alert the highest-ranking manager.

He or she must approach the customer and ask to see the permit.

"We do try to ensure that people have a licensed firearm," said Wal-Mart spokesman Brian Nick.

Wal-Mart is the world's largest store chain.

"We are giving direction to our store employees to ask for a license as our management sees appropriate."

The notice was sent out because of Texas' new open carry law, which went into effect Jan. 1.

Texas is the biggest state to allow citizens carry handguns openly in a holster.

The law has posed a big problem for stores and restaurants.

They are being forced to take sides in one of the nation's most emotional debates.

Gun-rights activists are refusing to shop at stores that forbid firearms.

They say people should not be punished for exercising their constitutional rights to carry guns.

The Second Amendment of the U.S. Constitution protects the right to own and carry guns.

Gun-control advocates, meanwhile, are avoiding stores that allow customers to bear arms, saying no one should have to shop where they feel unsafe.

Stuck in the middle are retailers who do not want to lose business from either side.

Dozens of stores and restaurants across Texas have banned openly carried guns.

Angry gun-rights activists have vowed to shop elsewhere.

Other stores have chosen not to ban firearms carried legally, inviting the scorn of gun-control advocates who have promised a boycott of their own.

Wal-Mart's position is unusual because many of its stores sell beer and wine.

The Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission prohibits unlicensed handguns in places that sell liquor to go.

A restaurant or store can lose its liquor license if it "knowingly allows" a person to bring an illegal firearm on the premises, said Chris Porter.

He is a spokesman for the state commission.

Previously a shopper could have been walking the aisles with a concealed weapon and store clerks would not have known.

For the last 20 years, Texans were allowed to carry hidden weapons.

Under the new law, stores must ask armed customers openly carrying a gun if they have a license.

Some companies are trying to walk a fine line.

They publicly oppose guns in their Texas stores, but they don't want to post signs saying that firearms are not allowed.

The coffee giant Starbucks Corp. has asked that customers who are not law-enforcement officers refrain from bringing firearms into stores.

It has not issued a ban, according to spokeswoman Jaime Riley.

Target Corp. has also asked customers not to carry guns openly.

However, Target also has not displayed the signs stopping them, said spokeswoman Molly Snyder.

That balancing act is not sitting well with gun-control advocates.

The Texas chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America is taking action.

It has begun targeting stores that have publicly opposed the open carry law but haven't displayed the official signs prohibiting it.

"The strongest statement businesses can make for their customers' safety and care is getting that sign up," said Alexandra Chasse.

She is a spokeswoman for the Texas chapter of Moms Demand Action.

Wal-Mart says it is asking customers to show a gun permit only in Texas stores that sell alcohol.

Wal-Mart itself sells rifles and shotguns.

The company says it follows all local, state and federal laws, said Nick.

Still, its position has begun to trouble gun-rights activists.

"I find it offensive," said C.J.

Grisham, president of gun-rights group Open Carry Texas.

Grisham has heard from group members who shop at Wal-Mart that they have been asked for permits.

"I don't want to be treated suspect by a place that I'm shopping at."

On Sunday night, 25-year-old Ashley Bravo de Rueda walked into a Wal-Mart in Wichita Falls to buy pacifiers for her infant son and dog food.

She wore her Bersa Thunder .380 pistol on her hip.

Almost immediately she was approached by an employee.

The worker said "Ma'am, you are more than welcome to carry a gun like that, but I'm going to need to see your license."

Although startled, Bravo de Rueda nonetheless pulled out her permit and began to shop.

"The whole time I felt like I was looking over my shoulder," she said.

"To me, I'm lawfully carrying.

I should not be stopped for something that I am not doing wrong."

