Native Alaskans have been living in that part of the world for thousands of years.

To stay alive in the cold wilderness, they have hunted and eaten walrus.

Eating walrus is part of their history and way of life.

These days, walrus are hard to find.

Alaska's weather has changed because of global warming.

Global warming is what scientists have called the changes that are happening to the Earth's climate.

The planet, they have observed, is getting hotter.

Many scientists blame humans.

To make electricity, humans burn oil, coal and gas.

Those give off greenhouse gases that heat the planet.

Global warming is melting ice off Alaska's coast.

Walrus go where the ice is best.

That has meant fewer walrus in Alaska to hunt.

Hunters are bringing home fewer walrus each year.

Some Native Alaskans are going hungry as a result.

Anna Oxereok is a Native Alaskan.

She grew up eating walrus in her village.

Today, walrus is a rare treat.

Oxereok has one piece of walrus meat in her freezer, but she does not want to eat it yet.

"I have to save it for something special," she says.

Her brother caught two walrus this spring.

He shared the meat and fat with their village.

Two walrus split among 150 people was not very much.

Oxereok was thankful for the piece that she got.

Hunters and scientists report that walrus have started following different patterns.

Global warming has caused large amounts of ocean ice to melt.

Walrus use ocean ice to dive and rest.

As a result, many walrus have moved to where there is still ice.

So hunters are finding fewer of the sea mammals in Alaska.

Gambell and Savoonga are two villages on St. Lawrence Island.

There, the number of walrus that hunters have brought back has been cut in half.

Hunters from the two villages killed more than 1,100 walrus in 2003.

Ten years later, they took only 555.

This year, things are not looking any better.

In the spring, hunters killed 233 walrus.

It is not enough for the 1,430 people who live in the two villages.

Iver Campbell is a Yup'ik Eskimo hunter from Gambell.

He said the disappearing ice has also made hunting more difficult.

The ice once blocked the wind for hunters, but now there is not enough ice to do that.

"The ice goes out real fast, melts real fast," he said.

"We don't have anything to counter the wind and the rough water."

Without walrus meat, there has not been enough food in some villages.

Native Alaskans find much of their food themselves.

Food is very expensive in stores.

Many Native Alaskans eat only what they need to stay alive.

Even finding that much has been difficult without walrus meat.

Some Native Alaskans can hunt other animals, like reindeer.

Others are struggling to find any food at all.

Diomede is a small city on the coast of Little Diomede Island.

It is only a few miles from Russia.

The 120 people living in Diomede hunted just one walrus in 2014.

There was not enough food for everyone.

The leaders of Diomede asked for help and food from the state.

This year, 10 walrus were caught, said Diomede hunter Robert Soolook.

He said there are still walrus in the area, but they are moving out sooner.

Soolook said hunters will need to change their ways to keep up with the changes.

Anna Oxereok is an Inupiat Eskimo.

She is not thinking about moving.

Relocating would mean leaving everything she knows.

"It's not that simple because your roots are here," Oxereok said.

