Pacific walrus can't find sea ice for resting in Arctic waters.

As a result, they are coming on to a beach in northwest Alaska in record numbers.

About 35,000 walrus were photographed there Saturday.

The beach is about 5 miles north of Point Lay.

Point Lay is an Inupiat Eskimo village.

It lies 300 miles southwest of Barrow, Alaska, and 700 miles northwest of Anchorage, Alaska's largest city.

The enormous gathering was spotted by researchers surveying the area by air.

Every year, researchers do a survey of Arctic sea animals.

Walrus were first spotted on Sept. 13, according to the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service.

They have been moving on and off shore.

Observers last week saw the remains of about 50 dead walrus on the beach.

The animals may have been killed in a stampede.

Officials were putting together a team to find out how they died.

"They're going to get them out there next week," said U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service spokeswoman Andrea Medeiros.

Pacific walrus spend winters in the Bering Sea.

Females give birth on sea ice.

They also use ice as a diving platform to reach clams, snails and worms on the shallow continental shelf.

Unlike seals, walrus cannot keep swimming and swimming.

They must rest.

Walrus use their tusks to pull themselves onto ice or rocks.

Temperatures are getting warmer in the summer.

Sea ice is melting.

As a result, the edge of the sea ice has moved north.

Females and their young ride the edge of the sea ice into the Chukchi Sea, the body of water north of the Bering Strait.

Sea ice has retreated north beyond shallow continental shelf waters in the past few years.

It has moved into Arctic Ocean water.

There, the water is more than 2 miles deep.

Walrus cannot dive to the bottom to get food.

Walrus in large numbers were first spotted on the U.S. side of the Chukchi Sea in 2007.

They returned in 2009.

In 2011, scientists estimated 30,000 walrus along 1 kilometer of beach near Point Lay.

A kilometer is a little more than a half mile.

Young walrus are at greater risk of stampedes.

These are a risk when a group gathers nearly shoulder-to-shoulder on a beach.

Stampedes can be triggered by a polar bear, human hunter or low-flying airplane.

More than 130 mostly young walrus died during a stampede in September 2009 at Alaska's Icy Cape.

The World Wildlife Fund works to protect wildlife and endangered animals.

It said walrus have also been gathering in large groups on the Russian side of the Chukchi Sea.

"It's another remarkable sign of the environmental conditions changing as the result of sea ice loss," said Margaret Williams, who runs the World Wildlife Fund's Arctic program.

She said the walrus gatherings are another sign of the effects of climate change.

The Arctic is changing very fast, she said.

"It is time for the rest of the world to take notice and also to take action to address the root causes of climate change," Williams said.

Scientists measure the sea ice's lowest point every year.

This summer, that point was the sixth lowest since satellites started watching the ice.

The satellite monitoring began in 1979.

