Walrus meat is not found in grocery stores.

In fact, hunting walrus is against the law for most Americans.

Only Native Alaskans are allowed to hunt the large sea mammals.

They have been hunting walrus for hundreds of years.

Eating walrus is part of their way of life and helps them to stay alive in the cold Alaskan wilderness.

These days, however, walrus are becoming hard to find.

Global warming has changed the Alaskan climate, the number of walrus in the region has gone down.

Hunters are killing fewer walrus each year.

Some communities are going hungry as a result.

Anna Oxereok is a Native Alaskan who grew up eating walrus in her village.

Today it is such a rare treat, that she cannot bring herself to eat the walrus meat that is in her freezer.

"I have to save it for something special," she says.

Her brother caught two walrus this spring.

He shared the meat and fat with their village.

Two walrus split among 150 people was not very much.

Anna was thankful for what she got.

Walrus is highly prized by Alaskan Natives as a food to store for winter.

The fully grown male walrus can weigh 2,700 pounds.

The taste of the meat has been described as somewhere between that of veal and beef.

Hunters and scientists report that walrus migration patterns have changed.

Many scientists blame humans.

To make electricity, humans burn oil, coal and gas, which give off greenhouse gases that heat the earth.

The warming climate has caused large amounts of ocean ice to melt.

Walrus use ocean ice to dive and rest.

As a result of the melting, walrus have moved to where there is still ice.

The decreasing number of walrus has been felt in Gambell and Savoonga, two communities on St. Lawrence Island.

Hunters from the two villages killed more than 1,100 walrus in 2003.

Ten years later, they managed to take only 555.

This year, things are not looking any better.

In the spring, hunters killed 233 walrus.

It is not enough food for Gambell and Savoonga's 1,430 people.

Iver Campbell is a Yup'ik Eskimo hunter from Gambell.

He explained that the disappearing ice has not only made walrus migrate, but has also made hunting more difficult.

The ice once blocked the wind for hunters, but that is no longer the case.

"The ice goes out real fast, melts real fast," he said.

"We don't have anything to counter the wind and the rough water."

Without walrus meat, there has not been enough food in many communities.

Store-bought food is expensive in much of Alaska.

A dozen eggs can cost nearly $7.

A gallon of milk is about $15, and a loaf of white bread costs $6.25.

Rather than buy food at the store, Native Alaskans find much of their food themselves.

In these communities, people eat only the minimal amount needed to stay alive.

Some Native communities can hunt for other animals, like reindeer.

Other villages are struggling to find any food at all.

Diomede is a small city on the western coast of Little Diomede Island, only a few miles from Russia.

The 120 people living in Diomede hunted just one walrus in 2014.

As a result, city and Native leaders asked for help from the state.

This year 10 walrus were harvested, said Diomede hunter Robert Soolook.

He said there are still walrus in the area, but they are migrating sooner.

Soolook thinks hunters eventually will need to change their practices, even going out earlier in the year.

Oxereok, an Inupiat Eskimo, is not thinking about moving.

Relocating would mean leaving everything she knows.

"It's not that simple because your roots are here," she said.

