Pacific walrus can't find sea ice for resting in Arctic waters.

As a result, they are coming ashore in record numbers on a beach in northwest Alaska.

About 35,000 walrus were photographed Saturday about 5 miles north of an Inupiat Eskimo village called Point Lay.

Point Lay lies 300 miles southwest of Barrow, the northernmost city in the United States, and 700 miles northwest of Anchorage, Alaska's largest city.

The enormous gathering was spotted by researchers during the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) annual Arctic marine mammal aerial survey.

The NOAA is focused on the condition of the oceans and the atmosphere.

Walrus were first spotted on Sept. 13, according to the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service.

They have been moving on and off shore.

Observers last week saw about 50 walrus carcasses on the beach from animals that may have been killed in a stampede, but officials are assembling a team to determine their cause of death.

"They're going to get them out there next week," said U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service spokeswoman Andrea Medeiros.

The gathering of walrus on shore is a phenomenon that has accompanied the loss of sea ice in the summer as the climate has warmed.

Pacific walrus spend winters in the Bering Sea.

Females give birth on sea ice and use ice as a diving platform to reach snails, clams and worms on the shallow continental shelf.

Unlike seals, walrus cannot swim indefinitely and they must rest.

They use their tusks to "haul out," or pull themselves onto ice or rocks.

As temperatures warm in summer, the edge of the sea ice recedes north.

Females and their young ride the edge of the sea ice into the Chukchi Sea, the body of water north of the Bering Strait.

In recent years, sea ice has receded, or moved further back, north beyond shallow continental shelf waters and into Arctic Ocean water, where depths exceed 2 miles and walrus cannot dive to the bottom.

Walrus in large numbers were first spotted on the U.S. side of the Chukchi Sea in 2007.

They returned in 2009.

In 2011, scientists estimated 30,000 walrus along 1 kilometer of beach near Point Lay.

A kilometer equals 0.62 mile.

Young animals are weaker and can be hurt in stampedes when a group gathers nearly shoulder-to-shoulder on a beach.

Stampedes can be triggered by a polar bear, human hunter or low-flying airplane.

The carcasses of more than 130 mostly young walrus were counted after a stampede in September 2009 at Alaska's Icy Cape.

The World Wildlife Fund said walrus have also been gathering in large groups on the Russian side of the Chukchi Sea.

"It's another remarkable sign of the dramatic environmental conditions changing as the result of sea ice loss," said Margaret Williams, managing director of the World Wildlife Fund's Arctic program, by phone from Washington, D.C. "The walrus are telling us what the polar bears have told us and what many indigenous people have told us in the high Arctic and that is that the Arctic environment is changing extremely rapidly, and it is time for the rest of the world to take notice and also to take action to address the root causes of climate change," she said.

This summer, the sea ice's annual low point was the sixth smallest since satellite monitoring began in 1979.

