It started more than 60 years ago.

Construction crews were beginning to build on sections of a Kansas City meadow located near the Blue River.

Soon, a man began showing up with a metal detector.

The man was John Adams Jr.

He was concerned about valuable pieces of history being lost forever.

Over an 11-year period beginning in 1952, he dug up dozens of objects from the meadow.

They had been left there during a fierce Civil War battle, the October 1864 Battle of Westport.

Adams found belt buckles, guns, bullets and unexploded shells.

He even found a carved bullet that may have been used as a chess piece.

Often he arrived after big rains, in case rushing water had revealed something previously hidden.

Whenever new construction began, he asked permission to look around.

Today, Civil War students are thankful for what Adams did.

Because of him, a collection of objects from Kansas City's most important Civil War battle exists today.

Visitors to the Battle of Westport Museum can see what Adams saved.

About 75 objects are being shown.

The area he took them from is known as the Byram's Ford Big Blue Battlefield.

Adams held onto his Civil War finds for many years.

Shortly before his death in 2012, he sold them to collector Mike George for only $400.

"To me it was just a bunch of rusted things," George said.

"He said, 'I want somebody who will appreciate it and not sell it.'

He was a good friend and finally I said, 'John, I'll do it, but only because it is you.'"

Although George wasn't an expert on the Battle of Westport, he knew roughly what had happened.

The battle was fought between the Union North and the Confederate South.

It lasted three days.

Around 29,000 soldiers were involved, making it the biggest Civil War battle west of the Mississippi River.

In the end, the Union won.

Earlier this year, George decided to exhibit some of Adams' objects.

Seeking information about the battle, George tracked down Daniel Smith, who heads the Monnett Battle of Westport Fund.

Smith's group preserves the Civil War history of the Kansas City area.

It has preserved much of the 40-acre Byram's Ford Big Blue Battlefield.

Smith decided to take a look at what George had, but he wasn't expecting much.

All that changed when George mentioned his friend, John Adams.

Smith had researched the Adams family for years.

William Adams and his family had come from Virginia to Jackson County in 1853 and purchased 276 acres from brothers named Byram.

The property stood near a crossing, or ford, of the Big Blue River.

The crossing was known as Byram's Ford.

Then the war arrived.

The Adams family had to flee Jackson County.

It did not return to the Byram's Ford property until 1870.

While they were gone, fighting took place on their land during three days in October 1864.

When George started talking about Adams, Smith's doubts about the collection vanished.

George showed Smith two Hotchkiss shells.

They were the type fired by guns used by the 2nd Missouri Light Artillery, a Union unit.

The Monnett Fund only owns a copy of such a shell.

Here, however, were two real examples.

Both were still whole because neither had exploded.

Smith was astounded.

George then showed him a handgun that may have belonged to a Confederate soldier.

It had been found in the late 1800s in a barn on the land owned by Adams family.

Adams continued searching for Civil War objects well into the 1960s.

He found less in later years, however, because more of the meadow became covered with concrete.

His work paid off, though.

Today, the Adams collection provides a strong link to the historic Battle of Westport.

