Jeff Stocker gets excited talking about the Civil War.

He wears a tie with Abraham Lincoln on it.

When you mention Gettysburg, Stocker smiles.

"To be in the field at Gettysburg … it gives me chills just talking about it," her says.

Gettysburg was fought on rolling farmland just 10 miles north of the Mason-Dixon line.

The line marked the border between the North and South during the war.

The battlefield is where Stocker's great-grandfather dragged a wounded Union captain away from approaching Rebel troops.

And that is where Stocker walked in the footsteps of both armies on summer days with his father.

It is where Stocker was on Monday for the 150th anniversary of the three-day battle.

And it is the inspiration for part of Stocker's latest book, "We Fought Desperate."

The book takes a close look at eastern Pennsylvania's 153rd Volunteer Regiment.

Stocker's great-grandfather was part of that group of untested soldiers.

Over the last seven years, he has relived Gettysburg through the letters, diaries and files of hundreds of men.

Many of those soldiers never made it back home.

"The dots on the map are people," said Stocker, who is from Center Valley, a town an hour north of Philadelphia.

"I hope you realize that this is a real-life person with a real-life family.

Chances are, just like you."

One of those dots on the map is Heinrich Feirich, a 40-year-old Prussian immigrant and shoemaker.

Feirich volunteered to serve nine months with the 153rd Pennsylvania in September 1862.

His wife was pregnant at the time.

Only four months later, Pvt.

Feirich began suffering from deafness.

He was reassigned as a servant for Capt.

George Young.

By late June 1863, Confederate forces under Gen. Robert E. Lee were invading the North.

As Lee's army swept through the countryside, the 153rd marched 10 miles on the morning of July 1.

It came to a grassy hilltop on the northeast corner of Gettysburg's battlefield.

But it was too far from other Union troops and the regiment got hit hard by Confederate soldiers who charged out of the trees.

Capt.

Young was shot in the face.

He was among more than 250 from the regiment to be wounded, killed or captured.

Feirich began dragging him from the battlefield.

He stopped when Young ordered him to save himself and run, Stocker's research found.

Young was captured and survived the war.

Feirich completed his nine-month tour of duty.

Then he enlisted in a different unit.

He deserted in April 1864, was captured, and spent two weeks in prison.

The Union Army added him back to its ranks because it was desperate for soldiers.

Feirich was shot in the left knee at another battle, an injury that hurt him for the rest of his life.

He became a U.S. citizen after the war and died in 1894.

One of Feirich's daughters married Albert Stocker.

In 1919, she gave birth to the last of her 14 children: Donald Stocker.

He was Jeff Stocker's father.

Donald Stocker fought in World War II.

Then he got married and started his own family.

From the time Jeff was old enough to walk, his dad took him to Gettysburg.

As they walked the battlefield, Donald Stocker would talk about Feirich.

Jeff Stocker inherited his father's love of reading about the Civil War and World War II.

He likes copies of Civil War soldiers' handwritten journals and diaries.

In 1990, he was donating a manuscript from the 4th Alabama regiment.

A Gettysburg historian suggested that he try to publish it.

That manuscript became "From Huntsville to Appomattox, Robert T. Coles' History of the 4th Alabama."

Then he wrote another book about units that fought at Gettysburg.

By that time, in 2006, Donald Stocker was in his mid-80s, and still visiting Gettysburg.

Stocker thought his father would get a kick out of reading about Heinrich Feirich and the 153rd.

He read newspaper death notices at the library, examined records in Washington and read every diary, newspaper account and letter that he could find.

The research is stuffed into file folders in Stocker's law office.

The title, "We Fought Desperate," is a quote from a soldier describing a battle fought in Virginia two months before Gettysburg, the other major battle where the 153rd fought.

This week thousands are gathering at Gettysburg for the anniversary, but Donald Stocker will not be with them.

He died last summer at the age of 93.

Stocker placed a manuscript of "We Fought Desperate" in his coffin.

