Mathilde Amivi Petitjean grew up in France.

She grew up in snowy mountains, but her mother is from the sunny West African country of Togo.

That's good enough for the Togolese Olympic Comittee.

Petitjean is skiing in the mountains of Russia for Togo's first Olympic team.

Alessia Afi Dipol is another member of Team Togo whose feet have barely touched the soil of Togo.

Dipol is Italian.

She has skied for India.

But for Togo Olympic Committee Vice President Kelani Bayor, they "are true blue Togolese."

Petitjean and Dipol don't live in Togo, Kelani said.

But they have roots there.

Six other warm-weather countries have sent teams to the Winter Games for the first time.

They are Dominica, East Timor, Malta, Paraguay, Tonga and Zimbabwe.

Their teams are just one or two members strong.

None of them have mountains or snow or knowledge of winter sports.

So, they have looked to other countries to fill their national teams.

The Dominica cross-country ski team comes from New York.

Gary and Angelica di Silvestri are a husband and wife in their 40s.

They did volunteer work in the tiny Caribbean nation.

In return, Dominica made them citizens.

That lets them ski in Sochi for Dominica.

Some of the new Olympians were born in the country they represent.

But they didn't stay there long.

Skier Julia Marino is skiing for Paraguay.

She was born in the South American country.

But she was adopted by an American family and moved to the United States before she was a year old.

Marino now lives in mountainous Boulder, Colo. Until last year, she skied for the United States.

She has visited Paraguay just once.

"I'm going to spend a bit more time down there," she said Tuesday.

Paraguay has "a great national Olympic Committee and I can learn more about my country."

Zimbabwe skier Luke Henri Steyn was born in Harare.

Harare is the capital of the African country of Zimbabwe.

But his family moved to Switzerland, where he started skiing at age 2.

He attends the University of Colorado in Boulder.

He took a year off to prepare for the Winter Games.

Other countries also have nation-hopping athletes.

South Korean speed skater Ahn Hyun-soo is competing for Russia.

He now calls himself Viktor Ahn.

He switched teams after South Korea didn't send him to the 2010 Winter Games in Vancouver, Canada.

Foreign Policy magazine said the Olympics is about national pride.

But athletes are taking advantage of citizenship rules.

Athletes must be citizens of the country they represent.

Some countries are so hungry for Olympic glory they make top athletes citizens.

Changing countries has become the new normal for some athletes, said Janice Forsythe.

She directs the International Centre for Olympic Studies in Canada.

Canada moves athletes to the front of the citizenship line in time for the Olympics, she said.

Togo discovered Petitjean online.

Its sports committee contacted her after she posted on Facebook.

She made a nice comment about cross-country skier Gervacio Madja.

He was born in Togo and raised in Germany.

"We first got in touch with (Petitjean) in May 2013," said Hyacinthe Edorh.

He is head of the Togolese team at Sochi.

"With Mathilde we are certain she will surprise everyone because she is only 19 years old.

And she is capable of competing for the next 10 to 15 years."

Togo hopes to become a winter sports powerhouse.

"We would like to be present in all (events) in the Winter Games," Hyacinthe said.

But for now, Team Togo has work to do in its own country.

"Some people in Togo don't know what slalom is," Kelani said.

Slalom is a zig-zag pattern of flags set up for skiers to ski through.

He said he will explain it to them.

