Cross-country skier Mathilde Amivi Petitjean was recruited for Togo's first Winter Olympics team via Facebook.

Petitjean, 19, whose mother is from Togo, grew up in the French Alps and skied for France.

Alpine skier Alessia Afi Dipol, 18, is another member of Team Togo.

An Italian national who used to ski for India, his feet have barely touched the soil of the sweltering West African nation.

But to Togo Olympic Committee Vice President Kelani Bayor, these athletes bleed Togolese yellow, red and green.

"These are true blue Togolese," Kelani insisted in French.

"They don't live in Togo but they are part of the diaspora."

Togo's of-the-country-but-not-necessarily-from-it Olympic team is one of seven countries without winter sports that are participating in the Winter Games for the first time.

Teams from Dominica, East Timor, Malta, Paraguay, Tonga and Zimbabwe also marched in the parade of nations at Sochi's opening ceremony.

"If I was told I would one day compete at the Olympic Games, I would never have believed it would be in the colors of Togo," Petitjean said.

Because of a lack of mountains, snow, facilities or knowledge of winter sports, some of these Olympic newbies have pushed the limits to field teams.

The Dominica cross-country ski team, for example, come from Staten Island, N.Y., not the Caribbean island they represent in Sochi.

Gary and Angelica di Silvestri, a husband and wife in their 40s,  volunteered in the tiny Caribbean nation and were granted citizenship in return.

Some of the new Olympians were born in the country they represent, but they didn't stay there long.

Paraguayan slopestyle skier Julia Marino was born in Paraguay, but was adopted by an American family and moved to the United States when she was less than a year old.

Marino, a Boulder, Colo., resident who skied for the United States until last year, has visited Paraguay just once.

"I'm going to spend a bit more time down there," she said Tuesday.

"They have a great national Olympic Committee and I can learn more about my country."

Zimbabwe alpine skier Luke Henri Steyn was born in Harare.

But his family moved to Switzerland, where he started skiing at age 2.

He was studying at the University of Colorado in Boulder before taking a year off to focus on the Sochi Games.

The Winter Olympic rookie nations aren't the only ones with nation-hopping athletes.

Prized South Korean speed skater Ahn Hyun-soo is competing for Russia under the name Viktor Ahn.

He ditched his motherland for not sending him to the 2010 Winter Games in Vancouver.

Foreign Policy magazine's website recently called these Olympians "carpetbaggers" who have only tenuous ties to their motherlands.

The magazine said they are reminders that "even as the Games embrace the (speech) of national pride, opportunism knows no borders."

Olympic citizenship rules are flexible.

And some countries are so hungry for Olympic attention and glory, that changing their passport is becoming the new normal among athletes.

"And countries will facilitate the growth of this pattern, too, in order to have representatives on the team so as to make their presence felt on the world stage," said Janice Forsythe.

She directs the International Centre for Olympic Studies at Western University in London, Ontario, Canada.

"In Canada, we move elite athletes to the front of the immigration line, speeding up their immigration papers in time for the Olympics."

Togo discovered Petitjean online instead of in the immigration line.

The nation's new sliding sports committee contacted her after she posted a positive comment on Facebook about Gervacio Madja, a Togolese-born, Munich-raised men's cross-country skier.

"We first got in touch with her in May 2013," Hyacinthe Edorh, head of Togolese team at the Sochi Games, said of Petitjean.

"With Mathilde we are certain she will surprise everyone because she is only 19 years old and she is capable of competing for the next 10 to 15 years."

Togo's presence at the Winter Games is part of an ambitious plan to make the country a warm-weather winter sport powerhouse.

Togo's temperature ranges from 72 to 95 degrees.

"We would like to be present in all competitions in the Winter Games and want to carry out our project all over Africa," Hyacinthe said.

But for now, Team Togo has enough work to do in its own country.

"Some people in Togo don't know what slalom is," Kelani said, referring to the flags set up in a zig-zag pattern that she will have to ski around.

"I will explain to them."

