S. climate scientists said Friday that 2014 was the warmest year they have ever seen.

Scientists began measuring temperatures across the Earth in 1880.

Since then, the Earth has warmed by almost one and a half degrees.

This might seem small, but scientists say that higher temperatures could cause problems.

Floods, serious storms and droughts could become more common.

The scientists also warned that humans are causing the planet to warm faster.

When people burn coal or oil for fuel, greenhouse gases are released.

These gases trap heat.

The Earth warms.

Climate scientists use information collected around the world to study patterns in weather over time.

There are 6,300 weather stations on land and ships across the world's oceans.

Scientists at NASA, the U.S. space agency, and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) looked at the information.

They agreed that average temperatures on Earth in 2014 were higher than they were in the 1900s.

December 2014 was the warmest month ever recorded.

May, June, August and September also set new records.

A warm 2014 continues a trend: there have been many warm years since the year 2000.

In fact, 9 of the 10 warmest years ever have come since 2002.

This shows a warming trend, NOAA said.

The Earth is getting hotter over time.

Gavin Schmidt is a NASA scientist.

He said greenhouse gases have caused most of the warming.

More and more gases are being released as humans burn coal and oil t make electricity.

The gases trap the heat on Earth.

Scientists expect even higher temperatures in the future.

Temperatures on land were only the fourth warmest of all time in 2014.

More heat in the oceans moved the average up.

Ocean water holds heat longer than land does.

When water heats up, ice from the ocean melts.

This causes sea levels to rise.

Last year was the warmest ever recorded despite some serious cold in the winter.

A "polar vortex" brought low temperatures across the United States.

This cold weather was balanced out by hotter weather: blazing heat in the Western U.S., Europe and Australia.

Areas in the Earth's far north saw warmer temperatures in 2014.

Temperatures in the far north are rising twice as fast as other areas.

The rising temperatures in the north are melting snow.

Less snow means the Earth can reflect less heat from the Sun into space.

The ice in the Arctic is at its sixth lowest level ever, Schmidt said.

Temperatures have been rising since the 1970s, the climate scientists concluded.

"2014 is exactly where we would've expected," Schmidt said.

"There are going to be periods when short-term trends go up and go down.

But there's no evidence that the long-term trend is much different from what it has been."

