!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20131121_WARTHOG.jpg)LOS ANGELES — The A-10 Thunderbolt II is a ground-attack plane nicknamed the Warthog.

It could be the latest aircraft killed off as the military cuts back on its spending.

The Cold War-era plane has a seven-barrel Gatling gun the size of a Volkswagen Beetle in its nose.

The A-10 has a reputation for tearing apart tanks, and clearing the way for troops on the ground with its massive rounds of ammunition.

But Pentagon officials have targeted the ugly plane in recent years.

The Pentagon is the same thing as the Department of Defense.

It is in charge of military spending and the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marines.

The Air Force prefers planes good at aerial dogfights and dropping GPS-guided bombs.

So, it would rather spend its shrinking funds on those types of planes.

The military faces tough decisions as it has less money: keep paying for older, reliable planes or pay for high-tech 21st-century weapons.

The Pentagon has yet to release its latest spending plan.

It also has not officially signaled that the Warthogs are on a kill list.

But last month, the Air Force said that eliminating the fleet of 326 aircraft would save it about $3.5 billion over five years.

A-10 supporters in Congress rushed to action to try to stop any additional Wathogs from getting retired until 2021 or later.

Last week, 33 lawmakers wrote a letter to top military officials expressing "deep concern" about retiring the A-10.

Last month, Sen. Kelly Ayotte from New Hampshire blocked the White House's choice to lead the Air Force until she got answers about the plane's fate.

There's even a Facebook group called Save the A-10 that was created in August with more than 4,000 supporters.

More battles over military spending are sure to come.

The military says it must slash its older weapons to save money.

But these programs support troops and provide thousands of jobs across many states.

So Congress has always come to their rescue.

The Pentagon already faces spending cuts of $487 billion over 10 years.

Now it must deal with the threat of losing $500 billion more in funding because of forced spending cuts.

The automatic cuts could go into effect if lawmakers in Washington, D.C., can't agree on what to spend money on, and how much to spend.

Some in Congress feel there are better places for the Air Force to cut than programs like the A-10.

They mention big meetings, air shows and the number of workers at headquarters.

But major savings — such as in the billions of dollars — can be made only by cutting an entire fleet, the Air Force has said.

No one questions the A-10's success.

The plane is considered one of the best at directly protecting troops on the ground.

Pilots do that by firing on enemy tanks, other vehicles and strongholds with its high-powered Gatling gun.

The A-10 was designed in the 1970s around the gun.

It is the heaviest multibarreled cannon ever put on an aircraft.

Pilots can shoot short bursts that unleash 140 rounds of ammunition in two seconds.

But it must fly low and slow over the battlefield.

It can be attacked by weapons on the ground.

The plane is designed to keep flying even if parts of the wing or one of its engines has been blown to shreds.

The cockpit is surrounded by a tub that blocks bullets.

The aircraft has been upgraded often over the years.

But the military says the plane has only one use, which is the problem.

The Air Force has said it wants to rid itself of one-mission planes in favor of multirole aircraft that can blast apart enemies on the ground and in the sky.

The A-10 can't fight other planes in the sky.

It's not quiet and it's not really fast.

The A-10's replacement is the upcoming F-35 fighter jet.

The military paid nearly $400 billion for more than 2,400 of those jets.

The program is based on a plan to develop a fighter plane that could be used by the Air Force, Navy and Marines.

The idea is that it can take off and land on runways and aircraft carriers, as well as hover like a helicopter.

No single fighter aircraft has had all those capabilities.

And it is expensive.

At $35,200 the F-35's cost per flying hour is twice as much as the A-10's, according to the Government Accountability Office, which looks into government spending.

The F-35 certainly falls under the Air Force's definition of multirole because it can attack targets on the ground as well as enemy jets.

That's the problem, said Todd Harrison, a defense analyst in Washington, D.C.

If spending is going to be cut severely, where are the cuts going to come from: expensive new weapons that can carry out more missions, or older, simpler weapons?

The F-35 provides 127,000 jobs in 47 states and Puerto Rico.

Someone is sure to be upset if there's a proposal to buy fewer of the planes, Harrison said.

"Everyone knows there needs to be cuts, but few people in Congress are brave enough to actually make them," he said.

"Bottom line is there are going to be a lot of angry people in Congress — no matter what."

