Washington state is preparing for a tough summer as its drought is expected to only get worse.

Some farmers are planning on not watering crops for all or part of the season.

The state will pay them not to irrigate their crops.

Others are seeking permission to tap into emergency wells or drill new ones.

A large area in Washington will shut off the water to farmers for a few weeks this month.

The plan is to save up water for later this summer when farmers really need it.

Fish managers are keeping a close watch on rivers.

They are concerned that salmon heading upstream may get stranded in shallow water or could be harmed by warmer temperatures.

The state's mountain snowpack level — the amount of snow that builds up over time — is less than one-tenth of normal.

Likewise, about one-fifth of the state's rivers and streams are at record low levels.

In response, on May 15 Governor Jay Inslee declared a statewide drought emergency.

He said farmers, wildlife and communities with small water systems will be hit hardest.

Inslee's declaration allows the state Department of Ecology to buy water for farmers, protect salmon and help those facing hardships.

It is still waiting for the money, though.

State lawmakers still have to vote to give $18 million to the department.

"This is the worst snowpack we've seen since we started collecting data in the 1930s," said Scott Pattee, a water supply expert with the Natural Resources Conservation Service, a government agency.

"The state is in a drought, even though we've had a normal water year."

In drought-stricken California, the state has put limits on the amount of water people can use.

In contrast, rainfall has been normal in Washington this winter.

Cities such as Seattle, Spokane and Tacoma have a good supply of water stored up and don't expect to have to limit water.

Yakima, another city in Washington, also likely won't reduce water though the city is encouraging residents to conserve it.

Yet, low snowpack means there won't be much water to refill streams and rivers this summer — and summertime is the time when fish and farmers need it most.

Brent DeKoning grows hay in Ellensburg, near Seattle.

He gets water from the Kittitas Reclamation District.

DeKoning's water share will be much less than what he gets in a normal year.

DeKoning said he'll only be able to cut hay once earlier in the season.

Usually, he is able to cut hay twice.

He also won't be able to plant new hay in the fall or plant another crop like corn or wheat.

"You just have to weather it out," said DeKoning, who hopes there will be more water next year.

The state Department of Fish and Wildlife is buying more equipment to increase the water flow at its fish hatcheries where it breeds fish.

It is also deciding whether it needs to move fish or release them early into the streams, said Teresa Scott, an official with the department.

"We're doing everything we can to make sure the fish in hatcheries are protected," she said.

This month, a group of farmers agreed to stop watering their crops for 17 hours.

The purpose is to keep more water in a 31-mile stretch of the Walla Walla River for salmon and other fish.

Jim Probert is one of the farmers who will stop irrigating.

He raises about 750 cattle on an irrigated pasture just west of Walla Walla.

"We're trying to get along with everyone so we can help the fish and not hurt ourselves too bad," he said.

Probert expects he will use less water later this summer.

He also plans to move his cattle from pastures to feedlots where they eat hay and grain earlier than usual.

"I don't think I've ever seen it like this, going into summer," he said.

