Farmers and wildlife managers in Washington state are preparing for a tough summer as the drought is expected to only get worse.

Some farmers are planning on not watering crops and pastures for all or part of the season in exchange for payments from the state.

Others are seeking permission to tap into emergency wells or drill new ones.

A large irrigation district in the Yakima River basin shut off the water for a few weeks this month so farmers can use it later in the summer.

Also, fish managers are keeping a close watch on the rivers.

They are concerned that salmon heading upstream may get stranded in shallow water or could be harmed by warmer stream temperatures.

Snowpack levels in the mountains are less than 10 percent of normal, and about one-fifth of the state's rivers and streams are at record low levels.

In response, Governor Jay Inslee declared a statewide drought emergency on May 15, saying that agriculture, wildlife and communities with small water systems will be hit hardest.

The declaration allows the state Department of Ecology to buy water for farmers, protect salmon and help those facing hardships.

The agency is still waiting for lawmakers to approve $18 million over two years in emergency drought relief.

"This is the worst snowpack we've seen since we started collecting data in the 1930s," said Scott Pattee, a water supply expert with the Natural Resources Conservation Service, a government agency.

"The state is in a drought, even though we've had a normal water year."

Unlike drought-stricken California, where the state has limited the amount of water people can use, rainfall has been normal in Washington this winter.

Cities such as Seattle, Spokane and Tacoma have a good supply of water stored up and don't anticipate limiting water.

Yakima also likely won't make people use less water though the city is encouraging residents to conserve.

Yet the low snowpack means there won't be much to refill streams and rivers this summer — and summertime is when migrating fish and farmers who rely on irrigation need it most.

Not everyone will feel the pinch.

In Washington, water is considered to belong to the public, but people or groups are given the right to use it.

Those who hold the oldest claims to water, known as senior water rights, will be hurt less by water shortages and may not have to reduce the amount of water they use.

They'll get water before those holding junior rights.

Brent DeKoning grows hay on about 700 acres in Ellensburg near Seattle.

He gets water from the Kittitas Reclamation District, a junior-right holder whose water share will be 44 percent of normal.

DeKoning said he'll only be able to cut hay once earlier in the season, rather than twice.

He says he also won't be able to plant new hay in the fall or plant another crop like corn or wheat.

"You just have to weather it out," he said.

"You just hope that the reservoir and the snowpack come back in the fall."

Ben Smith owns a 600-acre dairy farm with his brother in Sequim near Olympic National Park.

He said he anticipated possible reductions in water and decided to lease some water on his land to the state to make some money.

It will also help keep the water flowing in the Dungeness River for fish.

"We're very concerned if we'll have enough water to irrigate," said Smith.

He grows barley, grass and corn to feed about 1,000 cattle.

Without enough water to grow feed for his animals, his farm would have to buy it.

Smith said he is planning on using the money from selling the water to pay for feed.

The state Department of Fish and Wildlife is buying more equipment to aid the water flow at its fish hatcheries.

It is also considering whether it needs to move fish or release them into the wild early, said Teresa Scott, the agency's drought coordinator.

"We're doing everything we can to make sure the fish in hatcheries are protected," she said.

This month, a group of farmers agreed to turn off their irrigation for 17 hours.

The purpose is to keep more water in a 31-mile stretch of the Walla Walla River for salmon and other fish.

Jim Probert raises about 750 cattle on irrigated pasture just west of Walla Walla.

He said, "We're trying to get along with everyone so we can help the fish and not hurt ourselves too bad."

Probert anticipates having less water later this summer and moving cattle from pastures to feedlots earlier than usual.

"I don't think I've ever seen it like this, going into summer," he said.

