The first major Pacific storm of the season drenched much of California on Tuesday.

Still, the state remained deep in a historic drought.

The storm dropped more than an inch of rain over much of Los Angeles County by evening.

There was even more rain in the local mountains.

In foothills and canyons where fires recently burned, residents scrambled to set up barriers to block mud flows and prepared to leave the area.

In Camarillo, gushing mud and water prompted a forced evacuation of 75 homes where a slide had buried a house on Halloween.

In Glendora and Azusa, homeowners and fire crews worked feverishly to support sandbags with plywood and concrete blocks.

Rock slides hit the road in Malibu Canyon.

In Silverado Canyon, residents moved horses and other large livestock to lower, flatter terrain.

But fears of nature's destructive power were eased by optimism about the much-needed rain.

The storm that hit Northern California last weekend gave state water officials the first glimmer of hope in more than a year.

On Monday, they increased the amount of water they will give cities and towns in 2015.

The water allocations were increased in response to improving rain and snow forecasts.

Lake Oroville is the major reservoir of the California State Water Project, which delivers water from Northern California to the south.

The lake took in 5 billion gallons over the last 10 days, officials said.

Still, that is less than 1 percent of its capacity.

State water experts said it would take 150 percent of the average rainfall for California to recover from the current drought.

That would mean some 75 inches of rain from October 2014 to October 2015.

"Even if you had a tremendous downpour this weekend, who knows what's going to happen in the next two months," said Doug Carlson, a spokesman for the California Department of Water Resources.

"We certainly hope that the rainfall we have now pushes us toward normal — but we're still below normal ... We're just trying to get to average."

For residents of Southern California, the storm provided a break from a seemingly endless span of sunny days.

Children splashed in puddles and people huddled under awnings and bus stops.

People gathered to see the Los Angeles River — normally a trickle of treated sewage — come to a dangerous roar.

The homeless in downtown Los Angeles struggled to stay dry, standing in doorways and crouching under blankets.

Some zipped up their tents, while others made shelters with tarps, grocery carts and wheelchairs.

In the San Gabriel foothills, people were worried about keeping the mud away from homes.

More than 18,000 sandbags were distributed in Glendora before the storm, in addition to the 50,000 given out earlier in the year.

Los Angeles County firefighters came Monday night to put sandbags around Ed Heinlein's home in Azusa.

Heinlein darted around his property Tuesday reinforcing a wood barrier with wire.

Glendora suffered a massive mud flow in 1969 that destroyed 30 homes.

"Now they claim it's all coming back," said Heinlein, 66.

"If we get 3 inches of rain we'll get a 10-foot mud flow."

His neighbor David Jones, 58, moved his cars down the hill and put the family's valuables upstairs.

"This is life up here," Jones said.

"As long as everyone is walking at the end of the day, the houses and all that stuff can be rebuilt."

Most rainstorms this time of year come from Alaska.

However, this storm system came from a subtropical area of the Pacific Ocean southwest of California.

In downtown Los Angeles, 1.15 inches of rain fell, breaking the record of 1.10 inches on Dec. 2, 1961.

Northern California was sopped too.

"Thus far, we're at about 11th in the wettest one-day period in the last eight or nine years," said forecaster Bob Benjamin of the National Weather Service.

Scientists have yet to determine whether the Eastern Pacific will see an El Nino weather pattern.

An El Nino causes a wetter-than-average year.

Still, state water officials decided to double the initial amount water that agencies would receive from the State Water Project in 2015.

The water project delivers water through a vast network of reservoirs and canals.

Those numbers are still small.

Cities and towns asked for 10 times as much water.

The water allocation this year was the lowest amount in the project's 52-year history.

