There are many reasons Ron Morgan's 100 Gardens project could fail.

But there are more reasons he's determined to make it work, one vegetable seedling at a time.

The idea behind the nonprofit came to Morgan, a trained architect, after a trip to Haiti.

He traveled there with members of his church after the 2010 earthquake, expecting to design shelters for some of the 1.5 million people left homeless.

He returned convinced that food production was a greater need.

"I've never been that close to so much hurt and emotion," Morgan said.

"It changes you completely."

Morgan hopes to build 100 gardens — 67 in the Charlotte area, paired with 33 in Haiti.

He plans to use a soilless growing method called aquaponics.

It relies on fish to fertilize plants cultivated in water.

The gardens here would serve mostly to educate students.

The gardens in Haiti would provide dinner.

There's little farmable land available in Haiti.

Other groups are also experimenting with aquaponics.

But Morgan's journey, as he put it, may be one of the craziest you'll read about.

"I had no idea where I was headed or what I was doing.

At my age, you've got nothing to lose," said Morgan, 71.

"I figured I might as well follow this thing until it adds up."

One night, Morgan was at a local grill, talking about how much he wanted to help.

A man at the next table said: "You've got to meet George."

George Powell was homeless.

And a genius, Morgan said, with a working knowledge of hydroponics, a water-based growing system for plants.

Morgan invited Powell to live in his house.

They talked for hours on end.

Morgan drew a design for "George's Garden."

Then, four months later, Powell died of cancer.

Morgan felt lost without the man who inspired him, but even more determined.

"I go out in my yard a few weeks later, and mock up what I think we drew up in the drawings," Morgan said.

"By the next spring, it's just a bunch of weeds … as haunting as my commitment to George and the Haitians."

In spring 2012, Morgan turned for advice to Sam Fleming, a musician who managed a hydroponics store in Monroe, N.C.

The 25-year-old was so taken with Morgan's vision that he quit his job to help.

Fleming persuaded Morgan that aquaponics would suit Haiti better than hydroponics.

Aquaponics combines aquaculture, raising fish, with hydroponics, growing plants without soil.

Water containing vitamins and minerals from fish waste is circulated through pipes to fertilize plants which, in turn, filter the water.

The clean water is then re-circulated back into the fish tank.

It requires less space, less energy and less water than typical farming, and it can yield more food in a shorter time — not to mention fish.

Then another unexpected thing happened.

Fleming got a call from Terry Thomas, who worked at a youth correctional center.

The site had federal grant money to set up jobs programs for students.

Thomas was looking for advice on how to fix up an abandoned greenhouse.

A year later, the greenhouse is an aquaponic garden.

A 450-gallon fish tank brims with tilapia.

Water rich with minerals from the tank flows into rows of plastic pipes fitted with holes like a flute.

Lettuce seedlings and bunches of basil grow from the holes.

"It was something that was meant to be," Thomas said.

"It's almost a miracle."

Teenagers jailed at the center tend the aquaponics garden and other vegetable beds outdoors.

Gregg Alford is their teacher.

He is now also behind the idea of 100 Gardens.

"We can end food deserts," Alford said, referring to neighborhoods with few stores that sell fresh foods.

"We can turn over a head of lettuce in four weeks."

Morgan hopes to build the first garden in Haiti in spring 2014.

It will be located in a self-sustaining village called Mahanaim — meaning "God's Camp."

The village is being built 30 miles north of Port-au-Prince.

"The garden is a wonderful idea," said Luiguy Massanga, a native of Haiti who lives in Charlotte and co-founded Joseph's Exchange which is assisting the village project.

"It's a new approach that will improve agriculture production in the country."

While those around him question how everything will work out, Morgan remains undaunted.

"I never thought I would have made it this far," he said.

"It's taken a huge effort on the part of a lot of people.

I'm convinced we can do it."

