Farmers in Central California have rediscovered an old way of growing crops.

The method is called dry farming.

It is simple.

It is also risky.

In dry farming, farmers only use  rainwater.

The method has been used for centuries in Europe to grow olives and grapes.

But one dry winter can mean that very little grows and the farmers go broke.

"Dry farming would be a hard life" because it depends on whether it rains, said Jay Lund.

He is a scientist at the University of California-Davis.

"In some cases, it would be a good road to poverty."

But there are people who believe in dry farming.

Many of them are small farmers and wine makers.

They may not have enough water to use sprinklers.

Or they believe that fruits and vegetables grown by dry farming taste better.

Irrigation is a way of regularly watering crops.

"We think it makes for better wine," said David Runsten.

He is part of a group of family farmers.

Supporters also say dry farming can help keep farms operating.

Dry farming saves a lot of water.

A recent study said the large source of underground water farmers use for irrigation was being used up too fast.

This was happening even when wet years followed dry ones.

Such a source of underground water is called an aquifer.

Nearly half a million acres of land are devoted to wine grapes in California.

That is a larger area than Los Angeles and New York combined.

Only a tiny portion of the land is dry-farmed.

Dry-farmed fruits and vegetables need more space between each tree.

This makes it cost more money.

But the spacing means roots spread out farther.

This results in healthier trees and vines.

The fruit has more intense flavor, said Jeff Maine, a California farmer.

He dry-farmed a 100-year-old apricot orchard for seven years.

That is when he decided that fruit from dry farms was better.

"The dry-farmed stuff has a whole different flavor," said Maine.

He owns the farm Good Humus Produce, with his wife, Annie.

Sacramento Food Co-op general manager Paul Cultrera knows how popular Maine's apricots are.

His California store sold the apricots.

"Annie and Jeff's apricots are worth any price," Cultrera said.

The store expects to sell potatoes and tomatoes that come from farms using the dry-farm method.

The store sold the tomatoes last year.

"The tomatoes were very popular.

Once people tasted them, they didn't care what they cost," said Kerri Williams.

She is the produce manager for the store.

The fruit from dry farms is usually much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms.

Farmers also get less  fruit when they harvest.

One California farmer who still dry-farms is Fritz Durst.

He grows garbanzo beans, wheat and other crops.

His family has farmed for five generations.

Durst's farm gets between 8 and 30 inches of rain each year.

"What we've done is we've adapted to the rainfall," Durst said.

He has learned to follow certain crops with others.

The strategy lets him make the best use of the limited water.

Durst uses the small, remaining parts from past crops to trap moisture.

This can be very little water.

But that moisture keeps his crops alive in the dry season.

Durst uses irrigation for other crops.

But irrigation has its own problems.

"Believe me, no one irrigates for fun, because when you irrigate it costs you money."

