Filiberta Sanchez and her toddler granddaughter strolled down a Parkwood sidewalk.

It was hot under the sun in California's Central Valley.

The sidewalk was lined with yellow weeds and dying grass.

"It was very pretty here, very pretty," said Sanchez, 56.

Her granddaughter, Jenny, crunched a fistful of dried-out dirt and pine needles she grabbed from the ground.

"Now everything's dry."

Parkwood is running out of water.

Like many California communities it is in the middle of a drought, a long period of little rain.

Parkwood's last well dried up in July.

It needed help.

The city of Madera agreed to give Parkwood water for a short time.

But the people who live in Parkwood are not allowed to use it to water their lawns, trees or shrubs.

California state officials this year started tracking areas that could soon run out of water.

They made a list of communities that could run dry within two months.

Parkwood has been on and off of that list more than once.

Twenty-seven other small California communities have been on and off it as well.

Some communities made changes after they were put on the list.

They fixed problems that some say should have been fixed long ago.

Some drilled new wells.

Others connected their water systems with larger ones through pipes.

They got off the list.

Some communities were lucky to get late spring rains.

Fourteen communities are still on the list.

They might soon face water emergencies.

For now they are bringing in water on trucks.

But they need to find another way to get water.

Tim Quinn runs a group of water agencies.

He said communities on the list are often small and far away from other towns.

Many had just one place to get water, such as from a stream.

They didn't have a backup.

If California's drought continues, Quinn says bigger communities could face water problems too.

Parkwood saw signs of trouble even before its well dried up.

Water pressure in some showers slowed to a dribble.

Toilets would barely flush.

After the last well failed, the county passed out bottled water.

In addition, the government warned people to boil water before drinking or cooking with it.

Most lawns in Parkwood are now brown.

Phil Magos, age 67, has lived in Parkwood for 23 years.

He said watching his yard die was hard.

"I feel bad when I go outside because it looks horrible," he said.

