Filiberta Sanchez and her toddler granddaughter strolled down a Parkwood sidewalk under the blistering sun.

The sidewalk was lined with yellow weeds, dying grass and trees more fit for firewood than shade.

"It was very pretty here, very pretty," said Sanchez, 56.

Her granddaughter Jenny crunched a fistful of parched dirt and pine needles she grabbed from the ground.

"Now everything's dry."

Parkwood's last well dried up in July.

The city of Madera agreed to provide Parkwood with a temporary water supply.

But the arrangement forbids Parkwood's 3,000 residents from using so much as a drop of water on their trees, shrubs or lawns.

Parkwood is one of 28 small California communities that have have bounced onto and off of a list of water systems that could run dry within 60 days.

With the drought scorching California, officials for the first time ever started in January to track areas that could run out of water.

"It's a sign of how severe this drought is," said Bruce Burton, who works for the state water board.

For some communities, being put on the list prompted them to address problems that some say should have been fixed long ago.

Some drilled new wells, built storage tanks or connected their water systems with larger ones and got off the list.

Others were saved by late spring rains that filled reservoirs and other water supplies.

Fourteen communities, though, remain on the list.

They are approaching a crisis point and trucking in water while they work to find a solution.

Tim Quinn, the head of the Association of California Water Agencies, said communities that have made the list are often small and isolated.

They relied on a single source of water, such as a stream, without backup sources.

But Quinn warned that if the drought continues, larger communities could face their own significant problems.

"If this drought keeps on going, some larger, more sophisticated communities are going to be in trouble next year," Quinn said.

The city of Montague — with a population of about 1,400 — is one of the list's success stories.

It had long used an irrigation ditch that transported water from a lake 25 miles away.

But the ditch ran dry and in April, Montague landed on the critical list.

Montague built a pipeline that pumped water from wells near Lake Shastina into the Shasta River and then into residents' homes.

"If we hadn't gotten our pipeline finished like we did, we'd probably have had about three or four more weeks of water left, and that would have been that," said Chris Tyhurst, the city's water supervisor.

With the pipeline built, Montague was removed from the list this month.

Arroyo Seco Resort is tucked along a winding mountainous road on the edge of the Los Padres National Forest in Monterey County.

It has been on the critical list since late August.

For the last three weeks, the resort has paid $350 each for about five truckloads of water, said Glenn Dugger, 65, the resort's supervisor.

The resort has a peak population of about 130 residents who relied on the Arroyo Seco River for water.

On a recent afternoon, Dugger stood in the bone-dry river bed.

It dried up a few months ago.

The one 27-foot-deep well that still works can't pump enough water for the resort.

Arroyo Seco means "dry creek" in Spanish, Dugger said, and "It's living up to its name."

The resort has asked for state help to dig wells as deep as 200 feet.

Meanwhile, residents are asked not to water outdoors, leaving the once lush resort faded and brown.

Parkwood saw signs of trouble even before its well dried up.

Water pressure in some showers slowed to a dribble and toilets barely flushed.

After the remaining well failed, the county passed out bottled water to residents.

it warned people to boil well water before drinking or cooking with it.

Most lawns in Parkwood are brown.

Phil Magos, 67, a Parkwood resident for 23 years, said watching his yard die was painful.

"I feel bad when I go outside because it looks horrible," he said.

"When people drive in our neighborhood and they look around, they probably think, 'Wow, this is a really bad area to even consider buying a house.'"

Johannes Hoevertsz, the county public works director, said that the drought may prompt necessary changes in Parkwood.

"If it starts raining tomorrow," he said, "let me tell you, nothing's going to be done about the drought."

