Dave March sipped some coffee as he sat in his car.

He was about to see if the car he built really could drive on water.

It wasn't sitting on a road by other cars.

It was in the water in Newport Harbor, Calif., next to his 65-foot boat.

"This has been a dream for 10, 15 years," he said.

He was looking toward Catalina Island, where he was going to try to drive his car.

"Every time I see that island.

I think, 'Oh, it's not that far.'"

But he has never tested the car on open water, and 30 miles is a long way to swim.

March has been trying for more than 10 years to make a fast car that operates on water.

Now he is about to start selling it.

Each one will cost $135,000.

Sheik Hamdan bin Mohammed Al Maktoum, the crown Prince of Dubai, has ordered six.

Race car drivers are knocking at his door.

A lot of other rich people want the car.

The car that March is test-driving to Catalina is called the Panther.

It cost him hundreds of thousands of dollars to build.

March points his Panther toward the island.

He's surrounded by three powerboats carrying friends and family.

He steps on the gas.

The Panther slowly rises up.

The morning sun is still low, and the Panther begins to cut across the water.

March moves into deeper water.

The shore disappears from sight.

Dolphins jump out of the water around him and a whale comes up for air.

March's grin is so big you can see it from the deck of another boat.

"We're at 13.5 miles," March's partner, Fred Selby, radios before the halfway mark.

"This is the point of no return."

March's hands are strong and gnarled from working on cars and boats.

His blonde hair falls on either side of his gray-blue eyes.

He has the smile of a man who has done well at what he tries.

Like so many other ideas, March's first water car was born in the basement.

He flooded it to see if his test model would float.

The hardest part wasn't waterproofing, as you'd think.

It was getting the car's wheels up and out of the water when he pressed the gas.

March's first model in 2003 looked like a small Camaro sports car.

When it was switched to a boat, the tires went up into the car.

Metal plates covered the wheel wells.

March posted a video of it online, and the clip went viral.

A man named Peter McIlroy was the first to order a car.

He is an electronics maker from Pennsylvania.

He is scheduled to receive his Panther sometime in February.

It took an hour and 10 minutes, but March made it to the harbor at Catalina Island.

"I never thought we'd make it the first time out," March said as he celebrated with his friends and family.

March next wanted to drive the Panther into town.

But it is designed for relatively smooth shores like a sandy beach.

March drove onto the rocky banks of Catalina.

But it was too steep.

He had to run the jets backwards.

It sent a blast of small rocks up into the car's underbelly, damaging a wheel fastener.

March was sad he was not able to finish the trip onto Catalina.

But he was glad to find a problem because it showed him how he could make the car better.

"Each time you break something, you learn something," March said.

"That's what it's all about."

