Farmers in part of California are trying out a centuries-old technique called dry farming.

Once the standard method of farming in the region, the technique is simple.

It is also risky.

In dry farming, farmers only use rainwater to grow crops.

The method has been used for centuries in the Mediterranean region in Europe to grow olives and grapes.

But one dry winter can mean that very little grows.

That can be very bad for farmers financially.

"Dry farming would be a hard life because you're at the whim of the rains," said Jay Lund, a scientist at the University of California-Davis.

"In some cases, it would be a good road to poverty."

But there are people who believe in dry farming.

Many of them are small farmers and wine makers.

They may not have a way to regularly water, or irrigate, their crops.

Or they believe that dry farming produces better-tasting fruits and vegetables.

"We're promoting it because we think it makes for better wine," said David Runsten.

He is part of a family farmer group.

But supporters also say dry farming can help keep farms operating.

Runsten cited a study that found that one vineyard in California saved about 64,000 gallons of water per acre through dry farming each year.

Saving that water can keep the farms going.

A recent study warned that water from  the large source of underground water farmers use for irrigation was being used up too fast.

This was happening even when wet years followed dry ones.

Such a source of underground water is called an aquifer.

Nearly half a million acres of land are devoted to wine grapes in California.

That is more than 780 square miles - more space than Los Angeles and New York combined.

Of those, only about 2,000 acres are dry-farmed, said Runsten.

Dry-farmed fruits and vegetables need more space between each tree.

This makes it cost more money.

But the spacing means roots spread out farther.

This results in healthier trees and vines.

The fruit has more intense flavor, said Jeff Maine, a California farmer.

He dry-farmed a 100-year-old apricot orchard between 2003 and 2010.

That is when he decided that fruit from dry farms was better.

"The dry-farmed stuff has a whole different flavor," said Maine, who co-owns the farm Good Humus Produce, with his wife, Annie.

"People really respond to the traditional aspects of it."

The popularity of Maine's apricots was not lost on Sacramento Food Co-op general manager Paul Cultrera.

His California store sold the apricots.

"Annie and Jeff's apricots are worth any price," Cultrera said.

"They're that good, and that much better than whatever others we sell."

The store expects to sell potatoes and tomatoes that come from farms using the dry-farm method, said Kerri Williams, produce manager at the store.

The store sold the tomatoes last year and will offer them again in late summer.

"The tomatoes were very popular.

Once people tasted them, they didn't care what they cost," Williams said.

Typically, dry-farmed fruit grows much smaller than fruit from irrigated farms.

The farms also produce less fruit per acre.

"There is no way to get around the fact that you're trading size and plumpness for flavor," Maine said.

One California farmer who still dry-farms today is Fritz Durst.

He grows garbanzo beans, wheat, safflower and other crops.

"There is no irrigation here, only rainwater in this area," Durst said.

His family has farmed for five generations.

Durst's farm gets between 8 and 30 inches of rainfall each year.

"What we've done is we've adapted to the rainfall," said Durst.

He has learned to follow certain crops with others because of the limited water.

To preserve the rainwater, Durst uses the residue from past crops to trap moisture.

That moisture, however small, keeps his crops alive in the dry season.

Durst also farms irrigated crops.

He understands why farmers avoid dry farming.

But he believes irrigation has its own problems.

"Believe me, no one irrigates for fun, because when you irrigate it costs you money."

Maine said he would love to give dry farming another chance.

"I'd have to find the right place for something like a rare fruit, or a sustainable fruit," he said.

"Raising something with all those nice concepts rolled into one orchard?

That would be fun."

