The first big Pacific storm of the season hit California on Tuesday.

Much of the state was drenched.

California needed the rain.

But it was nowhere near enough.

California is still in one of the worst droughts in its history.

The storm dropped more than 1 inch of rain across Los Angeles County.

There was even more rain in the mountains.

Fires had burned near mountains and canyons recently.

Now people scrambled to set up wood and sandbags to block mud from flowing.

They also got ready to leave their homes for safer areas.

In one town, mud and water gushed.

People in 75 homes were forced to leave.

In the same area, a home was buried by mud on Halloween.

In two other nearby towns, homeowners and fire crews worked nonstop.

They were trying to support sandbags with wood and concrete blocks.

Rockslides hit the road in Malibu Canyon.

In Silverado Canyon, people moved horses and other animals to lower, flatter land.

People were afraid of the destruction nature might cause.

Yet they were also happy to see rain.

On Monday, California officials said they would give cities and towns more water in 2015.

They did this because the amount of rain and snow is expected to increase.

Lake Oroville is the main water supply of the California State Water Project.

The project sends water from Northern California to the south of California.

The lake took in 5 billion gallons over the last 10 days, officials said.

Still, that is far below what it can hold.

State water experts said getting California out of its drought would take much more rain.

At least 75 inches of rain would have to fall from October 2014 to October 2015.

In Southern California, children splashed in puddles.

People took shelter in bus stops.

The homeless in Los Angeles struggled to stay dry.

They stood in doorways and crouched under blankets.

Some had tents.

Others made shelters with tarps, grocery carts and wheelchairs.

People near mountains were worried about mud sliding down on their homes.

Sandbags were given out in Glendora before the storm.

Firefighters came Monday to put sandbags around Ed Heinlein's home.

Glendora had a huge mudslide in 1969.

It destroyed 30 homes.

"Now they claim it's all coming back," said Heinlein, age 66.

"If we get 3 inches of rain we'll get a 10-foot mud flow."

His neighbor David Jones is 58.

He moved his cars down the hill for safety.

He also put the family's valuables upstairs.

"This is life up here," Jones said.

"As long as everyone is walking at the end of the day, the houses and all that stuff can be rebuilt."

Most rainstorms this time of year come from Alaska.

But this storm was different.

It came from the Pacific Ocean southwest of California.

In Los Angeles, 1.15 inches of rain fell.

It broke the record of 1.10 inches on Dec. 2, 1961.

Northern California was sopped too.

It was one of the wettest days in the last eight or nine years, said Bob Benjamin, who works for the National Weather Service.

