Leon Jung figured it would take something out of the ordinary to save his brown front lawn during the California drought.

So he turned to his local sewage treatment plant.

A month ago, Jung started trucking in recycled sewer water from the first facility in California to give out free water to homeowners.

Yes, free water.

You just have to be willing to haul it home in tanks, drums, barrels or jugs — a back-to-the-basics rescue effort in the state with the most highly engineered water delivery systems in America.

Business is booming at the recycled water station in Pleasanton, where waste water is being converted to drought relief for parched lawns and shrubs.

Sewer plants in Martinez and Livermore also have begun giving away recycled waste water to drive-in customers, and plants in several other California cities are considering it.

"This water is making a huge difference with my landscaping," said Jung, who lives in Dublin, California.

"The lawn got pretty brown and dried out last year during the cutbacks.

I worry it would die if I didn't give it this extra help."

A retired software engineer, Jung took delight in designing his mobile irrigation system with two 55-gallon used food drums strapped to the back of his pickup.

He fitted a plastic pipe that acts like a straw to suck up the water from the drums.

An electric motor sends it shushing through a hand-held garden hose over his front lawn, ferns, camellia bush and other shrubs.

"I had fun coming up with this," he said as he steered a stream of treated sewage water on his lawn.

The popularity of the service has exploded.

Jung is among the more than 610 residential customers who have registered at the recycled water station in Pleasanton.

More than 50 people have signed up in recent days as the drought continues into its fourth year and temperatures climb.

Adding to the stakes, California Governor Jerry Brown announced that California must cut back its use of fresh water 25 percent.

Dublin, Livermore and Pleasanton already reduced water consumption by that amount last year.

"Our service is certainly riding a wave of popularity," said Dan Gallagher, manager of the Dublin San Ramon Services District, which operates the recycled water station in Pleasanton.

"I'm awed sometimes when I see so many people using our filling station.

It takes a lot of work to bring water home, and pump it on your grounds, and then keep doing it again and again."

The Dublin San Ramon district opened the recycled water station in July with three water faucets and few expectations.

Now the station has eight spigots with another eight to be added soon to keep up with spiraling demand.

Anyone can take the water — not just district residents — and some people drive in to get water from 30 miles away.

Officials said water shortages in the drought have helped many consumers get past the yuck factor of using recycled toilet water.

The sewer plants give the recycled water they distribute extra treatment with sand filters and disinfectant.

Sue Stephenson, a Dublin San Ramon spokeswoman, said the water is completely safe to use.

Before hauling away their first load, though, consumers must promise not to use it for drinking or swimming pools or put it in household water pipes.

"Some of our customers have become very creative in coming up with systems to get the water into hoses and drip systems," said Melody LaBella.

She is the water recycling manager at the Central San plant in Martinez.

Many California sewer plants send recycled water through pipes to water ball fields, golf courses or plants on street dividers.

But the Dublin San Ramon Services District's sewer plant in Pleasanton last year become the first to offer the free water to ordinary homeowners.

Bobbi Larson, the executive director for the California Association of Sanitation Agencies, said other sewer plants should copy the program.

Using recycled water is a drop in the bucket given the extent of the water crisis in California.

However, it helps individual consumers reduce their use of fresh water and emphasizes the importance of water conservation, advocates say.

The Dublin San Ramon plant dispensed 2.3 million gallons of recycled water to homeowners in 2014.

In the first three months of this year, it has given away more than 580,000 gallons.

"If the drought ends, I suspect most of our customers will stop using our service," Gallagher said.

"But I don't think we will close it because some people will still want to use it."

