This summer, many were shocked by events in Ferguson, Missouri, after a police officer shot an unarmed teenager named Michael Brown.

People came out to protest the shooting and police were there to keep the crowds from getting too rowdy.

As shocking as the shooting was, some were even more surprised by how armed the police were.

Some drove armored vehicles.

The police wore riot gear like helmets and bullet-proof vests.

Photos and videos of the protest looked like the police were at war.

The photos and video brought attention to a government program which gives unneeded military gear to police stations.

The program is run by the U.S. government.

It was started in the 1990s.

School police have also been getting the military equipment.

In Georgia, several schools have participated in the program.

Some have gotten high-powered rifles.

The guns shoot more bullets at a time than the guns police usually use.

Fulton County Schools, for example, received two big armored cars that are similar to tanks.

They are called Humvees.

Other school systems have gotten powerful rifles.

Among them were M-16s and M-14s.

The rifles are used by soldiers.

Schools say they need the weapons to protect their students.

Many mention past school shootings.

The people who are against the program feel it may lead to an overuse of force.

They fear what might happen to students.

They worry that if students protest, school police could end up injuring them with the big military weapons.

Last week, some national leaders signed a protest letter.

It demanded that the government not send military weapons to school police anymore.

Congressman Hank Johnson proposed a new law last week.

It would stop police from using certain weapons.

They would not be allowed to use tanks, grenades, rocket launchers and high-powered guns.

It is not yet clear whether the law will pass.

The government program does have its defenders.

School police across the country say the weapons are needed to protect students in case of emergencies.

They point to past school shootings like the one that took place at a college called Virginia Tech in 2007.

School officials called that shooting a turning point.

John Lester works for Columbus State University.

The shooting, he said, made his school's police department decide it should be more heavily armed.

His school's police department received three M-16s through the government program.

"Fortunately," Lester said, "we have never had to use them."

Roger Stearns is Kennesaw State University's police chief.

He also supports the government program.

The program allows police to catch up, he said.

It simply gives school police weapons other police already have.

For years, he said, the "bad guys" were better armed than the police.

Kennesaw State received six high-powered rifles through the program.

They are assigned to specially trained officers.

Each officer has completed more than 30 hours of rifle training.

"We have more than 25,000 students," Stearns said.

"A university is a small city."

And it must be protected as well as any other city, he said.

