This summer, many were shocked by the images coming out of Ferguson, Missouri.

Police confronting protesters angry about the shooting death of Michael Brown were in full riot gear, with some driving tank-like armored vehicles.

Demonstrators were hit with stinging, choking tear gas.

It looked like a war scene, but the police were confronting unarmed citizens.

The event brought increased criticism of a controversial federal program that gives military weapons to police stations.

Since the 1990s that program, known as the 1033 program, has transferred surplus military supplies to local police departments.

Police officers employed by colleges and high schools have been among those receiving the equipment.

In Georgia, three public school districts and six colleges and universities have participated in the program.

Some schools have obtained assault-style rifles and other military hardware better known for its use in combat.

Fulton County Schools, for example, received two all-terrain military vehicles, known as Humvees.

Other school systems, including the Bibb County School District, have gotten combat rifles, such as M-16s and M-14s.

University and school officials say they need the weapons to protect their students.

Many mention past shootings at places such as Virginia Tech and Newtown, Connecticut, as the reason they feel compelled to obtain such weapons.

Critics of the program say it may lead to an overuse of force.

They fear that unruly students, or students engaged in a largely peaceful protest, might be injured or even killed by school police with military weapons.

Last week, leaders from about a dozen national organizations signed a letter demanding that school police no longer be armed with military weapons.

Also last week, Congressman Hank Johnson filed the Stop Militarizing Law Enforcement Act.

If Congress approves the act, local police forces will be banned from receiving certain weapons.

Banned weapons would include tanks, flash-bang grenades, rocket launchers and all guns greater than .50-caliber.

"It's so unfortunate that our society has come to this, that we feel that more militarizing will actually solve a problem.

It has yet to do that," said Marlyn Tillman, a co-founder of the group Gwinnett SToPP, which opposes stationing police in schools.

The group's full name is Gwinnett "We're turning to a solution that really is the problem," she said.

However, public safety officials in Georgia and across the country say the weapons are needed to protect students in case of emergencies, such as the massacre at Virginia Tech in 2007.

Thirty-two people were killed by a student during that incident.

Officials called the mass shooting a turning point for school safety.

"That caused our police department — as well as just about every other police agency around the country — to re-evaluate its training" and "preparedness," said John Lester, a spokesman for Columbus State University (CSU).

The university's police received three M-16s.

"Fortunately," Lester said, "we have never had to use them."

According to Kennesaw State University (KSU) Police Chief Roger Stearns, the program allows campus police to arm themselves with weapons other police already have.

For years, he said, the "bad guys" had been better armed than school police.

Kennesaw State received four M-16s and two M-14s through the program.

The six rifles are assigned to officers who have completed 30-plus hours in rifle training.

"We have more than 25,000 students, then add faculty and staff … a university is a small city," Stearns said.

"We have a responsibility to provide the same level of protection as that provided by any other city."

