This summer, many were shocked by the images coming out of Ferguson, Missouri.

Police were watching protesters angry about the shooting death of unarmed teenager Michael Brown.

The police were armed like soldiers.

It looked like a war scene, but many of the protesters were peaceful.

The scary event drew attention to a program that gives police officers unused military equipment.

The program was started in the 1990s and is run by the U.S. government.

Along with regular police departments, police officers employed by colleges and high schools have also received military equipment.

In Georgia, various high schools, colleges and universities have participated in the program.

Some have gotten high-powered guns that shoot faster and more rounds than the weapons police normally use.

They have also received other military-style equipment.

Fulton County Schools, for example, received two military vehicles known as Humvees.

Other school systems have gotten combat rifles, such as M-16s and M-14s.

Those are often used by soldiers, but not by police.

School officials say they need the weapons to protect their students.

Many mention past shootings at places such as Virginia Tech and Newtown, Connecticut.

One involved a shooting at a college, the second was a shooting at an elementary school.

Incidents like those, they say, are the reason they must better arm themselves.

Some people are against the program.

They feel it may lead to police using too much force.

They fear that students who are protesting or just acting up might be injured or even killed by school police.

Last week, leaders from about a dozen national groups signed a letter in protest.

It demanded that school police no longer be armed with military weapons.

Also last week, Congressman Hank Johnson filed the Stop Militarizing Law Enforcement Act.

If passed, the act would prevent local police forces from receiving certain weapons.

Banned weapons would include tanks, flash-bang grenades, rocket launchers and all guns greater than .50-caliber.

It is not yet clear whether the act will be passed by Congress.

"It's so unfortunate that our society has come to this, that we feel that more militarizing will actually solve a problem.

It has yet to do that," said Marlyn Tillman, who heads a group that opposes putting police in schools.

"We're turning to a solution that really is the problem."

However, police in Georgia and across the country say the weapons are needed to protect students in case of emergencies.

They point to events like the killings at Virginia Tech in 2007.

Officials called the mass shooting a turning point for school safety.

John Lester, a spokesman for Columbus State University, said the shooting made his school's police department feel it needed to be more heavily armed.

School police received three M-16 guns through the program.

"Fortunately," Lester said, "we have never had to use them."

According to Kennesaw State University Police Chief Roger Stearns, the program allows school police to catch up.

For years, he said, the "bad guys" were better armed than school police.

What's more, the program simply gives school police weapons other police departments already have.

Kennesaw State received four M-16s and two M-14s through the program.

The six rifles are assigned to officers who have completed more than 30 hours in rifle training.

"We have more than 25,000 students … a university is a small city," Stearns said.

"We have a responsibility to provide the same level of protection as that provided by any other city."

