Most of the country was expected to be colder than it has been in years early this week.

A weather condition called a "polar vortex" is to blame.

Temperatures were expected to be well below zero.

School was called off Monday for the entire state of Minnesota.

Students in Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana, among others, also were getting the day off.

The cold was the latest hit from Mother Nature.

Driving was already dangerous on Sunday.

Snow-covered roads, high winds and ice reached from the Dakotas to Missouri to Delaware.

A polar vortex is a pool of cold, dense air.

It will affect more than half of the country Sunday through Tuesday.

Warnings about the cold stretched from Montana to Alabama.

The forecast was scary.

It called for 25 degrees Fahrenheit below zero in Fargo, N.D., and minus 31 in International Falls, Minn..

It was expected to be 15 below in Indianapolis and Chicago.

Some places could see record-breaking low temperatures.

"It's just a dangerous cold," said Butch Dye.

He studies weather for the National Weather Service.

Several states in the Midwest were getting up to a foot of new snow.

People shoveled out and stocked up on groceries.

They wanted to be prepared before bitterly cold temperatures came overnight.

Temperatures in Chicago were expected to set a daily record low on Sunday.

Earlier Sunday, the National Weather Service reported temperatures around 20 below in Minnesota and North Dakota.

It hasn't been this cold for almost 20 years in many parts of the country.

So medical experts were reminding people that frostbite and hypothermia can happen quickly at 15 to 30 below zero.

They warned people to dress in layers of clothes.

They also should wear hats and gloves.

Frostbite happens when the skin freezes.

It becomes numb and then can get hard.

Hypothermia is a dangerous medical condition.

It happens when your body looses heat faster than it can replace the heat, according to the Mayo Clinic.

Grocery stores in St. Louis sold out of many items.

"The problem is the bread is sold out.

We're out of milk.

We sold out of chips, chicken wings, some meats," Issa Arar of Salama Supermarket said.

Travel problems started early Sunday.

A plane slid into snow at the airport in New York City.

No one was hurt.

But the airport temporarily stopped flights because of icy runways.

About 1,200 flights had been canceled Sunday in Chicago.

Flights were also canceled in Boston and Tennessee.

Roads in the Midwest were particularly dangerous.

Indiana State Police said Interstate 70 in the western part of the state was covered with snow.

Officials in Missouri warned it was too cold for rock salt to work very well.

Southern states should see possible record low temperatures, too.

Single-digit highs were expected Tuesday in Georgia and Alabama.

In western Kentucky,  farmer David Nickell moved extra hay to the field.

He also moved his animals out of the wind.

Nickell had also stocked up on batteries and gas and loaded up the pantry and freezer.

The 2009 ice storm that paralyzed the state was fresh in his mind.

The cold wasn't threatening the citrus at Stella Plantation.

The plantation is in Louisiana.

But manager Hugh French had hoped to harvest navel oranges through January.

"We pick our A-1 fruit first," he said.

What's left is not the best looking fruit.

"But it still tastes good," he said.

"We're toward the end of the season now," he said.

Any losses will not be that bad, he said.

The Green Bay Packers played the San Francisco 49ers at home Sunday.

It was 5 degrees at kickoff.

It was one of the coldest games ever played.

Nevertheless, it was sold out inside Lambeau Field.

"We suited up, we brought all the snowboarding gear we use ... and added to it," said 49ers fan Jeff Giardinelli of Fresno, Calif. "Without the wind, which isn't here yet, we're good.

When it gets windy, we'll be ready for it."

The 49ers beat the Packers 23-20.

