A weather condition called a "polar vortex" was expected to bring below-zero temperatures not seen in years to much of the nation.

The frigid temperatures come on top of snow-covered roads, high winds and ice that made driving dangerous Sunday from the Dakotas to Missouri to Delaware.

School was called off Monday for the entire state of Minnesota.

Students in cities and districts in Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana, among others, also were getting the day off.

A polar vortex is a counterclockwise-rotating pool of cold, dense air.

It will affect more than half of the continental U.S. Sunday through Tuesday.

Wind chill warnings stretched from Montana to Alabama.

The forecast was startling: 25 degrees Fahrenheit below zero in Fargo, N.D., minus 31 in International Falls, Minn., and 15 below in Indianapolis and Chicago.

Some places could see record-breaking low temperatures.

"It's just a dangerous cold," National Weather Service meteorologist Butch Dye said.

Several states in the Midwest were getting walloped with up to a foot of new snow.

Residents shoveled out and stocked up on groceries before bitterly cold temperatures set in overnight.

Five to 7 inches fell overnight in the Chicago area.

Eight to 10 inches of snow was expected to fall in central Illinois, Indiana and Michigan later Sunday, National Weather Service meteorologist Ed Fenelon said.

Forecasts also called for several inches in western Tennessee.

In Chicago, temperatures were expected to fall throughout Sunday to about 11 degrees by 5 p.m., "and from there it will be a free fall for the rest of the night," with temperatures hitting around minus 15, Fenelon said.

Temperatures were likely to set a daily record, he said.

Earlier Sunday, the National Weather Service reported temperatures in the 20-below range in Minnesota and North Dakota.

It hasn't been this cold for almost two decades in many parts of the country.

Because of that, medical experts were reminding people that frostbite and hypothermia can set in quickly at 15 to 30 below zero.

They warned people to dress in layers, hats and gloves.

Hypothermia is a dangerous medical condition where your body looses heat faster than it can replace the heat, according to the Mayo Clinic.

In St. Louis, grocery stores sold out of the essentials before Sunday's bad weather.

"The problem is the bread is sold out.

We're out of milk.

We sold out of chips, chicken wings, some meats," Issa Arar of Salama Supermarket said.

Michigan residents had also jammed stores to stock up on supplies.

"I made my husband go grocery shopping last night," said Kim Tarnopol, 46, of the Detroit suburb of Huntington Woods.

Tarnopol was picking up cold medicine Sunday for her daughter Emma.

Travel problems started early Sunday.

In New York City, a plane from Toronto landed at Kennedy International Airport and then slid into snow on a taxiway.

No one was hurt, though the airport temporarily suspended operations because of icy runways.

About 1,200 flights had been canceled Sunday in Chicago, officials said.

Flights were also canceled in Boston and Tennessee.

Roads in the Midwest were particularly dangerous.

Indiana State Police said Interstate 70 in the western part of the state was snow-covered, while officials in Missouri warned it was too cold for rock salt to be very effective.

Southern states were bracing for possible record temperatures, too.

Single-digit highs were expected Tuesday in Georgia and Alabama.

In western Kentucky,  farmer David Nickell moved extra hay to the field and his animals out of the wind.

The instructor at West Kentucky Community and Technical College had also stocked up on batteries and gas and loaded up the pantry and freezer.

The 2009 ice storm that paralyzed the state was fresh in his mind.

He compared the ice storm with living in the 1800s.

"You need to be able to not only survive, but be comfortable and continue with your basic day-to-day functions," Nickell said.

"Personally, I thought the ice storm should become an annual event.

It definitely taught people to be prepared and appreciate normalcy."

The cold wasn't threatening the citrus at Stella Plantation in Louisiana.

But manager Hugh French had hoped to harvest navel oranges through January.

"We pick our A-1 fruit first," he said.

"So some of what's left on the tree would be culls — not the prettiest looking fruit, but it still tastes good."

The season for satsumas, a sweet mandarin orange and a mainstay of Louisiana's citrus crop, was already over.

And the plantation only has a few grapefruit trees.

"We're toward the end of the season now," he said.

Any losses will not be that bad, he said.

In Green Bay, Wis., it was 5 degrees at kickoff Sunday afternoon inside Lambeau Field.

The Green Bay Packers played the San Francisco 49ers in a sold-out playoff game.

It was one of the coldest ever played.

"We suited up, we brought all the snowboarding gear we use ... and added to it," said 49ers fan Jeff Giardinelli of Fresno, Calif. "Without the wind, which isn't here yet, we're good.

When it gets windy, we'll be ready for it."

The 49ers beat the Packers 23-20.

