Will wildfires keep getting bigger, more frequent and deadly?

People who live in Western states are suffering another summer of destruction.

Colorado had the worst wildfire in its history.

The blaze killed two people.

It also burned down more than 500 buildings.

In Arizona, 19 firefighters died in a huge fire in late June.

Californians have fought 43 percent more fires this year than the past four years put together.

Across the United States, the six worst fire seasons since 1960 have happened in the past 13 years.

Last year, 9.2 million acres went up in flames.

The worst one was 2006, when 9.8 million acres burned.

The U.S. Forest Service says about 65 million acres of its land are at "high or very high risk of wildfires."

State lawmakers are working out how to fight the fires with limited money.

The government cannot control hot and dry weather.

But states can tell their people where to live to put them at less risk from the wildfires.

More and more, Westerners are moving to communities built next to the wilderness.

They may be hoping for a little peace and quiet.

But these zones can also be dangerous.

The population shift has created new fire risks, putting more people and property in harm's way.

It also makes firefighting more difficult and expensive.

Texas, Utah, Colorado, Washington and Arizona are all at risk from fires.

They are also some of the fastest growing states.

Many of the people moving to these states are building houses in the fire zones.

People moving next to the wilderness is not new.

But it is happening more frequently.

In the 1990s, 61 percent of newly built homes in Washington, Oregon and California were in the area near the wilderness.

By 2000, about 42 percent of all homes in the states were in such areas.

Wildfire expert Ray Rasker thinks more people will continue to build in these risky areas.

He says that taxpayers will wind up paying for it.

The responsibility for stopping the fires is split between different parts of the government.

Rasker, who is with a think tank in Montana, believes they don't work together very well.

He says there aren't enough fines for people who build houses in dangerous zones.

If people move to a risky area, they should be made to keep it safe, he says.

Some experts have suggested that lawmakers should change the rules to help fight fires.

They could try to stop so many people moving into the risky areas.

Or the inhabitants of the fire zones could be made more responsible for protecting their property.

This idea was in a government report seven years ago.

The U.S. Department of Agriculture's inspector general wrote that regulations may be needed to "make landowners take the actions necessary to protect their homes and property from wildfire."

Many states have taken strong measures to protect against fire.

But many more go without protection.

This is also true in the communities at more risk from fire.

One homeowner might spend thousands of dollars on a fire-resistant roof and clearing away dry brush.

But this is useless for stopping fires if other neighbors neglect their lands.

Lloyd Burton is a professor at the University of Colorado.

He asked that if people who live in the fire zones "aren't going to protect their own lives, why are they expecting others to?"

Some states have tried to make these areas safer.

About 40 percent of all houses in California are in the wilderness.

California is considered a leader in fire fighting efforts.

The state makes people protect their houses from the dangers of wildfire.

People have to put special roofs on their buildings.

They also have to clear away dried leaves and other things that would help fuel the flames.

Oregon also makes people tidy up material that could burn and spread the fire.

They are given fines if they don't.

But for the most part, states tend to recommend fire-safety actions, rather than require them.

That's the case in Colorado, but it could soon change.

Two task forces are talking about having people pay for fire protection, changing the building codes and making people clear brush.

Burton doesn't mince words about communities next door to the wilderness.

When wildfires threaten homes but not lives, he says a firefighting crew's best choice is simple: "Just let it burn."

