Will wildfires keep getting bigger and more deadly?

Will they keep happening more often?

People who live in the Western states are dealing with another summer of fierce wildfires.

Colorado had the worst wildfire in its history this year.

The blaze killed two people.

It also burned down more than 500 buildings.

Nineteen firefighters died in a huge wildfire in Arizona in late June.

Across the United States, the six worst fire seasons since 1960 have happened in the last 13 years.

In 2012, 9.2 million acres burned.

The worst year was 2006.

A total of 9.8 million acres went up in flames then.

The U.S. Forest Service says about 65 million acres of land is at high or very high risk of wildfires.

States are trying to fight the blazes with limited money.

The government cannot control the hot and dry weather which can start fires.

But the states can tell their people to live in less dangerous places.

Many Westerners are moving into communities close to the wilderness.

They may be hoping for a little peace and quiet.

But these areas can also be risky.

They are often in danger from wildfires.

This shift to the wilderness has put more people in danger.

It also makes firefighting a lot harder and expensive.

Texas, Utah, Colorado, Washington and Arizona are all at risk from fires.

They are also some of the fastest growing states.

Many of the new people living there are building houses in the fire zones.

People have wanted to live close to nature for many years.

But more people are moving to the wilderness than ever before.

In the 1990s, most new homes in Washington, Oregon and California were built inside this area.

By 2000, about nearly half of all homes in these three states were in danger.

Ray Rasker is a wildfire expert in Montana.

He thinks people will continue to build houses in these areas.

He believes taxpayers will have to pay for this.

Fighting wildfires costs the government a lot of money.

Rasker says people who don't build safe houses should be fined.

One dangerous house could let the fire spread to everyone.

So Rasker says that if people move to a risky area, they have to help keep it safe.

Some experts have said that the laws should change to help fight fires.

The government could try to stop so many people from moving to risky areas.

Or the people who live in the fire zones could be made more responsible for protecting their homes and property.

This idea was in a government report seven years ago.

It said that new rules could make landowners take the actions needed to protect their property from wildfire.

Many states have taken strong measures to protect against fire.

But many more go without protection.

This is also true in the communities at risk.

One homeowner might spend thousands of dollars on a fire-proof roof and looking after the property.

But this is useless for stopping fires if neighbors neglect their property.

Lloyd Burton is a professor at the University of Colorado.

He said that if people "aren't going to protect their own lives, why are they expecting others to?"

Some states have tried to make these areas safer.

Many houses in California are in the wilderness.

California makes people protect their houses from the dangers of fire.

They are made to put special roofs on their buildings.

They also have to clear away dried leaves and other things that would help fuel a fire.

The state is considered a leader in the fight against wildfires.

Oregon also makes people tidy up their yards.

Old wood and branches can spread fire as they burn.

So homeowners are made to take it away.

They are given fines if they don't.

But most states just suggest fire-safety rules.

They don't make them law.

Burton thinks firefighters have a simple choice to make when wildfire threatens homes, but not lives.

"Just let it burn."

