giant plug of earwax pulled from a dead blue whale is providing scientists with a detailed biography of the wild animal's life, in 6-month chapters.

The scientists' new method arms researchers with a tool to understand a whale's hormonal and chemical biography.

Scientists can also see how pollutants, some long discontinued, still remain in the environment today.

Whales are often called marine sentinels because they can reveal a lot about the waters they swim through, said Sascha Usenko.

He is an analytic environmental chemist at Baylor University who helped write a study about the earwax method.

"These types of marine mammals that are long-lived have a great ability to accumulate contaminants, and so they're often perceived as being sentinels of their ecosystem," Usenko said.

Researchers often study tissue and even the stuff that whales exhale through their blowholes for chemical clues.

But blubber, or fat tissue, mostly only shows what the whale accumulated over its life, said Gina Ylitalo, a research chemist in Seattle who was not involved in the study.

It doesn't really give scientists a play-by-play account of the animal's chemical exposure or what hormones it produced over time.

But Usenko realized that earwax is rich in compounds called lipids.

So is fat.

So the same lipid-loving hormones and chemicals found in a whale's blubber would also end up in its ear canal.

Wax is deposited in the ear over time.

It forms a plug whose layers can be counted like tree rings to determine its age.

But Usenko wondered if scientists could do more than just count the waxy layers.

What if they could read each one, too?

If he could review each section, "then I could understand not only what they were exposed to today, but go back in time," said Usenko.

The team used a very fine-toothed band saw.

It cut up a 10-inch earplug pulled out of a nearly 70-foot-long male blue whale.

The animal died after a 2007 collision with a ship off the Santa Barbara coast.

The wax is "naturally pretty heavy and strong," Usenko said.

The earwax is mostly made up of lipids and keratin.

Keratin is the same material found in hair and nails.

The wax "doesn't necessarily smell great.

When we were pulling it out, some of the crew actually just left."

The plug's 24 layers are laid down in light and dark stripes, Usenko said.

The lighter bands are more rich in lipids.

They could result from periods of abundant food while the darker parts may be a sign of leaner times.

They found that the whale's testosterone levels jumped 400-fold when it was around 10 years old.

Researchers used the information to refine estimates of when a male reaches sexual maturity.

They also looked at a hormone called cortisol.

The hormone is released when an animal is stressed, or anxious.

Cortisol levels jumped 800 percent shortly after the whale's testosterone shot up.

The rise could be due to competition for mates.

The average concentrations of cortisol also doubled over the animal's lifetime.

Food availability, changes in social standing, exposure to contaminants or environmental noise could change the stress level, the authors wrote.

Meanwhile, scientists also found poisonous chemicals like flame retardants, pesticides and other pollutants.

These opened a window onto the long-term effects humans have had on the ocean.

DDT is an insect killer that was largely banned in the U.S. in 1972.

One reason was because it was suspected of causing cancer.

DDT was found in the whale, as were signs of other chemicals.

But this whale had been born after the chemical's use was discontinued.

In fact, almost all of the chemicals in its wax came from four old pest killers and a PCB.

PCBs were used in cooling sprays and insulating fluids in machines.

Many of the pollutants in the whale's ear plug, particularly the discontinued chemicals, probably came from its mother's milk, Usenko said.

Some spiked in the baby whale's first 6 months.

The researchers saw peaks in the chemical mercury too.

One occurred when the whale was about 5 to 6 years of age.

Another happened when it was about 10 years old.

Because the whale seemed to travel up and down the California coast, perhaps it was swimming through regions where there was more mercury pollution, the authors wrote.

"I thought it was a novel idea, to be looking at contaminants at those different time points," Ylitalo said.

"It's a neat little way to get that information."

One of the great challenges of studying large whales is collecting samples from them in the field, said Randall Davis of Texas A&amp;M University.

This new method would allow scientists to pull a lot of information from earwax samples that are already sitting in museum collections.

Usenko said he planned to study more blue whales' earwax, and perhaps examine the earwax of other species of whales, too.

"It gives us a lot more opportunities and a new way of asking questions and getting answers," Usenko said.

"That's really exciting."

