The six warriors' legs were tucked inside of their machines.

On their hands, they placed a foam-like wrap.

Then, they added gloves and metallic tape with the sticky side up.

They were ready to do battle.

They were playing wheelchair rugby, a sport so fierce it was once called "murderball."

The men who make up this team practice for about three hours each Friday night in a town in northeastern Ohio.

All are quadriplegics, people who have trouble moving their arms and legs.

Many of them were hurt in accidents.

At 16 years old, Nathan Gay was shot by a friend by accident while he was putting away a shotgun.

Austin Geib was 15 years old when a bar he was hanging off of fell and he broke his neck.

In high school, Adam Sweeney was hurt in a car accident that killed his brother.

Yianni Thallas got hurt trying to dive into a pool from a roof.

Stephen Zuravel was hurt in a car accident and Jamal Saxton was born with muscular dystrophy, which makes it hard for him to control his muscles.

All of them have trouble dealing with their disabilities.

Even something as easy as buttoning a shirt is hard for them.

It can even seem impossible.

Many people with disabilities get very sad sometimes.

It can be hard to find a way to deal with their sadness or anger.

"I have been competitive all of my life.

But once I broke my neck, I didn't know what I was going to do," said Geib.

He is now 18 years old and does his high school work online.

He said wheelchair rugby brought back his "competitive edge."

"It lifts my spirit," said Gay, who recently finished college.

Most of his teammates agreed.

Zuravel decided to attend practice because he wanted to push himself and his body.

He said that he thought the sport would be easy.

He was an athlete before and even did marathons from his wheelchair.

Zuravel, a college student, said he quickly realized he was wrong.

"Sometimes when I go to tournaments there are guys twice my age who I'm having a hard time keeping up with on the court," he said.

"So it put me in my place pretty quick."

Adam Sweeney is 34 years old.

After the car accident that hurt him, he went to college and graduate school, got married and got a job.

He said after his accident, he didn't want to just give up on getting what he wanted.

When he heard about rugby, he thought it was the last piece to put his life back to being OK.

The six rugby players play for the Buckeye Blitz, a wheelchair rugby team in Ohio.

Next season, they will form their own team, called the Akron Rhinos.

They are looking for new players who have trouble using at least three limbs.

Zuravel is known as "Queen Bee" because he is always rooting on his teammates and getting them to do better.

He is also always trying to get other people to join the sport.

You might think it's strange "and not for you.

But just come to a practice and try the sport — for the betterment of your health," said Zuravel.

"See what it does for you."

Coach Megan Haas agrees that the sport is good for their health.

She said exercise for those who have injured their spine is even more important than for those who have never been hurt.

Many people who cannot move their arms and legs are actually disabled because of an injury to their spine.

The spine controls a lot of your limb movements.

"We can walk everywhere; they can't," said Haas.

"It's so awesome to see people with disabilities play at a competitive level."

Playing the game is something they can do on their own, without help.

