The gladiators' legs were tucked inside their machines.

On their hands, they placed a foam-like wrap, followed by gloves and metallic tape, sticky side up, ready to do battle.

They were playing wheelchair rugby, a sport that was once called murderball because of its violent nature.

Wheelchair rugby is a fierce game with metal-on-metal and sometimes even skin-on-floor contact.

The six guys who make up this team practice for about three hours every Friday night in Tallmadge, Ohio.

All are quadriplegics, meaning they have problems with using their arms and legs.

They weren't born this way though, many of them were injured in accidents.

When he was 16 years old, Nathan Gay was accidentally shot in the neck while a friend was putting away a shotgun.

Austin Geib was hanging upside down on a pull-up bar when the bar fell, breaking his neck.

He was only 15 years old.

In high school, Adam Sweeney was injured in a car accident that killed his brother.

Another player, Yianni Thallas, was about 20 years old when he got hurt trying to jump off of a roof into a pool.

Stephen Zuravel was just a teen when he was severely injured in a one-car accident.

And Jamal Saxton was born with muscular dystrophy, a disease that affects the muscles.

As most people would think, such serious disabilities can be very hard.

What once was natural, like buttoning a shirt, is now a chore, or impossible.

Some people can become depressed and the struggle of doing everyday tasks can take a toll.

Because their lives have suddenly become much less active, many of them need an escape.

"I have been competitive all of my life.

But once I broke my neck, I didn't know what I was going to do," said Geib, who is 18 years old and attends high school online.

"This (wheelchair rugby) brought back that competitive edge."

The sport is a mix of basketball and demolition derby, which is a sport where cars slam into each other.

"It lifts my spirit and makes me feel normal," said Gay.

He's 27 years old and is a recent Kent State grad from Streetsboro, Ohio.

Most of his teammates agreed with him.

Another teammate, 23-year-old Zuravel, decided to attend practice because he was in search of something that would push his physical limitations.

"I remember when I was on my way there, I shoved a couple of pieces of pizza down and thought to myself, 'This isn't going to be hard.

I've done marathons (on a hand cycle).'

So I was pretty cocky going into it.

Very quickly I was humbled," said the University of Akron mechanical engineering student, laughing.

"Sometimes when I go to tournaments there are guys twice my age who I'm having a hard time keeping up with on the court.

So it put me in my place pretty quick," Zuravel said.

Adam Sweeney is 34 years old and is on the team.

He went to college and got an advanced degree.

Still, Sweeney said there was only one thing missing after his accident.

"I accepted my life right away.

I decided that I was still going to get everything that I've ever wanted — a job, a house and a wife.

And that's what I have," said Sweeney, a service support administrator for Mahoning County's Board of Developmental Disabilities.

When he heard about rugby, he thought it was the last piece to put his life back to normal.

The athletes play for the Buckeye Blitz wheelchair rugby team in Columbus, Ohio.

Next season, they will break off to become their own team, the Akron Rhinos.

And that means they are looking hard for new players who have trouble with at least three of their limbs.

Zuravel is known as "Queen Bee" because he is constantly encouraging his teammates.

He is also always trying to convince other people with physical disabilities to give wheelchair rugby a try.

"You might think it's weird and not for you, but just come to a practice and try the sport — for the betterment of your health," said Zuravel.

"See what it does for you."

Coach Megan Haas works  at a private school for children with autism in Springfield Township, Ohio.

She said exercise for those with spinal cord injuries is even more important than for those who have never been hurt.

"We can walk everywhere; they can't," said Haas.

"It's so awesome to see people with disabilities play at a competitive level and become more independent."

