There are now just three northern white rhinos left in the world.

Nola, the only white rhino in the United States, was euthanized by the San Diego Zoo after her poor health got worse.

She was one of four of the massive, two-horned animals left on Earth.

The San Diego Zoo Safari Park announced her death in a statement on its Facebook page.

Nola had been sick from an infection caused by bacteria and age-related health problems.

"We're absolutely devastated by this loss," the park said, "but resolved to fight even harder to end extinction."

The northern white rhino is a subspecies of the white rhinoceros that once ranged across parts of Africa such as Uganda, Sudan, Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Chad and Cameroon. The northern white rhino is among the largest land animals on Earth. Only elephants are bigger than them.

The northern white rhino can run at speeds of more than 30 mph and their horns, tough skin and huge size mean they have no natural predators.

However, they have unnatural predators, namely humans.

The rare breed has been destroyed by civil war, loss of their natural environment and poaching for their valuable horns.

Between 1960 and 2015 the number of northern white rhinos went down from 2,000 to five.

This year, that number fell to three.  In addition to Nola, a 31-year-old Czech rhino named Nabiré died in July from a burst cyst.

The subspecies had died out in the wild by 2008.

Now just three aging members of the subspecies survive at Ol Pejeta Conservancy, a wild life preserve in Kenya.

All three are too old or too unhealthy to breed naturally.

When these last three animals die, the northern white rhino will be extinct.

Their only chance is if science can find a solution.

The northern white rhino "disappeared right in front of our eyes and we didn't realize it until it was too late," Kathleen Garrigan said after Nabiré's death. She works for the African Wildlife Foundation.

The southern white rhinoceros, a close relative of the northern white, has done much better.

According to the group Save The Rhino, more than 20,000 of the creatures exist in the wild.

They were hunted almost to extinction a century ago.

In 1900, fewer than 20 of these rhinos existed on a single South African reserve.

Good luck and local governments, however, helped the southern white rhino.

The numbers of southern white rhinos have increased because of a number of factors.

They have been protected by law, and efforts have been made to breed them.

In addition, hunting has been carefully controlled.

Poaching persists: A record 1,215 white rhinos were killed in South Africa in 2015, according to the World Wildlife Fund.

However, officials are hoping to bring down the number by using new methods.

For instance, microchips placed in rhino horns helps to track them.

Officials are also cracking down on the banned ivory trade.

Northern white rhinos are unlikely to have such a comeback even though armed guards keep the remaining three under supervision in Kenya 24 hours a day.

The lone male is too old to mate, and the two females are not able to carry a pregnancy.

It would take a miracle to even produce another northern white rhino.

Scientists, though, are hoping they can create one.

Veterinarian Barbara Durrant, who works for the San Diego Zoo, said that she and other researchers are working to develop a method.

They have stored reproductive cells from 12 northern white rhinos.

The new method would allow them to grow an embryo in a lab, from the stored egg and sperm.

The plan is to use southern white rhino mothers as surrogates to carry the northern white rhino embryos, according to Scientific American magazine.

The method is still in the testing stage.

Durrant said it has only been done twice, and both times the embryo failed to grow properly.  The San Diego Zoo has set aside $2 million for the plan.  If all else fails, southern white rhino females may also be artificially impregnated with sperm from northern males.

This method would help keep some of the genetic traits that make the northern subspecies unique.

While this step is not perfect, it would at least add to the rhino population's genetic mix.

Meanwhile, staff at Ol Pejeta in Kenya have been hurrying to harvest eggs from the last two living female northern white rhinos.

"It's kind of a race against time," the wildlife reserve's CEO Richard Vigne said in June.

"Those remaining females could all die tomorrow. Once they're gone, then the source of eggs disappears."

At the time, there were still four northern white rhinos alive in the world.

