Seventeen years ago, an 8-year-old and a 9-year-old were put together as an ice dance team.

At first, the 8-year-old Charlie White didn't want to work with Meryl Davis.

He already had been skating for six months.

Davis was just starting.

Now he had to start at the beginning.

She caught up quickly.

Seventeen years later, Davis and White needed all their energy to beat the Canadians.

Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir won first place in the 2010 Olympics.

Virtue and Moir were Davis and White's Olympic archenemies.

Yet they were also friends.

They trained together in Michigan.

They had the same coaches.

Virtue and Moir won gold at the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, Canada.

Davis and White took second place.

Since then, the Canadian and American skaters lost only to each other.

"We're linked forever," White said.

But he and Davis have separated themselves from the Canadians.

The two Americans skated to music from a ballet.

Davis and White skated last.

Two Russian pairs had gone right before them.

The Russian crowd went crazy for their fellow countrymen.

The emotional ballet music was perfect for Davis and White.

It matched their power and strength.

Davis and White gave it all they had on Monday.

It looked like they put 17 years of work into four minutes.

When it was over, they were so tired.

They fell into each other's arms.

Virtue and Moir's music was not as good.

They cut and pasted together classical Russian songs.

It was confusing.

They skated very well.

But their dance did not quite seem to come together.

Then it was time for the scores.

Davis and White waited 17 years to win.

The two kids from Michigan knew all their work was worth it.

They became the first U.S. skating pair to win a gold medal at the Olympics.

Davis and White did the best they had done all year.

No athlete likes to be in second place, Moir said.

But he said it was easier for him because he knew how hard Davis and White worked.

Virtue and Moir have said this is their last year of skating.

Davis and White have not decided.

The next great dance team is going to be Russians Elena Ilinykh and Nikita Katasalapov.

They took third place.

They danced to music from another ballet.

Their dance made the ice rink feel like a theater.

They were flawless.

