It was a White House gala with the razzle-dazzle of a real state dinner.

Amid the strains of a harp, guests walked into the Executive Mansion.

After pausing to chat with reporters and pose for photographers, the guests made their way to a receiving line and into the East Room - the largest room in the White House.

Usually held in honor of kings, queens and presidents from other countries, this state dinner celebrated kids.

Once seated, waiters in tuxedos delivered an eight-course meal served on gold-rimmed china.

But unlike other White House feasts, these guests were encouraged to eat with their fingers.

First lady Michelle Obama hosted the meal, officially called Kids' State Dinner, on Tuesday.

This second annual event honored the young winners of the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge, a recipe contest.

More than 1,300 children between the ages of 8 and 12 entered.

Just like last year, President Barack Obama somehow did not receive an invitation to the event, but made a surprise appearance anyway.

"Usually at a state dinner, I get invited," he joked.

The president went on to confess that he's "not a great cook."

He added, "I'm not bad, but I don't do it that much.

It's hard to find the time."

As a child, the president said he didn't like vegetables.

That's because his family over-cooked them, which made them all soft.

He explained, "Nobody wanted to eat a pea or a Brussels sprout because they tasted horrible because they were all mush.

Now I actually like vegetables, because they're prepared right."

Michelle Obama put the event on the White House calendar as part of her Let's Move initiative to fight childhood [obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity).

People become obese when they gain so much weight that it hurts their health.

After she invited the kids to eat with their fingers, the president quipped: "Michelle never said to me I can just pick up something with my fingers at a state dinner.

So that's not fair."

"And you can't," the first lady responded.

About 140 people attended in all.

Fifty-four of them were the contest winners.

They represented every state, the District of Columbia, and three territories, with recipes for culinary concoctions such as "Wisconsin Solar Oven-Simmered Chili."

Some of the kids got help, which was encouraged under contest rules.

Such as Taddy Pettit, 10, from Illinois.

Pettit's stepfather, Ryan Rogiers, graduated from the California Culinary Academy and gained experience as a waiter at the Chicago restaurant Alinea, which received very high ratings from the Michelin travel guide.

Pettit's winning entree?

"Black Bean Wrap with Jicama-Grilled Corn Salsa."

Jicama is a sweet tasting vegetable.

He made his first-ever trip to Washington from Oakwood, Illinois, with Rogiers, who is a culinary arts instructor at a community college.

Tieless in a pin-striped suit and white shirt, Pettit was impressed with White House, which he called "amazing."

His description of the first lady - "really nice."

As for the balloon artist brought in before the noon meal, Pettit was particularly impressed by a balloon creation featuring an alien on a motorcycle.

"It was crazy," Pettit said.

Each of the winners brought along a parent, many of them mothers, or a grandparent.

Nine honorees saw their creations grace the menu, immortalized on cards with beautiful scripted writing.

Selections included "Fun Mini Pizzas With Veggies" (from Kansas), "Taste of the Tropics Fruit Bowl" (Hawaii), "Kickin' Colorful Bell Peppers Stuffed With Quinoa" (Ohio) and "Bodacious Banana Muffins" (Tennessee).

Quinoa is a grain-like food high in protein.

For dessert, there were two smoothies, one concocted with passion fruit and banana (U.S. Virgin Islands).

Tanya Steel, editor-in-chief of Epicurious, an online food publication, got the idea for the contest a few years ago.

She then presented it to the first lady's office.

According to Steel, the contest drew the most entries from California, whose winner, Rose Scott, 12, cooked up "Pork and Tofu Lettuce Cups."

Tofu is a protein-rich food made from soy.

The state dinner had fun touches, including tablecloths featuring awning stripes in summery colors and centerpieces crafted with brightly colored peppers.

The meal was served on George W. Bush china.

As for attire, girls favored summery floral dresses.

The boys mostly went for preppy styles such as slacks and shirts, sometimes with blazers and bow ties.

Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack was among the administration officials who turned out.

Teen singer Rachel Crow was the featured performer.

After the meal, the children worked off some of the calories with a hands-on tour of Michelle Obama's garden on the South Lawn.

This year, Epicurious sought corporate sponsors, said Juliet Horn, an Epicurious spokeswoman.

Delta Air Lines provided air transportation for the young chefs and their adult companions.

Westin Hotels  Resorts contributed hotel accommodations, and Scotts Miracle-Gro put on a pizza party for the youngsters on Monday.

