A state dinner at the White House is a fancy affair.

They are usually held in honor of kings, queens and presidents from other countries.

But on Tuesday night, the White House hosted one just for kids.

The young guests walked into the White House as a harp played.

They moved into the largest room in the White House called the East Room.

Tables filled the room so guests could be seated for an eight-course meal.

Waiters dressed in tuxedos served food on gold-rimmed plates.

First lady Michelle Obama hosted the meal.

It was less formal.

Instead of using silverware, the guests were allowed to eat with their fingers.

The kids won a healthy recipe contest called the Healthy Lunchtime Challenge.

More than 1,300 children between the ages of 8 and 12 entered.

The 54 winners were invited to dinner at the White House.

A winner was selected from every state.

Winners also came from three U.S. territories and Washington, D.C. President Barack Obama was not invited to the event.

But that did not stop him from making a surprise visit.

Once he was in the East Room, he joked that he usually gets invited to events in his own house.

The president also told the crowd that he's "not a great cook."

He said, "I'm not bad, but I don't cook that much.

It's hard to find the time."

As a child, President Obama did not like vegetables.

That's because they were soft and mushy.

He didn't like Brussel sprouts or peas because they were cooked for too long.

They tasted "horrible," he said.

"Now I actually like vegetables," the president said.

"Because they're prepared right."

The event was part of Michelle Obama's Let's Move program.

The program fights childhood [obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) in America.

Obesity is being very overweight.

It can hurt a person's health in many ways.

About 140 people attended the event.

The winning recipes included  "Wisconsin Solar Oven-Simmered Chili" and "Kickin' Colorful Bell Peppers Stuffed With Quinoa."

Quinoa is a grain-like food high in protein.

The young chefs were allowed to get help from adults.

Taddy Pettit, 10, from Illinois, asked his stepfather, Ryan Rogiers.

Rogiers graduated from the California Culinary Academy.

He is a cooking instructor at a community college in Illinois.

Pettit's winning recipe was "Black Bean Wrap with Jicama-Grilled Corn Salsa."

Jicama is a sweet-tasting vegetable.

The trip was his first to the nation's capital.

Pettit, who wore a pin-striped suit and a white shirt with no tie, said the White House was "amazing."

He said the first lady was "really nice."

Pettit also really liked a balloon artist.

The artist created an alien on a motorcycle.

"It was crazy," Pettit said.

Nine of the winning recipes appeared on the handwritten menus in fancy script.

Two of the nine recipes were "Fun Mini Pizzas With Veggies" from Kansas and "Taste of the Tropics Fruit Bowl" from Hawaii.

For dessert, there were two smoothies.

One was made with passion fruit and banana from the U.S. Virgin Islands.

Tanya Steel works at an online food publication.

She came up with the idea for the contest.

Then she told the first lady about it.

Steel said that most entries came from California.

The winner from California was Rose Scott, 12.

Her recipe was "Pork and Tofu Lettuce Cups."

Tofu is made from soybeans.

It is high in protein.

Tablecloths with stripes in summery colors covered each table.

Brightly colored peppers were placed at the center of each table.

The children dressed for the occasion.

Girls wore dresses with flowers on them.

The boys mostly wore slacks and shirts.

Some even had on blazers and bow ties.

After the meal, the children worked off some of the calories.

They toured Michelle Obama's garden at the White House.

