The tallest bird in North America is the whooping crane.

But its numbers are small, with [only about 600 left alive](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species).

Their population shrank further after three adults were shot in recent months.

Wildlife officials say this hurts plans to help breed more of the beautiful white bird.

Governments and private groups have spent years of research and millions of dollars to help the species make a comeback.

There were only 23 left in 1954, according to the U.S.

Fish and Wildlife Service.

The three cranes died in Kentucky and Louisiana.

Since 2001, a total of 19 whooping cranes have been killed by humans.

Conservationists only release an average of 13 cranes into the wild each year, according to Operation Migration.

"It's a huge loss" of money.

But it's also a loss in terms of keeping the species safe, for possible breeding, said Joe Duff.

He runs Operation Migration.

The killings are very hard emotionally on the teams who have been working with the birds, Duff added.

On Friday, two cranes were found shot in southwestern Louisiana, state officials said.

The 3-year-old female crane died.

A 4-year-old male was scheduled to have an operation Sunday morning at Louisiana State University.

According to X-rays, he suffered two broken wing bones.

"The bird recovered well," said a spokeswoman for the school of animal medicine.

The two who were killed were the oldest pair among 33 whooping cranes in Louisiana.

The birds had been tagged and were being watched by Louisiana officials.

They were expected to produce a chick in a few years.

"It's a devastating setback and such a senseless act," said Robert Love, who works for the Department of Wildlife and Fisheries.

"Don't shoot big white birds.

It's that simple."

The 5-foot-tall birds can live for at least 20 years, but they almost all died out in the early 20th century.

Today's 600 whooping cranes are spread among three main flocks in North America.

In 2011, Louisiana joined national programs to help grow its native whooping crane population.

It was once the nation's largest.

Officials said they would offer a $1,000 reward for information leading to an arrest in Friday's shootings.

Three other Louisiana cranes have been killed in the last two years.

In January, U.S. wildlife officials in Kentucky announced a $7,200 reward for information about a whooping crane pair believed to be shot together in November.

One was about 6 years old, the other 4.

The reward was later raised to $15,520.

The two cranes were found five miles apart, and one was discovered alive.

It was put down after efforts to nurse it back to health failed.

Hunters may have confused them for sandhill cranes.

A law permits hunters to kill sandhill cranes in Kentucky during certain months.

Whooping cranes are a bright white color, except for black wingtips and a red scalp.

The birds were named for the "whooping" sound they make to signal alarm.

Their wings would span from former basketball player Yao Ming's head to his toe.

The birds, known for their dance-like movements, are protected under the Endangered Species Act.

Shooting a whooping crane could lead to a $100,000 fine and a year in prison.

A year ago, a 26-year-old South Dakota man pleaded guilty to killing a whooping crane.

He was sentenced and charged an $85,000 fine.

Operation Migration's Duff said breeding the birds and teaching them to migrate costs on average $100,000 for each.

The teachers wear white suits, so the cranes don't become comfortable around humans.

A small plane leads the birds through the correct flight path.

"These shooters, they are not real hunters," he said.

They "just want to destroy something or take their anger out.

It's unbelievably selfish."

Whooping cranes face huge challenges because they are big targets.

Whooping cranes reproduce slowly because they cannot mate until they are 4 or 5 years old.

They usually have only one chick at a time, and just one in four survives the first year.

"The protection of adults is critical," said Love, the Wildlife and Fisheries administrator.

The species is so rare, "human harm" can really put it at risk of disappearing.

More than half of whooping cranes live in the wild.

Most migrate 2,500 miles each winter from their breeding grounds in northern Canada to Aransas National Wildlife Refuge along the Texas coast.

A festival is scheduled there for Feb. 20 to celebrate the cranes' arrival.

A few birds die each year during the journey, killed by predators or from crashing into power lines.

But the steady number of unnatural deaths angers nature lovers.

