The whooping crane is the tallest bird in North America.

It is also one the rarest.

There are only about 600 birds left.

Three were shot in the past few months.

Wildlife workers have been trying to keep them alive.

They want them to have chicks.

The shootings have hurt their plans.

The three cranes died.

Humans have killed 19 cranes since 2001.

Joe Duff runs a whooping crane protection group.

He called the shootings a "huge loss."

It's a loss for the birds, for the babies they might have had.

It is also sad for the people working to save the birds.

On Friday, two cranes were found shot in Louisiana.

The 3-year-old female crane died.

A 4-year-old male was set to see a doctor.

He suffered two broken wing bones.

He recovered well.

Whooping cranes stand 5 feet tall.

Their wings would stretch as far as an NBA player is tall.

They can live for at least 20 years.

But [they almost all died out](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species) in the early 1900s.

Whooping cranes are bright white.

But they have black wingtips and a red scalp.

They were named for their "whooping" call.

Louisiana is trying to help its whooping crane flocks.

The state said it will give $1,000 to anyone who helps find the shooters.

Three other Louisiana cranes have been killed in the last two years.

"Don't shoot big white birds.

It's that simple," said Robert Love.

He works for the Louisiana government.

Kentucky offered a reward for information about a whooping crane pair.

They think the birds were shot together in November.

One was about 6 years old, the other 4.

The mates were found five miles apart.

One was discovered alive.

But it was too badly hurt.

It later died.

Hunters may have confused them for sandhill cranes.

Hunters are allowed to shoot sandhill cranes in Kentucky.

Duff said breeding the birds and teaching them to fly south for the winter is pricey.

The teachers wear white suits.

That's so the cranes don't become comfortable around people.

And a small plane shows the birds the correct flight path.

Whooping cranes have it hard.

They are big, and easy to hit.

They can't lay eggs until they are 4 or 5 years old.

They usually have only one chick at a time.

Only one in four survives the first year.

Most whooping cranes live in the wild.

They usually fly 2,500 miles each winter.

They fly from northern Canada to the Texas coast.

A few birds die each year during the journey.

They are killed by predators.

Or they crash into power lines.

But nature lovers get angry when hunters are the ones killing them.

"These shooters, they are not real hunters," Duff said.

They "just want to destroy something or take their anger out.

It's unbelievably selfish."

