Nineteen firefighters died Sunday while fighting a wildfire near Phoenix.

That was the most firefighters killed fighting a wildfire since 1933.

They were fighting the Yarnell Hill fire.

The out-of-control blaze had surrounded Yarnell and burned down most of the town, officials said.

A total of 649 people lived in the town, but they had already left.

About 200 buildings burned down.

The firefighters belonged to the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew.

This was a specially trained group of firefighters.

A fire department in nearby Prescott supported the crew.

People in Prescott expressed their sadness on Facebook and Twitter after they found out about the deaths Sunday night.

"This is as dark a day as I can remember," Arizona Gov.

Jan Brewer said.

It might take a while to know exactly how the firefighters died, she said.

But "fighting fires is dangerous work."

Lightning started the blaze on Friday, officials said.

The fire was still out of control Monday.

Officials lost radio contact with the crew at 4:30 p.m., said a sheriff's spokesman.

A helicopter crew spotted the bodies, he said.

He said all of the firefighters had used their fire shelters.

They only do this in an emergency when they cannot escape a fire.

A fire shelter is a sort of blanket that also has foil on the outside.

It is supposed to protect the firefighter from heat and flames.

Nineteen members of the 20-person crew died.

The one survivor was hospitalized.

The spokesman did not know the firefighter's condition.

"The fire was very aggressive.

It just overtook them," the spokesman said.

Roxie Glover of Wickenburg Community Hospital said officials had told her to expect injured firefighters.

Then the grim news arrived.

"It became clear that the firefighters" had died, Glover said.

"We were told that we were not getting firefighters."

But people from Yarnell came in.

They were suffering from breathing too much smoke.

They also had shock from losing their homes.

In 1994 in Colorado 14 firefighters died.

They got trapped at Storm King Mountain when a wind-driven blaze blew up a hill.

Since the 1950s only three other wildfires had killed 10 or more firefighters.

Each fire led to changes in safety rules and training.

Officials said some of the Arizona firefighters had been found in fire shelters in the area.

Winds that sometimes blew faster than 40 miles per hour (mph) helped fan the flames in 95-degree heat.

Using a fire shelter is typically a "last desperate step," said Timothy Ingalsbee.

He runs a group called Firefighters United for Safety, Ethics and Ecology.

"That means they have been trapped."

A couple dozen firefighters are killed on average each year, he said.

But 19 firefighters dying in one fire is a "horrific tragedy."

When they are fighting fast-moving fires, "firefighters are put into this no-man's land, having to make these heroic stands … against the unstoppable force of wildfires," he said.

Prescott Fire Chief Dan Fraijo appeared grim in a late-night news conference.

"We just lost 19 of some of the finest people you're ever going to meet.

Right now we're in crisis," Fraijo said.

"Truly, we're going through a terrible crisis right now."

The wildfire was more than four times larger by Monday.

It showed no signs of stopping.

