Nineteen firefighters died Sunday while battling a fast-moving wildfire northwest of Phoenix, the most firefighters killed fighting a wildfire since 1933.

They were fighting the Yarnell Hill fire, an out-of-control blaze that had surrounded the community of Yarnell.

The 649 people who lived there had been moved out by emergency officials.

But most of the town was burned down.

About 200 buildings were lost .

The firefighters belonged to the Granite Mountain Interagency Hotshot Crew.

The group was a specially trained unit.

The fire department in nearby Prescott sponsored the crew.

Residents expressed their sadness on social media once they heard about the deaths Sunday night.

"This is as dark a day as I can remember," Arizona Gov.

Jan Brewer said.

It may take a while to know exactly how the firefighters died.

"But the essence we already know in our hearts: fighting fires is dangerous work."

Lightning started the blaze Friday night, officials said.

The fire remained out of control on Monday.

Officials lost radio contact with the crew at 4:30 p.m., said Steve Skurja, a sheriff's spokesman.

A helicopter crew spotted the bodies, he said.

All of the firefighters had deployed their fire shelters.

They only do this in an emergency when they cannot escape a fire.

A fire shelter is a sort of blanket, with foil on one side.

It is supposed to help protect a firefighter from heat, smoke and ash.

But it still gets very hot inside.

Skurja said that 19 members of the 20-person crew had died.

One survivor was hospitalized.

"The fire was very aggressive.

It just overtook them," Skurja said.

Roxie Glover, a hospital spokeswoman, said officials had told her to expect injured firefighters.

Then the grim news arrived.

"It became clear that the firefighters" had died, Glover said.

"We were told that we were not getting firefighters."

But homeowners flooded in.

They were suffering from  breathing too much smoke, as well as shock at losing their homes, she said.

The deaths appear to be the most to happen in recent decades.

The previous highest number of deaths happened in Colorado on July 6, 1994.

At Storm King Mountain near Glenwood Springs, 14 firefighters were trapped when a wind-driven blaze blew up a hill.

Since the 1950s only three other wildfires had claimed the lives of 10 or more firefighters before Sunday.

Each prompted changes in safety rules and training.

According to National Interagency Fire Center statistics, Sunday's deaths were the worst since 1933.

That's when a fire in Los Angeles' Griffith Park killed at least 25 firefighters.

Officials said some of the Arizona firefighters had been found in fire shelters in the area, where winds occasionally exceeding 40 miles per hour (mph) helped fan the flames in 95-degree heat.

Deploying a fire shelter is typically a "last desperate step" for survival, said Timothy Ingalsbee, executive director of Firefighters United for Safety, Ethics and Ecology.

"That means they have been trapped."

A couple dozen firefighters are killed on average each year, he said.

But 19 firefighters dying in one fire was a "horrific tragedy," he said.

When they are fighting fast-moving fires and trying to save lives and property, "firefighters are put into this no-man's land, having to make these heroic stands … against the unstoppable force of wildfires," he said.

Prescott Fire Chief Dan Fraijo appeared grim in a late-night news conference.

"We just lost 19 of some of the finest people you're ever going to meet.

Right now we're in crisis," Friajo said.

"Truly, we're going through a terrible crisis right now."

Strong winds caused the wildfire to more than quadruple in size by Monday.

It showed no signs of being contained.

