The dirty rocks of salt are packed into a storage shed on a snowy lot.

A nearby bulldozer stands at the ready.

Pettis County Commissioner Brent Hampy trudges across the frozen ground to check out the stockpiles for this county, which just received 8 inches of snow in a nasty storm that closed schools for two days.

There are about 200 tons of salt left piled here.

That may not be enough.

The county started out the winter with 600 tons, and last winter used only 50.

"If we don't have more ice storms we'll be fine," Hampy said, as the wind whipped his cheeks in the 11-degree chill.

"But if we have two more ice storms, we're going to be out."

This winter has been particularly snowy and icy, and it isn't showing any signs of abating.

States and counties across the country say their supplies of rock salt, which they use to make roads safe for drivers, are at an all-time low.

The cold has spread over so much of the country, there's more demand than usual.

Salt producers are stretched to capacity and forced to ration supplies.

Some cities are so low on salt that they are choosing to salt only main roads, using sand for the rest.

"I think pretty much every salt mine in the country is out now, or very nearly," said Harold Mayo, general manager of the Hutchinson Salt Mine in Kansas.

Much of the Midwest's salt is mined at Hutchinson.

"It's just a very unusual winter as far as demand."

The mine is producing its capacity of 3,300 tons of salt a day.

But people who call trying to buy salt are still being turned away since places that have a contract are first in line.

To others, the mine can offer only a different type of salt not usually used for melting ice on roads.

Consumers who use salt to make their walkways and stairs less slippery are also being hit.

Hardware stores in Missouri and Kansas said they were out of salt, and were waiting for more to come in.

"We have seen a large demand for ice melt," said Tara Gudger, a Lowe's spokeswoman.

The company keeps working with suppliers to get more salt, she said.

Many private snowplow companies are out of salt too.

Jileen Wingerter works at Marcum's Landscaping near Kansas City, Mo.

She said her firm was told it couldn't order any more because salt was too much in demand by states and cities.

"We're totally out," she said.

Wichita, Kan., placed an order for 1,000 tons of salt in December but received only 800.

It's mostly using sand for its roads, said Joe Pajor, deputy director at the Department of Public Works.

"We would hope that as it gets warmer we'd have the salt, but at this point we don't have any particular expectations," Pajor said.

Some places are trying to mix salt with other things to keep the roads safe.

They are using beet syrup, potato juice, cheese brine, tomatoes and a corn-based product to improve how well the salt sticks.

That cuts down on the amount of salt they use.

The products started appearing in the late 1990s.

But their use has been surging amid worries about large amounts of salt contaminating groundwater supplies.

"We can cut your salt usage by a third, saving people some money in the long run," said Mike Demaray.

He is the sales manager for Beet 55, one of the salt-spray mixer options.

The sticky substance tints the snow a brownish color.

But it can be washed off cars and clothes with soap.

Pennsylvania's Department of Transportation is trying out Beet Heet.

The product is made from processed sugar beet molasses.

Indiana, Ohio and Tennessee are using the same or similar products.

Meanwhile, officials are trying to move salt from places it isn't needed to places that have nearly exhausted their supplies.

Two ships carrying about 50,000 tons of salt arrived Wednesday in Wisconsin to help supply communities in need.

"We have enough in the state, but just not in the right places," said Michael Sproul.

He is an engineer with Wisconsin's winter maintenance program.

Storm after storm this winter has eaten up 60 percent more salt than the average expended during the last five winters, he said.

In New York, Gov.

Andrew Cuomo directed the state Department of Transportation to move 130 truckloads of extra salt to communities that need it.

To speed up salt deliveries, the department waived federal limits on hours for salt truck drivers to allow them to work as long as needed until the emergency is over.

The MTA also waived weight restrictions on bridges to allow larger loads of salt to move through.

But even if the shortage eases, some counties may not be ordering up more salt any time soon.

That's because the demand is so high that the price has doubled, Pettis County's Hampy said.

