Scientists are drilling deep into the Earth to understand earthquakes.

It is a daring plan.

The Earth's surface is made up of huge plates of rock.

Earthquakes erupt when the rocky plates bang against each other.

These happen at what are called faults.

Scientists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison are taking samples of rock from faults in Japan and New Zealand.

They are also measuring the conditions down deep in the Earth.

If the scientists are lucky, they will catch an earthquake in action.

"These are the natural disasters that kill the most people on the planet.

So we need to know as well as we can how they work," said Harold Tobin.

He is a geologist at the University of W-M. Geologists study rocks and how the Earth was formed.

Earthquakes are some of the worst natural disasters on the planet.

Scientists also rarely know when they are going to happen.

Scientists can say how likely it is an earthquake will happen.

But they cannot predict exactly when one will strike.

People need early warning of earthquakes because they have only moments to take cover.

Part of the problem is that scientists don't really know how earthquakes start, and it's hard to find out.

Earthquakes begin miles below the surface of the Earth.

People can't go that far down.

Until now, scientists studied earthquakes by measuring seismic waves.

Seismic waves are waves of energy.

They are caused when the plates bump against each other.

This information is useful.

But it is like trying to figure out what's inside your birthday present by shaking the box.

You would know more if you could unwrap it and look inside.

This is why the scientists want to drill down to where earthquakes begin.

The drills will bring up samples of rock to study.

Scientists will also measure the conditions deep below the Earth's surface.

These conditions include pressure and temperature.

Clifford Thurber is a geologist at the university.

Drilling down deep is one of the few ways of directly measuring what is going on, he said.

The scientists are drilling at dangerous faults in New Zealand and Japan.

These faults could cause huge earthquakes at any moment.

The project in New Zealand is called the Deep Fault Drilling Project.

Thurber and Tobin are part of a group of scientists studying the Alpine Fault there.

The New Zealand fault has been quiet since 1717.

It causes a major quake every 300 or 400 years.

Scientists think the area is due for an earthquake soon.

Beginning in October, the geologists will drill nearly a mile deep.

Drilling such deep holes, however, is not easy.

This is especially true for faults that are under water.

Many of the most dangerous faults are beneath the ocean.

Tobin spent seven weeks at sea last winter on a scientific drilling ship.

Its name is the Chikyu.

On the ship, they braved harsh winds and waves as high as 30 feet.

The scientists drilled into the Nankai Fault.

The fault is located off the coast of southern Japan.

The scientists tested the samples of rock that came out of the hole.

So far, the scientists have drilled a mile and a half below the seabed.

They plan to drill three miles down.

The measuring tools will remain in the holes collecting information for many years.

They will wait for an earthquake.

A quake could strike at any time.

The university researchers also took part in an earlier experiment at the San Andreas fault in California.

The San Andreas fault has caused many earthquakes.

The scientists discovered important information.

But, they had many problems.

Drilling was expensive.

Also, the measuring tools broke quickly.

The temperatures were too high that deep down.

Scientists learned important lessons from that.

Now, in Japan and New Zealand, they will not drill down to where the worst quakes begin.

Instead, they will drill closer to the surface.

These rocks are like the ones down deep, Thurber said.

