Biologist Don Youkey reached overhead.

He felt a log nailed to a tree.

He hung a cow knucklebone and chunk of raw rib meat over the log.

He hopes the tasty bait will lure a wolverine.

He is not hunting it.

He just wants to snap its photo.

It is the newest carnivore in these snowy woods.

Wolverines were once shot on sight.

People trapped them.

Some were poisoned as pests.

[They were gone from Washington by the 1930s.

](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=endangered+species)  But they are making a comeback.

They are moving back to their historic home range.

It is the first time in decades.

Wolverines used to range from the Canadian border all the way to Mount Rainier.

Today, they remain very rare.

There are perhaps just 25 animals in Washington.

There are only about 250 to 300 in the U.S., excluding Alaska.

The wolverine's return to Washington is amazing scientists.

One of those scientists is Keith Aubry, a wildlife biologist with the U.S. Forest Service.

Aubry led the first-ever radio-tracking study of wolverines in Washington.

Tests show the animals they are finding are related to wolverines in Canada.

They returned to the area once the hunting and trapping stopped.

Those animals were once just visitors to Washington.

Now, some have become permanent residents in the area.

And they are spreading.

"We have growing evidence of them using larger and larger areas over time," Aubry said.

"When you see a species like wolverine that needs openness and connected habitat coming here all on its own, this is the celebration moment.

It's the success, the reward," said Jen Watkins of Conservation Northwest.

Even as wolverines return, they still face threats.

Over the next 100 years, [climate change](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=global+warming) is expected to melt much of the deep snow that lasts until May.

Wolverines need such snow to survive.

The wolverine is smaller than a Labrador retriever.

It is pound for pound among the most fearsome carnivores in Washington.

It can sniff out frozen dead animals.

It can tunnel through five feet of snow to crack open bones and tear apart even frozen meat.

Their powerful jaws are built to pull off chunks of rock-hard flesh and bone.

Wolverines roam Washington's wildest country in its worst weather.

They can easily travel many miles.

Deep powdery snow is no problem for their oversized, snowshoe-like feet.

Their long, thick, brown-and-gold coat sheds frost.

Underneath is a soft layer of fur that defeats the most brutal cold.

Their claws help them climb trees and scramble up and down rocky slopes.

"They are the superheroes of the animal world," said Shawn Sartorius, a wildlife biologist.

"When you follow the tracks of these things, you see they are not taking the easy way around; they will go straight over mountaintops.

John Rohrer is a wildlife biologist with the Forest Service.

He has been surprised to learn just how much territory the wolverines cover, even in winter.

"The North Cascades in winter are pretty hostile to life," Rohrer said.

"Most animals will avoid it in winter or hibernate.

In summer there are cougar and black bear and bobcat and coyotes and great horned owls.

In wintertime, it is only the wolverines."

And wolverines are ferocious.

"When you see one in a live trap you never forget it," Rohrer said.

"They are growling, trying to bluff you, they are not cowering in the corner.

If you crack open the lid they are charging and coming up to the front, snapping their jaws and drooling.

They put on quite a show."

But hikers have nothing to worry about: Wolverines are mainly scavengers.

They feast on dead animals of every type, usually elk and deer.

But they will also take live small mammals, including squirrels, porcupines and snowshoe hares.

They will sometimes eat bugs, berries, eggs and roots.

For now, ensuring the wolverines' survival is about planning for the future, Watkins said.

Wolverines need safe access to the habitats they are returning to now.

For instance, wolverines will need to cross Highway 2 to get as far south as Mount Rainier.

"For these animals to come back to these places on their own, and take up residence there again, sticking around, and calling it home," Watkins said, "that is thrilling."

