After years of training for their first space mission, the last things Samantha Cristoforetti and Yelena Serova want to talk about are hair and makeup.

Cristoforetti, Italy's first female astronaut, is set to rocket into orbit this weekend from Kazakhstan, bound for the International Space Station.

There, she will join Russia's Serova, a rare female in her homeland's male-dominated cosmonaut corps.

It will be just the second time in the space station's 16-year history that two women make up the six-member crew.

Just don't ask Cristoforetti or Serova about grooming in space.

"Space is what I do for work, and that's what I think about it.

It's my work," Serova said in a NASA interview before the launch to the space station in late September.

Cristoforetti, 37, is a fighter pilot and captain in the Italian air force.

She has managed to sidestep most if not all questions about being a female astronaut.

Serova tried to do the same.

But before the 38-year-old engineer climbed aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket, Russian reporters asked if she was bringing makeup and wondered how she would wear her hair during her six-month mission.

Serova ignored the makeup question.

As for her hairdo, she shot back: "I have a question for you — why don't you ask the question about Alexander's hair, for example," referring to crewmate Alexander Samokutyaev who was seated next to her.

"I'm sorry, this is my answer.

Thank you.

More questions?"

To Americans old enough to remember, it felt like a time machine hurtling back to 1983.

Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, got similar questions about hair and makeup during her first space flight, Both Serova and Cristoforetti will spend six months aboard the 260-mile-high space station, following in the footsteps of nine American women who logged lengthy stays.

Two of those U.S. women shared the space station in 2010 with four men.

Another two women rose to the rank of station commander.

Cristoforetti is the first woman sent on a long space station mission by the European Space Agency, which recently landed the first spacecraft on a comet.

Serova is one of only four Russian women to fly in space and the first to live at the space station.

In 1963, Russia launched the world's first woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova, beating America by two full decades.

Then in 1984, it sent up the world's first female spacewalker, Svetlana Savitskaya.

For the young Serova, those two pioneering Russian spacewomen were role models.

"They had very impressive personalities, showing everybody that if somebody wants to achieve something they can do it," Serova said in the NASA interview.

Serova and Cristoforetti's joint flight comes as U.S. medical researchers take a new look at the differences between men and women in space.

Space station missions now last six months and are expected to be considerably longer for eventual trips to Mars.

NASA wants to make sure all astronauts — male and female alike — stay safe and healthy.

This month, the Journal of Women's Health published a series of studies on how men and women adapt differently to space.

It turns out that women tend to suffer more faintness when trying to stand upon immediate return to Earth and feel more dizzy, according to the report.

They appear to lose more blood plasma, the liquid part of blood, during spaceflight.

Male astronauts seem to suffer more vision problems due to pressure in their skulls while in orbit than women.

The difference is not statistically significant, though, given the small number of subjects, researchers noted.

There also are concerns about the possibility of space radiation and weightlessness harming astronauts' ability to bear children.

"Many questions remain unanswered," the article concluded.

Dr. Saralyn Mark, a science adviser to the government, said that the findings can be useful in shaping health-related policies and procedures.

"Understanding small differences is especially important in the extreme environment of space," Mark wrote.

In space, "even small differences in how the body adapts can translate into critical health outcomes."

Mark and the scientists recommend that more women fly in space, and more astronauts — both male and female — participate in studies as test subjects.

The authors and researchers come from NASA, the National Space Biomedical Research Institute in Houston and various universities.

That will be challenging given the overwhelming number of male astronauts.

Of NASA's 43 current active astronauts, just 11 are women.

NASA hopes to expand its medical know-how with a yearlong mission by two astronauts — an American and a Russian — set to begin at the space station in March.

Both are men.

