Astronauts Samantha Cristoforetti and Yelena Serova spent years training for their first space mission.

So the last thing they wanted to talk about was hair or makeup.

Cristoforetti is Italy's first female astronaut.

She is set to rocket into orbit this weekend from Kazakhstan in Asia to the International Space Station.

There, she will join Russia's Serova, one of her homeland's rare female cosmonauts.

It will be just the second time in the space station's 16-year history that two women will be part of its six-member crew.

Women have traveled in space for years, but Cristoforetti or Serova still got questions about grooming while in orbit.

"Space is what I do for work, and that's what I think about it.

It's my work," Serova said before her launch in late September.

Cristoforetti, 37, is a fighter pilot in the Italian air force.

She has avoided most if not all questions about being a female astronaut.

Serova tried to do the same.

But before the 38-year-old engineer climbed aboard a Russian Soyuz rocket, Russian reporters asked if she was bringing makeup.

They also wondered how she would wear her hair during her six-month mission.

Serova ignored the makeup question.

As for her hairdo, she shot back: "I have a question for you — why don't you ask the question about Alexander's hair, for example."

Crewmate Alexander Samokutyaev was seated next at the time.

Then, she impatiently asked for more questions.

Looking back to 1983, Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, got those kinds of questions about hair and makeup before her space mission.

Serova and Cristoforetti will spend six months aboard the 260-mile-high space station.

Nine American women have already stayed many months at the space station.

Cristoforetti is the first woman sent on a long space station mission by the European Space Agency (ESA).

The ESA recently landed the first spacecraft on a comet.

One of only four Russian women to fly in space, Serova is the first Russian woman to live at this space station.

In 1963, Russia launched the world's first woman in space, Valentina Tereshkova.

In 1984, Russian Svetlana Savitskaya became the first woman to walk in space.

The young Serova looked up to those two pioneering Russian spacewomen.

"They had very impressive personalities, showing everybody that if somebody wants to achieve something they can do it," Serova said.

Meanwhile, U.S. medical researchers are taking a new look at the differences between men and women in space.

Space station missions last a half-year, and astronauts will be spending far longer in space on trips someday to Mars.

NASA wants to make sure all astronauts — male and female alike — stay safe and healthy.

This month, the Journal of Women's Health published studies on how men and women adapt to space.

It turns out that women tend to feel more faint when trying to stand immediately after returning to Earth.

They also feel dizzier, according to the report.

Women also seem to lose more plasma, the liquid part of blood, during spaceflight.

Male astronauts tend to suffer more vision problems than women due to pressure in their skulls while in orbit.

Since so few astronauts have taken part in the studies, researchers do not think the differences were significant.

There also are concerns about space radiation and weightlessness.

Researchers wonder whether they would affect astronauts' ability to have children.

"Many questions remain unanswered," the report concluded.

Dr. Saralyn Mark, a government science expert, said the studies can be useful in creating health guidelines in space.

"Understanding small differences is especially important in the extreme environment of space," Mark wrote.

In space, "even small differences in how the body adapts can translate into critical health outcomes."

Mark and other researchers recommend that more women fly in space.

They also say that more astronauts, both male and female, should join studies.

That will be challenging given the overwhelming number of male astronauts.

Of NASA's 43 current active astronauts, 11 are women.

NASA hopes to expand its medical know-how with a yearlong mission by two astronauts — an American and a Russian.

The mission is set to begin at the space station in March.

Both astronauts are men.

