!

[](https://newsela-test-files-f331e.s3.amazonaws.com/article_media/extra/20140506_ROLLERCOASTER.jpg)CHICAGO — A huge new roller coaster will open at Six Flags Great America near Chicago.

The coaster is called Goliath and will open in May.

When it does, it will set three new records.

Goliath will be the fastest and the steepest wooden coaster in the world.

It will also have the longest drop.

The ride will rocket riders into tight curves and two upside-down twists.

There's even one point in the ride where riders feel zero-gravity.

In other words, for a moment they will feel weightless.

The roller coaster is still a few weeks from being done.

Season ticket holders can ride it a day early.

Roller coaster lovers are already planning group trips to the ride.

"We are definitely excited to ride this thing," said Scott Heck, a spokesman for American Coaster Enthusiasts.

"I know a lot of people across the country want to come.

I can't wait."

Alan Schilke is the roller coaster designer.

He said Goliath is being built in a small space.

"We had to make a crazy ride just to get it to fit," he said.

The coaster is being built by a construction company from Idaho.

The company's owner is Fred Grubb.

He used to build roller coasters at a theme park in Idaho.

In that job, he often had to repair old wooden coasters.

So Grubb and his engineers decided there must be a better way.

The company builds the wooden roller coasters differently.

The workers do not build the tracks at the theme park.

Instead, they build them in their shop.

That way they can bend the track better.

Goliath's wheels will ride on a metal covering that is also filled with grout.

That will make it stronger and quieter.

It's important that the roller coaster is not too loud.

Otherwise, people who live near Great America could get upset.

There are about 35 men building the roller coaster.

They are from Idaho, where it is cold.

They are used to freezing winter temperatures.

But even for them, the latest Chicago winter was rough.

Since September, they have worked 11-hour days, six days a week, through the snow and cold.

They have missed only two full days of work because of weather.

The wind and snow numbed workers' hands.

Climbing on the roller coaster to work was risky.

Often, the builders had to stop and warm up in warming shelters.

The workers still must finish building the track.

They also have to put in the chain that lifts the cars and the magnetic brakes that stop it.

After that will come hundreds of test runs with crash-test dummies.

They need to make sure the ride is safe.

Builders say building roller coasters is a lot more fun than building an office.

"It's better because when you're done, you get to ride what you're working on," said Matt Whiteman.

He is one of the builders.

Park officials say the Goliath will make Great America the wooden roller coaster capital of the world.

It will have more feet of wooden track than anywhere else.

When finished, the ride is expected to last about a minute and a half.

Metal coasters at the park can bend crazily and go faster and higher.

But many people love the look and ride of wooden coasters, which are becoming more rare.

Schilke, the designer, says wooden coasters feel faster in a tight space.

"It's a different feel," he said.

"Everybody knows the difference.

If you closed your eyes, you'd say, 'I'm on a wooden coaster here.'"

