WASHINGTON — Right now millions of Americans remain unemployed or stuck in part-time work, yet jobs are out there and sit unfilled.

The problem is that too many employers are unable to find qualified candidates for jobs they have open.

Shortcomings in our education system and how we train workers are to blame.

Left unchanged, the supply of skilled workers will decline more — leaving some 5 million jobs vacant by 2018.

We won't have enough skilled workers to keep pace with the needs of employers.

This problem is known as the skills gap.

For many years it has been seen as an education issue and left to politicians, educators and administrators to fix.

But companies are the ones that hire people spat out by our education system and they can't afford to wait for others to find a solution.

And many businesses haven't.

The nature of enterprise is solving problems and fulfilling needs, so it should surprise no one that business leaders are innovating their way out of the problem.

A number of companies and partners have pioneered a whole new approach to finding workers by applying the lessons of supply chains.

It's simply the common-sense practice of planning ahead and establishing processes and relationships with trusted suppliers.

It ensures that you have what you need, when you need it.

When applied to workers we call it talent pipeline management.

Talent pipeline management isn't much different from the supply chains that companies use to source goods and parts, money or information.

It involves relationships based on need and demand.

In this case, the suppliers are schools that provide the companies with the skilled workers they need — and the schools get what they need in help and support from businesses looking to hire their students.

Rolls-Royce employed this strategy when it built its massive Crosspointe engine manufacturing complex in Virginia.

It was a $170 million investment in the first-ever Rolls-Royce facility to be built from the ground up on U.S. soil.

Before making that very expensive commitment, the company wanted to be sure that skilled workers would be available and in steady supply.

So it partnered with the local community college system to establish a program tailored to its advanced manufacturing operations.

Since forging this innovative partnership, Rolls-Royce has provided input on the course work, as well as new tools to train students on the machines that are used at the Crosspointe facility.

These kinds of arrangements help everyone involved.

The employer wins by having steady access to candidates whose skills fit the demands of the position.

The school benefits by being able to show that it finds job opportunities for its graduates.

In turn, that raises the school's competitive edge and helps it recruit students who see that they can get jobs by going to that school.

And those new students will receive an education that comes with real job prospects.

Through talent pipeline management, we can achieve education and worker training truly based on need, or demand.

It will help create opportunities for individuals, ensure a steady flow of qualified workers to enable allow businesses to thrive and grow, and keep our nation on the leading edge of global competition.

> ABOUT THE WRITERS: John R. McKernan Jr. is president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation.

William D. Hansen is president and chief executive of USA Funds, a group of business leaders dedicated to preparing America's college students for jobs in the 21st century economy.

Readers may write them at U.S. Chamber, 615 H Street, NW Washington, DC 20062-2000.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

BALTIMORE — At first, it sounds like a good idea: have business partner with universities and colleges to create course work that provides graduates well-paying jobs in today's growing industries.

There's just one major hitch: The primary role of education, particularly higher education, is to develop citizens with a wide variety of skills needed to live a full and vital life in our modern democracy.

The goal is not to custom-tailor graduates to be able to to do just one job, at one company which is desperate to hire trained workers.

That's why the recent plan launched by business groups to create a pipeline of skilled workers from universities straight to them is likely to produce only lackluster results.

While it's true that college graduates earn more money over their lifetimes than those without a degree, the problem is that far too many who start college drop out.

Then they end up with large amounts of student loan debt with not much chance of paying it off.

In the 2011-2012 school year, the Pell Grants, the Department of Education's largest aid program to help students from a low- and moderate-income background pay for a college degree, cost taxpayers a whopping $34.5 billion with dismal results.

Government numbers suggest that a majority of Pell students dropped out before completing their sophomore year.

No wonder.

It's clear that many high school graduates don't have the aptitude to go on to college and would rather go directly into the workforce and start careers.

The problem is that nearly a million attractive jobs sit unfilled, while millions of Americans remain unemployed or can find only part-time work.

The remedy is not to have schools create new and easier courses to accommodate students who aren't legitimate college prospects.

Instead, it should be to create more vocational training opportunities along the lines that have been standard in Germany for decades.

The country was forced to rebuild its factories and industries from the rubble of World War II, and the Germans have long placed a high value on vocational education.

In Germany, the educational system begins to set apart those students best suited for higher education and those who may fare better in vocational training at an early age.

Often it begins in the eighth grade or at the start of their freshman year in high school.

More than two-thirds of the German workforce has received vocational training from technical schools, trade guilds and company training programs.

In 2012 alone, German companies hired and trained some 600,000 workers.

The system obviously is working.

In October, despite a rough economy, Germany's youth unemployment was 7.7 percent compared to 12.7 percent for the United States.

In Germany, vocational ed students learn both in the classroom and on the job — usually attending vocational schools two days and spending three days a week as apprentices in a chosen vocation.

Slightly more than 50 percent of German students choose this career path.

German companies that own factories in the U.S. have brought this system here and U.S. companies could learn from it.

Volkswagen's sprawling auto factory in Chattanooga, Tennessee, is a good example.

The company runs its Volkswagen Academy in a large building that also houses its assembly line.

Aspiring workers who complete the three-year program earn a starting salary of $22 an hour and are certified to work at German auto plants anywhere in the world.

It's time to end the negative view long attached to vocational education by adapting the German approach throughout the U.S.

Most Americans don't need a university diploma, but all need a well-paying career.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Whitt Flora, an independent journalist, is a former chief congressional correspondent for Aviation &amp; Science Technology Magazine and a former White House correspondent for the Columbus Dispatch.

Readers may write him at 319 Shagbark Road, Middle River, MD 21220-3903.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

