WASHINGTON — Millions of Americans are unemployed or can only find part-time work.

At the same time, too many employers are unable to find qualified candidates for open positions.

It's a cruel twist.

Shortcomings in our education and the ways we train workers are the problem.

If nothing changes, the supply of skilled workers will decrease even more — leaving some 5 million jobs empty by 2018.

We won't have enough skilled workers to keep pace with the demands of employers looking for the workers they need.

The problem is known as a "skills gap."

For years, it has been seen as just an education issue.

And so it's been left to leaders in Washington, educators and administrators to fix.

But private companies are the ones that hire people spat out by our education system, and they can't afford to wait for others to find a solution.

And many businesses haven't.

The nature of enterprise is solving problems and fulfilling needs.

It should surprise no one that business leaders are innovating their way out of the problem.

A number of companies and universities have pioneered a whole new approach to finding workers.

They're applying the lessons of supply chains.

It's simple common sense.

Businesses plan ahead and establish processes and relationships with trusted suppliers.

It ensures that you have what you need, when you need it.

When applied to workers, we call this "talent pipeline management."

It isn't much different from a supply chain.

Companies use supply chains to find parts and goods, money or information.

They involve relationships based on demand.

In this case, the suppliers are schools that provide students to the companies that need skilled workers.

Rolls-Royce used this idea when it built a massive engine manufacturing factory in Virginia.

It spent $170 million on the first-ever Rolls-Royce factory to be built from the ground up in the U.S. Before making that very expensive commitment, the company wanted to be sure that it would have a supply of skilled workers.

So it partnered with a local community college.

Together, they established a program to meet its manufacturing operations.

Since forging this partnership, Rolls-Royce has provided input on the course work and trained students on the machines used at the factory.

These kinds of arrangements help everyone involved.

The employer wins by having a steady supply of candidates who have skills that fit the position.

The school benefits by being able to say that it finds jobs for its graduates.

In turn, that makes new students want to go to that school.

And those new students will receive an education that comes with real job opportunities.

Through talent pipeline management, we can achieve education and worker training based on need and demand.

It will help create opportunities for individuals and ensure a steady flow of qualified workers to enable businesses to thrive and grow.

> ABOUT THE WRITERS: John R. McKernan Jr. is president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation.

William D. Hansen is president and chief executive of USA Funds, a group of business leaders dedicated to preparing America's college students for jobs in the 21st century economy.

Readers may write them at U.S. Chamber, 615 H Street, NW Washington, DC 20062-2000.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

BALTIMORE — At first, it sounds like a good idea: have businesses partner with universities and colleges to create course work that provides graduates well-paying jobs in today's growing industries.

There's just one major hitch: The primary role of education is to develop citizens with a wide variety of skills needed to live a full life in a modern democracy.

The goal is not to custom-tailor graduates to fit one single job, at one company.

That's why the recent plan launched by business groups to create a pipeline of skilled workers from universities is likely to produce only lukewarm results.

While it's true that college graduates earn more money over their lifetimes than those without a degree, the problem is that far too many who start college drop out.

Then they end up with large amounts of student loan debt with not much chance of paying it off.

In the 2011-2012 school year, the Pell Grants, the Department of Education's largest program to help students from a low- and moderate-income background pay for a college degree, cost a whopping $34.5 billion.

For all that money spent, the results were dismal.

Government numbers suggest that a majority of Pell students dropped out before completing their sophomore year.

No wonder.

It's clear that many high school graduates don't have the intention to go on to college.

They'd rather go directly into the workforce and start careers.

The problem is that nearly a million good jobs are going unfilled, while millions of Americans search for work.

The remedy is not to have schools create new and easier courses for students who aren't college prospects.

Instead, it should be to create more vocational training, so they can learn a specific trade such as auto repair, farming, plumbing or even working in tourism jobs or running shops.

Germany has been doing this for decades.

Forced to rebuild its factories and businesses from the rubble of World War II, the Germans turned to vocational education.

In Germany, the educational system sets apart those students best suited for higher education and those who may fare better in vocational training.

It happens at an early age, often in the eighth or ninth grade.

More than two-thirds of the German workforce has received vocational training from technical schools, trade groups and company training programs.

In 2012 alone, German companies hired and trained some 600,000 workers.

The system obviously is working.

In October, Germany's youth unemployment was 7.7 percent compared to 12.7 percent for the United States.

In Germany, vocational ed students learn both in the classroom and on the job.

Typically they attend vocational schools two days and spend three days a week as apprentices in a chosen profession.

Slightly more than 50 percent of German students choose this path to a career.

A number of German companies have brought this idea to the factories they own in the U.S. Volkswagen's sprawling auto factory in Chattanooga, Tennessee, is a good example.

The company runs its Volkswagen Academy in a large building that also houses its assembly line.

Students who complete a three-year program earn a starting salary of $22 an hour and are qualified to work at German auto plants anywhere in the world.

It's time to adapt the German approach throughout the U.S.

Most Americans don't need a university degree, but all need a well-paying career.

> ABOUT THE WRITER: Whitt Flora, an independent journalist, is a former chief congressional correspondent for Aviation &amp; Science Technology Magazine and a former White House correspondent for the Columbus Dispatch.

Readers may write him at 319 Shagbark Road, Middle River, MD 21220-3903.

> > This essay is available to Tribune News Service subscribers.

Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of Tribune or Newsela.

