The world isn't getting smaller, it's getting bigger — literally — according to a new report.

Around the world, people were much more likely to be overweight or obese in 2013 than they were in 1980, the study found.

And that goes for everyone — men and women, children and adults, citizens of rich countries and poor ones.

The report was published in The Lancet, a medical journal.

In 1980, 857 million people on the planet were either overweight or [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity).

Thirty-three years later, there were 2.1 billion.

It's not just that the global population is larger and so the number of overweight people is higher.

The proportion of men who were overweight or obese rose from 28.8 percent in 1980 to 36.9 percent in 2013.

The proportion of overweight or obese women increased from 29.8 percent to 38 percent during the same period.

Overweight people have a body mass index (BMI) of 25 to 29.9, and obese people have a BMI of over 30.

BMI measures body fat based on a person's height and weight.

In developed countries, like the U.S. and Europe, 16.9 percent of boys and 16.2 percent of girls weighed too much in 1980.

By 2013, those figures were 23.8 percent and 22.6 percent.

Even in developing countries, like Mexico or China, the number of boys who weighed too much rose from 8.1 percent to 12.9 percent.

For girls, the number grew from 8.4 percent to 13.4 percent.

All over the world, people got bigger and bigger over time.

People gained the most weight between the ages of 20 and 40.

A few extra pounds may seem harmless.

But when you add up the effect it's serious, public health experts say.

The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention warns that being overweight will increase a person's risk of life-threatening conditions.

They include heart disease, Type 2 diabetes, stroke and cancer.

A 2010 study estimated that being overweight caused 3.4 million deaths worldwide.

For the new study, dozens of researchers gathered information from 183 countries.

The massive study was paid for by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.

Bill Gates founded the computer software giant Microsoft.

More than half the adults in the tropical island kingdom of Tonga are obese, the study found.

In addition, the majority of women in six other countries were obese.

These were Kuwait, Kiribati, the Federated States of Micronesia, Libya, Qatar and Samoa.

The United States earned special mention for its high obesity rate.

A total of 31.6 percent of men in the U.S. and 33.9 percent of women are obese.

The researchers noted that 13 percent of the world's 671 million obese individuals live in the U.S. That comes to about 87 million overweight Americans, more than any other country.

Indeed, more than half of the world's obese people lived in just 10 countries in 2013.

These were U.S., China, India, Russia, Brazil, Mexico, Egypt, Germany, Pakistan and Indonesia.

China and India actually had "low" rates of obesity.

For instance, 3.8 percent of Chinese men and 5 percent of Chinese women were obese in 2013.

Also, only 3.7 percent of Indian men and 4.2 percent of Indian women were obese.

But both countries have such large populations that they still came in at No.

2 and No.

3 on the worldwide list.

Both countries have more than 1 billion people.

In no country did people really slim down in the past 33 years, the report's authors wrote.

That was perhaps the most depressing finding in the entire 16-page report.

Epidemiologist Klim McPherson wondered what it would take for the world to get serious about controlling weight gain.

An epidemiologist studies the patterns of health conditions and their causes.

He wants to return BMIs to levels to where they were 30 years ago.

Public health efforts are succeeding in getting people to cut down smoking and have heart-healthy diets, he said.

As a result, deaths caused by smoking and heart disease are decreasing.

"Can a similar success with weight ever happen?"

asked McPherson.

He is a visiting professor at the University of Oxford.

Probably not any time soon, he admitted.

For policymakers, tackling obesity is like tackling climate change.

Experts have a good idea of what needs to be done.

But there is simply no public will to make big changes.

To slim down, people would need to eat — and buy — a lot less food.

