Women have been fighting for equal rights for a long time.

Two new studies show women and girls are still treated unfairly.

One study was done by the University of California in Los Angeles (UCLA).

The study was released on Monday.

It found that most countries still have laws that are unfair to women.

The other study came from the United Nations (U.N.).

It is a gathering of leaders from countries all over the world.

They work together and try to solve the world's problems.

The U.N. met 20 years ago to talk about how to improve the lives of women and girls.

Its new study looked at what has changed in the past 20 years.

It showed that some things have improved for women and girls.

Yet, there is still a long way to go.

Men still have more control in government than women.

Only 20 countries have women leaders.

Only about 1 in 5 lawmakers are women.

Around the world, women are also paid less than men for doing the same work.

Things are changing slowly.

At the current speed, it will take about 50 years for there to be as many women in government as men.

It will take 81 years before women have as many jobs and make as much money as men.

Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka is the head of the U.N. group that fights for women.

She discussed the U.N. study last week.

She said that world leaders have not done enough to change things for women and girls.

There have been some improvements, though.

Nearly half of all grade school students are now girls.

More workers are women than ever before.

Many countries have also passed laws that protect young girls.

In some places, girls are pressured to get married at a young age.

This is a big problem.

It makes it hard for them to get jobs and earn money.

It also means they often have children at a young age.

"Girls who marry young have babies young," said Jody Heymann.

She was one of the people behind the UCLA study.

Having children at a young age is dangerous for women's health, she said.

It is also dangerous for their babies' health.

It is often a result of young girls getting married.

Many countries have tried to protect girls from having to get married at a young age.

Almost every country now has a law that says that children cannot be married.

For example, the Maldives, an island nation in the Indian Ocean, passed a new law in 2001.

It says that people cannot marry until the age of 18.

Since 2001, the number of girls getting married between the ages of 15 and 18 has dropped substantially.

Young girls are still getting married, though.

Around the world, nearly five times more girls than boys get married before they turn 18.

The UCLA study found that things have improved for women and girls in every area of the world.

Heymann thinks that this shows that someday women might be treated equally and fairly.

She thinks that countries can do it if they keep trying.

