Brazil last hosted the World Cup in 1950.

Brazilians have waited 64 years for the World Cup to return, and now it's finally back in their home country.

"Tudo bem" — all good — as the Brazilians like to say.

Well, just about.

The country that sees itself as the soul of football, which is called soccer in the U.S., kicked off one of the most troubled World Cups ever.

On the one hand, the nation erupted in excitement.

On the other, tear gas wafted from small protests across Brazil.

The country is deeply conflicted about spending billions of dollars on hosting its showcase tournament.

Yet, it roared to life Thursday with a joyous 3-1 win for the home team in a stadium barely readied on time for the first of 64 matches in 12 cities.

The next month will consume planet _futebol_ and showcase Brazil's growing economic might, warts and all.

A few hundred protesters gathered in scattered demonstrations in Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Brasilia and Belo Horizonte.

Police kept them under control.

It wasn't close to the chaos that accompanied last year's Confederations Cup tournament, when hundreds of thousands took to the streets of Brazil.

After a funky opening ceremony featuring J-Lo in low-cut sparkling green, Brazil's beloved national team, the star-studded Selecao, took to the field.

The Brazilians were not brilliant in their opening match.

But they made a solid start to the business of conquering a sixth world title.

A good showing could relieve much — but not all — the public anger about World Cup spending of $11.5 billion in a nation with tens of millions of poor.

Brazil's first opponent was a tough but ultimately outclassed Croatian side.

The all-new Itaquerao stadium, which suffered continual delays and worker deaths in its construction, was a sea of yellow jerseys.

Brazilian fans crossed fingers and toes that this crop of stars will deliver victory.

Even more than that, they expect football as art, the "Jogo bonito" — the beautiful game — that was the hallmark of the great Brazilian teams.

The game had everything true fans love — passion, drama, spectacle and goals.

Brazilian fans call themselves "torcidas" — coming from the Portuguese word "to twist."

The word symbolizes how football puts them through the wringer.

This match, watched by millions around the world, certainly did that.

"I'm very emotional, happy, and happy that it's over," said spectator Ricieri Garbelini, visibly drained.

"I was nervous for five minutes at the beginning, and at the end."

Brazil made a nightmare start.

Brazilian defender Marcelo looked stunned when he scored an own-goal that gave Croatia an unlikely 1-0 lead after just 11 minutes.

The crowd of 62,103 wailed and grown men watching in bars let out howls of despairing laughter.

And despite all the promises from government officials that Brazil would be ready, there were problems at the stadium: The lighting failed in one corner, flickering off, on, off and finally back on again after the late-afternoon kickoff.

The mood lifted when Neymar lived up to his hype as the team's biggest star and tied the game for Brazil in the 29th minute.

An ear-splitting roar was unleashed from the crowd and across the nation.

Demonstrating the love-hate relationship Brazilians have developed with this World Cup, the crowd made hairs stand on end with its rousing rendition of the national anthem.

But then they started chanting against unpopular Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff.

There were also boos for FIFA, the governing organization of football.

The crowd booed Rousseff again when the stadium's jumbo screens showed her celebrating Neymar's second goal — scored from the penalty spot in the 71st minute.

Neymar thrust his arms in the air and the nation did likewise.

Oscar got the third in the 90th minute.

Even the football-loving Pope Francis got a touch of World Cup fever.

He sent a video message on Brazilian television before the match.

Francis said that the world's most popular sport can promote peace and solidarity by teaching the importance of working hard to reach goals and respect for opponents.

But the party wasn't all fun-loving.

In Sao Paulo, more than 300 protesters gathered along a highway leading to the stadium.

Police fired canisters of tear gas and stun grenades to push them back.

"I'm totally against the Cup," said protester and university student Tameres Mota.

"We're in a country where the money doesn't go to the community, and meanwhile we see all these millions spent on stadiums."

Police also used tear gas against about 300 protesters who gathered in central Rio de Janeiro.

Protesters also gathered along Rio's famous Copacabana beach.

In Belo Horizonte, another of the 12 World Cup cities, streets downtown emptied because of the game and because of protests that tore through the area just before kickoff.

Riot police stood guard on street corners littered with broken glass from windows smashed in by demonstrators.

One of their signs read: "The World Cup is being done with workers' blood."

