The U.S. national soccer team is in Brazil.

The team is playing in soccer's biggest event: the World Cup.

There was a lot of excitement here in the months leading up to the Cup.

The team got quite a bit of attention.

Its lineup was talked about frequently and the players were filmed everywhere they went.

Things were very different 64 years ago.

Back then, Walter Bahr and his U.S. teammates took off for Brazil without much notice.

Bahr is one of two surviving members of the 1950 U.S. soccer team.

That year was the last time the World Cup was hosted by Brazil.

These days, soccer is increasingly popular here.

Back in Bahr's playing days, though, not many Americans followed the game.

The team had a hard task ahead of it.

The United States faced a tough series of games against Spain, England and Chile.

All were top-level teams.

No one thought this group of part-time players could defeat some of the world's best.

The main goal, really, was just to not lose too badly.

Instead, the U.S. team pulled off something truly amazing.

It scored one of the greatest upsets in World Cup history.

The win in their second game came against England.

The English were one of the best teams in the world.

They were considered a favorite to challenge Brazil for the title.

Heading into the game, there wasn't much talk about what might happen.

Coach Bill Jeffrey's "main comment," Bahr recalled, was, "Look, we're the underdogs, but the score's 0-0 when we start.

We all can play.

Give it your best shot, let's see what happens."

It would have been truly foolish to think the U.S. could win.

After all, just two years earlier the United States had suffered a shutout.

At the 1948 Olympics, Italy had beaten it 9-0.

When the game against England was played, "we were 500-to-1 odds," Bahr said.

"No one expected us to do anything."

But, like Jeffrey said, the match had to start 0-0.

It even remained 0-0 for most of the first half.

England had some good chances to score.

Each time, it was denied by American goalkeeper Frank Borghi.

In the 38th minute, Bahr took a throw-in from Ed McIlvenny.

Bahr fired a shot on goal from about 25 yards out.

Joe Gaetjens leaped forward and headed the ball.

Gaetjens hit just enough of the ball to change its path.

The change in direction caught English goalkeeper Bert Williams off-guard.

Just like that, the Americans had a 1-0 lead.

It was almost impossible, but the United States had pulled ahead of the mighty English.

England controlled the ball for much of the rest of the game.

It almost scored many times.

When the final whistle sounded, though, the scoreboard still read 1-0 — in favor of the United States.

"Possession doesn't count.

The goal counts, and we got the goal," Bahr said.

The historic victory didn't get much attention in the United States back then, though.

Some papers even assumed the 1-0 U.S. win was printed by mistake.

When the players came home, they weren't treated like returning heroes.

In fact, they went almost unnoticed.

"My wife was the only one at the airport that met me," Bahr said.

Today's U.S. team has support that Bahr never had.

Still, there is some common ground.

As with the 1950 team, experts see today's team as underdogs.

They are not expected to do well.

Bahr, however, sees things differently.

"England was a big favorite and we were the underdog.

Sometimes the underdog wins."

