The U.S. national soccer team is in Brazil, playing in soccer's biggest event, the World Cup.

There was a lot of excitement here in the months leading up to the Cup.

The team came in for quite a bit of attention.

Its lineup was much discussed, and the players were filmed everywhere they went.

Things were very different 64 years ago, when Walter Bahr and his U.S. teammates took off for Brazil.

Bahr is one of two surviving members of the 1950 U.S. soccer team.

That year was the last time Brazil hosted the sport's global showcase.

There was little attention paid when the 1950 U.S. team left for Brazil.

These days, soccer is becoming more and more popular in this country.

Back in Bahr's playing days, though, not many Americans followed the game.

So when the team for the 1950 World Cup was announced, it wasn't exactly big news.

The team had a hard task ahead of it.

The United States faced games against Spain, England and Chile, all top-level teams.

It wasn't realistic to think this group of part-time players from across the country could defeat some of the world's best.

The main goal, really, was just to not lose too badly.

Instead, the U.S. team pulled off one of the greatest upsets in World Cup history.

It came in their second game, against England.

The English had one of the best teams in the world, and were considered a favorite to challenge Brazil for the title.

Heading into the game, there wasn't much talk about what might happen, good or bad.

Coach Bill Jeffrey's "main comment," Bahr recalled, was, "Look, we're the underdogs, but the score's 0-0 when we start.

We all can play.

Give it your best shot, let's see what happens."

In truth, it would have been foolish to think the United States could beat the mighty English.

After all, just two years earlier the United States had played embarrassingly.

At the 1948 Olympics, Italy had beaten them 9-0.

When the game against England was played, "we were 500-to-1 odds," Bahr said.

"No one expected us to do anything."

But, like Jeffrey said, the match had to start 0-0.

Unexpectedly, it remained 0-0 for most of the first half.

England had some good chances to score.

Each time, it was denied by American goalkeeper Frank Borghi.

In the 38th minute, Bahr took a throw-in from Ed McIlvenny.

Bahr fired a shot on goal from about 25 yards out.

Joe Gaetjens leaped forward and headed the ball.

Gaetjens hit just enough of the ball to change its path.

The change in direction caught English goalkeeper Bert Williams off-guard.

Just like that, the Americans, almost impossibly, had a 1-0 lead over the British.

England controlled the ball for much of the rest of the game.

It almost scored many times.

When the final whistle sounded, though, the scoreboard still read 1-0 — in favor of the United States.

"Possession doesn't count — the goal counts, and we got the goal," Bahr said.

The historic victory didn't get much attention in the United States back then, though.

Some papers even assumed the 1-0 U.S. win was printed by mistake.

When the players came home, they were hardly greeted as returning heroes.

"We couldn't even get the whole team on one flight," Bahr, 87, said.

"We came back on three separate days and my wife was the only one at the airport that met me."

Today's U.S. team has support that Bahr never had, but there is still some common ground.

As with the 1950 team, most experts see today's team as underdogs.

They are not expected to do well.

Bahr, however, sees things differently.

"England was a big favorite and we were the underdog.

Sometimes the underdog wins."

