Eating worms sounds yucky.

It may be good for some people, though.

There are certain kinds of worms that live and grow in a person.

Some of these are called helminths.

These worms are not the kind that crawl in the dirt.

In America, people used to get worms.

They would get them by walking barefoot in the dirt.

They could also get them from eating uncooked meat.

Worms could make people sick.

People have not gotten worms in many years.

But some people have still gotten sicker, though.

They have also gotten more allergies.

Scientists wonder if there is a link.

William Parker is a scientist at the Duke University Medical Center.

It is in North Carolina.

He said a scientist began looking at the worm-allergy connection 40 years ago.

The scientist thought that hookworm might stop his allergies.

He gave himself hookworms.

His coughing and sneezing stopped.

There are special cells in the blood called antibodies.

They fight off disease.

Years ago, these cells attacked worms.

In the 1960s, America killed off these worms.

Since then, those cells have looked for a new target.

Scientists think this can cause allergies.

Sometimes the antibodies even attack the human body.

Scientists are trying to see if worms work.

The worms are put into the body.

They can be given through a drink.

They also can be put on a bandage on the skin.

Then the antibody cells kill off the worms before they can grow or lay eggs.

They do not attack the body.

There are about 7,000 people in the world using worms for different diseases.

Several studies show it may work.

Rosemary Kind is a writer from England.

She has very bad allergies.

After other treatments failed, she read an article on worms.

Kind thought worms were disgusting.

She did not want to use them.

Still, she tried them.

Some of her allergies went away.

There is still not enough scientific proof about whether they work.

People thinking about worms should talk their doctors.

Some doctors will not be in favor of it.

Others may think it is worth a try.

Nancy O'Hara is a doctor in Connecticut.

She said worms are safe and can help.

She said more doctors should think about using them to treat allergies and diseases.

