Young children put things in their mouths.

Dirt is the one thing parents may be most worried about.

They do not want their children to get worms.

There are reasons not to eat soil, but worms may not be one of them.

Scientists have been looking into the link between being too clean and getting sick.

There is some evidence that a little dirt is good for you.

It makes the body fight off disease and allergies.

Now some scientists are looking to see if eating worms can be good for you also.

These kind of worms live and grow in a person.

They are called helminths.

In the Western world, it has been many years since people have gotten worms.

As worms have disappeared, some people have gotten sicker.

It is not clear that the worms prevented disease, but the subject is getting more attention.

William Parker is a professor at the Duke University Medical Center in Durham, North Carolina.

He said the worm-allergy connection was first looked into about 40 years ago.

British scientist John Turton had a hunch that hookworm might stop his allergies.

He gave himself hookworms and his coughing and sneezing stopped.

Years ago, antibodies in the blood attacked the worm.

These antibodies are cells that identify and attack germs and other foreign material, like worms.

In the 1960s, the Western world killed off these worms.

Since then, those antibodies have sought new targets.

For many people, the antibodies are attacking pollen from flowers and even their own bodies, Parker said.

He said that worms can stop disease.

The worms are put into the body before they grow into adult worms.

They are given through a drink or are placed on a bandage applied to the skin, which absorbs them.

Then antiibodies kill off the worms before they can grow or lay eggs.

Neilanjan Nandi teaches at the Drexel University College of Medicine in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Often patients will ask if helminths can work for them.

The American government does not approve the use of helminths in humans.

There are about 7,000 people in the world using helminths for different diseases.

Several studies have shown that helminthic therapy may work.

Parker recently published a study on people who treat themselves with worms.

He said those using worms fall into two groups.

"About half are very well educated," he said.

"A lot of them are scientists, or are in the medical field.

And the other half either knows one of those people or weren't that educated but got very, very sick."

Rosemary Kind is a writer from England.

She had allergies to many different foods.

After other treatments failed, she read an article on worms.

"That's gross.

I really don't want to do that," she said at first.

Still, she tried it, and some of her allergies went away.

"People are absolutely grossed out by the idea of worms.

I think it's the wrong word to use," said Donna Beales of Boston.

She used worms to treat a medical condition.

Beales said the worms "worked beautifully."

There is still not enough scientific proof about whether they work.

No one knows how many doses of worms are needed.

Also, no one knows how long treatment can take before showing results, Parker and Nandi said.

People thinking about worms are advised to speak with their doctors.

Some doctors will not be in favor of it.

Others may think it is worth a try.

Nancy O'Hara, a doctor in Connecticut, said worms are safe and can help.

"I really do think that this is something more and more physicians need to consider."

