The tallest building in the Americas is the 104-story One World Trade Center (1 WTC).

It is also known as the "Freedom Tower" and is located in lower Manhattan.

The building stands where the twin towers once rose.

During the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, the twin towers were destroyed.

A lookout deck near the top of 1 WTC will open to the public on May 29.

Visitors will be treated to a beautiful view of New York City.

They will be able to see in all directions from a height of nearly 1,280 feet.

It will take only 60 seconds to reach the deck from One World Trade's ground floor.

The building's elevators are some of the fastest in the world.

The new tower has 73 elevators.

Five are express with a top speed of about 23 miles an hour.

The building's high-speed elevators are powered by eight huge electric motors.

Each motor weighs 2.3 tons and sits on the building's roof.

Each elevator uses a pulley system to operate.

A pulley consists of a wheel and a long cable.

The cable fits into the wheel, and is pulled along it.

One end of the cable is attached to the elevator car.

The other end is attached to a counterweight, which balances the weight of the car.

Counterweights are usually heavier than elevator cars themselves.

They make it so the motor does not have to lift as much weight.

They also help make sure that the car will never drop down the shaft.

Together, 1 WTC's elevators use more than 1 million pounds of counterweight.

The elevators serving 1 WTC are not just speedy.

They also offer a smooth ride.

In a way, elevators are like trains.

They have wheels on the outside and move along a set of rails that keeps them from going off course.

The big difference is that they travel up and down.

Elevator guide rails are made up of stretches of no more than 16 feet, which are joined together.

What is tricky about supertall buildings is that wind can make them sway.

When that happens, some stretches of rail bend apart a bit.

The track is no longer completely straight and the ride up or down can get a bit bumpy.

At 1 WTC, that problem has been solved.

The elevators' wheels are controlled by a special system.

When sections of the track begin to shift apart, the system pushes or pulls against the rails.

This lets it absorb the bends and makes the ride smooth even when the building is swaying.

Sudden changes in air pressure are another problem for high-speed elevators.

Basically, air pressure is the weight of the air pressing down on us.

When a 10,000-pound elevator car rushes up its shaft, a lot of air is pushed forward.

The result is a change in air pressure.

A sudden change in air pressure can be dangerous.

It can also make an elevator ride noisy and uncomfortable.

At 1 WTC, this problem was solved by placing aluminum screens around the tops of the elevators.

The screens prevent too much air from being pushed forward all at once.

For this reason, the air pressure does not shift as much.

The result is a smoother and quieter ride.

When an express elevator passes a floor without stopping, the hallway doors do not rattle.

Most elevators in supertall buildings only serve a certain number of floors, usually no more than 60.

Those elevators are known as local elevators.

At One World Trade, people working higher than the 64th story need to switch elevators.

They first take an express elevator to the 64th floor.

From there they can change to another elevator that will take them to the higher floors.

