The observation deck at One World Trade Center (1 WTC) opens May 29 in lower Manhattan.

Visitors will be treated to a spectacular view of New York City.

They will be able to look out in all directions from a height of nearly 1,280 feet.

It will take a mere 60 seconds to reach the deck from 1 WTC's ground floor.

The building's elevators are the fastest in the Western Hemisphere.

The 104-story 1 WTC — also known as the "Freedom Tower" — is the tallest building in the Americas.

It stands where the twin towers once rose, before those buildings were destroyed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

The new building has 73 elevators.

Five run express with a top speed of almost 23 miles per hour.

But the elevators at 1 WTC are not the fastest in the world.

Taiwan's Taipei 101 skyscraper has elevators that can travel up to 37 miles an hour.

However, those at 1 WTC are still a full 25 percent faster than the express elevators were in the twin towers.

The new building's high-speed elevators are powered by eight 2.3-ton electric motors installed on the roof.

Each elevator operates using a pulley-like system, with counterweights connected by cable to the cabs in which passengers ride.

Together, 1 WTC's elevators use more than 1 million pounds of counterweight to ascend and descend the building's hoistways — more commonly called shafts.

The elevators serving 1 WTC are not just speedy.

They also feature several advanced technologies designed to improve ride quality and safety.

Such features show just how far they have come since the first passenger elevator was introduced in 1857.

An elevator needs more than just powerful motors to travel at high speeds.

Like a bullet train, it also requires incredibly smooth rails and rail joints to move swiftly.

Individual rails can be no longer than 16 feet.

As a result, elevators in any skyscraper require a large number of rail joints.

Throughout the course of a day, changes in wind and temperature cause a skyscraper to sway slightly.

The swaying in turn causes minute changes in the distance between elevator guide rails.

Such shifts could cause elevator cars to jostle uncomfortably.

"You can't ever have a perfect plane for an elevator to travel in very tall buildings," elevator expert John Koshak says.

At One World Trade, elevator car jostling is minimized through what is known as an "active roller guide" system.

Roller guides keep an elevator's wheels, known as rollers, in contact with the guide rails as the car ascends and descends.

The rollers used at 1 WTC are controlled by a system that pushes and pulls against the rails.

This ensures a smooth ride even when the building is swaying.

Such active roller-guide systems are "like hugely intelligent shock absorbers," Koshak says.

"You'll see these in (supertall) buildings from now on."

Air pressure is also a concern in high-speed elevator systems.

Essentially, air pressure is the weight of the air pressing down on us.

Sudden changes in air pressure can create problems.

As a typical 10,000-pound elevator car rushes up its hoistway, a massive quantity of air is displaced.

The rapid movement creates changes in air pressure.

The result is "an area of high pressure above the car and low pressure below it," Koshak explains.

"The hoistway doors above the car want to blow out into the hallway and the hoistway doors below the car want to suck into the hoistway."

To help solve this problem aluminum screens were placed around the tops of the elevators in 1 WTC.

These reduce air resistance and drag.

As a result, less air is displaced as the elevators speed up or down.

The ride is not only smoother, it is also quieter: There is minimal "whooshing" sound or door rattling when an express elevator passes by a floor without stopping.

Air pressure changes that affect people inside the car are more difficult to deal with, however.

At 1 WTC, extra air pressure is provided inside the cars to compensate for pressure drops.

The pressure is then slowly released to keep passengers' ears from popping.

Elevators generally do not descend faster than 22 miles an hour.

Anything faster can lead to ear-popping.

As the 2001 attacks on the twin towers demonstrated, the structural safety of supertall buildings is a major concern.

The towers were held together by a steel exoskeleton, which gave way during the attacks, leading to the building's collapse.

The new building is more solidly built.

It has a hollow concrete core that serves as a structural backbone for the building.

The elevator hoistways run through this core, protected by a 3-foot-thick concrete wall.

Most elevators in supertall buildings usually serve no more than 60 floors.

Such elevators are known as local elevators.

So-called sky lobbies are floors where passengers can get off to switch elevators.

They change to elevators serving a building's top floors.

At 1 WTC, people working higher than the 64th story need to switch elevators.

They first take an express elevator to the sky lobby on the 64th floor.

From there they can catch a lift to the building's higher floors.

