The tallest building in the Americas is One World Trade Center (1 WTC).

It is 104 stories high.

The building is in New York City.

It is also known as the "Freedom Tower."

The building's elevators are some of the fastest in the world.

There are 73 elevators.

Five of them are superfast.

They can travel at up to 23 miles an hour.

The building's elevators are powered by eight huge motors.

Each motor weighs 2.3 tons.

That is about how much a big pickup truck weighs.

The motors sit on the building's roof.

Each elevator uses a pulley to move up and down.

An elevator pulley is a wheel and a long cable.

A cable is like a rope, but is made of metal.

The cable fits into the wheel.

It moves along the top of the wheel.

One end of the cable is attached to the elevator car.

The other end is attached to a counterweight.

A counterweight is something that pulls against the weight of something else.

Think of two people on a seesaw, for example.

Each person is a counterweight to the other.

If one person is heavier, the other person will rise into the air unless they push down.

Elevator counterweights are heavier than elevator cars.

They help the motor so it can lift less weight.

They also stop the car from dropping on its own.

The elevators at 1 WTC are not just fast.

They are also a smooth ride.

Elevators are like trains.

They have wheels on the outside.

They move along a track.

The big difference is that they travel up and down.

Elevator tracks are made of metal bars that are joined together.

The bars are known as rails.

Usually each rail is no more than 16 feet long.

Buildings as tall as 1 WTC can be a problem for elevators.

Supertall buildings shake a bit if the wind blows hard enough.

When that happens, parts of the elevator track bend too.

Rails move apart slightly and the track is no longer completely straight.

The ride up or down can get a bit bumpy.

At 1 WTC, that problem has been solved.

The elevators' wheels can pull closer against the track or pull up a bit.

This lets the wheels handle any bends in the track.

The ride is smooth even when the building is shaking.

