The observatory at One World Trade Center (1 WTC) opens May 29 in lower Manhattan.

Visitors will be treated to a spectacular 360-degree view of New York City from nearly 1,280 feet above its bustling streets.

All that is needed to travel to the upper reaches of the building is a 60-second ride in the Western Hemisphere's fastest elevator system.

The 104-story 1 WTC — also known as the "Freedom Tower" — is the tallest building in the Americas.

It has 73 elevators, five of which will be express elevators with a top speed of almost 23 miles per hour.

They are not the fastest in the world: the elevators in Taiwan's Taipei 101 skyscraper can race at speeds up to 37 miles per hour.

However, they are still a full 25 percent faster than the express elevators that were in the twin towers, which once stood on the same spot before being destroyed in the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks.

Eight 2.3-ton electric motors installed on 1 WTC's roof power the high-speed elevators.

Each elevator operates using a pulley-like system that consists of a cab and counterweights connected by a cable.

Together, 1 WTC's elevators use more than 1 million pounds of counterweight to ascend and descend the building's hoistways, or shafts.

In addition to being speedy, the elevators serving 1 WTC feature several advanced technologies designed to improve ride quality and safety.

Such features show just how far technology has advanced since the first passenger elevator was introduced in 1857.

An elevator needs more than just powerful motors to travel at high speeds.

Like a bullet train, it also requires incredibly smooth rails and rail joints to move swiftly.

Individual rails can be no longer that 16 feet, which means any skyscraper requires a large number of rail joints.

Elevators must also account for minute changes in the distance between guide rails.

These shifts occur as changes in temperature, wind and other conditions cause skyscrapers to sway slightly throughout the course of a day.

"These factors mean that you can't ever have a perfect plane for an elevator to travel in very tall buildings," elevator expert John Koshak said.

At 1 WTC, elevator car jostling is minimized through what is known as an "active roller guide" system.

Roller guides keep an elevator's wheels, known as rollers, in contact with the guide rails as the car ascends and descends.

The rollers used at 1 WTC are controlled by a system that pushes and pulls against the rails to prevent any misalignments or imperfections from interfering with a smooth ride.

These active roller-guide systems are "like hugely intelligent shock absorbers," Koshak says.

"You'll see these in (supertall) buildings from now on."

Air pressure is also a concern in high-speed elevator systems that can scale supertall skyscrapers.

Changes in air pressure have an impact on not just the elevator cars and their passengers, but the floors they pass as well.

As a typical 10,000-pound car with a 16,000-pound counterweight rushes up its hoistway, a massive quantity of air is displaced.

The rapid movement creates "an area of high pressure above the car and low pressure below it," Koshak explains.

"You're creating a situation where the hoistway doors above the car want to blow out into the hallway and the hoistway doors below the car want to suck into the hoistway."

Aerodynamic aluminum shrouds were placed around the tops of the elevators in 1 WTC.

They reduce air resistance, drag and wind noise in a way that minimizes the amount of air that is displaced when the elevator surges upward.

As a result, air pressure between the elevator doors and the hoistway doors remains neutral: there is minimal "whooshing" sound or door rattling when an express elevator passes a floor without stopping.

Air pressure changes that affect people inside the car are more difficult to deal with, however.

The approach at 1 WTC is to provide extra air pressure inside the cars to compensate for pressure drops.

It can then be slowly released to keep passengers' ears from popping.

An elevator can ascend as fast as the technology will allow without creating any passenger discomfort caused by changes in pressure.

The 1,738-foot-tall CTF Finance Center in Guangzhou, China, is expected to have elevators that ride up at speeds up to 45 miles per hour.

Elevators generally do not descend faster than 22 miles an hour, however, because anything faster can lead to ear-popping.

As the 2001 attacks on the twin towers demonstrated, the structural safety of supertall buildings is a major concern.

The towers were held together by a steel exoskeleton, which gave way during the attacks, leading to the building's collapse.

The new building has a hollow concrete core that serves as a structural backbone for the building.

The elevator hoistways run through this core, protected by a 3-foot-thick concrete wall.

Traffic management is an essential part of elevator use in high-rise buildings.

Supertall structures are essentially buildings stacked on top of buildings with sky lobbies in between each one.

The use of sky lobbies makes it easier to efficiently move people to their desired floors and cut down on waiting times.

So-called local elevators, which serve a specific part of the building, serve a maximum of 60 floors.

The elevators at 1 WTC rely on a kiosk setup in the lobby that determines which elevator a particular visitor will ride.

The dispatch system is used in 63 of the building's elevators to direct individuals to the appropriate car.

Those headed to the same floor are grouped together for faster service.

People working higher than the 64th story in 1 WTC, for example, first take an express elevator to the sky lobby on the 64th floor.

From there they can then catch a lift to the building's higher floors.

