World War I began a hundred years ago this month.

It was a long war that changed the way people saw the world.

One of these people was American writer Henry James.

In the summer of 1914, James knew that something had been lost forever.

World War I was just two weeks old at the time.

James was living in London.

He wrote to a friend that he was "sick beyond cure" to have lived to see the war.

Through the years, he wrote, he thought he had seen the worst become impossible.

The war changed that.

"It seems to me to undo everything, everything that was ours," he wrote.

James died in 1916, two years before the end of the war.

The wreckage of World War I was worse than James could have imagined.

Millions were dead and things people had believed for hundreds of years no longer seemed true.

World War I changed both the stories writers told and how they told them.

Artists were inspired.

They produced great paintings, music, books and movies.

It was called the modernist art movement.

In the 19th century, people believed in progress through technology, said Jan Schall, an art historian.

World War I turned this upside down.

Weapons, like machine guns and big cannons, used the new technology, and they killed millions of people.

Before World War I, writers often wrote about war positively.

In ancient Greece, war was a way for men to prove themselves.

World War I changed that.

Today, nobody argues "that war itself is a splendid achievement," wrote essayist Adam Kirsch.

Instead, people say they go to war to defend themselves or to protect human rights, not for glory.

During World War I, writers at first cheered on the battle.

Carl Sandburg's "Four Brothers" hailed the "Ballplayers, lumberjacks, ironworkers, ready in khaki / A million, ten million, singing, 'I am ready.'"

Then, the war destroyed the dream.

American painter John Singer Sargent spent time at the front.

His 20-foot-long painting "Gassed" shows soldiers marching blind.

A gas attack had burned their eyes.

Soldiers returned home injured and in shock.

Writer Gertrude Stein called these soldiers a "lost generation."

It was an entire group of people around the same age who were damaged.

The war had badly hurt all of them.

Writer Ernest Hemingway's short story "Soldier's Home" tells of a man named Krebs.

He returns from the war and finds that no one in his community wants to hear what really happened over there.

"Krebs found that to be listened to at all he had to lie," Hemingway wrote.

"A distaste for everything that had happened to him in the war set in because of the lies he had told."

Yet one of the war's most famous pictures was not a protest.

It was a call to service.

In 1917, the government asked artist James Montgomery Flagg to make a poster.

They wanted to make young people want to join the Army.

He drew a red-cheeked man with a starred top hat and white goatee.

The face was based in part on Flagg himself.

He added a simple tagline: "I Want YOU For U.S.

Army."

But most people remember the tagline as: "UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU."

