In the summer of 1914, when World War I was just two weeks old, American author Henry James knew that something had been lost forever.

"Black and hideous to me is the tragedy that gathers, and I'm sick beyond cure to have lived on to see it," James, who lived in London at the time, wrote to a friend.

"You and I, the ornaments of our generation, should have been spared this wreck of our belief that through the long years we had seen civilization grow and the worst become impossible.

...

It seems to me to undo everything, everything that was ours, in the most horrible retroactive way."

James died in 1916, two years before the war ended and an armistice was declared between the Allies and the Germans.

The wreckage of World War I was beyond even his imagination.

Millions were dead, empires were dissolved and centuries-old beliefs were upended.

Many survivors wondered how the world had been caught up in a war fought not for any identifiable cause, but because no one knew how to stop it.

Prolonged conflicts destroy the worlds they were born in.

Few did so as thoroughly and as terribly as World War I, which began 100 years ago this month.

Among writers, World War I changed both the stories they told and how they told them.

Artists in general left behind extraordinary paintings, music, literature and film.

The artists also left behind many of the defining achievements of a movement, modernism, that challenged our very identities and raised questions still being asked today.

"If you look at the 19th century, you have this whole notion of progress through technology," says Jan Schall, an art historian at the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Missouri.

"What the war did was turn this ideal upside down.

You had mass death through mass technological warfare," he said.

World War I was unique for the art it inspired, and for the art's discontent with war itself.

Winners and losers both despaired.

Literary critic Adam Kirsch notes that poetry had a history dating back to ancient Greece of treating war as a tragic, but essential proving ground.

World War I broke the spell.

"Wars keep being fought, of course, but now they are justified on the grounds of necessity, self-defense, even human rights — never on the grounds that war itself is a splendid achievement or the true calling of men," Kirsch wrote.

Poets and writers on both sides of the Atlantic at first cheered on the battle.

Carl Sandburg's "Four Brothers" hailed the "Ballplayers, lumberjacks, ironworkers, ready in khaki / A million, ten million, singing, 'I am ready.'"

The war overran and destroyed the dream.

The German artist and sculptor Kaethe Kollwitz turned out a series of deathly statues, woodcuts and posters.

American painter John Singer Sargent spent time at the front and responded with a bold testament to the crimes of war.

In Sargent's 20-foot-long painting "Gassed," soldiers blinded by a gas attack form a procession that mocks the ideal of military discipline.

In his novel "A Farewell to Arms," Ernest Hemingway declared that "Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or hallow were obscene beside the concrete names of villages, the numbers of roads, the names of rivers, the numbers of regiments and the dates."

T.S.

Eliot's "The Hollow Men," one of the touchstones of post-war literature, sketches a ravaged, barren landscape: _In this valley of dying stars_ _In this hollow valley_ _This broken jaw of our lost kingdoms_ _In this last of meeting places_ _We grope together_ _And avoid speech_ _Gathered on this beach of the tumid river_ Soldiers returned maimed, traumatized, bewildered.

Gertrude Stein called them a "lost generation."

In Erich Maria Remarque's famous anti-war novel, "All Quiet On the Western Front," a German soldier rejects his patriotism, loses his humanity and gets killed on a quiet day in the trenches.

Hemingway's short story "Soldier's Home" tells of a veteran named Krebs who finds that no one in his community wants to hear what really happened over there.

"Krebs found that to be listened to at all he had to lie and after he had done this twice he, too, had a reaction against the war and against talking about it," Hemingway wrote.

"A distaste for everything that had happened to him in the war set in because of the lies he had told."

World War I was the last major conflict presided over by kings and kaisers and emperors, and the last to begin with even the pretense of old-fashioned rules of battle.

The war was a severing of history, and a violation of logic.

It justified the skepticism of modernists who questioned whether a book needed a beginning, middle and end or whether a song needed a melody.

"War proved that everything was temporary, fleeting, and the art world reflected it," says Doran Cart, senior curator of the National World War I Museum in Kansas City.

"And it helped inspire works of modernism because the war itself was so modern and changed how people saw their communities and saw each other."

Ironically, one of the war's most enduring images was a call to service, not a protest.

In 1917, commercial artist James Montgomery Flagg was asked by the U.S. government to create a poster that would encourage young people to join the military.

He sketched a furrowed, red-cheeked man with a starred top hat and white goatee, the face based in part on Flagg himself.

He added a simple caption: "I Want YOU For U.S. Army," shortened in popular memory to "UNCLE SAM WANTS YOU."

