Chris Demarest is a painter.

He paints pictures of people who fought in World War II.

Demarest uses old pictures to show how the soldiers looked in the past.

Not long ago, he sat near an old fighter plane and painted.

The Spitfire airplane was sitting inside an air-conditioned building.

Midmorning visitors to the Palm Springs Air Museum moved slowly past shined-up war reminders.

They tended not to notice Demarest.

Then they nearly bumped into him and his long table of painting supplies.

He looked very closely at the canvas he was painting.

A small black-and-white photocopy of a picture sat next to him.

He painted light brown streaks that would form the beginning of a face.

Behind him was an entire wall of 70 pictures.

Demarest had painted them all.

They showed young men and women in the military.

They were leaning against planes, hugging or hard at work.

As Demarest talked about his work, a museum volunteer stopped to join him.

"This — this is really important," the man said.

Demarest has traveled the country for the past two years.

He has been showing off his paintings of World War II veterans.

Veterans and their families walk through the big room.

They stop to chat.

They bring him black-and-white photos, photocopied pictures or plastic scrapbooks to share.

These little frozen moments, for many, contain the biggest stories of their lives.

"They all still think of themselves as being 18 or 19 years old," Demarest said.

He cannot do all the veterans' pictures.

Still, he takes as many of their offerings as he can handle.

Each of his portraits is accompanied by a neat, typewritten story beneath it.

Some of the subjects are famous.

Most are not.

They are the unknown faces of war.

World War II was a war fought against Germany and Japan.

Many soldiers died fighting.

George Edwards is a 94-year-old veteran who knows what it means to fight.

Sometimes fighting takes courage, like the battle in Italy that fractured his spine.

Sometimes it takes discipline, like the march across the Arizona desert in training camp.

And sometimes it takes creativity.

That could be the well-placed roofing nails he used in a hand-to-hand fight.

Edwards learned these lessons quickly as a black man who had to fight for nearly everything.

He was an officer in a group known as the Buffalo Soldiers.

Edwards led large groups of soldiers through Italy.

His Purple Heart award was pinned to his baseball cap as he sat in the library of the Air Museum.

He told many stories.

In some ways, combat was an escape from home for Edwards and the men of the 92nd Infantry Division.

Italy was a place where even the rich women spoke to soldiers.

Edwards gestured to Demarest's picture propped up next to him.

He is young and neat in his uniform.

His wife leans into him.

"Coming from slavery to freedom, you've got to fight for things," he said.

"The biggest thing is you've got to demand respect."

For most of his career, Demarest, 63, was a children's book author.

He also drew pictures for the books.

He became an official artist with the Coast Guard.

A few years ago, people stopped buying so many books.

Around that time, he painted his first picture of a World War II veteran.

It was the father of a neighbor.

He used a black-and-white photo in which the man casually leans against the wing of his plane.

He painted the picture for the man's 88th birthday.

To Demarest, the original picture seemed a bit like his own dad, who was also a wartime pilot.

Demarest sold his house and all his furniture.

For the last two years, he has paid for his exhibits out of his own pocket.

Sometimes he gets a small payment from a museum or library.

He says he will keep on painting the portraits.

