A man in a red and black kilt sat in the shadow of a Supermarine Spitfire and painted.

The Spitifire airplane was sitting inside an air-conditioned hangar in the Sonoran Desert.

Midmorning visitors to the Palm Springs Air Museum shuffled past shined-up war items.

They peered into cockpits or got lost staring across the big, bright box of a room.

They tended not to notice Chris Demarest until they nearly bumped into him and his long table of painting supplies.

He looked at his canvas very closely, while a small, folded, black-and-white photocopy of a portrait sat next to him.

As he glanced over at it, he painted light brown streaks that would form the beginning of a face.

Behind him was an entire wall of 70 portraits.

They showed young servicemen and women in coveralls or pilot uniforms, leaning against planes, embracing or hard at work.

As Demarest talked about his work, a museum volunteer stopped to join him.

"This — this is really important," the man said.

For the last two years, Demarest has traveled across the country from library to museum to retirement home.

He has been displaying his very personal portraits of World War II veterans in their prime.

Veterans and their families circulate through the big room, stopping to chat.

They bring him black-and-white photos, photocopied portraits or plastic scrapbooks to share.

These little frozen-frame moments, for many, contain the biggest stories of their lives.

"They all still think of themselves as being 18 or 19 years old," Demarest said.

He can't do all the veterans' portraits, but he takes as many of their offerings as he can handle and recreates them in full color on canvas.

Each of his portraits is accompanied by a neat, typewritten story beneath it.

Some of the subjects are famous — like Hazel Ying Lee, one of the first Chinese-American female pilots — but most are not.

They are the unknown faces of war — men swept up from small towns or women working the home-front factories.

Men like George Edwards, a 94-year-old veteran who knows what it means to fight.

Sometimes it takes grit, like the battle in Italy that fractured his spine.

Sometimes it takes discipline, like the march across the Arizona desert in training camp.

And sometimes it takes creativity, like some well-placed roofing nails in a hand-to-hand fight.

Edwards learned these lessons quickly as a black man who had to fight for nearly everything.

He was an officer of the 92nd Infantry Division, the Buffalo Soldiers of World War II.

Edwards led large groups of soldiers through Italy — the Alps, the Apennines and the Po Valley.

His Purple Heart was pinned to his baseball cap as he sat in the library of the Air Museum and remembered.

In some ways, combat was an escape from home for Edwards and the men of the 92nd.

Italy was a place where even the countesses spoke to soldiers and where GIs congratulated themselves on saving the pope.

Edwards gestured to Demarest's portrait propped up next to him.

He is young and neat in his uniform.

His wife, her hair up, leans into him.

"Coming from slavery to freedom, you've got to fight for things," he said.

"The biggest thing is you've got to demand respect."

For most of his career, Demarest, 63, was a children's book author and illustrator, then an official artist with the Coast Guard.

A few years ago, Demarest saw book sales start to slow down.

Around that time, he painted his first portrait of a World War II veteran — the father of a neighbor.

The portrait was adapted from a black-and-white photo in which the man, 19 at the time, casually leans against the wing of his plane.

Demarest saw echoes of his own dad — a wartime pilot himself — and painted the portrait for the man's 88th birthday.

"My neighbor said, 'My dad, I've never seen him cry before, but when I gave him that painting, he teared up,'" Demarest said.

With that, he knew he had his next subject.

A divorced dad with a son in college, he took the project on the road.

He sold his house in New Hampshire and all his furniture.

For the last two years, he has funded his exhibits out of his own pocket with only the occasional small payment from a museum or library.

Demarest knows he has limited time to engage with his subjects.

The 70th anniversary of the end of World War II is approaching.

Most of the war's veterans are in their last years.

Maybe he will go to the heartland.

Maybe his next stop will be Hawaii.

Wherever, the project will continue, he said.

"When I started this, I called it a tour," he said.

"Now I call it a journey."

