Chris Demarest is a painter.

He paints portraits of people who fought in World War II, using old pictures to capture how they looked in the past.

Recently, he sat in the shadow of a Supermarine Spitfire airplane and painted.

The Spitifire airplane was sitting inside an air-conditioned building in the Sonoran Desert.

Midmorning visitors to the Palm Springs Air Museum moved slowly past shined-up war leftovers.

They tended not to notice Demarest.

That is until they nearly bumped into him and his long table of painting supplies.

He looked very closely at the canvas he was painting.

A small, folded, black-and-white photocopy of a portrait was beside him.

As he glanced over at it, he painted light brown streaks that would form the beginning of a face.

Behind him was an entire wall of 70 portraits.

They showed young servicemen and women in coveralls or pilot uniforms.

They were leaning against planes, hugging or hard at work.

As Demarest talked about his work, a museum volunteer stopped to join him.

"This — this is really important," the man said.

Demarest has traveled the country for the past two years.

He has been displaying his paintings of World War II veterans in their prime.

Veterans and their families walk around the big room, stopping to chat.

They bring  black-and-white photos, photocopied pictures or plastic scrapbooks to share with him.

These little frozen-frame moments, for many, contain the biggest stories of their lives.

"They all still think of themselves as being 18 or 19 years old," Demarest said.

He can't do all the veterans' portraits.

Still, he takes as many of their offerings as he can handle and recreates them in full color on canvas.

Each of his portraits is accompanied by a neat, typewritten story beneath it.

Some of the subjects are famous, but most are not.

They are the unknown faces of war.

Men like George Edwards, a 94-year-old veteran who knows what it means to fight.

Sometimes fighting takes courage, like the battle in Italy that fractured his spine.

Sometimes it takes discipline, like the march across the Arizona desert in training camp.

And sometimes it takes creativity, like some well-placed roofing nails he used in a hand-to-hand fight.

Edwards learned these lessons quickly as a black man who had to fight for nearly everything.

He was an officer of the 92nd Infantry Division.

They were known as the Buffalo Soldiers in World War II.

Edwards led large groups of soldiers through Italy.

His Purple Heart was pinned to his baseball cap as he sat in the library of the Air Museum and remembered.

In some ways, combat was an escape from home for Edwards and the men of the 92nd.

Italy was a place where even the countesses spoke to soldiers.

Servicemen there congratulated themselves on saving the pope.

Edwards gestured to Demarest's portrait propped up next to him.

He is young and neat in his uniform while his wife leans into him.

"Coming from slavery to freedom, you've got to fight for things," he said.

"The biggest thing is you've got to demand respect."

For most of his career, Demarest, 63, was a children's book author and illustrator, then an official artist with the Coast Guard.

A few years ago, people weren't buying as many books.

Around that time, he painted his first portrait of a World War II veteran.

It was the father of a neighbor.

The portrait was adapted from a black-and-white photo in which the man, 19 at the time, casually leans against the wing of his plane.

Demarest saw echoes of his own dad — a wartime pilot — and painted the picture for the man's 88th birthday.

A divorced dad with a son in college, he took the project on the road.

He sold his house in New Hampshire and all his furniture.

For the last two years, he has paid for his exhibits out of his own pocket with only the occasional small payment from a museum or library.

Demarest knows he has limited time to get to know his subjects.

The 70th anniversary of the end of World War II is approaching.

Most of the war's veterans are in their last years.

Maybe he will go to the heartland.

Maybe his next stop will be Hawaii.

Wherever he goes, the project will continue, he said.

"When I started this, I called it a tour," he said.

"Now I call it a journey."

