Famous baseball player Lawrence Peter Berra died Tuesday.

His nickname was Yogi Berra.

He was 90 years old.

Berra was a great baseball player.

He was also well known for his funny sayings.

His most famous saying was "It ain't over till it's over."

People still say it today.

Berra had 10 World Series rings.

He won a World Series for every finger on his hands.

The World Series is the U.S. baseball championship.

He played in 14 World Series.

He was the manager of the Yankees and the New York Mets in two other World Series.

He was a player, coach and manager in his life.

He was in 21 World Series when he participated in baseball, as a player, as a manager and as a coach.

When he was a player, Berra hit 358 home runs during the regular baseball season.

He hit 12 home runs during World Series games.

There is a famous picture of him from a 1956 World Series game.

Berra was happy his team won.

He was so excited that he jumped into the arms of the pitcher.

Berra was the catcher.

He was named Most Valuable Player three times.

Berra played baseball from 1946 to 1965.

He played on 15 All-Star teams.

He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972.

Yogi grew up in St. Louis, Missouri.

His parents were born in Italy.

Berra lived across the street from Joe Garagiola.

He was another World Series catcher.

Both Berra and Garagiola went to the same school.

A friend gave Berra his nickname.

He said Berra looked like a yogi.

A yogi is someone who does yoga.

Berra looked like a yogi when he sat with arms and legs crossed while waiting to bat.

Berra began playing for the Yankees in 1947.

He stopped playing baseball in 1965.

He was almost 40 years old.

Berra then became a baseball coach and manager.

In 1972, he entered the Baseball Hall of Fame.

In 1973, the Mets were in last place halfway through the season.

A reporter asked Berra if the season was over.

He said, "It ain't over till it's over."

Berra had a way with words.

He once said, "If you come to a fork in the road, take it."

Another time, he said, "We made too many wrong mistakes."

They were known as "Yogi-isms."

He was married for 65 years to his wife, Carmen.

She died in 2014.

They met when Carmen was a waitress.

She served Yogi lunch at a restaurant.

They had two sons.

One played baseball and the other played football.

Berra died at his home in Montclair, New Jersey.

Carmen once asked if he wanted to be buried in St. Louis, New York or Montclair.

He said he did not know.

Berra then told her, as only he could, to surprise him.

