Lawrence Peter "Yogi" Berra, the Baseball Hall of Fame catcher, died Tuesday of natural causes at the age of 90.

He was known by many for such memorable sayings as "90 percent of the game is half-mental."

Or, in referring to a once-popular restaurant, he said, "Nobody goes there any more.

It's too crowded."

But some of the "Yogi-isms" continue to ring true, like "It ain't over till it's over."

What should be remembered is that Berra had a World Series ring for every finger.

He played in 14 World Series, including a record 10 world championship teams with the New York Yankees.

He managed the Yankees and the New York Mets in two other World Series.

Berra had 358 regular-season home runs and he hit 12 homers in 14 World Series.

But the most famous image of him was in a World Series game when he jumped into the arms of pitcher Don Larsen after Larsen had pitched the only World Series perfect game in 1956.

Berra was catching.

As a player, coach and manager, Berra participated in 21 World Series.

He holds many World Series records.

A three-time American League Most Valuable Player, Berra's playing career spanned 1946 to 1965.

He played in 15 consecutive all-Star Games and he was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972.

Yogi grew up in St. Louis, Missouri, in what was then and still is a primarily Italian neighborhood.

His parents were Italian immigrants Pietro and Paolina Berra, with his father arriving at Ellis Island, the famous New York immigration port, in 1909.

His father knew nothing about baseball, but of course would later find out.

Across the street from the Berras lived Joe Garagiola, another future major league catcher.

Garagiola played in his first World Series at age 20 for the 1946 World Series champion Cardinals.

Both Berra and Garagiola had attended South Side Catholic school although Berra quit school after the eighth grade.

When Berra starred in American Legion baseball in St. Louis, he received his nickname from friend Bobby Hofman, another future big leaguer.

Hofman said Berra resembled a Hindu yogi.

He looked like an Indian holy man whenever he sat with arms and legs crossed, waiting to bat or while looking sad after a defeat.

In 1942, the Cardinals chose to sign Garagiola over Berra.

The Yankees, however, signed Berra for the same $500 bonus the Cardinals offered Garagiola.

The Yankees sent Berra to Norfolk, Virginia, to a minor league team.

During World War II, Berra served In the U.S. Navy on a ship during the 1944 D-Day invasion of Europe.

Berra began playing for the Yankees in 1947 and soon became known for hitting badly thrown pitches.

Berra reportedly said, "If I can hit it, it's a good pitch."

As a catcher, Berra was quick and respected.

He was also flexible enough to play left field in his later years.

Berra was the Yankees manager when they won the 1964 American League championship pennant.

Then the Yankees fired him when they lost that year's World Series to the Cardinals.

Berra made a brief return to the field as a player-coach for the Mets the next year.

He took his last turn at bat on May 9, 1965, when he was three days away from his 40th birthday.

He would coach the Mets for eight seasons before becoming their manager in 1972.

That same year Berra not only was elected to the Hall of Fame but had his number 8 retired.

In 1973, the Mets were in last place midway through the season.

When a reporter asked Berra if the season was over, he replied, "It ain't over till it's over."

Berra certainly had a way with words.

Another Yogi-ism was: "If you come to a fork in the road, take it."

Another time, he said, "We made too many wrong mistakes."

Berra was fired again in 1975, only to return to the Yankees as a coach in 1976.

The team immediately won three straight pennant championships and the 1977-78 World Series, strengthening Berra's reputation as a good-luck charm.

Longtime Yankees manager Casey Stengel once said of Berra: "He'd fall in a sewer and come up with a gold watch."

He would end his career as a coach with the Houston Astros.

Berra's son, Dale, played baseball in the major leagues and son, Tim, played with the Baltimore Colts in the National Football League.

He was married for 65 years to Carmen Berra, who died in 2014.

They met when Carmen, a waitress, served Yogi lunch and he asked her name and whether she was married.

Not long after, Berra proposed marriage by placing a ring on the table in front of Carmen at the Berra family home.

Years later, Carmen Berra recalled how her husband once sent her an anniversary card signed, "Yogi Berra."

Carmen Berra said she was happy he signed it that way because it eliminated any confusion about all the other Yogis that she knew.

Berra, who died at his home in Montclair, New Jersey, once was asked by Carmen where he wanted to be buried — in St. Louis, New York or Montclair.

"I don't know," he said.

And then, as only he could say, "Why don't you surprise me?"

