Famous baseball catcher Lawrence Peter Berra, died Tuesday.

He was better known by his nickname "Yogi."

Berra was 90 years old.

He was famous for his funny sayings.

One of them was "Nobody goes there any more.

It's too crowded," he once said, talking about a popular restaurant.

Another famous one was "It ain't over till it's over," which people still say today.

Berra was not just famous for his funny sayings.

He had a World Series ring for every finger.

The World Series is the U.S. baseball championship.

He played in 14 World Series, including a record 10 world championship teams with the New York Yankees.

He managed teams, the Yankees and New York Mets, in two other World Series.

Berra had 358 home runs during regular season games and hit 12 home runs during World Series games.

The most famous picture of him was in a World Series game.

He jumped into the arms of pitcher Don Larsen after Larsen had pitched the only World Series perfect game in 1956.

Berra was the catcher.

As a player, coach and manager, Berra participated in 21 World Series.

He was named American League Most Valuable Player three times.

He played in 15 All-Star Games in a row.

Berra's playing career lasted from 1946 to 1965.

He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1972.

Yogi grew up in St. Louis, Missouri.

His parents were Italian immigrants Pietro and Paolina Berra.

His father arrived at Ellis Island, the famous New York immigration port, in 1909.

Across the street from the Berras lived Joe Garagiola, another future major league catcher.

Garagiola played in his first World Series at age 20 for the 1946 World Series champion Cardinals.

Both Berra and Garagiola had attended South Side Catholic school.

During World War II, Berra served in the U.S. Navy.

He was on a ship when the United States invaded Europe.

Berra received his nickname from his friend Bobby Hofman, another future major league player.

Hofman said Berra resembled a Hindu yogi.

He looked like an Indian holy man whenever he sat with arms and legs crossed, or while looking sad after a defeat.

Berra began playing for the Yankees in 1947.

He soon became one of the best players at hitting balls that were thrown badly.

Some people reported that Berra said, "If I can hit it, it's a good pitch."

Berra was the Yankees manager when they won the 1964 American League championship.

Then the Yankees fired him when they lost that year's World Series to the Cardinals.

Berra made a brief return to the field as a player-coach for the Mets the next year.

He took his last turn at bat on May 9, 1965, when he was three days away from his 40th birthday.

As a catcher, Berra was quick and respected.

He would coach the Mets for eight seasons before becoming their manager in 1972.

That same year Berra not only was elected to the Hall of Fame but had his number 8 retired, so no Yankees player is ever allowed to wear it again.

In 1973, the Mets were in last place midway through the season.

When a reporter asked Berra if the season was over, he replied, "It ain't over till it's over."

Berra had a way with words.

He once said, "If you come to a fork in the road, take it."

Another time, he said, "We made too many wrong mistakes."

They were known as "Yogi-isms."

He was married for 65 years to his wife Carmen, who died in 2014.

They met when Carmen, a waitress, served Yogi lunch at a restaurant.

Not long after, Berra proposed marriage.

They had two sons.

One played baseball and the other played football.

Berra died at his home in Montclair, New Jersey.

He once was asked by Carmen where he wanted to be buried — in St. Louis, New York or Montclair.

"I don't know," he said.

And then, as only he could say, "Why don't you surprise me?"

