Firefighters finally began to get a handle on the huge Rim Fire near Yosemite National Park.

But the blaze had already destroyed one popular San Francisco Bay Area family camp and damaged another.

Berkeley officials said the fire burned down the city's high Sierra camp on Aug. 25.

San Jose canceled the rest of its season just miles away.

News of the loss brought the fire home to generations of Bay Area campgoers.

David Kojan said his family was very upset.

"We have so many happy memories there, and it was a place we always look forward to returning," Kojan said.

He is one of many Berkeley natives who cherished his visits.

He, his wife and two young sons would go to the Berkeley Tuolumne Family Camp.

The Rim Fire had grown to about 160,000 acres late on Aug. 26 after eating up another 27,000 acres over 36 hours.

It crept within a mile of the head of the Hetch Hetchy water system.

However, the one good sign was that the blaze had spread twice as quickly the week before.

The amount of the fire that was put out on Monday tripled.

Still, the fire became the largest current wildfire in the United States.

It is the 11th-biggest in the state's recorded history dating back 81 years.

The cost of the fire has gone over $20 million.

President Barack Obama promised government money in a call to Gov.

Jerry Brown.

On Monday, Brown visited with some of the firefighters battling the biggest of California's nearly dozen large wildfires.

The fires were burning from Eureka in the north to Los Angeles in the south, stretching money in peak wildfire season.

Brown said "the firefighters have a real challenge on their hands" but promised to "get it done" with the money and manpower they have.

On Monday, the Rim Fire moved within a mile of the Hetch Hetchy Reservoir in Yosemite.

The reservoir holds water for 2.6 million people living in the Bay Area.

Most of it was safe from fire, such as underground steel pipes and the concrete O'Shaughnessy Dam.

But officials worried that ash would dirty the water.

The reservoir is already just about full.

Crews have built up several months of back-up water supply, said Charles Sheehan.

He is a spokesman for San Francisco's public utilities.

The utility also sped up its transfer of water from Yosemite to other reservoirs in hopes of building up an even bigger supply.

The fire has not affected water quality yet, Sheehan said.

But the reservoir could still get dirty.

Then officials might be forced to use up the back-up supply.

If so, the utility can buy water from other agencies such as the Santa Clara Valley Water District.

Dirt lines dug by firefighters around the edge of the Rim Fire and air drops of water finally started to pay off.

"Slowly but surely, we are making progress," said Daniel Berlant.

He is the Cal Fire spokesman.

But it was too late to save the city-run Berkeley Tuolumne camp.

It first opened 91 years ago.

Back then, it cost $1 a day and 60 cents for children.

The fire burned most of the 80 buildings, including 72 tent cabins.

Stephanie Agnew, a Berkeley woman, said her family was "heartbroken."

She started going to the camp six years ago when her son was 3.

"How do you ever get back what you had there?"

Agnew said Monday.

"It was in the most beautiful setting."

San Jose's Family Camp east of Groveland also had 14 of its 67 tents destroyed.

On Monday, the city canceled the rest of its camping season, which was set to last through October.

The Rim Fire still threatened 4,500 homes in Tuolumne County.

The blaze already destroyed 23 buildings since it started on Aug. 17.

A small part of the Yosemite back country on the western edge of the park also burned.

Tourist spots remained open, however.

About 3,700 firefighters, including crews from the Bay Area, were battling the blaze.

Two firefighters got hurt.

Smoke drifted as far away as Lake Tahoe and Reno.

The cause of the fire was still being determined.

