It wasn't that long ago that a trip to Yosemite National Park became a journey into bear country.

In 1997, black bears broke into more than 600 cars in the park, searching for human food.

The four-legged raiders tore open car doors and smashed windows with their paws.

They wandered into tents, overturned garbage cans and, on rare occasions, injured tourists.

"You'd drive your car to the park and then it got destroyed because you left a candy bar in the door," said Mike Tollefson.

He is a former superintendent of Yosemite.

Today, bears have become one of Yosemite's most remarkable wildlife success stories.

They are behaving better.

Reports of bears damaging property or injuring people have fallen 92 percent — from 1,584 in 1998, to 120 last year.

And the number of bears that park officials have had to kill because they were safety problems has also gone down.

Ten bears a year were killed in the 1990s versus one or two a year today.

Bear experts say the turnaround came from an unlikely plan — training the bears but, more importantly, training people.

"The numbers are down, and that's awesome," said Ryan Leahy, a Yosemite wildlife biologist and bear expert.

"More and more people are doing what they are supposed to do.

But it only takes one slipup to cost a bear's life.

Each person can have a huge impact."

Yosemite has between 300 and 500 black bears.

Thousands more live in the rest of California and other Western states.

There has never been a known case of a black bear killing a person in Yosemite, or anywhere in California.

In Yosemite, the relationship between people and bears has changed dramatically.

From 1923 to 1971, rangers regularly left food out for bears so tourists could take pictures.

Park visitors hand-fed bears until the 1930s.

Until 1972, open garbage dumps made it easy for bears to grab food.

Bears seemed more like circus attractions than wild animals.

Black bears became a growing problem in Yosemite during the 1980s and 1990s.

"Have you ever been in a vehicle or house that a bear has been in it?

It's not pretty," Tollefson said.

"They just don't poop in the woods.

The big ones weigh 400 pounds.

They can run as fast as a horse, and they're strong."

What solved the problem was a new bear campaign.

First, park officials increased the number of people working on bear problems from two to about 20.

The park also required all campers to store food in steel, bear-proof lockers.

Next, the park launched a public education campaign.

Campers must sign forms saying they understand it is against the law to feed bears.

They also are not allowed to store food — even toothpaste or deodorant — overnight in vehicles.

Videos showing bear-safe camping tips play in visitor centers.

Rangers patrol campsites every night, giving warnings and issuing tickets.

Third, in 2007, the park required everyone on overnight backpacking trips to rent a bear-proof canister to store food.

"People were hanging food on ropes in trees," Tollefson said.

The "mother bears taught their cubs how to climb up and get it."

Finally, park officials began trapping problem bears, fitting them with GPS radio collars and monitoring them.

A new program uses Global Positioning Satellite devices to locate bears at all times.

When a bear comes near a campsite, wildlife biologists will yell and chase it.

Occasionally, they will shoot a small bean bag or ball from a paintball gun.

"We are trying to teach them that people should be feared," Leahy said.

"We aren't going to chase a bear foraging in a meadow, but if it's in a parking lot, we're going to show the bear" that it needs to stay out.

It is working.

Bears in Yosemite are becoming wild again.

Older ones, which were used to eating human food, are dying off and younger ones are finding human food harder to get.

A study in March found a 63 percent drop in the proportion of human food that black bears now eat, compared with the 1970s and 1980s.

"What we found was that the diets of bears changed dramatically after 1999," said Jack Hopkins, one of the researchers.

Damage from bears in the park has fallen an astounding 99 percent — from $659,569 in 1998, to $7,508 last year.

Nobody has been injured by bears in the past two years.

Longtime campers say they are noticing a difference.

Steve Johnson has seen dozens of bears in the park since he first backpacked as a 12-year-old in 1971.

In 1999, when he was camping with his two sons, Johnson had to chase a bear away.

"Bears that get too (used) to people lose their fear of people," Johnson said.

"Although a bear has never killed a person in Yosemite, they certainly have the ability if they wanted to."

The less contact between the two, "the better for everybody," he said.

