It wasn't that long ago that a trip to see Yosemite's spectacular granite cliffs and splendid waterfalls became a journey into bear country.

In 1997, black bears broke into more than 600 cars in the national park, searching for human food.

They tore open car doors and smashed minivan windows with their paws.

The four-legged raiders wandered into tents, overturned garbage cans and, on rare occasions, injured tourists.

"You'd drive your car to the park and then it got destroyed because you left a candy bar in the door," said Mike Tollefson, a former Yosemite superintendent.

But today, in one of Yosemite's most remarkable wildlife success stories, the bears are behaving better.

Reports of bears damaging property or injuring people in the park have fallen 92 percent — from 1,584 in 1998 to 120 last year.

And the number of bears that park officials have had to kill because they pose safety problems has dropped from about 10 a year in the 1990s, to one or two a year now.

Bear experts say the long, slow turnaround came from an unlikely plan — training the bears but, more importantly, training people.

"The numbers are down, and that's awesome," said Ryan Leahy, a Yosemite wildlife biologist and bear expert.

"More and more people are doing what they are supposed to do.

But it only takes one slipup to cost a bear's life.

Each person can have a huge impact."

Yosemite has between 300 and 500 black bears, while thousands more live in the rest of California, other Western states and Canada.

There has never been a recorded incident of a black bear killing a person in Yosemite, or anywhere in California.

In Yosemite, the relationship between people and bears has changed dramatically.

From 1923 to 1971, rangers regularly left food out for bears so tourists could take pictures.

Park visitors hand-fed bears until the 1930s, and until 1972, there were open garbage dumps that provided bears with massive amounts of easy food, making them seem more like circus attractions than wild animals.

Black bears became a growing problem in Yosemite during the 1980s and 1990s.

"Have you ever been in a vehicle or house that a bear has been in it?

It's not pretty," Tollefson said.

"They just don't poop in the woods.

The big ones weigh 400 pounds.

They can run as fast as a horse, and they're strong."

Park officials launched a new campaign that helped solve the problem.

First, they increased the number of rangers, biologists and volunteers working on bear issues from two to about 20.

The park also required all campers to store food in one of 4,000 steel, bear-proof lockers spread throughout Yosemite.

Next, the park launched a massive public education campaign.

Campers must sign forms saying they understand it is illegal to feed bears or store food — and even toothpaste or deodorant — overnight in vehicles.

Videos showing bear-safe camping tips play in visitor centers.

Rangers patrol campsites every night, giving warnings and issuing $125 tickets.

"The rangers are aggressive with folks," said Tollefson, now president of the Yosemite Conservancy, a group that raises money to help preserve Yosemite.

Third, the park in 2007 required everyone on overnight backpacking trips in Yosemite's wilderness areas to rent a bear-proof canister to store food.

"People were hanging food on ropes in trees," Tollefson said, "but mother bears taught their cubs how to climb up and get it."

Finally, park officials went high-tech.

They began trapping problem bears, fitting them with radio collars and monitoring their whereabouts.

A new program is introducing GPS collars, which uses satellites in space to pinpoint the bears' location at all times.

When a bear comes near a campsite, wildlife biologists will yell and chase it.

Occasionally, they will shoot a small bean bag or ball from a paintball gun at a bear.

The idea, called "negative conditioning," teaches bears that coming near humans and trying to eat human food will have unpleasant consequences.

"We are trying to teach them that people should be feared," Leahy said.

"We aren't going to chase a bear foraging in a meadow, but if it's in a parking lot, we're going to show the bear, 'Hey, we need to keep you out of there.'"

The result: Bears in Yosemite are becoming wild again.

Older ones, which are accustomed to eating human food, are dying off and younger ones are finding human food harder to get.

A study in March found a 63 percent drop in the proportion of human food that black bears eat now, compared with the 1970s and 1980s.

"What we found was that the diets of bears changed dramatically after 1999," said Jack Hopkins.

He is lead author of the study and a researcher at the University of California, Santa Cruz.

Damage from bears in the park has plunged from $659,569 in 1998 to $7,508 last year.

Nobody has been injured by bears in the past two years.

Longtime campers say they are noticing a difference.

"You get hit in the side of the head with the education coming, going and the whole time you are there," said Steve Johnson, a retired civil engineer from Walnut Creek.

Johnson has seen dozens of bears in the park since he first backpacked as a 12-year-old in 1971.

In 1999, when he was camping with his two sons, a bear wandered around the campsite, and Johnson had to chase it away.

"Bears that get too (used) to people lose their fear of people," Johnson said.

"Although a bear has never killed a person in Yosemite, they certainly have the ability if they wanted to.

The less interaction between the two, the better for everybody."

