Should kids play tackle football?

Football is a rough game.

Players get bounced around.

Even though they wear helmets, they bang their heads.

Their brains might get hurt.

Some scientists think kids should wait until they turn 12 before they start playing.

A new study came out on Wednesday.

It was a study of how playing football as a child affects your brain as a grown-up.

Scientists first gathered 42 players.

They were between the ages of 41 and 65.

They fell into two groups.

Half of them started playing football before they were 12.

The other half started when they were 12 or older.

They all had played in the National Football League (NFL).

The players in the two groups were alike in almost every way.

The only big difference between them was the age when they started playing football.

The players were given a series of tests.

One was a memory test.

Scientists read a list of words to the players.

The players had to repeat the words back.

Fifteen minutes later, they had to repeat them again, testing how well they remembered them.

There were two others tests.

One was for problem-solving skills and the other was for verbal skills.

The players who had started playing football later in life did better on all three tests.

The players who started playing football before the age of 12 did worse.

The scientists think that playing football harmed these players' brains.

Bob Stern was the study's main scientist.

He explained why he and the other scientists chose 12 as the cutoff age.

He explained that the brain changes a lot in the years leading up to a child's 12th birthday.

Many important things happen in the brain during these years.

Playing football may get in the way.

When kids bang their heads on the football field, the damage may be worse because it is such an important time for the brain.

There are a lot of young kids who play football.

Two other scientists, Christopher Filley and Charles Bernick, reviewed the study.

They said that 7 out of 10 football players in the U.S. are younger than 14.

Players between 9 and 12 bang their heads an average of 240 times in a single football season.

Filley and Bernick said the study was good in some ways.

But they said it had some problems.

Studies like this one try to figure out what is going on by looking at a "sample."

There are too many people who played football as kids to test all of them.

Instead, scientists test a few of them and look for patterns.

They hope that these patterns are the same for everyone.

The patterns are not always the same, though.

This study only tested 42 people.

Maybe those 42 people were different in some way.

Filley and Bernick suggested that a larger sample group would have given more evidence.

Also, all of the players in the study were professional football players.

They had all played in the NFL.

The NFL is where the best football players play against each other.

Most people who play football as kids do not end up playing in the NFL.

So the players in the study may have been different from most people.

Stern agreed with Filley and Bernick.

He admitted that the study was not perfect.

But, he said, if common sense tells parents that it's not a great idea to put a kid at risk of getting a head injury during an important time that the brain is developing, his study supports that.

"Common sense may be right," Stern said.

