Football is a rough game.

Players are constantly ramming into each other, resulting in occasional broken bones and strained muscles.

The worst damage is sometimes invisible, though.

Getting bounced around in a game of tackle football can have a harmful effect on the brain.

Young children may be in particular danger because their brains are still developing.

When is it safe to let kids play?

A new study published Wednesday suggests that kids may want to wait until they are at least 12 years old.

Researchers wanted to know if kids who start playing tackle football earlier in life develop differently than kids who start playing later on.

To try to find out, they gathered a group of former National Football League (NFL) players.

They gave the players a number of tests measuring their mental ability.

They found that those who started playing football earlier in life performed worse on the tests.

The study looked at 42 former professional football players between the ages of 41 and 65.

They fell into two groups: half started playing tackle football before they were 12, and the other half started when they were 12 or older.

Researchers organized the players for comparison.

They matched each player with someone in the other group who was a similar age and size.

They wanted to make sure that the only significant difference between the players was the age at which they started playing football.

The players were then given a series of tests.

To measure memory, players tried to recall a list of words immediately after it had been read to them, and then again 15 minutes later.

They were also tested on their problem-solving skills and verbal skills.

On all three tests, the players who had started playing tackle football earlier in life performed worse than the others.

The findings suggest that playing football before the age of 12 harmed these players' mental ability later in life.

Bob Stern was the lead scientist in the study.

He said that his research team chose the age of 12 as the dividing line because it is an important time for the brain.

"Other research has shown that the brain undergoes key periods of development during childhood," he said.

He explained that the brain develops in important ways in the years leading up to a child's 12th birthday.

This is why he and his fellow researchers wanted to see if playing tackle football was particularly harmful during those years.

Many young kids play football.

According to researchers Christopher Filley and Charles Bernick, 70 percent of all football players in the U.S. are younger than 14.

Players between 9 and 12 bang their heads an average of 240 times in a single football season.

Filley and Bernick praised the new study.

But they pointed out that it had major problems.

Studies often try to draw conclusions about the general population by looking at a sample group.

It is possible, though, that the sample group will be different from the general population.

This study only tested 42 people, a small sample of all of the people who grew up playing football.

Filley and Bernick suggested that a larger sample group would have provided more reliable evidence.

Also, all of the participants in the study were professional athletes.

Pros may be different than the average person who plays football as a kid.

What is true of professional players may not be true of everyone.

Finally, Filley and Bernick noted that all of the players who participated in the study had been experiencing symptoms of thinking, memory or attention problems, as well as behavioral and mood problems in the previous six months.

This is another way in which the players may have been different from the general population.

Given this difference, the results of the study may not apply to all kids.

Stern agreed with the criticism and admitted that the study had limitations.

"Since we only dealt with former NFL players we can't generalize to people who played up to college or high school; we can't generalize to other sports," he said.

But if common sense tells parents that it's not a great idea to put a kid at risk of getting a head injury during an important time that the brain is developing, the study supports that, he said.

"Common sense may be right," he added.

