Many young people worry about the future of the planet.

Even though they are not old enough to vote, they want their voices to be heard.

Dozens of youths across the nation have been suing states and the national government in the courthouse.

They have also been writing petitions that have gained signatures from many people.

The youths hope that their lawsuits and petitions will force the government to take action and stop climate change.

Scientists say that climate change is mainly caused by pollution from burning fuels like oil and gas.

Climate change is also called global warming.

The pollution, or greenhouse gases, is causing the Earth to slowly become hotter.

The youths say that when they grow up, they will be the ones living on Earth.

They do not want to live on an unhealthy and dirty Earth.

They argue that the government has the duty to protect the planet for the public.

This is known as the "public trust."

In Seattle, eight youths between 10 to 15 years old petitioned the state of Washington to change the law.

They sent a letter with many signatures to the courthouse.

They argued that the state has not reduced greenhouse gases.

They said the government has failed its duties under the state law and public trust.

Our Children's Trust is a nonprofit group in Oregon.

They help kids fight for a cleaner planet.

They have been filing lawsuits in every state and against the national government.

Some of the cases have been dismissed.

Others are awaiting a decision.

Michael Gerrard is a professor at Columbia University.

So far, the courts have not wanted to change the laws on climate, he said.

Other experts are not sure whether a state can fight a global problem.

The eight kids from Seattle who petitioned Washington state last year are fighting for the state to adopt stricter laws to protect their future against climate change.

"We're the ones who have to live with it if the oceans are acidic and the planet is 5 degrees warmer," said Gabriel Mendell, a 13-year-old involved in the case.

"The snowpack is melting.

Ocean is acidifying.

The Earth is warming.

Everything that can go wrong is going wrong, and we need to fix it."

According to court papers, the Washington Department of Ecology is working on adopting a law to reduce greenhouse gases.

Richard Stewart is a law professor at New York University.

He is not sure whether the lawsuits will be successful.

Climate change is a worldwide problem, he says.

While a state has certain powers, it can make only a small contribution to a global problem.

In Eugene, Oregon, two teens will take their case to a higher court after a state judge rejected their petition.

The judge ruled that Oregon's public trust law does not apply to the atmosphere, water and beaches.

The teens hope the judge's decision will be reversed.

Meanwhile, 21 young people across the country recently sued the national government.

They claim that the rights of citizens were harmed when the government approved the development of burning more fuels.

The youths say that the burning of fuels will deny them the right to be free from actions that affect their life and freedom.

The Environmental Protection Agency did not comment on the lawsuit.

However, in a statement, the government agency said that it is taking action to "give our kids and grandkids the cleaner, safer future they deserve."

Aji Piper is 15 years old and involved in both cases against Washington state and the national government.

"The government isn't doing the best to assure that we have the best quality of life," he said.

"It holds more urgency for us.

Our future is at hand."

