At the Cafe Rex here, deep in the heart of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula , there is something odd on the menu — Thai food.

Across town at the Limba Restaurant, you'll find more Thai food.

Eduardo Dzib Vargas, the chef at Limba, spent a decade cooking in San Francisco, where Asian food is common.

"I was chief cook in three Thai restaurants," he said.

Migration has changed the face of Oxkutzcab (pronounced OHSH-kootz-CAHB), just as it has affected towns across southern Mexico and Central America.

This town is mostly made up of ethnic Mayan people.

It has sent thousands of migrants to the San Francisco Bay Area.

Most of them work in the food service industry there.

When they return, the migrants bring back skills, attitudes and money from the U.S.

Sometimes they come back by choice.

Sometimes they are deported, arrested and sent home.

You can see a little bit of San Francisco in Oxkutzcab.

There are large houses paid for with U.S. restaurant wages.

Men are more willing to do housework now.

There is now a hint of tolerance for people who are gay.

But there is also a surge in gang activity and drug use.

It's harder to see the scars that migration has left on families.

Many are in debt after borrowing money to pay for the journey.

Families are torn apart by yearslong separations.

And there are physical injuries, too.

Many migrants must use canes or wheelchairs after suffering injuries on the long trip to the U.S. About 70,000 Yucatecans live in the Bay Area.

Smaller groups are in Los Angeles and Portland, Ore.

Many speak mainly Mayan, and only passable Spanish.

The migration has brought many changes to towns such as this one.

It has brought some wealth.

It has also affected matters ranging from crime and drug use to the way husbands treat wives.

"The place has changed, some for the better, some for the worse," said Gilmer Ruiz, a 35-year-old butcher.

He spent 10 years working in kitchens in the Bay Area.

Ruiz walks with a cane.

He broke his leg in multiple places when he fell off the border fence trying to cross into Arizona.

Nearly all Oxkutzcab migrants moving to San Francisco start out as dishwashers, then rise in kitchens.

Some have become assistant chefs.

While in the U.S., these migrants live in the shadows.

They can be arrested and deported.

Those who return have skills that don't match their location.

Oxkutzcab is a successful farm town, but the farmers have little need for the fancy food these chefs prepare.

Roger Burgos, 36, learned to cook at an Italian restaurant in San Francisco.

He had other restaurant jobs too, and is an accomplished chef.

Today, he buys and sells cattle, barely making enough money to survive.

Some of the changes in the town are not visible on the surface.

"Before, a man would never pick up a broom and sweep the house," said Ruiz.

He explained that migrants often got used to doing housework while living abroad alone.

The cost of sending a migrant from the Yucatan to the United States is huge for families here.

It averages about $6,000.

Families must borrow money to pay for the journeys, causing stress among relatives.

Many migrants are caught and sent back.

They often try again.

That means raising the money again.

Some families use their houses to borrow money.

If they can't pay the money back, they may lose their house.

"This is how families fall apart," said Nestor Vazquez Baeza, a dentist.

"The debts of families are not talked about very much," said Edgar Palomo, a lawyer who works with migrants.

It's one thing to be broke, he said, but being in debt is much worse.

Despite the high risks of traveling without papers to the United States, many want to take the gamble.

"Even though I've been deported three times, I still want to go back," said Manuel Uc, a 31-year-old covered in tattoos.

Uc is the founder of a gang here, but he says he is no longer interested in gang life.

He wants to return to San Francisco, where he'd learned to cook Peruvian food.

"Things I learned in the United States, I'm not able to use here," he said.

