There are some odd things in this town in the Yucatan Peninsula of Mexico.

There is a lot of Asian food on restaurant menus.

There are some new, large houses.

Indeed, there is a little bit of San Francisco here.

Many men from this town have gone north to the United States.

Many of them have returned, bringing skills, attitudes and money with them.

Migration has transformed Oxkutzcab (pronounced OHSH-kootz-CAHB).

This town is mostly made up of ethnic Mayan people.

It has sent thousands of migrants to the San Francisco Bay Area.

Most of them work in restaurants there.

Sometimes they come back by choice.

Sometimes they are deported — arrested and sent home.

You can see a little bit of San Francisco in Oxkutzcab.

There are large houses paid for with U.S. restaurant wages.

Men are more willing to do housework now.

There is a bit more tolerance of gay people.

There is also an increase in gang activity and drug use.

It's harder to see the scars that migration has left on families.

Many are deeply in debt after borrowing money to pay for the journey.

Some families are torn apart by yearslong separations.

And there are physical injuries, too.

Many migrants must use canes or wheelchairs after suffering injuries on the long trip to the U.S. About 70,000 Yucatecans live in the Bay Area.

Smaller groups are in Los Angeles and Portland, Ore.

Many speak mainly Mayan, and only a little Spanish.

The migration has brought many changes to towns such as this one.

It has brought some wealth.

It has also affected matters ranging from crime and drug use to the way husbands treat wives.

"The place has changed, some for the better, some for the worse," said Gilmer Ruiz, a 35-year-old butcher.

He spent 10 years working in kitchens in the Bay Area.

Ruiz walks with a cane.

He broke his leg in multiple places when he fell off the border fence trying to cross into Arizona.

Nearly all Oxkutzcab migrants moving to San Francisco start out as dishwashers.

Some learn to be chefs.

While in the U.S., these migrants live in the shadows.

They can be arrested and deported.

Those that return have skills that don't match their location.

Oxkutzcab is a successful farm town, but the farmers don't want the fancy food these chefs prepare.

Roger Burgos, 36, learned to cook at an Italian restaurant in San Francisco.

He had other restaurant jobs too, and is an accomplished chef.

Today, he buys and sells cattle.

He barely makes enough money to survive.

Some of the changes in the town are not visible on the surface.

"Before, a man would never pick up a broom and sweep the house," said Ruiz.

He explained that migrants often got used to doing housework while living abroad.

The cost of sending a migrant from the Yucatan to the United States is huge for families here.

It averages about $6,000.

Families must borrow money to pay for the journeys.

Many migrants are caught and sent back.

They often try again.

That means raising the money again.

Some families use their houses to borrow money.

If they can't pay the money back, they may lose their house.

"This is how families fall apart," said Nestor Vazquez Baeza, a dentist.

"The debts of families are not talked about very much," said Edgar Palomo, a lawyer who works with migrants.

It's one thing to be broke, he said, but being in debt is much worse.

It is risky to travel without papers to the United States.

Many still want to take the gamble.

Manuel Uc is 31.

He has been deported from the U.S. three times.

He is covered in tattoos and founded a gang here in Oxkutzcab.

But he isn't interested in gang life anymore.

He wants to return to San Francisco.

He learned to cook Peruvian food there.

"Things I learned in the United States, I'm not able to use here," he said.

