If you visit the Cafe Rex here, deep in the heart of Mexico's Yucatan Peninsula, you might notice some odd things on the menu.

For one, there's red curry and other Thai food.

It might seem like a fluke, but it isn't.

Across town at the Limba Restaurant, the menu carries an assortment of dishes from Thailand.

They were created by a chef who spent a decade in kitchens in San Francisco, where Asian food is prevalent.

"I was chief cook in three Thai restaurants," said Eduardo Dzib Vargas, the chef at Limba.

He has expanded the menu at his restaurant.

There are five or six other local restaurants serving Thai food.

Migration has changed the face of Oxkutzcab (pronounced OHSH-kootz-CAHB), just as it has affected towns across southern Mexico and Central America.

This town, made up of ethnic Mayans, has sent thousands of migrants to the San Francisco Bay Area.

Most of them work in the food service industry.

Some of them have come back — or been deported by U.S. authorities — and brought a little of San Francisco with them.

It's not just their sophisticated cooking talent.

You see it in large houses paid for with U.S. restaurant wages.

Men are more willing to do housework now.

There is a new tolerance for gay lifestyles.

There is also a surge in gang activity and drug use.

It's harder to see are the scars that migration has left on families: huge debts to pay for coyotes — people smugglers — and families torn apart by yearslong separation.

And there are physical injuries: Migrants crippled or maimed during the illicit journey to the United States hobble with canes or roll about in wheelchairs.

Some 70,000 Yucatecans reside in the Bay Area.

Smaller groups are in Los Angeles and Portland, Ore.

Many speak mainly Mayan, and only passable Spanish.

The migration has brought the appearance of prosperity to towns such as this one.

It has affected matters ranging from crime and drug use to the way husbands treat wives.

"The place has changed, some for the better, some for the worse," said Gilmer Ruiz, a 35-year-old butcher who spent 10 years working in kitchens in the Bay Area.

Ruiz walks with a cane, the result of multiple compound fractures to his right leg when he fell off the border fence trying to cross into Nogales, Ariz. Nearly all Oxkutzcab migrants flocking to San Francisco start out as dishwashers, then rise in kitchens.

Some have become assistant chefs.

The migrants live in the shadows, vulnerable to immigration raids and deportation.

Those who come back — either voluntarily or forcibly — have skills that don't match their location.

Oxkutzcab is a thriving agricultural center, but few of its corn and citrus farmers can afford to eat the fancy food these chefs prepare.

Roger Burgos, 36, learned to cook at an Italian restaurant in San Francisco.

He had other restaurant jobs too, and is an accomplished chef.

Today, he buys and sells cattle, barely making ends meet.

Some of the changes in the town are not visible on the surface.

"Before, a man would never pick up a broom and sweep the house," said Ruiz.

He added that he and other returning migrants had grown used to doing housework while living abroad, often without their wives.

"When you return, you don't litter.

You watch how authorities treat citizens," said Edgar Palomo, a lawyer who works with migrants.

The cost of hiring a coyote to take a migrant from the Yucatan to the United States is huge for families here.

It averages about $6,000.

Families must borrow money to pay for the journeys, causing stress among relatives.

Many migrants are caught and sent back.

They often try again, but have to raise another $6,000.

Some families use their houses to borrow money.

If they can't pay the money back, they may lose their house.

"This is how families fall apart," said Nestor Vazquez Baeza, a dentist.

"The debts of families are not talked about very much," said Palomo, the lawyer.

"It's one thing to be broke.

It's another thing to be indebted."

Family dramas can take odd twists.

Simeon May Tack, a 54-year-old Mayan farmer, told how his nephew in San Francisco had stopped sending money to his sister each month.

He wondered how to get his nephew in trouble with immigration authorities and get him deported back to Oxkutzcab.

"This is what she wants, that they return her son to her," May Tack said.

Despite the high risks of traveling without papers to the United States, many want to take the gamble.

"Even though I've been deported three times, I still want to go back," said Manuel Uc, a 31-year-old with tattoos all over his torso, neck and scalp.

A founder of the local Los Canarios gang, Uc said he was no longer interested in gang life and wanted to return to San Francisco, where he'd mastered the cuisine at a Peruvian restaurant.

"Things I learned in the United States, I'm not able to use here," he said.

