Some unfamiliar items washed up on the beach near the village of Quinhagak on the Bering Sea in Western Alaska about five years ago.

The curiosities were native to the area, with designs similar to those found in the Yup'ik Eskimo culture of the region.

And they were wood, a material that usually decays after a few decades.

Yet they were also old.

The mystery of where these items came from and why they were in such good condition just had to be investigated.

Warren Jones is the general manager of Qanirtuuq Inc., a company which runs a grocery store in Quinhagak and helps promote the village.

Jones took some photographs and sent them to Rick Knecht, who studies how humans have lived over the centuries as an anthropologist.

Professor Knecht used to work at the University of Alaska Fairbanks but is now employed by the University of Aberdeen in Scotland.

He also helped establish museums on Eskimo heritage in Kodiak and Unalaska.

Knecht recognized the artifacts as prehistoric, which meant they were crafted in the years long before contact between the Yup'ik Eskimos and Europeans in the 1800s.

Knecht was working on a project on Nunivak Island in Central Alaska at the time, so he dropped by Quinhagak to examine the items.

The professor toured the area and talked to Jones about the possibility of doing a dig together.

The upshot was a partnership between Qanirtuuq and the Scottish university that is uncovering an unprecedented trove of archaeological treasure.

"This is easily the largest collection of pre-contact Yup'ik material anywhere," Knecht said, describing the thousands of items that date from between 1350 and 1670.

Some of the most important pieces from previous digs are now on display at the King's Museum in Aberdeen.

The exhibit is titled "Nunalleq," which means "the old village" in the Yup'ik language.

Teams of international volunteers working with local residents have found 8,000 of what Knecht calls "better artifacts."

There are perhaps that many more fragments, all containing information about life in the area centuries ago.

And it seems like every day new and eye-popping tools or decorative items are retrieved from the ground.

There are carvings, weapons, woven grass, clothing, dolls, even haircut trimmings from inhabitants who lived there hundreds of years ago.

"We found some amazing pieces on Saturday," Knecht said, adding that he has never seen anything like this before.

The first test holes were dug in 2009 and they were small, at about six feet across.

But the abundance of material that the researchers found showed that the site had been occupied for a long while, and that the settlement probably consisted of 200 to 300 people.

Ever since then, the dig has expanded every year.

In August, between 15 and 20 volunteers from all around the world joined Quinhagak residents in a "field school" to excavate the site that now stretches for about 150 yards.

Professor Knecht is excited by what the team has found.

He's really interested not only by the amount of items discovered at the site, but by the quality and rarity of the materials.

He explained that because the ground has been frozen for the whole time, the artifacts are in very good condition.

"Because it's been in permafrost up until now, the level of preservation is just marvelous," Knecht said.

"Eighty percent of what we're finding is wood or other organics.

A lot of them are preserved to the extent that they still have original paint on them.

For all practical purposes, we're looking at new wood."

This is extremely important for the research because at one time a large amount of the things used by the Yup'ik people were made from wood.

In most circumstances such items decompose within a century or so.

Here, however, the excavators have found whole wooden masks, bowls, bows, arrows and spears.

Knecht explained that they have found not just the hard tips of the spears made out of bone, but the softer handles and shafts of the weapons.

They also discovered "scraps of sealskin clothing with original needle holes" as well as "animal fur, little bodies of insects" and, in one instance, a mouse.

The team have dug up grass baskets that are still a little bit green.

As soon as these are brought into the air the color fades as the oxygen hits the ancient grass.

The team has also discovered very delicate ropes made of grass and roots.

These kinds of materials are very rare to find as they usually have rotted away many years ago.

"There are very few archaeological projects in this area, which is about the size of Great Britain," Knecht said.

The professor acknowledged that little is known about how people used to live in this part of Alaska.

"There's been so little archaeology in Yup'ik country that everything we find here is a revelation."

Knecht said the dates of the objects are important, because they span a particularly cold period of the so-called Little Ice Age, an abrupt period of lower-than-usual temperatures and ice advances recorded from 1430 to 1455.

It wiped out the Norse settlements in Greenland and hammered crops throughout the northern hemisphere of the Old World.

The destruction was written about in court records in Europe and Asia.

But how did it affect Alaskans?

That's something Knecht hopes the old village can reveal.

"From this site, we can learn a huge amount about how people lived before and after the ecosystems changed."

Knecht thinks the old village was a winter gathering place on the Arolik River.

It was abandoned after the river shifted.

The land is famously moving in this part of the world, constantly rearranged by rivers and ocean currents.

The shoreline is rapidly eroding at the old village.

"Most of (the site) may have been washed away already," Knecht said.

"We may just be looking at a portion of it.

Maybe a quarter of the original site is left — and it's going fast."

The ocean has already taken out the original dig site, he said.

"If we hadn't done the work we did in 2009, 2010, everything, about 8,000 pieces, would have been lost.

We're just barely staying ahead of it.

It's kind of an emergency."

