Unusual pieces of wood washed up on the beach near the village of Quinhagak in Western Alaska about five years ago.

The items had been carved into different shapes.

They looked like they were made by Yup'ik Eskimos who live in the region.

Wood usually rots after several years.

Yet these old items had survived.

Where these items came from and how they survived was a mystery.

A leader in the Quinhagak community named Warren Jones took pictures of the find.

He sent the photographs to Rick Knecht.

He is a professor.

He studies how human beings have lived across the ages.

He also helped start museums on the history of Eskimos.

The professor came to look at the items.

He said they were made in the years long before contact between the Yup'ik and Europeans in the 1800s.

Jones and Knecht then started digging together.

The team has so far uncovered a huge amount of ancient treasure.

Knecht said this is the largest collection of Yup'ik history ever found.

Thousands of the items that they have dug up were made between 1350 and 1670.

Some of the most important pieces are now on display at a museum in Scotland.

The exhibit is titled "Nunalleq," which means "the old village" in the Yup'ik language.

Professor Knecht is excited by what the team found during the digs.

Many of the discoveries are of very good quality and rare.

They also now understand how the items survived for hundreds of years.

They had been frozen in the ground all that time.

Materials last for much longer if they are kept ice cold, like the food in a freezer at home.

Most of the historical items are made of wood or other natural materials.

They would usually have decayed by now.

But here the team is even finding wooden items with their original paint.

Knecht said it was like looking at "new wood" rather than material that had been buried for hundreds of years.

There is not much written about the history of the area.

At one time, most of the things used by the Yup'ik were made from wood.

Every single item that is dug up teaches a bit more about the way they once lived.

The diggers have found whole wooden masks, bowls, bows, arrows and spears.

Knecht said they discovered "scraps of sealskin clothing."

They also found "animal fur, little bodies of insects" and even a frozen mouse.

The team dug up grass baskets that were still a little bit green.

Teams of volunteers from around the world are still working with local people to uncover more.

They've found 8,000 artifacts.

Eye-popping items are dug up from the ground day after day.

The findings include weapons, toys and many other things from daily life.

There are carvings, woven grass, clothing and dolls.

The team even found even haircut trimmings from people who lived there hundreds of years ago.

Knecht said he has "never seen anything like it."

The first small test holes were dug in 2009 at about six feet across.

The team found so much in the ground that they now know the area had been lived in for a very long time.

They think around 200 to 300 people made their homes there.

Knecht thinks the old village was a winter gathering place on the Arolik River.

The Yu'pik left after the river shifted.

This part of the world is famous for its moving waters.

Ocean currents and rivers are constantly rearranging the land.

"Most of (the site) may have been washed away already," Knecht said.

"We may just be looking at a portion of it.

Maybe a quarter of the original site is left — and it's going fast."

The ocean has already taken out the original dig site, he pointed out.

"If we hadn't done the work we did in 2009, 2010, everything, about 8,000 pieces, would have been lost.

We're just barely staying ahead of it.

It's kind of an emergency," Knecht said.

