An ancient Yup'ik village has been frozen in place for hundreds of years.

The Bering Sea coast it sits on has begun to wash away.

Now, scientists from around the world are digging up its artifacts before they are all gone.

The scientists say it's the biggest dig of Yup'ik artifacts from its time period.

Yup'ik people lived in the village before Russians and other Europeans arrived in the early 1800s.

In Alaska, artifacts normally are meant to stay in the ground.

But the Yup'ik people of Quinhagak invited the scientists in.

Why?

"Because we had nothing," said Warren Jones.

He is president of the village.

Yup'ik culture, including language and traditional dance, was discouraged by missionaries who came to build churches.

The missionaries were from the Eastern European Moravian church and they wanted to spread their own culture across Alaska.

The Yup'ik culture was almost lost, Jones said.

Growing up, "all I heard about was the church stuff, not what our ancestors did," he said.

They had stories of their culture, but they didn't have any ancient harpoons or stone ulus — curved knives — from their culture.

The project began five years ago.

Scholars, students and Quinhagak villagers are working together.

They are trying to save artifacts from a house they call "Nunalleq," or old village.

"This is the first excavation of a Yup'ik house," said lead scientist Rick Knecht.

People first lived there in the 1300s, he said.

Then the village was attacked and burned down around 1640 by a neighboring settlement during the area's "Bow and Arrow Wars," he said.

The old houses collapsed in the fire and over time, the site was hidden in the tall grasses.

Scientists say they found a large men's winter house at the center.

Women and children lived apart from the men.

The old village was well-preserved in the frozen earth.

Even wooden cooking spoons were saved.

Then the permafrost began melting and the edge of the tundra washed into the sea.

In just the past five years, 30 feet at the edge of the dig has been lost.

"It's really going fast, right in front of our eyes," Knecht said.

If the work hadn't started when it did in 2009, thousands of artifacts at the village would have washed away.

There were probably dozens of other settlements in the area at the time.

The diggers have collected close to 50,000 artifacts.

They have found ancient animal bones, bits of grass mats that covered the walls, and pieces of wooden tools.

Of those, as many as 5,000 are special enough to show in a museum, Knecht said.

Jones' favorite: a mask with a wolf-human face, a symbol of transformation.

Scientists collected stories from Quinhagak elders about the objects found.

They brought dolls, hunting tools, woven pieces and more to elders.

They talked in Yup'ik about the finds.

One elder, George Pleasant, knew the stone used in an ulu blade from its color.

"I think it's the best thing anybody came and helped us do," elder Annie Cleveland said.

"We only get one shot at it," Knecht said.

"These are all pages in the Yup'ik history book."

Village leaders talk with elders and make decisions with the scientists: when to dig, how to preserve the site, what to do with the finds.

Recently, the scientists put the most interesting recovered objects on display in the big red community building and invited the whole village to see and touch them.

A tiny seal amulet made of mammoth ivory.

Wooden masks that had been broken in half.

Stone harpoon tips.

Pieces of tiny model kayaks that show the history of the design.

John Smith stood at a table with tiny pieces of carved ivory jewelry.

Smith is a master carver.

He marveled at the skill of his ancestors before they had electric tools and metal blades.

It inspired him to recreate some of the designs.

Both the scientists and villagers in Quinhagak say they want to build a village cultural center.

It will show some of the ancient tools and art and be a place for artists and craftsmen to work and teach.

Quinhagak may just be the start, Knecht said.

Other ancient Alaska villages along the coast and on rivers are wearing away too.

Their stories may soon be uncovered.

