Lauren Alvarado says it simply: Drugs are "everywhere in Indian country."

Like many on the Yurok reservation here, she first tried the illegal drug methamphetamine at age 12.

Legal trouble came at 13 with her first arrest.

But today, at 31, Alvarado has kicked her drug habit.

She has been clean for nine months, she said recently, and is "hopeful, more grateful."

She got clean with the help of a Yurok wellness program.

It puts traditional tribal values to work to heal addicted Yurok men and women.

The Yurok tribe of almost 6,000 is the largest in California.

The tribe's ancestral lands and reservations sit along the banks of the Klamath River.

Yurok Tribal Court Chief Judge Abby Abinanti created the wellness program four years ago.

She's also a longtime San Francisco County Superior Court Commissioner.

The "wellness court" she created has earned trust from the criminal justice system.

Some tribal members charged with nonviolent crimes linked to drugs or alcohol come as a condition of probation.

They are released by the court but remain under the court's watch.

Others are directed to Abinanti's court before trial.

If they get well, charges are dropped.

Other tribal members find their way to the program on their own.

They may have tried approaches that failed.

They come thinking that their culture and responsibility to their communities will give them a better chance at beating addiction.

Alvarado was one of those.

She sought out wellness court coordinator Anthony Trombetti.

A minor arrest had left her facing a choice.

"Either I would keep messing up and I would be in jail, or I would have to be better for myself," Alvarado said.

"I chose myself."

Wellness court workers found Alvarado a job.

A doctoral student had come back to the reservation to research mid-sized carnivores.

Alvarado assisted her in her work.

On a fall afternoon, the two women sat together before the tribal council.

Alvarado helped explain the strips of land they'd marked, the bones they had found, and the maps she helped create.

She was so nervous she thought she would throw up.

But it didn't show.

She beamed with pride as tribal leader Thomas O'Rourke asked her to name her father's village.

Trombetti presents a large, hand-carved, redwood acorn to participants who have taken the biggest steps.

It's a strong symbol.

Like them, it must fall, crack, and find strength and nourishment before it can flourish.

Alvarado is one of just two people to receive an acorn.

She keeps it on the dresser in the sober living home she is managing in Crescent City.

She credits Trombetti and other wellness program staff for her success.

But, she has special praise for Abinanti.

Lori Nesbitt works for the wellness court.

She pores over county jail logs to find people who need help.

She snoops with aunts and uncles of tribal members who go before the court to see how they're really doing.

"People say, 'That's intrusive,' but it's not, it's how we do things," Nesbitt said.

She notes that aunts and uncles have special authority to be strict with youngsters in Yurok culture.

Not long ago a girl bolted from drug treatment.

Nesbitt and Abinanti piled into a car to look for her, and found her at the Crescent City McDonald's.

She tried to run away, but then Abinanti showed her who was with them: her grandmother and aunt.

She stopped in her tracks.

Tribal members are scattered through the remote coastal mountains along the river.

Abinanti's staff fetch them for state court appearances.

They transport them to drug treatment and make sure they stay.

If they are allowed visits with their children, the tribe gets them there.

Rebecca Salinas, 32, sought out the program after hearing of Trombetti's group counseling sessions.

Like Alvarado, she and her brother were caught in a family trap of addiction: Their parents sold drugs when they were kids and they followed suit.

Clean for nearly 11 months now, Salinas recently told Abinanti during a court appearance that she had landed a job.

When she was using drugs, her four children were taken away from her.

Overjoyed, she reported that her second-oldest, age 10, would be coming home to her after Christmas.

"Did you sign up for the gift program?"

Abinanti asked.

"Because she'll be needing presents."

