U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, the nation's first black to hold that post, urged NAACP members on Tuesday to help overturn stand-your-ground laws that "senselessly expand the concept of self-defense."

The law was expected to be at the center of the second-degree-murder trial of George Zimmerman in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.

But it was not raised at the trial.

Stand your ground did come up when Zimmerman was arrested.

Rather than prevent violence, Holder said, such laws can encourage it.

"We must stand our ground," Holder said to thunderous applause, "to ensure our laws reduce violence."

He also said his office is examining all available evidence in the case.

Federal prosecutors could decide to pursue charges against neighborhood watchman Zimmerman in the shooting death of the black teen.

He did not say how long the review would take.

Holder told members attending the NAACP annual convention to peacefully confront "the unfortunate stereotypes" that sometimes lead to police suspicion and private misjudgment.

Holder praised the peaceful reaction to Saturday's acquittal of Zimmerman.

He also praised the "dignity" of Martin's parents.

But he also talked about the personal incidents of racial profiling he had faced as a young man.

One time he was stopped on the New Jersey Turnpike for no reason, he said.

Another time he was questioned by an officer while running at night to catch a movie in Washington's trendy Georgetown district.

"I was at the time of that last incident a federal prosecutor," Holder noted.

The Attorney General also shared how, when he was a teen, his father had instructed him on how to conduct himself if he were ever stopped by the police.

Holder said he found himself having the same talk with his own 15-year-old son after Martin's death.

"I am sure that my father felt certain that his generation was the last that would have to worry about such things for their children," Holder said.

He does not usually talk about these things publicly.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is the nation's oldest and largest civil rights organization.

It was founded in 1909.

NAACP President Benjamin Todd Jealous said he was "extremely pleased" that the Justice Department is "fully invested in the George Zimmerman case."

He was also pleased to hear Holder's "strong, principled opposition to stand-your-ground laws."

The Florida stand-your-ground law lets people defend themselves, even with deadly force, if they feel it is necessary to prevent themselves from being harmed or killed.

The law also applies if the person thinks it is necessary to stop a "forcible felony" from happening.

People can stand their ground even if retreating to avoid a fight was a reasonable option.

Jealous said federal investigators need to look at evidence that the judge did not let into the case.

The evidence allegedly showed racism was a factor in the killing.

"The reality is that much of the evidence that is most germane to say (the case was) a hate-crime violation hasn't been introduced," Jealous said.

He noted a relative of Zimmerman's who had said that he committed racial acts.

He also mentioned youth in the community who said they think Zimmerman targeted them because of their race.

Holder also talked about the U.S. Supreme Court's recent decision striking down important portions of the Voting Rights Act.

He assured listeners that the Department of Justice was shifting resources to protect against discrimination at the polls.

Barriers based on race persist, despite other progress, Holder said.

"These problems are real.

They are significant.

They erode our democracy."

Earlier, U.S. Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan drew applause for his vow to continue investigations into housing discrimination.

Those investigations already have resulted in more than $65 million in compensation for 25,000 individuals.

"Blatant, in-your-face discrimination is still very real today," he said.

But "a quieter form of discrimination has emerged that is just as harmful to our country."

A report released by HUD last month revealed that fewer available homes are shown to minority families than to equally qualified whites.

The Revs.

Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton were scheduled to speak at the convention's final session.

They were to be joined by Martin Luther King III and Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, D-Fla. according to Derek Turner, NAACP director of communications.

The Trayvon Martin shooting case and verdict, as well as voting rights, were to be among topics discussed.

