A jury said that George Zimmerman was not guilty Saturday in the shooting death of Trayvon Martin.

The case drew a lot of attention because it involved issues of race and guns.

Martin was a black teenager.

He was not carrying a weapon when he was killed on a rainy night in Florida last year.

Zimmermann said that Martin attacked him.

He said the shooting was in self-defense.

Prosecutors said that he followed the 17-year-old Martin on purpose only because he was black.

The teenager was returning from a convenience store.

He bought Skittles and a soft drink.

Martin was walking in the rain back to the home where he was staying.

He was wearing a hoodie sweat shirt.

That hoodie became a symbol of the case.

Zimmerman showed no emotion when the jury's decision was read to the packed courtroom.

The jury was made up of six women.

Five were white.

"You have no further business with this court," the judge told Zimmerman.

Then Zimmerman's side of the courtroom exploded in hugs.

"He's very, very happy with the result," attorney Mark O'Mara told reporters.

In a court the jury's decision is called a verdict.

About 100 people had gathered in a small park outside the courthouse.

They were waiting for the verdict.

Many were black.

When the verdict was announced, some were stunned.

"I have two sons of my own," said Cathy Cole, one of the protesters.

"I think the child was murdered."

Zimmerman, 29, had been charged in the shooting of Martin last winter.

The shooting happened in Sanford, in central Florida.

Martin's family and supporters left the courtroom silently after the jury's decision.

Some cried.

"We are very, very, very saddened, but we accept the jury's verdict in this case," said Daryl Parks.

He is one of the lawyers for the Martin family.

Martin's mother and father "are just heartbroken," he added.

Some people said that the case is an example of racial profiling.

When police or others target someone for a search or questioning because of their race, that is seen as profiling.

Another Martin family lawyer compared Trayvon with Medgar Evers and Emmett Till.

Evers and Till were African-Americans.

Their killings were important events in the civil rights struggle in the 1950s and 1960s.

Local police agreed with Zimmerman's explanation that he acted in self-defense.

Weeks of protests followed.

A special prosecutor eventually charged Zimmermann in the shooting.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on Saturday night called on President Obama's administration to file new charges against Zimmerman.

Supporters argued that things would have been different if a black man had shot an unarmed white teenager.

They said authorities would have been less likely to accept the self-defense argument.

Zimmerman considers himself Latino, like his mother.

The debate reached all the way to the White House.

"Obviously, this is a tragedy," President Barack Obama said last year.

"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon."

Questions about race continued to the end.

Local law enforcement officials and pastors called for calm no matter what the jury decided.

Special prosecutor Angela B. Corey said Saturday that her team of prosecutors had done its best.

Corey said the case was never about race.

She said the case was never about whether people had the right to carry guns.

She said that Zimmermann went beyond what was legal.

The defense tried to show Zimmermann was a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help keep his neighbors safe.

