George Zimmerman was found not guilty Saturday in the shooting of Trayvon Martin.

Martin, a black teenager, was not carrying a weapon when he was killed on a rainy night in Florida last year.

The shooting had started a national debate on race and guns.

Zimmerman showed no emotion when the jury's verdict was read to the packed courtroom.

The jury was made up of six women.

Five of the jurors were white.

A small smile began at the corners of his mouth when the jurors left the courtroom.

It very slowly spread.

"You have no further business with this court," the judge told him.

Then Zimmermann's side of the courtroom exploded in hugs.

"He's very, very happy with the result," attorney Mark O'Mara told reporters.

Outside the courthouse, where about 100 people had gathered to await the verdict in a small park, many reacted in disbelief.

Many were black.

They stood, stunned, as the verdict was announced.

"I have two sons of my own," Cathy Cole, one of the protesters, said.

"I think the child was murdered."

Zimmerman, 29, had been charged in the shooting of Martin on Feb. 26, 2012.

The shooting happened in in Sanford, in central Florida.

Zimmermann said that he shot Martin in self-defense when the teenager attacked him.

Prosecutors argued that he had stalked the 17-year-old Martin.

The teenager was returning from a convenience store after buying Skittles and a soft drink.

Wearing the now-famous hoodie sweat shirt, Martin was walking in the rain back to the home where he was staying.

Martin's family and supporters left the courtroom silently after the verdict was read.

Some cried.

"We are very, very, very saddened, but we accept the jury's verdict in this case," said Daryl Parks.

He is one of the lawyers for the Martin family.

Sybrina Fulton, Martin's mother, and Tracy Martin, his father, "are just heartbroken," he added.

Hoodies played an important role in the protests before and after Zimmerman was charged.

They, along with Skittles, were held up as symbols of racial profiling and of a senseless death.

Racial profiling is when people think somebody is doing something wrong because of their race.

Another family lawyer compared Martin with Medgar Evers and Emmett Till.

Evers and Till were African -Americans whose killings were important events in the civil rights struggle in the 1950s and 1960s.

Local police had accepted Zimmerman's explanation that he acted in self-defense.

Weeks of protests followed and a special prosecutor eventually charged Zimmermann in the shooting.

The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People on Saturday night called on the U.S. Department of Justice to file new charges against Zimmerman.

Supporters argued that if a black man had shot an unarmed white teenager, authorities would have been less likely to accept the self-defense argument.

Zimmerman considers himself Latino, which is his mother's background.

The debate reached all the way to the White House.

"Obviously, this is a tragedy," President Barack Obama said last year.

"If I had a son, he'd look like Trayvon."

Questions about race continued to the end.

Local law enforcement officials and pastors called for calm regardless of the verdict.

Special prosecutor Angela B. Corey said Saturday that her team of prosecutors had done its best.

"This case has never been about race ... (or) about the right to bear arms," she said.

"We believe that this case all along was about boundaries and that George Zimmerman exceeded those boundaries."

The defense portrayed Zimmermann as a good citizen making a personal sacrifice to help keep his neighbors safe.

