Injuries from zip line accidents have soared along with the popularity of an activity that hurtles riders through the air, sometimes at dizzying heights.

A study of U.S. emergency room figures shows that over 16 years, nearly 17,000 people were treated for zip line-related injuries.

These included broken bones, cuts and sprains; most occurred in the last four years of the 1997-2012 study.

It's the first national look at zip line injuries and highlights a need for better regulation and uniform safety standards, the researchers say.

The study was conducted at the Research Institute at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.

It was published Monday in the American Journal of Emergency Medicine.

Deaths were not included — there have been at least six nationwide this year, most from falls.

The researchers analyzed a national injury database operated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission, an agency that studies product safety.

Their study covers the early years of commercial zip lines, which now number more than 200 nationwide.

There are thousands more "amateur" zip lines, located in backyards, summer camps and schools.

Most injuries occurred at commercial courses, camps and other non-residential places.

About 30 percent were from zip lines in backyards or farms.

These are sometimes do-it-yourself kits bought online, may be improperly installed and should be avoided, the researchers said.

The annual injury rate for all zip lines climbed from almost 8 per 1 million U.S. residents in 2009 to nearly 12 per 1 million in 2012.

Causes included falls, collisions and slamming into objects at the end of the course.

Injuries were most common in children and teens.

Almost 12 percent of injuries resulted in hospital stays.

Researcher Tracy Mehan said that's a worrisome rate much higher than more traditional sports.

Groups that promote zip-lining have adopted voluntary safety standards typically involving equipment, maintenance and worker training.

But these standards vary from group to group and are not always followed.

Insurance companies generally require operators to follow some of these standards, and several states have adopted safety regulations.

But Mehan said a uniform set of safety standards and effective oversight is needed.

Industry representatives say the study is alarmist and that zip lines are safer than driving a car.

Mike Barker, vice president of the Professional Ropes Course Association, said his group has strict safety standards that recommend courses be routinely examined by independent inspectors.

He said reasons for injuries and deaths include user or operator error and equipment malfunction.

James Borishade, executive director of the Association for Challenge Course Technology, said no activity is risk-free and that zip line operators "are working to minimize that risk."

There are some safety tips that can minimize the risk.

Participants should check out the Better Business Bureau, a group that helps people find businesses they can trust.

Zip liners should look at online reviews to find an operator with a good reputation.

Additionally, they should ask operators if they follow any industry safety standards and avoid those that don't.

Participants should see inspection or maintenance reports, and inquire about staff training.

Zip liners should always wear safety equipment provided including body harnesses, helmets and gloves.

Don't readjust the harnesses after guides have secured them.

Participants should listen closely and follow guides' instructions.

