As zip-lining becomes more popular, more people are getting hurt, a new study says.

In zip-lining, a person travels at high speeds in the air while attached to a steel cable.

Scientists wanted to know how many people were getting injured from riding zip lines.

They studied a period of 15 years, between 1997 and 2012.

They found that nearly 17,000 zip-liners were treated in hospitals.

Their problems included broken bones, cuts and sprains.

Most of these injuries occurred in the last four years of the study.

Scientists said that the sport needs better supervision.

They also said there should be safety rules that everyone follows.

The study was conducted at a hospital in Columbus, Ohio.

The study did not look at the number of people who died while zip lining.

However, at least six zip liners have died in the United States this year.

Most of them died from falls.

To come up with their findings, scientists studied the number of people who have injuries from zip lining.

The numbers were provided by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.

The government agency looks at the safety of various items, including the items people use in their homes.

It also looks at the safety of sports and other activities.

There are now more than 200 zip line businesses around the country.

There are thousands more zip lines located in backyards, summer camps and schools.

Most injuries occurred on the zip lines owned by businesses.

About one-third were from zip lines in backyards or farms.

These zip lines were made by people from kits they bought from the store.

Scientists say some of these smaller zip lines are dangerous.

Some of them have not been installed well.

The number of people getting hurt on zip lines increased each year between 2009 and 2012.

Some of the people were injured in falls.

Other people slammed into objects at the end of the course.

Injuries were most common in children and teens.

Nearly 1 out 8 people who were injured had to stay in the hospital.

Scientist Tracy Mehan said that the number worries her.

She said it is much higher than in many other sports.

There are several groups that think zip-lining is a good thing.

These groups have created safety rules.

The rules try to make sure that all of the equipment used in zip-lining is safe.

They also try to make sure that people who work with zip lines are trained well.

Even though these groups try, not everyone follows the rules.

Other people make rules for zip lines too.

Insurance companies make rules, and some states make rules.

Mehan, the scientist, says the same rules are needed for everyone.

She also says the zip line business needs better supervision.

People who work in the zip line business say the study makes people worry too much.

They say zip lines are safer than driving a car.

There are several things zip liners can do to make the experience safer.

One is to check the Better Business Bureau.

The group helps people find businesses they can trust.

People can also look online for a good zip line business.

Another thing zip-liners can do is to ask workers if they follow the rules.

If they do not, these businesses should be avoided.

Zip-liners should always wear safety equipment.

This may include body harnesses, helmets and gloves.

Harnesses should not be moved after they are secured.

Zip line riders should also listen very closely to the rules.

They should follow the rules from the guide.

