Noah Madson's brain makes it hard for him to pay attention. He remembers when he first got tested to see if he had a disorder called ADHD. The tests took hours. He left feeling exhausted.

"Boy, those were complicated," said his mother, Nancy. "He'd come out and say, 'My brain hurts.'"

Today, Noah's task is less of a headache. The 14-year-old plays a video game for 20 minutes. Then his parents and teachers have information that can show them how his mind works.

His memory and thinking speed might even get better as he plays the game more.

Noah is part of a study for CogCubed. The Minneapolis-based business makes games to help figure out if people have conditions like Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD). Google has already given the company $20,000 to help it grow.

Small Cubes With Screens

CogCubed was [started](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=entrepreneur) by a husband-and-wife team. Kurt Roots develops games. Monika Heller is a doctor who treats children with mental health problems. They want to use the game to gather information about things that are often hard to pin down, such as when a person is not paying attention.

The game that CogCubed is testing now uses Sifteo. It has small cubes with screens on them.

The game itself is called "Groundskeeper." The player uses one cube to hit a gopher that pops up on the screens of the other three cubes. As the game goes on, distractions like rabbits and chirping birds come up. The instructions also change.

The cubes gather information on more than 70 different things. They measure mistakes, how quickly a player responds, and even whether the player cannot sit still. Doctors, parents and teachers can use the information to figure out how well and in what ways a child takes in information. The results are very exact.

"That's part of our excitement with it, that we're getting so much detailed information," Nancy Madson said. "I can't wait for it to affect (Noah's) education plan for the coming year."

Game Tested By ADHD Students

People with ADHD can have problems paying attention, health officials say. They can be overly active. And they may be more likely to act without thinking about what might happen.

Government health officials said a record number of children have ADHD. More than 1 in 10 school-aged children have been diagnosed with ADHD. That includes nearly 1 in 5 high-school-age boys.

It is not clear why the numbers are up.

But, Heller said, one thing is clear: People who take care of children with ADHD could use extra help. One reason is that it takes a long time to get in to see a doctor to be tested for the disorder.

CogCubed wants to start selling its "Groundskeeper" training game in the next few months. Noah and 36 other students with ADHD are testing that game. They play twice a day for three to five days a week.

A different "Groundskeeper" game could help doctors tell if somebody has ADHD. But it won't be sold until government health officials say it works, Roots said.

Game Has A Good Match

The game has been tested at the University of Minnesota. What the game found and what a doctor found matched 75 percent of the time. A different computer-based tool matched up with doctors less often.

CogCubed is also testing whether the game can provide information about another condition. The condition is autism, Roots said. People with autism can have difficulty communicating and becoming friends with other people.

Max Wiznitzer is a doctor who is involved with an ADHD group. He warned against being too excited about the games.

"Can we improve working memory and teach them little tricks? The answer is yes," Wiznitzer said. But he was not sure this would make people a lot better in their daily lives. "It's not the miracle cure. I wish it were."

Nancy Madson said she is thrilled about the game.

"It's an opportunity for our son to become more self-sufficient with his ADHD and his learning differences," Madson said. "And it's fun."