Entering information into a computer can be boring. It's also hard to do it well and quickly. But Shane Foley is great at it.

The 21-year-old Maryland man works on two computer screens. He looks at images of handwritten sheets on one. He types the information into the other. His boss praises him. So does the head of the agency he is doing the work for.

That is really a good thing for a young man whose doctor said years ago he might need to go to a special kind of hospital. For a long time. Maybe forever.

Foley has autism. This disability makes it hard or impossible to interact with people. He is the first worker in a Maryland program for people with autism types of disorders. The program gets tech jobs for them. It also works with people who have a related disability, Asperger's syndrome. People with these disorders tend to have logical thinking and strong focus. The jobs put those strengths to good use.

"We're very much believers in the abilities of all peoples with disabilities," said Catherine Raggio, secretary of the Maryland Department of Disabilities.

Raggio started the program. It works as a staffing agency as part of PDG Inc. That is a company that helps people with disabilities. PDG hired Foley in November.

## Only One Mistake

Morris Tranen is the boss at PDG. He expects to have more autistic employees this year.  And more work for them to do.

"There's a lot of interest out there," said Tranen. His goal for the program is to cover all of its costs with money earned from the projects.

Sam Abed is a Maryland government official. He supports the program. He points to Foley's near-perfect work: In five months, he has made a single mistake. And that was when he just started.

"We have people who could do it but weren't doing as good a job as this young man is doing," Abed said.

Autism disorders affect people differently. The symptoms vary widely.

Some, like Foley, have autistic disorder. This is also called classic autism. It often causes big language delays and social and communication problems.

Others have Asperger's. They typically do not have language problems. But social situations are a never-ending challenge. It can be difficult for them to understand body language or make friends.

Raggio said she had planned on a program to just help adults with Asperger's get work. Then organizers met Foley and saw how good he was at his job. That convinced them that they also should think about jobs for workers with classic autism.

"You sit him down with a pile of data, and he just doesn't look up till it's finished," Tranen said.

One in 50 children ages 6 to 17 has some kind of autism, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. Numbers have risen rapidly in recent years.

More than a third of young adults with an autism disorder are neither working nor in college. That is a much higher rate than those with a learning disability or mental retardation, according to a 2012 study.

Shanna Pool is assistant principal of Kennedy Krieger Institute's special-education high school in Baltimore. She said tech jobs can be a good fit for people with autism or Asperger's.

"It's not necessary to read emotions when they're working on computers, or social cues," she said.

Julie Foley, Shane's mother, said her son took technology classes in school. He did data entry in a work-study program.

Now Shane Foley does the job from an office cubicle close to home. It is his first paid position. He makes more than the [minimum wage](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=minimum+wage).

Foley usually just speaks in one- or several-word phrases. But he has no trouble communicating how much he loves the work. He is laser-focused on it. He is smiling. And when asked what he thinks of it, he said, "Yay!"