KANSAS CITY, Mo. - A year and a half ago, a group of students in a high school engineering program in Kansas City, Missouri, helped create the Sensory Lounger. Since then, the chair has received a lot of attention.

The chair is meant to calm children with autism.

Autism is a disorder that makes it hard for people to connect with others because they have trouble understanding feelings and facial expressions. Many children with autism struggle with behaviors like hurting themselves or having meltdowns.

Certain kinds of touch like a tight hug help children with autism calm down.

The Sensory Lounger helps provide the kind of touch that is needed by children with autism. The inflatable chair produces deep pressure and imitates a tight full-body hug.

##Businessman Goes To High School
Now the man who created the Sensory Lounger has even bigger plans.

Stuart Jackson is the local businessman leading the project. He has worked with students in the Center for Advanced Professional Studies (CAPS) program to form a business. The Sensory Chair Company will sell the chairs to the public.

This summer, he'll offer paid internships to members of the CAPS program. He hopes to produce enough chairs to start testing them for safety and effectiveness. There are also plans to hire several people with autism to aid in the process.

Jackson announced the company's launch at a conference of therapists in Tennessee. The feedback was highly positive. Many therapists at the conference knew of patients or students who would benefit from the Sensory Lounger.

##Dad Revamps "Squeeze Machine"

For Jackson, the project is personal because his son, Joshua, has autism.

The idea for the chair came from the "squeeze machine" created by Temple Grandin, a professor in Colorado who is an expert in animal science. The professor, who also has a mild type of autism, created the machine for herself after she noticed the calming effect that applied pressure had on cattle.

Jackson was curious about whether a cheaper, more practical machine might be possible. He approached the CAPS program, which set about trying to create Jackson's vision.

In conversations with various occupational therapists, as well as teachers and parents of those with autism, the feedback has been almost unanimously positive.

##"Build Something And See The Results"
Austin Edmondson is a high school senior who worked on the project. Next year he plans to study mechanical engineering at the Colorado School of Mines.

"It's one thing to build something and just kind of get it out there," Edmonson says. "It's another thing to build something and see the results."

Now it's simply a matter of doing the work necessary to take the next step.

This summer, the graduating CAPS students will be hired to build enough chairs to enable them to be tested on a large scale. CAPS students still in the program who are not set to graduate will continue working on another version of the chair.

Jackson is in discussions with a local university to set up a major study. He has spoken with potential investors and advisers about how best to put the product on the market. He is also in the process of establishing the business's structure.

##Let's Hire People With Autism
At its heart, though, Jackson envisions the project as a social venture. In that regard, he plans this summer to hire some people with autism to contribute.

"We've made it part of our social mission to be an autism-friendly employer," he says.

Jackson said the company is looking to hire people with autism for three to four part-time jobs that will start over the summer.

If the study goes well, Jackson will be one step closer to his long-term goal, which is to get the Sensory Lounger inside as many therapy centers, classrooms and homes as possible.

Ideally, Jackson says, he'd like the chair to be available for sale by the end of the year.

##The Chair Works Its Magic
On a Saturday morning last month, during the first annual Just Be You Walk for Autism in Kansas City, a steady stream of children — many of them with some degree of autism — wandered toward a model of the Sensory Lounger for a test run.

One by one, the children nestled into the chair, and as their parents looked on, sat calmly and quietly as the Sensory Lounger worked its magic.

"He's so chill," marveled Alison Anderson, as her 6-year-old son, Max, sat nestled in one of the chairs.

For Jackson, who looked on, the response served as yet another example of the product's power.

And with a plan in place — as well as a team of students devoted to a project that has already garnered national attention — the future, at least at the moment, appears promising.

"Now," Jackson says, "it's on the verge of being a potential solution to families across the world."