BALTIMORE — Parts of Baltimore continued to smolder Tuesday after a chaotic night of fires, looting and rioting stemming from the death of a black man who suffered a fatal injury in police custody.

As a brilliantly sunny morning dawned over neighborhoods left in tatters, city workers and citizens began slowly cleaning up the debris — hauling away charred remains of vehicles, sweeping up shattered glass and continuing to put out a massive structure fire that burned through the night in the city's worst episode of racial violence since 1968.

Much of the city was shut down, with schools and many offices closed and streets cordoned off. Officials began tallying the damage to the worst-hit neighborhoods.

The mayor's office said there were 144 vehicle fires, 15 structure fires and about 200 arrests during the violence that first broke out on the city's west side Monday afternoon after the funeral of Freddie Gray, whose spine was severed while he was in police custody on April 12. He died a week later.

Baltimore police said 15 officers were hurt in Monday's violence and that several were still being treated early Tuesday after they were struck by bricks, stones and glass bottles.

Armed National Guard troops began massing in heavy-duty tan-colored vehicles to watch over neighborhoods, including West Baltimore, which had been overrun with violence. At the same time, as many as 5,000 police officers were pouring into the city, some from as far away as Washington and Philadelphia.

"What happened last night is not going to happen again," Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan told reporters as he toured damaged areas.

Mayor Stephanie Rawlings-Blake said public transportation would be up and running and that she was working to make sure that "most government services can operate normally."

Speaking Tuesday morning at the site of a West Baltimore drugstore that became a battleground Monday, Rawlings-Blake said, "What happened last night means that more people are struggling. ... We worked very hard to get CVS to come here."

As of Tuesday morning, no decision had been made about whether Monday night's game between the Orioles and the Chicago White Sox, postponed due to the violence, would be put off for a second time. The Camden Yards stadium is about five miles away from the scene of some of the worst of the unrest. Major League Baseball officials were considering moving the series, possibly to nearby Washington, if the problems persisted.

The streets erupted Monday afternoon following Gray's funeral service, attended by thousands of mourners. No officers have been charged in his death, and police officials have released few details about his arrest, stoking transparency concerns among black Baltimore residents who already had a fraught relationship with police.

Rock-throwing confrontations began midafternoon and by 7:30 p.m. more than 100 people, many of them teenage boys in hoodies, began looting Mondawmin Mall.

Rioters shattered plate glass windows to get into the mall, and dozens of people flooded in and exited carrying PlayStations, piles of shoes and clothing — anything they could carry.

Meanwhile, police helicopters hovered overhead, barking orders on loudspeakers to clear the area.

"This is the first time you see black people getting together," Dejanaira Hall, 19, a demonstrator who watched as looters raced away with goods. "We don't feel like anyone is on our side."

Police in riot gear stormed the mall and cleared the area, but as they dispersed, violence spread throughout the city and continued sporadically through the night.

Arsonists continued to set cars on fire early Tuesday morning, Baltimore police said in a statement posted to Twitter, adding, "We are receiving reports of criminals throwing cinder blocks at passing fire engines as they are responding to fires on Fulton Ave."

At least one person was shot, a 51-year-old woman hit in the leg near Fulton Avenue.

Police Commissioner Anthony Batts said late Monday that the city simply didn't have enough officers to maintain control of all the neighborhoods, as looting and fires spread from one end of the city to the other.

"They just outnumbered us and outflanked us," he said. "We needed to have more resources." He said the extra manpower arriving late Monday and Tuesday would help the police regain control of neighborhoods and enforce a weeklong curfew.

Batts said he was dismayed by scenes of Baltimore's teenagers looting and burning.

"This is not protesting. This is not your First Amendment rights," he said. He praised one woman who was filmed smacking her teenage son on the head and pulling off his hood. "I wish we had more parents that took charge of their kids out there tonight."

Gov. Hogan said he waited until he received a request from the city before deploying the National Guard.

"I have not made this decision lightly," he said in a televised news conference Monday evening. "The National Guard represents the last resort to restore order. ... Baltimore city families deserve peace and safety in their communities."

Newly confirmed U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch — the first black woman to serve as the nation's top law enforcement officer — condemned the violence.

She promised to work with community leaders to "protect the security and civil rights of all residents" as federal officials conduct an independent investigation into Gray's death.

"Those who commit violent actions, ostensibly in protest of the death of Freddie Gray, do a disservice to his family, to his loved ones, and to legitimate peaceful protesters who are working to improve their community for all its residents," Lynch said in a statement.