HACKENSACK, N.J. — While New Jersey's little brown bat population, ravaged by a fungal disease, continues to slip toward likely extinction, another species, the big brown bat, appears to be benefiting, with its numbers rising as much as 50 percent in the state since white nose syndrome first hit in 2009, according to experts studying the species.

The number of little brown bats has plummeted about 90 percent since white nose struck six years ago. Back then, their hibernating numbers were about 30,000 in New Jersey. There are now so few that the species might not be able to recover at all, experts say — especially since females produce only one pup a year.

But big brown bats, while also infected with the disease, have actually thrived since white nose struck, for a variety of reasons involving their biology and their hibernation habits. In fact, they are doing so well, and their numbers are increasing so much, that they have begun to take over summer roosting spots formerly occupied by little brown bats.

Despite the dismal prospects for little brown bats, researchers have grasped at a few hopeful signs. Some little brown bats that have been banded for research are returning to hibernate each year in the same caves and abandoned mine shafts, such as Hibernia Mine in Rockaway Township, showing that at least this small group has managed to fight off the disease, either by building up immunity or because they possess a gene that aids resistance to the fungus.

"Right now natural selection is at work allowing those bats with certain traits to survive — the ones surviving must be a little different, a little hardier," said DeeAnn Reeder, an expert on white nose syndrome at Bucknell University.

Federal officials have estimated that 7 million bats among seven species have died nationally since white nose was first detected in a cave near Albany, New York. The disease has now spread to 25 states.

The bats become infected while in hibernation with a fungus that leaves a whitish powder on their muzzles, ears and wing membranes. The fungus causes the bats to move around during hibernation, which burns up vital stored body fat. As a result, they die of hunger.

The loss of bats can affect humans, since bats eat vast quantities of insects that damage crops or carry West Nile virus and other diseases. The suppression of insects is worth more than $4 billion annually to U.S. agriculture.

Banding efforts in New Jersey have led researchers to conclude that while the overall numbers are still declining, the survival rate for hibernating little brown bats in New Jersey has been increasing slightly each year. The rate was 66 percent in 2010, and 71 percent last winter, according to research conducted by the state Department of Environmental Protection and Brooke Maslo, a wildlife ecologist at Rutgers University.

But the survival rate would have to grow beyond 100 percent for the population to start replacing the thousands lost to the disease. "Even though the survival rate has been increasing, we're still seeing overall population declining by 5 percent a year," Maslo said. "At some point we may not have enough bats left to replace those being lost."

Several groups of researchers across the country are closing in on promising treatments. Some researchers are looking at whether a certain bacteria that has antifungal properties could help the bats fight off infection, while others are studying a fungus that might be able to out-compete the white nose fungus. Still another group is looking at the potential antifungal properties of chitosan, a substance derived from the shells of crustaceans.

There are concerns about how any of these treatments might be applied to an entire cave of hibernating bats and what the unintended effects could be on other species living in the caves, said Jeremy Coleman, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's national white nose syndrome coordinator. "We are still a long way off from any wide-scale application," he said.

Even if they were to rebound, it could take centuries for bats to reach their pre-white nose numbers, he said.

The response to white nose has varied by bat species. The tricolored bat and the northern long-eared bat have also suffered catastrophic declines. But the Virginia big-eared bat has survived unscathed in caves where bats of other species have been found dying all around them, Reeder said.

And in New Jersey, big brown bats, while sometimes infected with white nose syndrome, have actually increased in numbers. Big brown bats increased 14 percent at summer roost sites in New Jersey this year, and are now up as much as 50 percent since white nose appeared, according to a recent report by MacKenzie Hall, a biologist at the Conserve Wildlife Foundation of New Jersey, which oversees the state's annual summer bat count.

One key reason, Reeder said, is that big brown bats are larger, and therefore lose less heat to the environment during hibernation, making it easier to sustain themselves on their stored body fat. They also hibernate a month later and emerge a month earlier than little brown bats, reducing the impact of the disease. In addition, they hibernate in very small groups or alone, whereas little brown bats and Indiana bats — another affected species — hibernate close together in large groups, making it easier for the disease to spread.

Finally, unlike many bat species, big brown bats produce two pups a year, making it easier for them to increase their overall numbers.

"Big brown bats seem to be moving into former little brown bat summer roosting sites, and I never would have guessed that, because I think of big brown bats as a super bat — they're so much bigger and often act as bullies," Reeder said. If these had been desirable roosting sites, one would have expected big brown bats to have taken them over even before little brown bats disappeared.

"It raises the question, are they increasing in population? Has there been some sort of competitive release? More access to insects now that little brown bats are gone?" she said. "The data we're seeing would suggest that."