Long before the Internet was invented, China's Communist Party was already skilled in the art of public shaming.

Dissidents have been known to disappear and then reappear after having published essays of self-criticism. On state-run television, business people, celebrities and editors have appeared so regularly from behind prison bars speaking about their misdeeds that the segments were like an early take on reality TV.

Now officials are using the tactic on another group that it feels has wronged the country: smokers.

On Monday, the capital city of Beijing launched a tough ban that prohibits smoking in indoor public places and workplaces. As part of the campaign, it unfurled giant stop- smoking banners over the iconic Bird's Nest sports stadium, advised people to use an elaborate set of hand signals to tell those in their proximity to stop smoking, and raised fines for those caught smoking.

With more than 300 million smokers — nearly the size of the U.S. population — China is the world's largest tobacco consumer. The government estimates that another 740 million of its citizens are exposed to second-hand smoke and more than 1 million people in the country die from smoking-related diseases each year. In 2008, as part of its clean-up campaign for the Olympics, the capital of Beijing for the first time required public places like restaurants, bars and hotels to provide smoke-free areas or rooms.

Back then, the consequences for businesses could be harsh, with fines of up to $725, but for individuals the consequences seemed to be almost an afterthought. Officials said at the time that if they were caught by tobacco control supervisors they could "try to dissuade" them and if they don't comply, they could fine them about 10 renminbi, about $1.40 then, or $1.60 today.

That changed as of Monday, when the government announced it would increase the fine to 200 yuan and take more dramatic measures by posting the names of those breaking the law three times on a website to shame them.

That may not sound like a big deal, but in Asia the reaction of online citizens to inappropriate behavior can be harsh. Among the most infamous cases is one in 2005 when a woman in South Korea who refused to clean up her dog's waste was caught in photos that were posted online. Internet users quickly discerned her identity and she was harassed so badly that she reportedly quit her university.

In China, social shaming has been seized by citizens as a way to empower themselves by doing things that law enforcement or the media might do in other countries such as exposing government officials who embezzle and IDing hit-and-run drivers. The phenomenon is so popular that it's been called a "human flesh search engine."

In the past, the government has expressed concerns that shaming on the Internet could lead to "cyberviolence" and privacy violations. Now it looks like it has changed its mind, at least when it comes to smokers.