ST. LOUIS, Mo. — The word was "magician."

Standing on stage in front of most of his school, fourth-grader Richie Tienter spelled it correctly, beating out his final opponent, a fifth-grader. He had just become spelling bee champion at Westridge Elementary School in suburban Ballwin, Missouri.

He heard the applause. He felt joy and happiness.

He couldn't see his mother in the crowd, beaming. Or the looks of delight she and his teachers gave each other as the kids clapped and cheered.

And he's never seen the way his classroom teacher's eyes well up when she talks about how proud she is of Richie.

"I sometimes forget that Richie is blind because he takes in so much from his other senses," said Ann Tienter, his mom. "He was pretty much grinning from ear to ear."

When he was 6 months old, Richie's parents learned he was blind. His optic nerves are smaller than those of sighted people. He has some perception of light and shadows, and nothing else.

That hasn't stopped his love of learning, and reading, especially histories of European royalty and World War II.

His mom began reading to Richie when he was an infant. After they found out about his visual impairment, she continued to do so, but with books in Braille.

Now at age 9, his teachers say Richie reads at the level of a student in high school, and his vocabulary is well above those of his classmates.

Richie doesn't dwell on the challenges of his vision impairment. At the spelling bee, he thought of his disability in a different way.

"I think if I had sight, I would have been able to see all of those people who were there at the spelling bee, and it would have just made things worse," Richie said.

Just before the holiday break, Westridge students took home sheets with spelling words to study. Richie's list was made with a Braille embosser. He studied during the days off from school, but not every day.

"I said I will not study on either the eves of the holiday days or the weekends. I will only study on non-holiday weekdays," Richie said.

He is no stranger to competition. Last summer, he placed third at the National Braille Challenge, which is an academic contest that promotes Braille literacy. Students from first grade through high school compete in up to five categories — reading, speed, accuracy, comprehension and spelling — as well as reading charts and graphs in Braille.

"No matter what was going on with him, we weren't going to expect any less of him than we would a sighted child. We wanted him to have a regular kid experience," Ann Tienter said.

During his school day, Richie uses Braille to read worksheets, textbooks and other materials. He uses a cane when he walks around school and has a staff member with him to help guide him.

On a recent school day, Richie and his class were matching subjects with verbs that agree. While the other kids used papers and pencils, Richie read a Braille sheet with the words prepared ahead of time. He then typed out the answers using the six keys on a Braille notetaker. To use the machine, Richie learned different codes for not only the letters of the alphabet, but 180 contractions.

His classroom teacher, Katy Schulte, said having Richie in class has been both a challenging and rewarding teaching experience.

"Anytime I get scared or nervous about how I'm going to teach him something, he goes beyond my expectations every time," she said. "He is unlike any kid I've ever met."

As winner of his school spelling bee, Richie will now move on to compete in the written semi-finals of the St. Louis Post-Dispatch Spelling Bee on March 7 with other school winners from across the region.

The oral final bee will be March 14, and the champion there will represent the St. Louis area in the 2015 Scripps National Spelling Bee. A spokesman for Scripps said the competition periodically has participants who are blind, including a girl from Oklahoma a few years ago who made it to the third round.

Officials from the St. Louis regional spelling bee say they have no record of another recent competitor who was blind. But the contest has made accommodations in the past for other children with disabilities.

Richie's accommodations for the written test are still being worked out. It could be that someone will write his answers for him, or he could use his Braille machine to type them out.

Winners at Rockwood School District's Westridge Elementary spelling bee typically earn a trophy.

Along with that trophy, the school ordered Richie a plaque, one with enough room to mark his win with printed letters — and also in Braille.