Holly Holm's smart training program created a Sunday destruction in Melbourne, Australia, of previously unbeaten, and perceived-to-be-unbeatable, Ronda Rousey.

By reporting in supreme shape after training in the high altitude of Albuquerque, New Mexico, and thriving when Rousey invested in the highly flawed fight plan of a stand-up bout, Holm stunned the sporting world with a second-round knockout victory over Rousey in the Ultimate Fighting Championship women's bantamweight title bout.

Rousey was sent to a hospital for stitches in her cut lip, and although a CT scan was negative, she remained in the hospital overnight, according to a UFC spokesman.

She sent an Instagram message that said, "I just want to thank everyone for the love and support. I appreciate the concerns about my health, but I'm fine. As I had mentioned before, I'm going to take a little bit of time, but I'll be back."

Holm became the first former boxing world champion to collect a UFC belt, and she re-sparked the boxing-mixed martial arts rivalry.

"Everything we worked on ended up being used," Holm (10-0) said after the bout, which drew 56,214 to Etihad Stadium.

Rousey, 28, is six years younger than Holm, but she appeared gassed by the end of the first round. She badly missed with a punch that Holm ducked and was repeatedly pelted by Holm's left hand, including one punch that set up the decisive left kick to the head.

Conditioning hadn't been a worry. In Rousey's three fights before facing Holm, she needed only 64 combined seconds to finish Alexis Davis, Cat Zingano and Bethe Correia, elevating herself as one of the best-known sports personalities in the world.

"I have a lot of respect for Ronda," Holm said. "This wouldn't have meant as much if it hadn't been for what she has done. She's been imposing her will on everybody. She tried the hip-toss, the arm bar. I just wanted to stay focused. We did this in practice. I (knew I) could do it again."

Rousey's trainer, Edmond Tarverdyan, is ripe for Monday-morning quarterbacking after saying in pre-fight interviews that he hoped Holm would try to box Rousey. Instead of trying to flex the judo skills that made her a 2008 Olympic bronze medalist, Rousey was badly beaten to the punch.

Holm's track record of deciphering talented fighters continues.

In 2005, she defeated veteran boxer Christy Martin and Mia St. John. Then, after getting knocked out by boxer Anne Sophie Mathis in 2011, she devised an effective plan and won a rematch.

Roy Englebrecht, a longtime Southern California boxing and MMA promoter, watched the Holm-Rousey bout and said the outcome followed his prediction that "an experienced boxer would have their way with a pretty strictly MMA fighter" who hasn't developed the sophisticated defense it takes to win a stand-up battle.

Although former UFC heavyweight champion Randy Couture took down and dominated aged former boxing champion James Toney in 2010, that was different.

Holm wasn't only a former boxing champion who had 38 fights, she had pro kickboxing experience, is unbeaten in MMA and reported to Australia after a grueling camp that occasionally included five sessions of workouts per day, sometimes leaving her in tears, she said.

"What Holly did hurt Ronda in a number of ways. Hurt her physically. Hurt her pride," Englebrecht said.

The man who scripted Holm's performance, her striking coach Mike Winkeljohn, said of Rousey, "I figured we'd pick her apart little by little. It played out real well.

"Holly walked into my gym 17 years ago. Now, you're going to come here and give the biggest upset in history in people's minds … not in our minds. We knew she could do it."

Holm fought tears in post-fight interviews, saying, "I'll probably have a few sleepless nights replaying everything that happened."

In her first two UFC fights, Holm appeared sound but conservative, winning both by decision. At least one Nevada sports book listed her as a 20-1 underdog to Rousey, and some reported brisker betting than usual on the bout.

"I wanted to move and be precise," Holm said. "Not too cautious. I wanted to go forward in a smart way, not let her bum-rush me to the cage."

UFC President Dana White said he will assign a rematch.

"Obviously … biggest upset ever," White said. "When you look at how Ronda is revered — baddest woman on the planet — definitely."

White first leaned toward making Miesha Tate, the No. 1 contender, Rousey's opponent after the Correia fight on Aug. 1.

But conversations with matchmakers shifted the focus to Holm because Rousey had beaten Tate twice and because Holm, with the boxing know-how, boasted a slight height and reach advantage on Rousey.

"I made this fight. This is the fight I went after," White said. "Holly, we said it at the time, had the range, uses her distance very well, has great head kicks. Everything we talked about is essentially what went down.

"Obviously, I thought Ronda would have more answers."

White stopped short of saying Holm exposed Rousey.

"I don't think Ronda was exposed. I think Ronda got beat," White said.

The stunning event came after Rousey, from Los Angeles, acted out of character by confronting Holm at the weigh-in a day earlier, charging at the challenger and labeling "the Preacher's Daughter" a phony.

Rousey endured a turbulent training camp that included her mother's highly critical comments of Tarverdyan, whose specialty is boxing.

She has a movie project in the works, but the defeat was a sobering reminder of what generated such fame and where the focus should be.

"It's been an interesting camp and a rough couple of months for her," White said. "It's impossible to say that doesn't affect her. She's the mentally strongest person I've ever met, a workhorse. If anybody can deal with it, it's her. But at the end of the day, Ronda Rousey's human."

White said he originally planned for Rousey to fight at UFC 200 in July. Rousey's past success qualifies her for an immediate rematch if she wants it, White said, but he would not commit to a date.

"I don't think there's any rush," White said. "She still has a movie to film, doing all the things she has to do before she fights again. I wouldn't (expect) her back any time soon."