MONTREAL — More than 3,200 aboriginal children who were sent to Canada's infamous Indian residential schools died while attending the schools and many of them were buried in unmarked graves, according to the final report from the Truth and Reconciliation Commission released Tuesday.

The report called the policy of forced assimilation, which required the children to attend the residential schools, "a cultural genocide."

The commission released its final report at an emotionally charged and highly symbolic ceremony in Ottawa, marking the culmination of six years of work. The commission released an interim report in 2012 and a preliminary report in June.

Justice Murray Sinclair, chairman of the commission, and his two co-chairs, Chief Wilton Littlechild and Marie Wilson, traveled Canada coast-to-coast hearing heartbreaking testimony from more than 6,000 residential school survivors and their families.

It is estimated that more than 150,000 First Nations, Inuit and Metis children were separated from their families and forced into residential schools run by the Catholic and Anglican churches on behalf of the federal government over much of the last century in a deliberate policy to "take the Indian out of the child."

Many students who were forced to go residential schools, often located hundreds of miles from their communities, never returned, said the report.

"They were lost to their families," said the report. "They died at rates that were far higher than those experienced by the general school-aged population. Their parents were often uninformed of their sickness and death. They were buried away from their families in long-neglected graves. No one took care to count how many died or to record where they were buried."

Sinclair admitted the real number of deaths might have been much higher than what the commission was able to document.

Two empty chairs were put on the stage to honor the memory of the children who never returned from the schools.

"We will lay the foundations of truth and knowledge not as a road of shame to be avoided but as a story of human collision from which we can and have learned much," Sinclair said.

"We did this after all for those who were there, for those who were with us. We did this for the children who were taken away and for the parents who were left behind to cry for them. We did this for the children of today who needed to know where and what, and why things had occurred so they can understand their lives, themselves and their future better."

Eugene Arcand, a residential school survivor, said the TRC's recommendations are calls for action for every Canadian, not just the government.

With his voice breaking with emotion, mixing laughter and tears, Arcand praised the painful process of the commission.

"It gave us a chance to become children again," said Arcand, fighting back tears. "We shared our tears, we shared our laughs, but we dug deep inside and we dug out the demons and we couldn't have done it without each other."

Speaking at the ceremony, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said he fully accepted "our responsibilities and our failings as a government and as a country."

"The government of Canada sincerely apologizes and asks for forgiveness of the aboriginal peoples of this country for failing them so profoundly," Trudeau said. "At the same time, today there is reason for hope. Today we find ourselves on a new path, working together towards a nation-to-nation relationship based on recognition, rights, respect, cooperation and partnership."

Trudeau called for a total renewal of the relationship between Canada and its indigenous peoples and vowed to implement all 94 recommendations made by the commission.

"We will remember always that reconciliation is not an indigenous issue, it is a Canadian issue," Trudeau said, drawing a standing ovation.