MARYSVILLE, Wash. — Six-year-old Lauren Meek moves her finger over a laptop. She is dragging over a block of computer code to build a set of instructions. She clicks the "run" button. Then Lauren watches as the character in her video game moves through a maze. She pumps her fist excitedly.

"Yes! This is so easy," says the kindergartner at Marshall Elementary, near Seattle, Washington.

This fall, most elementary school students in her school district are getting 40-minute weekly computer science lessons. The lessons are part of a growing effort in the United States to teach computer science to more public school children, even kindergartners.

The idea is backed by technology leaders, companies and other groups. With their support, schools in New York, San Francisco and other cities have agreed to offer computer science to students in all grades.

##Computer Skills Needed For Life
Supporters say it is not just about learning how to code. Students are also learning how computers work. They say computer science teaches kids to think logically and be creative. It also gives them an early introduction to the technology that will drive their future, supporters say.

Computer science is just as important now as biology and chemistry, said Hadi Partovi, CEO of Code.org. The group works to give more students a chance to try computer science. It wants to increase participation by women and minorities.

Code.org is also behind a campaign to get millions of students to take part in an "Hour of Code." That program takes place next week.

Teaching computer science in schools ensures that everyone has an opportunity to understand technology, said Yasmin Kafai, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania.

Learning about computers is a necessary skill, Kafai said. 

Computer science knowledge and skills also help people get jobs. By 2020, half of the 9.2 million science, technology, engineering and math jobs will be in computing, according to the U.S. government.

##Not So Fast, A Critic Says
Jim Taylor wrote a book called "Raising Generation Tech." He says there is no evidence that coding works. Kids do not need to learn how to use digital technology at such a young age either, he added.

Computer science is different from other subjects. There are no rules for teaching it or strong tests to measure learning, said Jeanne Century of the University of Chicago.

Still, the argument to teach computer science is the same as the argument for teaching science and math, she said. More jobs require computer science, Century noted. Computing is also "everywhere in our lives," she said.

One of the challenges is finding enough well-prepared teachers. Among other efforts, the National Science Foundation wants to have 10,000 well-trained computer science teachers in thousands of high schools.

##Computer Science Skills In Demand
Currently, computer science is taught in only about 1 in 4 high schools nationwide. Even fewer lower middle and elementary schools teach computer science. Only 27 states allow a computer science course to be counted as a math or science class needed to graduate, according to Code.org.

Still, there has been a recent jump in interest. In 2015, nearly 49,000 students took the Advanced Placement exam in computer science. The exam is a test high schoolers can take that counts for college. The number was up from about 40,000 in 2014.

Colleges say there is a demand for students who know computer science, Terry Redican said. He is a vice president at The College Board, which develops the AP classes.

A new AP computer science course debuts next fall. It will focus on real-world ways of using computer science. It is also aimed at increasing the number of women and minorities in computer science.

##Reading, Math And Computer Science
At Marshall Elementary, more than half the students are from low-income families. Principal Kelly Sheward sees computer science as an opportunity to make sure that poorer students there are as well prepared as kids at other schools.

Teacher Sheena York asks a class of fifth-graders to identify the pattern in the computer puzzle and solve it using the fewest steps. She urges them to try different ideas, test their work as they go along, and ask each other for help.

"I'm figuring this out piece by piece to see if this works," said Isiah Gibbs, 10. "That doesn't work. So I'll try something else."

Computer science is "almost as important as reading and math," fifth-grade teacher Hank Palmer said.