PHILADELPHIA — Chef Marc Vetri placed two boys in front of a cutting board. He gave them some wise advice.

"Here's what I want you to do," the famous chef said. "Don't cut yourself."

Vetri gave the cooking demonstration at the new Culinary Literacy Center. The center is part of Philadelphia's public library system. It opened Monday.

The program is the first of its kind. It mixes cooking with reading, math and science. Its home is a sparkling new kitchen in Philadelphia's Central Library.

Siobhan Reardon is head of the library. She said the center will teach people to cook. It also will help them learn to read. She gave a startling fact. At least half of Philadelphia's adults are known as "low literate." That's half a million people. A "low-literate" person doesn't read well.

## The Perfect Place To Learn While Cooking

Cooking is "science, it's math, it's literacy. And it's fun," Reardon said. She said a lot of people who don't read well don't go to the library. They worry they don't read well enough. "So this is a way to say, 'You are welcome here,'" she said.

At the opening, Vetri demonstrated cooking tips to a crowd. He taught them how to make a great panzanella. A panzanella is an Italian summer salad. His audience included restaurant workers with not much English, kids, parents and grandparents.

The new center will teach grandparents how to feed their grandchildren. It will help adult students learn to read. Spanish-speaking restaurant workers will come to the center to work on their English.

The kitchen has nine food preparation tables. There's also a grill and a stove with spots for up to 16 pots or pans. There are three ovens. Outside is a patio and herb garden.

Mallory Fix-Lopez is in charge of the English for the Restaurant program. The programs helps restaurant workers learn English. She said the location will make a big difference. She hopes the workers will start using the library.

Liz Fitzgerald works with the library. She's has even bigger ideas.

She wants every person in the city to cook a meal from scratch.