ST. LOUIS—The freshman-year roommates at Colgate University would talk about what they hoped to do after college. They were just 18 or 19, their paths barely formed. But they had some ideas. One wanted to be a lawyer. Another, a music producer. And then there was Ryan C. Fogle from Richmond Heights near St. Louis. He wanted to join the FBI or CIA.

"Those were his goals in life," Ben Flicker, one of those roommates who is now an attorney in Denver, recalled Wednesday. "He had this sense of service, of duty. And if he reached the FBI or CIA, that was the highest level of duty he could imagine giving to his country."

Fogle, 29, apparently realized his dream. And the whole world now seems to know about it.

Fogle is accused by Russia of spying for the CIA under the guise that he was a low-level U.S. diplomat in Moscow. His arrest by Kremlin security services was so intensely publicized on Tuesday that it appeared designed to embarrass the United States and its intelligence service. State-run television showed Fogle, wearing a blonde wig askew under a ballcap, and what were reportedly the strange tools of his spy tradecraft, including wads of cash, several pairs of dark sunglasses, a compass and Moscow map, a knife, more wigs, pepper spray and a letter laying out how the spy recruitment would go.

Then Fogle was kicked out the country.

But the peculiar details of Fogle's arrest have raised suspicions that this was not just the simple case of a bumbling spy. Some think he was used — perhaps even framed — to make a point in the broader geopolitical struggle between the United States and Russia.

Sen. Claire McCaskill, D-Mo., said initial stories in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch and The New York Times detailing Fogle's arrest only made her "curiouser and curiouser about what in the hell is going on." "If the allegations Russia is making are true, it appears that our effort at gaining intelligence is rather lame. It reads like something you would see in a movie that you would say 'That's not realistic.' It seemed very unsophisticated what is being reported. I know our intelligence community is very sophisticated, so that's why it doesn't compute," she told reporters.

The State Department remained tight-lipped and tried to downplay the incident. A spokesman said it didn't even come up during a meeting Wednesday between U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and his Russian counterpart in Sweden.

"I wouldn't read too much into one incident one way or another," spokesman Patrick Ventrell said. Russia's domestic security service, the FSB, claims Fogle was trying to recruit a Russian counterterrorism officer who specializes in the Caucasus region in southern Russia, where the two Boston Marathon bombing suspects had roots.

Eric O'Neill, a former FBI counterintelligence officer, said he believes Fogle really works for the CIA. And he probably was trying to recruit double agents. That seems plausible. But the items that Fogle carried with him didn't appear to be genuine tools of a CIA spy.

"I doubt he had this kit on him," he said. " It was planted on him for political theater."

O'Neill, who helped capture former FBI agent Robert Hanssen, who spied for the Russians for more than two decades, thought the pepper spray and knife were over- the-top details. The compass is obsolete in an era of GPS. "I doubt he was really running around with a wig," he said. The wording of the letter intended to recruit the Russian official sounded unreal to O'Neill. The letter, typewritten in Russian, offered $100,000 plus $1 million a year for cooperation. "That's a pretty big budget," he said.

He also noticed the letter opens with "Dear friend" and closes with "Your friends." Those phrases recalled the communications that Russians sent to Hanssen, O'Neill said. That is how Russian handlers wrote to Hanssen. It is not how Americans talk to Russians. "That doesn't ring true to me," he said.

But Peter Earnest, a former 36-year CIA veteran, said it was possible a CIA agent would use a compass and wigs during an undercover operation.

"I am not thrown off by what looks like '70s tradecraft," said Earnest, now executive director of the International Spy Museum in Washington. "We used very traditional means to run spies, to run agents."

Earnest thought Fogle was likely ensnared by "a dangle operation," where Russian agents made an opportunity so attractive that the CIA agent could not resist. The Russians might have been motivated to publicly embarrass a CIA agent after the Russians in 2010 had the long-term cover blown for its ring of 10 spies in the United States.

Fogle, whose parents are James and Pattylynn Fogle of Clayton near St. Louis, is widely described as extremely smart, making his alleged missteps even harder to understand. He graduated in 2002 from Mary Institute and St. Louis Country Day School, and from Colgate in Hamilton, New York, in 2006.

"He was a sharp guy, a smart guy," said Nate Hopson, a high school classmate.

At Colgate, he had a double major of political science and international relations. He was elected to Konosioni Senior Honor Society. He was recalled as a politically conservative young man. And he was focused on his goal.

Flicker, his former roommate, recalled how Fogle didn't want to be anywhere near other students smoking pot, fearful that it somehow might affect his application to the FBI or CIA.

Fogle joined the U.S. foreign service in February 2011, when he had an address in Virginia, according to public records. He was reportedly working as a third secretary in the political division of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. The title is among the most junior positions in the U.S. diplomatic corps.

It was unclear what will happen to Fogle now. Russian officials declared him "persona non grata" and ordered him out of the country, first making sure the world knew about him. Earnest, the former CIA official, said it was possible Fogle could return to the clandestine service, that he could continue pursuing his long-held dream.

"As a spy, you don't want to get caught," Earnest said. "But that's not the whole game." Earnest said he had his cover blown during his long career and was able to return to the field. But he acknowledged that the wired world today is a lot smaller.

O'Neill, the former FBI agent, was less confident that Fogle could again go undercover.

"The Russians beamed his face all over the world," he said. "I very much doubt he'll be returning to the field."