HACKENSACK, N.J. — For some holiday gift givers, this is the year of the drone.

There's the DJI Phantom 2 Vision, an aircraft with four propellers and a high-definition camera that can fly for miles on autopilot. Priced at $1,200, this drone recently was named a top holiday gift for 2014 by USA Today.

There's the Parrot AR 2.0, for sale by Amazon for $394.95, but available for $299 if you buy it from Verizon, and use your Verizon smartphone to fly it.

Looking to entertain the kids without spending three figures? No problem. Right now you can drive to Radio Shack and buy the store brand's Surveyor Drone. It's red. It shoots video. With the tap of a button, it'll even do barrel rolls. And it's cheap. Normally priced at $69.99, this marvel of modern aviation is on sale for the holidays for $59.

"I bought them because they're cool," said Rob Powley of Mahwah, New Jersey, who bought some drones preassembled and built some others. He enjoys his drones so much that he forgets how many he actually owns. "It's amazing what you can do with a drone. And they're getting better all the time."

But for pilots of commercial planes, tourists in national parks, and even pedestrians, drones could pose problems. For years the province of top-secret military operations, and later the public face of America's air wars against insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan, drone technology has arrived in the consumer market, trading precision and lethality for easy-to-use cameras and low-cost fun.

As the sale of drones to hobbyists exploded in 2014, however, so too did concerns about safety and privacy, along with calls for tighter state and federal regulation. Which means that fun gift you place under the tree this year may face tight new regulations in the Christmases to come.

"It's fluid, and it's confusing," Wells C. Bennett, a fellow at the Brookings Institution who studies national security law, said about the changing rules concerning hobbyist drones. "There's a patchwork of laws that vary by state and municipality. And a lot of the laws will change over the next couple of years."

Just five years ago, drones available to consumers simply didn't exist, said Mike Blades, an aerospace and defense-industry analyst for Frost &amp; Sullivan, a market-research firm. Since then, growth has exploded. In what he calls a conservative estimate, Blades figures consumers will spend $720 million on drones this year. Next year, that will double, which translates to 200,000 units sold every month. By 2020, the consumer market for hobbyist drones will reach $4.5 billion, Blades estimates.

"That's a lot," said Blades. "The opportunity with drones is huge."

With four rotors and advanced microchips to help stabilize flight, drones are easier to fly than traditional radio-controlled planes and helicopters. They also move differently, replacing an airplane's fluid dips and arcs with the sharp pivots of a robot. Drones take off vertically, leaping straight into the sky. At altitude, a drone's computer can be synced with global positioning coordinates, causing the craft to change course with an abrupt snap before zooming off.

Less elegant than planes, many drones can perform barrel rolls and loop-de-loops, but some off-the-shelf models come preprogrammed to prevent such maneuvers, said Steve Cohen, who teaches students about unmanned avionics at Bergen Community College, Paramus, New Jersey.

Old-fashioned radio-controlled planes "are great, but you need a lot of space. A small quadcopter you can fly around your house," said Powley, who in fact does fly his drones around his house and office. "Also you can fly with first-person video, so it looks like you're inside it. That's really cool."

Many military drones were designed for stealth, but there's nothing sneaky about most hobbyist models. Each propeller hums at a different pitch, which together creates a racket like a hive of angry bees. And when the battery dies, watch out. Drones under $100 may fly for just a minute or two; drones that cost around $500 may get 12 minutes, users said. Many drone enthusiasts interviewed for this story described a time when they pushed their drones a little too far and a little too high, only to watch their toys run out of battery power and drop like stones.

"I flew one about nine miles out, and I just barely made it back," said Bob Debois, owner of Shadow Hobbies in Paterson, New Jersey, which sells radio-controlled planes and drones. "The batteries had about 30 seconds to spare. We went a little too far with it."

The biggest difference between planes and drones is cameras. Sensors such as GoPro cameras are tiny and light, and they're capable of transmitting photos and video instantly to smartphones, tablets and computers.

Soon, those cameras will grow far more powerful and sophisticated. Hobbyist drones may also carry new technologies. LIDAR cameras operate like radar but use lasers, building intricate 3-D maps of territory and spaces. Such cameras can even spot people through trees and foliage, which has made the technology useful to military and police forces around the world. As such technologies grow lighter and cheaper, "they will be affordable for anyone to buy in the next 10 years," Blades said.

Lighter equipment and better batteries also mean that drones in the near future will fly higher, farther and faster than anything available commercially today.

"I paid $5,200 for my drone in April of this year, and it was already antiquated three months later," said Matt Ulmer, an appliance salesman in Wildwood, New Jersey, who intentionally flew his drone right into the middle of exploding fireworks during the town's July Fourth display. Ulmer's video from the flight has been viewed more than 800,000 times on Instagram.

"The technology is changing so fast, it's crazy," Ulmer said.

Concerns about the privacy and safety of consumer drones are growing as quickly as the market itself. After complaints of drones buzzing too close to tourists at Mount Rushmore, the Grand Canyon and Yosemite, the National Park Service in June temporarily banned drones on all 84 million acres of land it manages until the agency can work out a permanent policy.

In January, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) received no complaints about drones getting too close to commercial airliners and other manned planes. By July, 30 airplane pilots a month were complaining to the FAA about near misses with drones, or sightings of drones within restricted airspace near airports.

On July 20, a pilot landing at Trenton-Mercer Airport reported a four-propeller drone flying 100 feet above his aircraft. On Sept. 8, the pilots of three different passenger jets reported "a very close call" with a drone at about 1,900 feet as they flew their final approaches into La Guardia Airport in New York City. Three weeks later, a drone flying at 4,000 feet in the middle of La Guardia's airspace "almost hit" a passenger plane with 65 seats, the FAA reported.

Even a small drone could bring down a jet.

"A drone would just demolish an aircraft engine," said Cohen, the organizer of the New York City Drone User Group, who encourages drone fliers to follow the rules.

With some exceptions, FAA regulations require operators to keep small unmanned aircraft below 400 feet and at least five miles away from airports. On Dec. 3, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat from California, sent a letter to the FAA urging the agency to be more aggressive about investigating rogue drone operators. Feinstein also said she intends to introduce federal legislation cracking down on all private drones, possibly including hobbyists', which would include "substantial criminal penalties if manned aircraft or people are put at risk."

Others worry that drones could be used to invade people's privacy. In September Russell Percenti, a resident of Lower Township, New Jersey, became so angry at his neighbor for flying a drone over his house that Percenti shot the craft down with a shotgun. Percenti was arrested and charged with unlawful possession of a weapon and criminal mischief.

"With small hobbyist drones with high-definition cameras, it'll be easy enough to peek into your neighbors' backyard anytime you want to, even if they have a very high fence," said Jeramie Scott, national security counsel for the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), which advocates stronger privacy protection.

The FAA currently is investigating new rules for drones. While the effort is focused on commercial uses, such as whether drone operators for companies like Amazon will be required to obtain pilots' licenses, the agency has informed EPIC that its new rules also will include privacy provisions.

A law passed in Texas this year bans drone use "with intent to perform surveillance" on private individuals or land, and another in Wisconsin makes it a misdemeanor to photograph, record or observe individuals where they have "a reasonable expectation of privacy."

That protection may not be as ironclad as it sounds, however. Millions of people will buy drones in the next few years, and any of those drones can easily fly to your house and peer into your bedroom window, said David Opderbeck, director of the Gibbons Institute of Law, Science and Technology at Seton Hall School of Law in New Jersey.

Does that mean the expectation of privacy inside our bedrooms is no longer reasonable? Maybe, Opderbeck said.

"It certainly has eroded our privacy because it erodes our expectations of privacy," Opderbeck said.

Drone supporters say such concerns are overblown. Limiting how much personal information we post on Facebook would be a much better way to spurn peeping Toms than restricting new technology, Cohen said.

A strong pair of binoculars is much more effective as a spying tool than a drone that flies for a few minutes at a time and buzzes like a flock of angry hornets, said Michael Drobac, executive director of the Small UAV Coalition, an industry trade group for drone manufacturers and would-be users.

"We already have laws to protect consumer welfare and privacy, and if those laws are broken then those people should be prosecuted," Drobac said. "Technology is never the problem. It's bad actors who are the problem."

Law enforcement, firefighter and emergency response crews in New Jersey are allowed to use drones for surveillance under current state and federal law. New Jersey lawmakers passed a bill last year limiting the use of surveillance drones by government agencies, but did not address safety issues or drones used by hobbyists. Governor Chris Christie pocket vetoed it by not taking action. Whether they come from the state, federal agencies or local towns, however, new rules regulating the use of drones appear inevitable.

"It's a significantly unregulated space," Opderbeck said. "I think the issue is already being forced."

Opderbeck may soon become a drone fan himself. He has researched buying one and putting it together with his two sons, ages 16 and 13.

"I've always been a tech geek. I like the idea of just getting a view of where you live and work and play that you don't normally have," he said. "I want one."