Imagine a major earthquake has struck San Francisco, devastating the city and doing millions of dollars worth of damage. In order to begin rebuilding, people need money to help pay to repair damaged houses and cars.

This money usually comes from insurance companies, which help people deal with disasters. However, sometimes the places with the most damage can be hard for insurance workers to travel to.

Drones may help insurance workers get the information they need quicker. They might also help people get back on their feet faster.

Drones are vehicles that fly through the air without a pilot. They are small airplanes and helicopters that fly by remote control. Drones have been in the news the last few years because the U.S. military has been using drones to drop bombs on targets overseas.

Today, many different types of companies hope to use drones. In coming years, drones will be used by businesses for many new purposes.

##"Imagination Is The Boundary"

"Imagination is the boundary of what we'll see in the future with drones," said Rachel Stohl, an expert on drones who works at a Washington, D.C., think tank.

The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is in charge of what can fly over the United States — it controls U.S. airspace. For years, it has only allowed drones for police and research groups.

Right now, it's illegal to use a drone commercially — for business — without an FAA permit. The FAA has given out almost no permits to businesses that want to use drones.

In general, regular people can use drones on their own property or someone else's property with permission, but those rules vary from state to state.

##Safety And Licensing

Drones are not allowed in U.S. airspace, which means they must be kept below a certain altitude, and that they cannot go into certain areas.

In 2012, Congress gave the FAA three years to make a plan for drones to be included in the national airspace system. The FAA has been looking at drone safety. Last month, it allowed six filmmaking companies to use unmanned aircraft.

The FAA's plan is due by September 2015, although the Transportation Department says the FAA is significantly behind and may miss the deadline.

Traditional aircraft — airplanes and helicopters with pilots — come in standard shapes and sizes. They are used for common jobs. Drones, on the other hand, can be almost size. No one is sure what they will be used for. The sky is the limit.

##Eager To Experiment

"[The FAA] is having a really hard time understanding the technology," said Mary Louise Cummings, a professor at Duke University.

The FAA might not understand drones completely, but many different companies are eager to experiment with the technology.

Drones can be smaller and cheaper than traditional aircraft. They are perfect for situations that may be too dangerous for a pilot.

In rugged terrain, such as rocky mountains, drones can be useful, Stohl said. They are also helpful when ground conditions are dangerous, such as during a volcano eruption or tsunami. They can also be used for search-and-rescue operations and to fight fires, she added.

##Masters Of Disasters

The USAA, a large insurance company, has used drones to take aerial photography after a disaster. However, the company will still use traditional aircraft as well, said Kathleen Swain of USAA. Drones will replace work that is now done on foot, she said.

"The delays we face are getting to the site after a catastrophe," Swain said. "Obviously, because of the damage, it's hard to get boots on the ground. This is more economical, it's more efficient, it's cheaper."

The insurance company has been working with the FAA on drone permissions since 2010. It's not alone.

"We've been talking about all these possible applications for years," Cummings said.

Drones could be used in agriculture, entertainment, surveying, wildlife conservation and mining. They could help to monitor the safety of infrastructure such as bridges and tunnels. All these industries have a need for high-quality aerial photos for relatively little money, Cummings said.

##Bird's-Eye View

"Anywhere where you think you need to see something from high up, it's going to be not only cheaper but safer," Cummings said.

The Association for Unmanned Vehicle Systems International is a lobbying group that is working to change laws to make it simpler for companies to use drones. It has made a list of industries that are using drones or considering using them.

Scenes from Martin Scorsese's "The Wolf of Wall Street" were shot using drones. Large oil companies such as Conoco and Shell want to use drones to search for oil off Alaska's coast. The PGA wants to use drones to film golf events, while the Washington Nationals baseball team used a small helicopter-style drone to take publicity pictures. The FAA later stopped the team, because it lacked a permit.

Clemson University uses a drone to take overhead video of its football practices and marching band formations. Fresno State's football program has a drone hang behind its quarterback during drills.

"The vantage point you get being just behind the quarterback, but still raised, I think is really helping our guys have bigger vision down the field," coach Tim DeRuyter said.

"We've had cameras right behind the quarterback, but it does limit the vision. So having that drone up about 10 feet above their heads" gives them a unique view, said DeRuyter.