DALLAS — A Texas Health Presbyterian Hospital Dallas health care worker who had "extensive contact" with the first Ebola patient to die in the United States has contracted the disease.

The infected person detected a fever Friday night and drove herself to Presbyterian Hospital's  emergency room, where she was placed in isolation 90 minutes later. A blood sample sent to the state health lab in Austin confirmed Saturday night that she had Ebola — the first person to contract the disease in the United States.

The director for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said Sunday that the infection in the health care worker, who was not on the organization's watch list for people who had contact with Ebola patient Thomas Eric Duncan, resulted from a "breach in protocol."

"We have spoken with the health care worker," who cannot "identify the specific breach" that allowed the infection to spread, said CDC director Dr. Tom Frieden. The CDC has sent additional staff members to Dallas to "assist with the response," he said.

Frieden said exposure can result from a "single inadvertent slip." He cautioned: "Unfortunately, it is possible in the coming days we will see additional cases of Ebola" in health care workers.

Texas Health Commissioner David Lakey said the health care worker had "extensive contact" with Duncan. The nurse, who missed two days of work before going to the emergency room, is believed to have had contact with one person while symptomatic. Ebola, which is spread through direct contact with bodily fluids of a sick person, can be transmitted only by infected people showing symptoms.

"We have been preparing for an event like this," Lakey said.

Presbyterian Hospital chief clinical officer Daniel Varga said the exposure occurred during Duncan's second visit to the hospital. Duncan, the first person to die of Ebola in the United States, went to the Presbyterian emergency room Sept. 26 and was sent home with antibiotics only to return to the hospital on Sept. 28. He was diagnosed with Ebola and died Oct. 8

Officials haven't released the name of the health care worker or her job description. Dallas County Judge Clay Jenkins said he has spoken to the health care worker's parents, who have asked for privacy.

"Let's remember that this is a real person who is going through a great ordeal. So is that person's family," Jenkins said.

The second Ebola patient's apartment was decontaminated Sunday. While the CDC didn't consider the person to be at "high risk" of contracting Ebola, the health care worker had been monitoring for signs of the disease, including checking for fever twice daily.

The person's car was decontaminated and the common area of an apartment complex was cleaned by a hazardous-material team Sunday.

Police officers and a CDC representative talked to residents Sunday morning and distributed papers about Ebola symptoms. Dallas Mayor Mike Rawlings also visited with residents.

"It just breaks my heart. She was just an innocent woman who took care of someone who was sick," said neighbor Colleen Watson said. "She did her job, and probably with full empathy and kindness, and for this to happen to her is so much sadder than any other case."

Lindsey Carpenter, 33, said her roommate had searched on the Internet to find out why news helicopters were flying over their neighborhood. He barged into her room at 9:30 a.m. when he found an answer: "There's an Ebola patient in the neighborhood."

Carpenter, who works in a hospital in Lewisville, said she hopes Presbyterian investigates how the nurse contracted Ebola — especially because she was exposed to Duncan during his second visit to the hospital.

"They were prepared with hazmat suits and everything," she said. "I wonder how she got it. It's really puzzling. There's probably more to the story that we don't know."

Dina Smith was holding her 3-year-old daughter, still in disbelief that the first contracted case was just a block away.

"I'm not particularly concerned because from everything I heard, she was a nurse and took every precaution," Smith said. "But you hear the helicopters overhead and see the news, and it makes you pay more attention."