KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Kansas City suburb of Parkville, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead. Cooks weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan, and owner Roxanne Gray gladly allowed it.

Today, Roxanne's is more stringent. A three-egg omelet means three eggs. No more, no less.

"I have one cook that I can't control his egging. He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now. I told him, 'Make two scrambled eggs for me,' and he probably had six eggs in the pan," Gray said. "So it's all about portion control."

That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have escalated enormously in the past month. On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs. Last week, she paid $42.85.

Roxanne's Cafe is not alone. Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs grow from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks. Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu, or avian influenza, expanding through the Midwest.

"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.

Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago. The country's top egg-producing state, Iowa, has been hit the hardest. More than 30 million hens in Iowa have been affected. In Minnesota, almost 9 million birds, mostly turkeys, have caught the virus.

More than 53,000 birds in Missouri and 40,000 birds in Arkansas have been affected. In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock. Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.

The series of outbreaks has cut egg production. Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture released a report lowering its forecast for domestic production this year to 95.9 billion. That's a 4 percent drop from last month's estimates.

The virus has struck at a time when eggs were enjoying relative popularity in the food market; last year, the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs.

"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," Kevin Burkum, senior vice president of marketing at the American Egg Board.

Consumers have become increasingly concerned with protein-rich diets, and last year each person ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high for egg consumption.

Burkum said that while prices are expected to hover higher than usual this summer, the American Egg Board is "cautiously optimistic" that eggs will remain attractive.

Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to compensate for high egg prices. In addition to portion control in her egg-heavy meals, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs, such as goulash and catfish. She hasn't offered lemon meringue pie in two weeks. Her cooks may begin cracking eggs over the stove per omelet instead of cracking eggs into a bucket each morning.

Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure: raising menu prices.

But Roxanne's also takes a somewhat unusual approach by using shelled eggs — the type found in supermarkets — as opposed to "breaking eggs," which can be made into liquid eggs that food providers primarily use to make bakery items, breakfast foods and other egg-heavy dishes.

Of all the farms that have detected bird flu within their flocks, 85 percent were meant for these liquid eggs that are sent to large food manufacturers and food providers, Burkum said.

Before the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen breaking eggs was 63 cents. That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a market reporter for Urner Barry, a food industry trade publication.

Because the majority of the affected poultry were egg-laying hens, there has been "no significant impact" on meat production, said David Harvey, a USDA agricultural economist.

To help make up for the losses in production in eggs, though, the USDA recently approved a deal to import egg products from the Netherlands.

Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also grappling with the consequences of the virus.

"We're not panicking, we're not going to run out of eggs, but we are making retail adjustments," said Gregg Frost, vice president at the Kansas City-area grocery chain Hen House. "We expect a ripple effect for eight to 12 months. It is surprising how many items use eggs."

Some of these egg products include the usual suspects — bakery items and ice cream, for example — but other goods are made with egg products as well, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.

Hen House said its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, and it has had to pass some of that on to consumers. Its suppliers have also asked the grocery store chain not to run egg promotions that could increase demand.

Tara Deering-Hansen, a spokeswoman for Hy-Vee, said there have been a few delays on larger-sized eggs but no significant shortages.

"Due to shelf life and availability concerns, we would not stockpile eggs," Deering-Hansen said in a statement. "The avian flu will have long-term effects, and we have been told to prepare for wild market fluctuations over the next few years as the industry rebuilds."

In the Midwest, the average wholesale price was $2.62 for a dozen eggs. A year ago, a carton of eggs was $1.40, Moscogiuri said.

Consumers have taken note.

For her egg supply, Rachel Ciordas, a baker and blogger from the Kansas City area, has traded in the supermarket for the farmers market.

"There's usually a bigger difference between the farmers market price and the store price," Ciordas said. "Now it's the same price or cheaper to buy from a farmer."

Local egg farmers remain largely unaffected by the avian flu and the drop in output from larger egg producers.

Campo Lindo Farms, a farm north of Kansas City with 3,000 laying hens, said avian flu in one of its flocks would have put it out of business. However, Campo Lindo has not increased prices to take advantage of other companies' lagging production numbers, said owner Carol Maddick.

Camp Creek Farms, which sells its 11 dozen daily eggs at a Kansas City-area farmers market, raised its prices 50 cents a dozen earlier this year, but that was due to internal business costs.

Although Camp Creek hasn't seen a "big jump" in sales since the outbreaks began, customers have expressed concerns about bird flu and egg prices at the farmers market, said Rick Newson, the farm's owner.

It's not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry packed in enclosed facilities.

Conventional wisdom says the virus is transferred through physical contact such as bird droppings. But Hongwei Xin, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, hypothesizes that particles of the virus can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of hatcheries and barns. If Xin's suspicions about airborne travel are correct, crews meant to stop outbreaks may begin installing air-filter systems in poultry facilities.

Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow under the scorching sun of the summer months.

"The rest of the summer looks promising," Xin said. "The big unknown is when fall comes around and temperatures drop."

Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, enough research will have been done to curb further outbreaks. But there are no guarantees.