MIAMI, Fla. — The El Faro shipwreck rests deep in the ocean. There is no light. The water is freezing. Little life exists beyond microbes, giant worms and strange-looking fish.

The El Faro sank last month during a hurricane. The ship went down off the Bahamas. The Bahamas are islands near Florida.

The ship sank within minutes of its last call for help. All 33 people on board died.

Investigators want to discover why the El Faro sank. They are using a vehicle that can go deep underwater. It can go deeper than a submarine. Pilots up above the water steer the vehicle down below. No person goes in the vehicle.

##In Search Of The Black Box 
The machine is called a remotely operated vehicle. Its short name is ROV. It has cameras to see the ship's body. Robotic arms can grab important things from the ship. One of the important things is the black box. The black box stores sound recordings from people on board.

Justin Manley is piloting the ROV. The ROV is very good at doing its job, Manley said. The vehicle can be very hard to steer, though, he added.

The U.S government is studying the shipwreck.

The ROV has looked at the ship's sides. The bridge is no longer attached to the ship. The bridge is the room where the captain steers the ship. The black box was kept in the bridge.

Finding the black box is important. The black box could let investigators and families hear what people on the ship said before it sank.

##The Captain's Last Message
Peter Knudson works for the government. Knudson said that so far there has been good weather. The people manning the ROV have been able to do their job.

Soon, stormy weather and rough seas may hold up the search. Knudson thought the search would take only 15 days.

Captain Michael Davidson sent a last message from the ship. The message said the ship was unable to move forward. A hatch had blown open. The hatch is a cover that keeps water out.

The open hatch let water come into an airtight space. Davidson knew he was approaching a hurricane. He probably would have closed all the hatches.

> UPDATE: Crews working to find the black box for the El Faro were unsuccessful in finding the black box. They also did not find the bodies. And the search has since been called off.