Biologists have long debated whether bigger is better.

A Stanford team now has proof that evolution favors growth: the researchers found that many lineages of sea creatures have evolved into behemoths.

In one of the most comprehensive studies of the evolution of body size, researchers Jonathan Payne and Noah Heim found that the fossil record shows that a century-old — and much-argued — maxim, known as Cope's Rule, is true.

Over the past 542 million years, the mean size of marine animals has increased 150-fold, they report in Friday's journal Science.

That fat scallop on your dinner plate? Its ancestors were about one-quarter inch long.

"There has been this open question of whether animals get bigger, over time — but there's been a lack of data," said Heim, a postdoctoral researcher in paleontologist Payne's lab at Stanford's School of Earth, Energy and Environmental Systems.

"We found that things are getting bigger. And bigger," he said.

Cope's Rule, named for a pioneering 19th century American paleontologist, argues that animals often start out small and get bigger over evolutionary time. For proof, one need look no further than horses. They started out no bigger than a house pet. Now they pull heavy wagons filled with beer barrels.

But this linear model for evolution fell out of favor starting in the 1970s, when a few major exceptions were exposed. The late eminent Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould dismissed it in his book "Full House," saying it was not an invariable law of nature.

The Stanford team subjected Cope's Rule to rigorous scrutiny. "Our study is the most comprehensive test of Cope's Rule ever conducted," Heim said.

With the help of dozens of Bay Area high school students and Stanford undergraduates, they measured more than 17,000 groups, or genera, of marine fossils. That's three-quarters of marine animals in the fossil record — and almost two-thirds of all animals that ever lived.

Using calipers, students meticulously measured photographs and detailed illustrations of fossils in the 50-volume Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, revered as the bible of every invertebrate animal genus with a fossil record known to science. Then the data was analyzed using advanced computer models.

A biological trend emerged, revealing this: Cope was correct. Organisms get bigger.

And, even more profoundly: Evolution can be predicted.

Two million years ago in the warm, shallow and salty oceans that sloshed around the Western U.S., the typical sea urchin was about two inches long, said Heim. Now the creatures can reach nearly a foot.

The increase isn't because each animal lineage grew steadily larger, they found. Instead, bigger species tended to trump small species, giving rise to a broader array of giants.

And size doesn't increase gradually, but happens in two significant leaps. The urchin's first big jump came during the 250 million years of evolution between the Cambrian and Permian periods, when plants, amphibians and reptiles first emerge. It levels off in the Mesozoic, from 250 to 65 million years ago. Then it takes another somewhat smaller jump in the late Cenozoic, when mammals appear.

These growth spurts may be related to mass extinctions — which set the stage for new creatures, Heim said. "There could be changes in the types of ecology — before and after extinctions — that change trajectory."

They didn't study why being big bestows such an advantage. Maybe it's harder for anything else to eat them. Perhaps mates find them more attractive. Or they could be better equipped to fight off competitors.

Will we someday live on a planet of titans?

No, size eventually catches up with you, Heim said. Breathing becomes a problem, because lungs need to be massive and very efficient to keep supplying the air needed to support such a large size. Food is a challenge, too. There just isn't enough of it.

"At some point, there must be some sort of maximum," he said.

There is this final poignant twist: Humans overrule Cope's Rule. Because hunters and fishers target large animals, they tip natural selection in favor of smaller animals, said Heim.

The million-year-old trajectory finally proven, "people might be playing a role in changing it."