CHICAGO — As the mellow sounds of soul music played, Willie Bailey grabbed his 7-year-old daughter's hand and twirled her in a circle. He pulled her close, placed a hand on her shoulder, and the two bopped back and forth in a two-step, laughing and giggling.

"I feel so happy," Bailey's daughter, Taniya, said after they stopped moving. "I feel pretty."

Bailey and his daughter were among dozens of father-daughter couples gathered on Chicago's South Side recently at a party designed to spotlight the role of black fathers in their daughter's lives. For Bailey, the event was a way to celebrate his love for his youngest daughter. It was a reason, too, for her to get dressed up and be the center of attention for a day.

"I wouldn't miss this for the world," said Bailey, 45, of Oak Park, Illinois, who has attended the event three years in a row. "I love it because it gives us a chance to spend time together, just us."

Father-daughter dances and balls date back decades, and were especially popular in churches that hosted the events to promote the special bond between fathers and their daughters.

In recent years, African-Americans have started to host and participate in the social events as a way of highlighting the role fathers play in helping their daughters develop self-esteem and feel supported and validated.

The Black Star Project, which has hosted such events for six years, had its biggest turnout this year, officials with the education advocacy group said. Another Chicago group that hosts a similar affair also reported an increase in interest. At Haley Elementary Academy in the Roseland and West Pullman communities, school leaders have planned their first father-daughter dance for later this year, Principal Sherry Pirtle said.

"There is already a buzz about it. The girls are talking about what they want to wear," said Pirtle. "I see our fathers walking their kids to school in the mornings. I see them picking their kids up. They come get the report cards. Our dads are really unsung."

That growing interest in father-daughter dances comes amid a long-standing push in African-American communities to keep fathers involved in the lives of their sons. According to statistics compiled by the Annie E. Casey Foundation from census figures, 67 percent of black children in the U.S. in 2013 were being raised in single-parent households. In Illinois, 74 percent of black children in 2013 were being raised by single parents.

But just because many black children are being raised by single parents doesn't mean that their fathers aren't involved or aren't the primary caregivers, according to Waldo Johnson Jr., an associate professor in the University of Chicago's School of Social Service Administration.

"When you think about it, a father is really the first male relationship that a girl has," Johnson said in an interview. "It sets the tone in many ways for what young girls might ideally look for in other male relationships."

With her mentoring group Polished Pebbles, Kelly Fair gives young black girls exposure to female professionals who can offer advice on how to reach their goals. But Fair said the role of men in a young woman's life can't be overlooked.

"There are men out here who are responsible, loving, trusting, caring and doing good things," said Fair. "We want our girls to see them."

To do that, Polished Pebbles hosts a father-daughter dance on Valentine's Day in Bronzeville. At the event, girls can bring their fathers, uncles, cousins or brothers to serve as male role models. For girls who don't have a relationship with their biological father, Fair finds volunteers to step in and accompany the girls.

"When we looked at the girls we serve, some have active dads, but a lot of them don't," Fair said. "We want our dance to include all girls, so even if they don't have a male to bring, we tell them to come anyway."

To keep the event light-hearted, the men introduce themselves to the girls and they play group games. Instead of dancing one on one, they line dance, play musical chairs and boogie down a soul train line.

At the Black Star Project's father-daughter dance, about 70 men spent a Saturday afternoon fussing over the special girls in their lives. Most men were there with their young daughters. Some brought nieces, cousins and girls from their neighborhoods so they could party, too.

The dance started with a meal and featured a performance by a magician. Then it was time to dance.

Joe Dunford, 36, floated from side to side, bouncing his shoulders and nodding to the music as his daughter did her own freestyle moves in front of him. He grabbed her hands and pulled her arms in synchronized movements.

"It's a little embarrassing, but it's fun," said Miranda, 8. "He dances weird. I like it though."

Dunford laughed off his daughter's criticism. It was his first time attending the dance and it meant more than just dressing up for a party.

"I want her to see from an early age what to expect from a man and how she should be treated," he said.

From the day his daughter was born, Israel Townsel has been her primary caretaker, he said. His relationship with his daughter's mother didn't work out. But he wanted to make sure his daughter was brought up in a stable home with her father as provider and biggest supporter.

"We get such a bad reputation for what a few men have done," said Townsel, 37. "It feels good to be in a room full of men who love being fathers."

Besides bringing his daughter, Egypt, 4, to the dance, Townsel brought his niece, Dyamond Roberts, 11. The girls were dressed in coordinated magenta gowns with black and silver necklaces.

"I'm a dad and I do it all," said Townsel, beaming with pride. "Yes, I did her hair myself. I picked out the dress, shoes. We get such a bad reputation for being 'baby daddies.' But we love our children and take care of them," he added.

Bailey and his daughter made a day of the event. They had breakfast together and got dressed for the dance at his mother-in-law's house. They took photos in their outfits — Taniya in a cream-colored gown with a pearl necklace and pink floral accessories, Bailey in his Sunday best with a cream apple cap and tan blazer to elevate his look.

"She loves to get dressed up and look pretty," Bailey said. "I love to do what makes her happy and keeps her smiling. Our bond is unbreakable."

And after the dance, they went to Taniya's favorite restaurant, Red Lobster.