CLAYTON, Mo. — Lawyers for Michael Brown's family stood outside the St. Louis County Courthouse on Thursday morning and said the family supports Missouri Governor Jay Nixon's call for calm once the grand jury announces its decision about whether to indict the Ferguson police officer who shot the teen.

But the attorneys said the governor's call should have been aimed at police as well.

The family wants to "reiterate his denouncement of violence, looting and rioting in the name of Michael Brown," said Anthony D. Gray, a Brown family attorney. "We feel, as the governor and other law enforcement officials, that such acts cannot be tolerated."

Gray added: "Law enforcement should have been equally condemned by the governor for this conduct at the same time he was admonishing the demonstrators. A strong message of zero tolerance should have been conveyed to all."

Those remarks come amid the backdrop of a region unsettled by months of protests after Brown, 18, was fatally shot by Ferguson police officer Darren Wilson on Aug. 9. Many in the region fear that the earlier unrest is only a taste of what's to come if the grand jury investigating the case decides not to indict Wilson. The lawyers also said they don't trust the secrecy of the grand jury process. The grand jury's decision is expected by the end of November.

Another lawyer for the Brown family, Benjamin Crump, said Prosecutor Robert P. McCulloch had too much control over the grand jury.

"The grand jury will do whatever the prosecutor wants them to do," he said. "This has always been about what evidence he presents and how he presents it."

Because the grand jury convenes in secret, Crump said, crucial elements of an open court process cannot be witnessed by the general public.

"We won't know what emphasis is placed on a key piece of evidence. We won't hear the inflection of a voice in testimony," he said.

Crump told reporters he wanted to thank police "in advance" for "not having a repeat of the horrific encounters that took place in August," saying that police sometimes went too far and violated the rights of peaceful protesters and the media.

Crump said Nixon's job as chief executive of the state is to ensure laws are enforced equally, but said there have been "questionable outcomes." Gray said police need to use "reasonable restraints" when dealing with demonstrators.

"History is clear," Gray said. "Prior to many uncivilized reactions by demonstrators, they were simply exercising their First Amendment rights, during which time they became victims of assault rifles being pointed in their face, being manhandled, being tear-gassed, hit by rubber bullets, falsely arrested, including members of the media, some of which had their equipment damaged."

He added, "These acts of violence impacted innocent men, women and children simply exercising their rights."

Crump and Gray spoke less than an hour after Dr. Michael Baden entered the courthouse to testify before the grand jury. Baden, a nationally known pathologist, has examined Brown's body as a consultant for the Brown family. The grand jury is hearing testimony in the case of Wilson, 28.

As Gray and Crump spoke amid snow flurries in Clayton, Baden was inside the courthouse, testifying in secret before members of the grand jury. Gray and Crump would not comment on the substance of what they believed Baden would be telling the grand jurors.

However, they said that Baden had found one new piece of evidence since his initial autopsy on Brown. A chest wound that Baden originally thought was a re-entry wound has now been determined to be an entry wound, the lawyers said.

Crump criticized the grand jury's secrecy and insisted that Wilson should have been charged by prosecutors long ago.

"Probable cause exists to charge Darren Wilson with the shooting of an unarmed teenager," Crump said.

While Crump thanked McCulloch for inviting Baden to testify, he had harsh criticism for the grand jury's procedure and its secrecy.

"Secrecy generates mistrust," he said.

Brown's parents were in Switzerland early in the week to talk to the United Nations, and they did not attend the Thursday news conference in Clayton.

Gray began his remarks to reporters by saying that the parents wanted to encourage "all of those that support the justice for Mike Brown to remain vigilant yet peaceful, calm and dignified as we await — and after we receive the announcement of the grand jury decision."

But soon, Gray and Crump turned their attention to Nixon in response to what the governor did and did not say during his own news conference.

On Tuesday, Nixon talked about how police are preparing for what might come with the grand jury's announcement. Nixon said his office and the area's top law enforcement agencies were "working around the clock" to keep residents and businesses safe while allowing protesters to exercise their constitutional rights after the grand jury's decision is announced.

Nixon said the "pillars of safety and speech" will mark how law enforcement responds to any unrest. Nixon said he had yet to call up the Missouri National Guard, but that the guard was "available if we determine it is necessary."

Nixon spoke about the preparations mostly in generalities and responded to specific questions by stressing that he wouldn't disclose any "operational plans."

McCulloch has said the grand jury probably would complete its work in mid- to late- November.

Nixon was joined by Sam Dotson, the St. Louis police chief; Jon Belmar, the St. Louis County police chief; Captain Ronald S. Johnson of the Missouri Highway Patrol; and Dan Isom, the former St. Louis police chief and current director of the Missouri Department of Public Safety.

Belmar said the possibility of lives lost as a result of civil unrest keeps him up at night. It was remarkable, he said, that no one died, or was seriously injured, during the height of the protests over Brown's death in August.

Protesters repeatedly have asked Nixon to appoint a special prosecutor to handle the case, but the governor has refused. Protesters have cited McCulloch's ties to the police in saying he should not be involved.

On Wednesday, St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley and St. Louis Mayor Francis Slay added their voices to the call for calm when a grand jury rules on the Brown case, vowing that they were "not going to let this community go down in flames."

Slay and Dooley, as Nixon had, decried rumors of pending unrest circulating on social media, the wide-scale purchase of guns and ammunition by fearful homeowners and what Dooley characterized as the pervasive "hysteria" enveloping the region in advance of the grand jury outcome.

"Take a deep breath, stand back and calm down," urged the county executive.

Dooley and Slay emphasized that public safety and ensuring the rights of demonstrators to voice their opinions remain a top priority.

Dooley and Slay cited the steps to reform the municipal court system and provide more employment opportunities to young African-Americans as evidence that Brown's death could ultimately serve as a catalyst for positive change.

"We will get through this," said Slay. "We are already laying the groundwork to be a better region."