HACKENSACK, N.J. — William Howard Taft, the heaviest president in U.S. history, grew so tired of being ridiculed about his weight that he told his physician to put him on a diet, noting that "no real gentleman weighs more than 300 pounds."

President Lyndon B. Johnson groused to staffers, "I can't button my britches," and traded his tapioca pudding for Jell-O when his binges got the best of him.

Governor Chris Christie, once an estimated 200 pounds overweight, appears to have taken off at least half those excess pounds in the 21 months since he had Lap-Band surgery, according to experts, a victory many see as essential if the New Jersey Republican intends to make a 2016 bid for the White House.

"He's lost 100 pounds, if not a little bit more, which puts him on a very good track," said Dr. Jaime Ponce, immediate past president of the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery. "The pictures are very impressive," he said, commenting on photos provided by The Record.

Christie underwent Lap-Band surgery at NYU Langone Medical Center in February 2013, becoming the public face of bariatric procedures, just as Jets coach Rex Ryan (Lap-Band) and "Today" show weatherman Al Roker (gastric bypass) did before him. Lap-Band surgery is often a last-ditch effort after decades of dieting. The procedure involves placing a silicone band with a balloon inside around the upper portion of the stomach to severely limit what a person can eat.

While Dr. Stefanie Vaimakis, director of bariatric surgery at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, New Jersey, also estimates the governor has lost 100 pounds, Christie's office declined to say how much weight he has lost, nor would his staff discuss his diet or workouts. Christie has said that only his physician and his wife know how much he weighs.

While he still has a significant amount to lose, the change in the governor's body is quite visible. His face is much thinner and his clothes, which used to appear tight, sometimes hang on him a bit. In recent campaign appearances as chairman of the Republican Governors Association, in meetings with donors in private fundraising events or at events across New Jersey, people have been talking about the slimmer Christie, furthering speculation about a run for the presidency.

Supporters often shout words of encouragement, like "Looking good, governor." A man facing the same struggle as Christie once questioned him in an elevator about the procedure. The governor, in such situations, offers a standard reply: "Thank you" and "I feel good."

In an interview on CBS last month, Christie was asked if he felt as good as he looked. "Not yet, but I hope to," he said. "I feel much, much better than I used to feel, but the fact is I still have some work to do in that area, too, and so I've just got to keep working at it."

The governor has said his drive to reach a healthier weight is the same as it is for many of the countless Americans who have turned to Weight Watchers, shakes, fasts and surgery — turning 50 and wanting to be around to hug the grandchildren.

But in an era of 24-hour TV news, and in a nation seemingly obsessed with weight, girth draws attention. And when anyone — not just a politician — slims down, people want details.

"All presidents and presidential candidates in the TV age have been conscious of appearances and have to be," said Larry J. Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. "There's a pretty good chance we'll never elect a William Howard Taft again."

Heavier political figures face more obstacles than being cast as overweight: The public may stereotype them as not being fit enough for the job, said Patsy Cisneros, founder of a Los Angeles-based consulting firm.

Christie's weight has been a very public issue. When he ran for governor in 2009, an ad from Governor Jon Corzine's campaign showed an unflattering video of Christie getting out of a car. The narrator described how Christie "threw his weight around."

Former White House physician Connie Mariano — a self-declared Republican and Christie fan — said last year she would like the governor to run for president. But she said she worried that he would wind up having a heart attack or stroke and "dying in office." Christie, noting that she was not his personal physician, said, "She should shut up." She did not respond to requests to talk about his weight loss.

At his heaviest weight two years ago, when Superstorm Sandy ravaged the state, Christie spent weeks visiting sites damaged by the storm, something that helped his favorability soar above 70 percent in polls. But despite his demanding schedule, Cisneros said, Christie's weight affected the way people viewed him.

It's a perception that has plagued other leaders, including Taft, whose weight of 354 pounds at his inauguration in 1909 sparked intense public concern and made him the target of jokes, editorial cartoons and newspaper articles, according to Deborah I. Levine, an expert in the history of medicine and obesity at Providence College in Rhode Island.

After a diplomatic meeting went awry, Levine noted, The New York Times reported: "William Howard Taft is a very phlegmatic man, from whom one is not accustomed to hear such talk. This (damaging outburst) may be attributed to his great weight."

Whether it's the turn of the century or 2016, a candidate needs to persuade voters that they are able to serve.

"They need to look like the part they are running for," Cisneros said. "If people don't see that person looks like that position — governor, president, senator from that state — then who are they?"

Experts say Christie may be forgoing an opportunity by keeping quiet about his weight loss. Some politicians have used weight loss to connect with voters in a nation where seven in 10 people are either overweight or obese and the average woman's dress size is 14.

"There's empathy by a lot of voters about weight," Cisneros said.

Mike Huckabee, the former Arkansas governor, lost 100 pounds after weighing in at nearly 300 pounds and receiving a diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes. He became an advocate — some would argue a public scold — for healthy habits, and invited the press to photograph him jogging around the governor's mansion. He even wrote a book, "Quit Digging Your Grave With a Knife and Fork."

Christie might have as much as 100 more pounds to lose, experts said. Success varies, and the people who achieve the best results follow a careful regimen: regular adjustments to the band, limiting meals to just a few ounces and exercise, Vaimakis said.

"Somebody that does that follow-up and does make a real effort, which it looks like Governor Christie has done, can lose 1 to 2 pounds on average per week and even more," Vaimakis said.

Even a 10 percent reduction in body weight can yield benefits, improving blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar, Vaimakis said. Obesity, defined as a body mass index, or BMI, of 30 or more, is linked to more than 40 diseases, including Type 2 diabetes, heart disease, stroke, osteoarthritis and cancer, according to the Mayo Clinic. BMI is a measure of body fat based on height and weight.

Christie has said he works out with a personal trainer four times a week, but he rarely talks about his meals.

After confirming last year that he had the surgery, he noted that he ordered a steak one night and was full after eating just a third of it.

He won't let the press watch him eat — on his recent trip to Mexico, when it came time for a taco lunch, reporters and photographers were shooed away by aides once his food arrived.

At an NJGOP fundraiser in Massachusetts in September in honor of Christie's birthday, Mitt Romney said he had ordered a Jersey boy's favorites: lasagna, ravioli, the works. "I bought all this food and put it out in front of the table and Chris sat there and picked at a couple of pieces of lettuce," Romney said.

In his monthly radio show on 101.5 FM, Christie recently said he felt good. He recalled a conversation with his son Andrew, who joined him as he campaigned in other states. His son, on break from Princeton University, was falling asleep on a plane ride in the middle of the afternoon.

"What is this falling asleep stuff?" the governor said. "Look at me. I'm the one who is actually working. What the hell are you doing?"

Christie said his son responded: "You are a machine. I am not.' "