CHICAGO — For violin teacher Sarah Dupuis, far more than 23 miles divides her North Shore students from those she instructs at a charter school in Chicago's North Lawndale neighborhood.

Dupuis says that, despite facing poverty and hardships unknown to her students in the affluent suburbs of Glenview, Northbrook and Wilmette, the 70 student violinists at KIPP Ascend Primary School on the city's West Side are determined to overcome the obstacles in their young lives one string at a time.

"These kids are so brave, so strong and they work so hard," said Dupuis, an Oxford-educated music teacher and professional violinist with the Northbrook Symphony Orchestra.

"If I had to deal with half the things they do at that age, I'd have given up long ago," Dupuis said.

A former AmeriCorps teacher, Dupuis has spent the past three years teaching KIPP musicians to play the violin in her tuition-free program, MUSIC Inc., which she said began with practicing on faux violins fashioned from empty Lean Cuisine boxes.

As founded by Dupuis and school counselor Joi Truman, MUSIC Inc. — which stands for "Music in Urban Schools Inspiring Change" — was bolstered by a donation of 25 instruments from local violin-maker Michael Reuter, which was followed by the donation of dozens of used instruments in recent years.

Today, the MUSIC Inc. program at KIPP, a charter school, is hoping to accommodate 12 families on a waiting list, Dupuis said, and officials also are trying – through a fundraising effort – to expand their efforts into more under-served Chicago neighborhoods.

The program currently enrolls more than 70 KIPP Ascend Primary students ages 7-10, and Dupuis said prospective scholars are accepted into the program based upon their ability to meet leadership goals, for example, displaying responsible behavior in the classroom and completing homework assignments.

In addition to teaching students to play the violin with Suzuki instruction during the school day, Dupuis said the children are given a violin, song book and a handbook for parents so they can practice at home.

Dupuis said that as parental participation is a key component of early Suzuki instruction, family classes are held on Saturdays at KIPP to teach parents how to help their children practice outside of the classroom.

KIPP parent Ashley Wiggins said her daughter, Madison, a fourth-grader, has developed far more than musical ability after learning to play the violin in the MUSIC Inc. program.

A mother of two with a full-time job, Wiggins said she enjoys attending the program's Saturday violin classes for parents.

"Madison used to be really shy, but she just played her violin before a few hundred people at a youth pageant at our church," Wiggins said. "This is something that never occurred to me, because I don't play an instrument, but playing the violin has helped Madison develop into a person who is responsible. She takes such good care of her instrument. She's much more confident and has the ability now to speak in front of a group."

Melissa Cowell, a third-grade teacher at KIPP who helps with the string program, said she learned to play the viola with private lessons as a child when she was growing up in Glenview.

"String education can be very expensive, even if it just means providing the instrument," Cowell said. "Providing violin instruction free of charge during the school day takes away the barriers."