PHILADELPHIA — In a basement at Swarthmore College there sits a strange kind of car. Its top speed is 35 miles per hour. It has less power than a lawn mower. And it weighs just 137 pounds.

Still, the funny-looking thing is a race car.

It isn't made to go fast. It is made for an unusual kind of race.

Instead of the winner of the race being the fastest car, the race is won by the car that uses the least energy. In other words, the car that uses the least gasoline or electricity will win.

Cars that get a lot of miles without using much energy are called energy efficient. They are cheaper to run than regular cars. They also cause less pollution.

The narrow, three-wheeled car is headed to Houston this week. There it will enter the Shell Eco-marathon Americas race. It will face off against 125 other cars. All cars must drive for six miles.

Some of the cars are incredibly energy efficient. They get thousands of miles out of a gallon of gas.

Swarthmore's car doesn't run on gas, though. Instead, it runs on hydrogen. That kind of car causes almost no pollution. It is also very energy efficient.

## Small Car, Tiny Driver

Eric Verhasselt started building the car in 2012.

Verhasselt entered the car in the Shell race last year. He came in third among six hydrogen-powered cars.

This year, Neil Macfarland has taken over. He helped Verhasselt build the car.

Macfarland has a secret weapon: Winnie Ngo, who will be behind the wheel.

Ngo weighs just 95 pounds. And she is only 4 feet, 10 1/2 inches tall. Because of her tiny size, she can easily fit into the small car.

It's much better than having the 6-foot-1 Macfarland drive. His long legs don't fit inside the car. To take it for a spin the other day, he had to remove the car's sides.

"People were turning and staring," Ngo said.

One day last week, though, the car had problems: It wouldn't start. Macfarland was getting worried.

The problem turned out to be a jammed shut-off switch. Macfarland soon had it working again.

The three-day race opened on Friday. Swarthmore's funny car just might be a winner.