COMBINED LOCKS, Wis. — Like their neighbors on their quiet dead-end street, Glen and Margaret Martin have decorated their yard for autumn and Halloween.

But only the Martins' decorations attract bona fide gawkers. Their pumpkins are so humongous it's as if aliens planted seeds in their backyard and zapped them with gamma rays.

Tipping the scales at more than 1,700 pounds each, the Martins' pumpkins are actually a bit on the slender side compared with other giant pumpkins grown in Wisconsin this year. Glen Martin should know: He's president of Wisconsin Giant Pumpkin Growers, a group of gardeners who like their vegetables huge.

Wisconsin ranks fifth in giant pumpkin winners, according to statistics compiled by the Great Pumpkin Commonwealth, which established rules for contests.

"It's in our blood here, that comes from our dairy farming background in Wisconsin," Glen Martin said. "It's like taking care of a calf — you have to take care of it every day."

Wisconsin Giant Pumpkin Growers started 20 years ago with 14 growers. The group now numbers 120 and meets regularly to discuss competitions and schedule pumpkin-growing seminars.

"As with many things in Wisconsin, it started in a bar. A bunch of guys standing around saying, 'I can grow a bigger pumpkin,'" Glen Martin said.

For a $25 fee, members get a how-to booklet, a packet of seeds and a list of growers. The group schedules a free pumpkin patch tour for the public in late July, where gardens are laden with gigantic vegetables and gourds.

You can almost watch them grow.

Giant pumpkin vines typically grow 6 inches a day and the fruit packs on 2 pounds per hour. They start as Atlantic Giant variety seeds, though many giant-pumpkin growers crossbreed seeds or acquire them from prize winners. And just because it's a really big pumpkin doesn't mean it's filled with thousands of seeds. Many only have 100 to 200 seeds.

Seeds can sell for as much as $500 each. When New Richmond grower Chris Stevens auctioned one of his 2010 world record holder's seeds for charity, it sold for $1,600. Mostly, though, growers get them for free from other giant-pumpkin gardeners or swap them.

Pockets of giant-pumpkin growers have sprouted throughout the state, usually because someone sees their friend or neighbor growing them and wants to try it. Among the giant-pumpkin hotbeds is New Richmond, where Stevens is among a half dozen growers.

He grew a 1,810-pound giant in 2010 that broke the world record. He has been chasing that record ever since, particularly since world records have been broken nine out of the past 10 years. This year's world record holder so far is a guy in Switzerland who grew a 2,096-pounder. This season, Stevens' biggest pumpkin is close to 1,400 pounds.

"That's disappointing to me. People say, 'What do you mean you're disappointed?' Well, when you've had 1,800 pounds, yes, it's disappointing," Stevens said in a phone interview.

Five Wisconsin events feature giant pumpkin weigh-offs: in Cedarburg, Chippewa Falls, Sturgeon Bay, Nekoosa and Mishicot, where the Oct. 18 Pumpkin Fest is the last of the bunch. Often, Wisconsin growers travel to weigh-offs in other states.

Growing a giant pumpkin isn't easy. Seeds are planted in small pots in April and grown indoors for two weeks before they are put into the ground. Gardeners have to think ahead and leave enough room for the vine to snake out and the giant pumpkin to grow, typically a plot that's 25 feet by 35 feet for one orange gourd.

Flowers are usually hand-pollinated, and growers pick off the rest of the flowers to focus all the energy on one fruit, said Irwin Goldman, chairman of the University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Horticulture.

"It's not a simple thing to do even though to an outside observer it looks easy. It's actually a bit of a challenge," Goldman said.

Goldman and UW-Madison horticulture professor James Nienhuis have grown giant pumpkins for several years — though theirs top out at only 400 pounds, which they use for a giant pumpkin regatta for their students on Lake Mendota.

One of Nienhuis' students plotted a chart of record-setting giant pumpkins dating back to 1950 and learned each year the winner has gone up an average of 20 to 30 pounds.

"That's all due to selection. A big question is how much of that is due to genetics and how much is due to environment," Nienhuis said. "Wisconsin is a good place to grow them. Where they grow best is where you have large bodies of water with high humidity. You have to irrigate constantly and fertilize like crazy with nitrogen."

For contest weigh-offs, giant pumpkins cannot be broken, have holes or excessive rot. Growers use special harnesses attached to Bobcat tractors to lift the fruits of their labor, load them onto flatbed trailers and travel to the scales. A giant pumpkin can only be entered in one contest.

Though prize money, plaques and bragging rights are at stake, growers like Stevens and the Martins say they enjoy seeing eyes widen as strangers spot their giant pumpkins.

"Put it this way — I don't make fun of other people's hobbies," Stevens said. "As dorky as it seems, this time of year when you're hauling them in your trailer people think it's just absolutely amazing. It's crazy how cool they are."