NEW YORK — The Girl Scouts have a new patch. It is bright pink with gold letters.

The patch reads, "Barbie. Be anything, Do everything."

Last year, the Girl Scouts joined with Mattel to start a Barbie program. Mattel makes the Barbie doll. The company is giving the Girl Scouts $2 million. In return, the Girl Scouts get a Barbie activity book. They also get a Barbie website.

Girl Scouts can earn the  Barbie patch. They can put the patch on their uniforms. This is the first Girl Scout patch sponsored by a company.

## Walking Ads For Barbie?

Two groups are trying to get the Girl Scouts to end the partnership with Mattel. They say the program is just an ad for Barbie. They think Barbie sets a bad example for little girls. Barbie cares too much about clothes. Barbie is also too skinny. She makes girls feel bad about themselves. They may try to lose weight to look more like Barbie, the groups said.

The Girls Scouts said they would not end the partnership.

Susan Linn is head of one of the groups. She doesn't think Girls Scouts should wear a Barbie patch. She says this will make them walking ads for Barbie. The patch is aimed for girls who are 5 to 8 years old. They are Daisy or Brownie Girl Scouts.

Kelly Parisi is with the Girl Scouts. She said the Barbie program is about exploring jobs. It teaches girls about women who have interesting jobs. She says it does this in a fun way.

"It helps us bring to ... Girl Scouts the message that they can do anything," Parisi said. There are more than 2 million Girl Scouts.

Mattel gave the Girl Scouts $2 million. The Girl Scouts were losing money. They needed the money to help the Girl Scouts stay in business.

The Girl Scouts' Barbie website includes a Barbie game. Girls choose jobs based on outfits. There is a veterinarian in a miniskirt. The U.S. president wears a pink suit. A race car driver is in high-heeled shoes.

Linn said the website is just an ad for Barbie. It also sends girls the wrong message. It says that women are what they wear.