Mike Huckabee, the folksy former governor, preacher and television host, entered the 2016 presidential race on Tuesday with a base of loyal supporters from his prior White House run, but he faces a cast of potential rivals that is larger and stronger than in 2008.

A favorite of social conservative and evangelical voters, Huckabee, 59, has remained in the public eye and in voters' living rooms through a Fox News show. But the former Arkansas governor has been out of office for more than eight years, and will be running against some Republican candidates who are calling for generational change.

Huckabee, who announced his presidential bid in his boyhood home of Hope, Arkansas, is the sixth GOP candidate to officially enter the race. On Monday, Dr. Ben Carson and businesswoman Carly Fiorina announced long-shot plans to seek the White House, joining a trio of Republican senators who previously declared their candidacies — Ted Cruz of Texas, Rand Paul of Kentucky and Marco Rubio of Florida.

Chief among the obstacles Huckabee faces are rivals who appeal to the same bloc of voters that propelled Huckabee's first-place finish in the 2008 Iowa caucuses — and who have a proven fundraising prowess that he lacked in that campaign, when he raised $16 million.

"In 2007 and 2008, people gave him a pass for not being able to raise a lot of money because no one knew who he was. Now everyone knows who he is," said Bob Vander Plaats, who served as Huckabee's Iowa co-chairman in 2008 and is currently uncommitted. "Can he back that up with the finances to run a top-tier campaign?"

Huckabee was not regarded as a serious White House candidate in 2008 until his surprise come-from-behind win over former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney in Iowa. His success against the much better-funded Romney was in part due to his competition — conservative alternatives who either decided not to run (Kansas Gov. Sam Brownback) or flamed out (actor and former Tennessee Sen. Fred Thompson).

The potential GOP field for 2016 of nearly two dozen candidates includes several who align with religious conservatives, notably Cruz and Gov. Scott Walker of Wisconsin.

Others eyeing the White House who appeal to evangelicals include former Texas Gov. Rick Perry, Louisiana Gov. Bobby Jindal and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum, the victor of the Iowa caucuses in 2012. Paul is also courting religious voters.

"People, just by nature, are kind of drawn to the new car smell, so people are going to want to take a test drive, kick the tires, and sit inside all the new cars, look at all the new candidates and see if that's the direction they want to go," said Vander Plaats, president of the Family Leader, an Urbandale, Iowa-based Christian conservative group. "For Huckabee, his hope is going to be, 'Let's just persevere, stay the course, and once the new car smell wears off a little bit,'" hope that his followers return to the fold.

A poll by NBC and The Wall Street Journal released Monday, however, shows that just over half of registered GOP voters said they could see themselves casting a ballot for the former governor, well below support for Rubio, Walker and former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush.

Huckabee's campaign sees a path to the nomination that is staked on Iowa and South Carolina, which are both dominated by evangelical voters and hold two of the first nominating contests in the nation. Immediately after announcing his presidential bid, Huckabee planned to travel to these states for a "Factories, Farms &amp; Freedom" tour.

Successful showings in these two states would provide Huckabee with momentum going into the proposed "SEC primary" of several Southern states in March, according to a Huckabee adviser.

Huckabee's greatest strength is his skill on the stump. His roots as a Baptist preacher are on display in the retail campaigning that is de rigueur in the early states. A quintessential happy warrior, Huckabee frequently quipped in 2008 that while he was conservative, he wasn't angry about it.

Among Huckabee's core supporters, the devotion remains.

"It's kind of like first love," said Craig Robinson, founder of the Iowa Republican website. "They're not the type of people who are trying to be wooed by some other campaign. They held out hope he would run in 2012; they're the kind of people who never even shopped the field because Mike Huckabee is their guy."

Huckabee hit populist notes before it was commonplace among GOP politicians. He connected with working-class voters by pointing to his poor upbringing — the first male in his father's line to graduate from high school; one generation removed on his mother's side from dirt floors and outhouses.

Country versus country club was a constant contrast Huckabee drew against Romney, and one he will likely make against Bush, who is expected to run. Both men are the descendants of wealthy, politically connected families.

Fundraising rules have loosened considerably since Huckabee last ran, and one wealthy benefactor can keep a candidate afloat through a Super PAC. That allowed Santorum to carry on in the 2012 primary campaign long after it became clear that Romney would be the GOP nominee. It's unclear whether Huckabee has a patron willing to spend millions of dollars on his effort.

Huckabee was the target of criticism that he wasn't sufficiently conservative because he has strayed from party orthodoxy. He was castigated for supporting some tax increases when he was governor. He supported the closure of the detention facility in Guantanamo Bay. He flip-flopped on immigration and the Cuban embargo.

All of that is likely to be exploited by his rivals.

"The field is so strong this time, it's going to be extremely difficult for Huckabee," said Sam Clovis, a political science professor at Morningside College in Iowa and an influential conservative former radio host in the state. "I don't know what his ceiling is, but it's not nearly as high as it was."