When it comes to preserving fair chase in hunting, Illinois already bans using bait to lure, dogs to kill and certain lights to see animals at night.

Now to those and other do-nots, a state lawmaker would like to add one more: drones.

State Sen. Julie Morrison, a Democrat from Deerfield, introduced legislation this month that would bar the use of drones to hunt and fish, building on existing Illinois law that prohibits using drones to interfere with hunters or fishermen and restricts their use by law enforcement.

The bill, which Morrison decided to propose after talking to officials at the Illinois Department of Natural Resources (DNR), would make it illegal to use a drone to take aquatic life or any species of wildlife protected by Illinois law.

Chris Young, a spokesman for the department, said the Illinois conservation police have not received complaints or reports of anyone using drones while hunting and described the legislation as "a proactive measure" because drones have become more affordable to more people.

In the near-term, Young said, he could envision hunters being able to use drones to drive wildlife to them or to locate wildlife beforehand and then go to that spot to hunt.

"So the use of drones would basically reduce the element of fair chase, which is an important principle of hunting," Young said.

Other states, including Montana, Alaska and Colorado, have already restricted the use of drones in hunting — moves that have been widely embraced by animal rights activists and hunters.

John Bostic, who owns a Franklin, Illinois, outfitter and guide business and has been hunting for more than 40 years, said he would be in favor of banning their use in Illinois too.

"I believe in doing things the old way, and it's not hunting to me if it's too easy," said Bostic, 56. "Get out and do your legwork, that's what hunting is about."

Linda Estrada, president and director of Animal Welfare League in Chicago Ridge, Illinois, said she also agreed with banning drones to hunt.

"The animal wouldn't have a chance whatsoever," she said.

Some hunting guide businesses, however, are in favor of being able to use drones to scout for animals.

Scouting involves exploring a possible hunting area ahead of time to gather information on animal whereabouts, herd or flock sizes and best potential hunting vantages. Currently in hunting, that is the most likely use for a drone, which can be outfitted with video equipment to transmit images and information from the wilderness back to an operator.

Jason Parent, a New Hampshire state legislator who co-owns a hunting guide service, has been a vocal proponent of being able to use drones for scouting in his state. He said using drones to scout would potentially be good for business, saving customers time and money and increasing the chances of animal contact.

He likened using drones for scouting to other surveillance devices, such as stand-alone cameras that hunters use to watch for animal activity or tree stands that allow hunters to see an area from a better vantage point.

"Tell me, where does the cheating start?" he said.

As written, Morrison's legislation would not prohibit the use of drones to scout for animals before hunting, according to officials at the Department of Natural Resources.

But Morrison said that was her intent and that, if needed, she would "amend the legislation so that it speaks directly to that."

Young said the department is in favor of adding details to the legislation that would ban scouting with drones within 24 hours of hunting. Under that framework, drone scouting would still be allowed outside that window as long as it was not being used to harass wildlife, he said.

In keeping with the fair chase doctrine, Illinois already outlaws such conduct as using ferrets to frighten or drive mammals from their dens or hiding places; having dogs pursue, harass or kill deer; using lights connected to a vehicle to hunt at night; baiting deer and turkey; and shooting most birds when they are not flying.

Using any computer software or service to remotely control a weapon that takes wildlife — or so-called long-distance hunting — is also banned.

Morrison said she also plans to consider an amendment to allow the use of drones to hunt or fish for invasive species like Asian carp.

It is not currently done, but Morrison said if technology to do so becomes available, "DNR needs to have the ability to make (drone use) exceptions on a case-by-case basis."

Although some have thought that existing Illinois law restricting the use of vehicles or conveyances already prohibited drones in hunting, Young said the legislation would clarify the issue.

"This would be specific to unmanned vehicles pursuing animals," he said.

Morrison's legislation would allow the Department of Natural Resources to confiscate drones that are used for hunting. The hunter could be charged with a Class A misdemeanor.