Having to pay to play school sports may have long-reaching health effects, according to a newly released University of Michigan survey that may reinforce a link between income and health.

The survey found that while 51 percent of families earning more than $60,000 per year reported having a child in sports, only 30 percent of lower-income families had a child playing school sports.

Those income disparities are worrisome for several reasons, said Sarah Clark, an associate research scientist at the University of Michigan's Child Health Evaluation and Research Unit (CHEAR).

"Sports is one way that kids can be physically active in an enjoyable way. They're with their buddies. They're learning teamwork," Clark said.

That engagement extended far beyond what can be measured in pounds or body mass index. Clark said school-based activities such as sports or music programs help kids stay in school.

"So if we're decreasing opportunities for lower-income kids to participate in sports, we're taking away one of our weapons in the fight against obesity and in the fight against drop out (rates)," she said.

The survey, conducted in June, was done by the University of Michigan's C.S. Mott Children's Hospital.

Referred to as the National Poll on Children's Health, it found that 1 in 7 parents whose children were not in sports cited cost as a reason. And that factor also might be increasingly important.

Sports participation among lower-income students decreased by 10 percent compared to the May 2012 poll on the same subject. Even among parents in higher-income households, nearly 1 in 10 parents said their child had decreased sports participation because of cost – twice as high as reported in 2012.

Other factors — playing in community leagues rather than school teams, for example — may also play a role in a family's decision to participate in school sports, Clark said.

But overall, the results are troubling. Schools and parent groups try to help reduce costs for low-income students who demonstrate a desire to play sports, she said. Yet they may fail to consider students who never bother to try out for a team because they know cost will be an obstacle.

The poll found the average school sports participation fee was $126 per child, but some parents — especially when they included costs for equipment and travel — paid more than $400 for their children's participation.

Clark, a mother of two boys who played multiple high school sports, knows about the cost first-hand, she said.

One year, she said, "I remember I hit $1,000 in fees before Christmas."