After years of prayers by Catholic nuns and controversy among Native American groups, Pope Francis announced Thursday that Junipero Serra, the Spanish priest who founded the string of California missions, will be canonized in September as a saint.

"He was the evangelizer of the West in the United States," the pope told reporters while flying to the Philippines from Sri Lanka, where he canonized that country's first saint.

Sainthood for Serra also may bring the pope to California for the canonization as part of his scheduled trip to the United States this fall.

Unlike most saints, Serra, who is buried at the Carmel Mission, would be canonized without the showing of a second miracle because, as Pope Francis said, he is a holy man who for centuries has been "venerated as a saint." The first miracle attributed to Serra — that prayers to him cured a nun of lupus in St. Louis — preceded his beatification in 1986. Sainthood is the most venerated status for Catholics and other Christians.

Native American groups have vehemently protested Serra's road to sainthood, saying that the natives who built the missions in the 1700s and 1800s were forced into labor and often punished severely. Many died of European diseases, including chicken pox and measles, because they had built up no immunities.

Valentin Lopez, chairman of the Amah-Mutsun Tribal Band of Coastanoan/Ohlone Indians, said he's disappointed with the decision from the pope, who is a Franciscan priest like Serra. He wants the Vatican to re-evaluate Serra's sainthood.

"Pope Francis is from Argentina and knows the history of the New World," Lopez said Thursday. "But maybe he thinks it's more important that he brought Christianity to the New World than what happened to the native population. Maybe the end justifies the means."

Elias Castillo, who just finished a book about the treatment of Native Americans at the California missions, says Californians have lived a "horrible lie" when it comes to their perceptions of Serra, whose statue stands at all California's 21 missions, as well as at the state Capitol and at a rest stop overlooking Interstate 280.

"I'm astounded. I couldn't believe the pope was doing this. There was an attempt to canonize him in the '40s and '50s, and that was stopped cold by the Indians. I think there will be protests," said Castillo, whose book, "A Cross of Thorns: The Enslavement of California's Indians by the Spanish Missions" will be published later this month.

"For the Vatican, which has apologized for how the Indians were treated, to now canonize one of their great monsters?"

But a member of the Ohlone tribe, Andrew Galvan, said sainthood for Serra is welcome.

"I'm ecstatic," said Galvan, who is the curator of Mission Dolores in San Francisco and whose ancestors were baptized at the missions. While he doesn't deny the poor treatment of Native Americans at the missions, he doesn't blame Serra. He blames colonialism.

"You can't change the past, and we all acknowledge mistakes were made in the past," Galvan said. "The bottom line is I believe Junipero Serra was a very good person in a very bad situation, which I call colonialism."

Pope Francis' announcement Thursday came as a surprise to many, who believed the Native American controversy might dog the effort forever.

But history professor Robert Senkewicz from Santa Clara University, which was founded by Serra in 1777, believes the controversy has largely calmed since Serra's beatification.

"Thirty years ago, the lines were really tightly drawn between people who supported Serra's beatification and people who didn't. It was very intense," said Senkewicz, who co-authored the forthcoming biography "Junipero Serra: California, Indians and the Transformation of a Missionary."

So what will be Serra's legacy? Will he be known for the treatment of Native Americans or for his role as a Catholic missionary spreading the gospel in a new land?

"St. Francis of Assisi was known for nature. St. Thomas Aquinas for intellectual scholarship. Mother Seton in the U.S. is known for devotion to the poor," Senkewicz said. "The niche of Serra is giving up a very, very prosperous life in Spain for a difficult missionary life."

Canonizing Serra also raises another question: Will he be considered California's first saint or even an American saint?

California was still in Spanish rule and not a U.S. state when Serra, who was born in Spain, died in 1784. He had spent 30 years building the first nine missions before dying at the Carmel Mission, which was his headquarters.

"Maybe that's one of the things the pope is trying to say, he's not a saint of North America or Latin America, but of the Americas as a whole," Senkowicz said.

Only 12 saints of the more than 10,000 saints were either born in the United States or did their good works here. Another Californian on the path to sainthood is Cora Evans, a devout Catholic who lived quietly in the Santa Cruz Mountains and died in 1957. She was declared a "servant of God" by the Vatican in 2012, one important step to sainthood.

Pope Francis did not specify the date or place for Serra's canonization mass. The dates are not official for his trip to the United States, either, but he is expected in Philadelphia for the World Meeting of Families as early as Sept. 25. Stops in New York City and Washington, D.C., are also being considered.