Imagine for a moment that all of the nation's fast-food restaurants vanished overnight. All the drive-thru windows —  gone! Would there be far fewer overweight kids?

The answer is very likely no. At least that is what a study published this week says. Children who frequently eat at fast-food restaurants still eat unhealthy foods at home. They will gobble cookies and chips. They will chug sugar-sweetened soda from a bottle. They'll eat frozen pizzas.

Researchers from the University of North Carolina studied the issue. They were led by nutrition professor Barry Popkin.

The researchers noticed something about children who go to fast-food restaurants. They tend to eat food that would probably make many of them overweight or [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) anyway. They do this even when they are not eating at those restaurants.

## Saturated Fats And Sugar

The researchers used a national list of Americans' health and eating behaviors. They looked at information about 4,466 American kids. They split the kids up by what they ate when they were not eating fast food. The kids were ages 2 to 18.

Some kids were said to eat a "Western diet." The non-fast food they ate was relatively high in saturated fats and added sugars. Medical experts say that saturated fats can lead to heart problems.

Other kids were said to follow a "prudent diet." They ate more fruits and vegetables. They also ate proteins with less fat. Their diets also had less added sugar and saturated fat.

The researchers then looked at eating records. Some kids did not eat fast food. Others got no more than three-tenths of their calories from fast-food restaurants. They were called "low" eaters of fast food. The last group was called "high" eaters of fast food. More than three-tenths of their calories came from a fast-food restaurant.

The result: Those who followed the Western diet had the highest rates of being dangerously overweight or obese. This was true even for those who did not eat fast food. Those who followed a "prudent diet" were a lot less likely to be overweight or obese. This was the case even for those who were in the group of "high" fast food fast food eater.

The type of diet matched up with how much fast-food a child ate. Low eaters were 1.5 times as likely to follow a Western diet than people who were considered non-eaters of fast food. High eaters of fast food were more than twice as likely to follow a Western diet.

So what you eat may be more important than where you eat it, the authors said. Targeting fast-food restaurants to cut down on unhealthy weight gain in children may not help as much as people think. It may be necessary. But it does not do enough to cut down on on the problem. Not if the rest of the diet is unhealthy.