Imagine for a moment that all of the nation's fast-food establishments were to vanish overnight. All the drive-thru windows, the dollar deals and the odor of french fries — gone! Would the number of our kids who carry an unhealthy amount of extra weight plunge?

The answer is very likely no. At least that is what a study published this week in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition says. You can shut off the supply of 24-ounce fountain drinks, bacon cheeseburgers and stuffed tacos.

But the children who frequently eat at fast-food restaurants will go home and do what they generally do when not eating at a fast-food restaurant. They'll snarf cookies and chips. They will chug sugar-sweetened soda from a bottle, and heat up frozen pizzas.

Researchers from the University of North Carolina studied the issue. They were led by nutrition professor Barry Popkin.

The researchers found that children who go to fast-food restaurants a lot tend to eat food that would probably make many of them overweight or [obese](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) anyway. They do this even when they are not eating at those restaurants.

## "Western" Vs. "Prudent" Diet

The authors of the latest research combed through a national database of Americans' health and nutrition behaviors. They grouped 4,466 American kids according to what they ate when they were not eating food purchased at a fast-food restaurant. The kids were ages 2 to 18.

Some participants were said to be "Western diet" consumers. The food they ate from non-fast-food sources was relatively high in saturated fats and added sugars. Others were classified as following a "prudent diet" if they ate more fruits and vegetables, leaner proteins and less added sugar and saturated fat.

The researchers then went back to the children's detailed food consumption record. They categorized some of the children as non-consumers of fast food. Those children had food tracking records that indicated no calories consumed from a restaurant that did not have waiters and waitresses. Others were called low consumers. Their food tracking records indicated that no more than 30 percent of their calories came from fast-food restaurants. The last group was called high consumers.  More than 30 percent of the calories consumed came from a fast-food restaurant.

The results showed that those who followed the Western diet when not dining at fast-food restaurants had the highest rates of being overweight or obese. This was true even for those who were considered non-consumers of fast food. Those who followed a "prudent diet" when not dining on fast food were significantly less likely to be overweight or obese. This was the case even for those who were considered high consumers of fast food.

Low consumers of fast food were 1.5 times as likely to follow a Western diet as people who were considered non-consumers of fast food. High consumers of fast food were 2.2 times as likely to do so.

"Our findings suggest that the location where foods are obtained may not be as important as the nutritional quality of the foods consumed," the authors wrote in Thursday's study. They also suggest that "the effect of public health efforts targeted at fast food restaurants may also be overestimated."

Those efforts may be necessary. But they are not enough to cut down on childhood obesity if the rest of the diet is not dealt with.