North Korea is preparing for a possible missile test, which is putting the United States and South Korea on high alert. The preparations come after a string of threats from the country's new leader, Kim Jong-un.

While the North Koreans do not have the firepower to strike the U.S. mainland, the medium-range weapons could reach U.S. military bases on the Pacific island of Guam. North Korea has also threatened its neighbors South Korea and Japan. Both countries are strong U.S. allies.

More than 60 years ago, during the Korean War when the North fought against the South, the United States sided with the South. Ever since then, North Korea has been at odds with the United States. However, there were some hopes that relations between the two countries could improve after leader Kim Jong-il died last year.

His son, Kim Jong-un, took command of the country. People wondered if the son might take a softer approach in dealing with the United States and its allies. Kim, who is just 30 years old, had been educated in Switzerland, and has a passion for American basketball.

But even a personal visit from NBA legend Dennis Rodman to North Korea could not change Kim's attitude. Hopes for a peaceful new start have been dashed. North Korea tested a nuclear bomb in February. Missiles were moved into position close to the border zone near South Korea. The North Korean news agency claimed that a "state of war" had been declared with South Korea, and promised to "target and dissolve mainland United States, Hawaii and Guam, and United States military based in South Korea." North Korea even threatened to burn down the Blue House, South Korea's version of the White House.

South Koreans are not taking these threats so seriously. Reports said people in the capital city of Seoul were acting normally, even though North Korea warned tourists and other foreigners that they should leave South Korea. Living next to a hostile neighbor for so long has taught the South Koreans to tell the difference between real threats and false bluster.

The new South Korean president, Park Geun-hye, promised to respond with military action if attacked. President Park's background is wrapped up with the story of Korea, a country that was split in two after World War II. Her father Park Chung-hee was a general who ruled South Korea for a time until North Korean spies killed him. Despite this, President Park ran for office on promises that she would work to improve the relationship between the North and South.

## The Ruling Family

But having any relationship with North Korea is not easy. The ruling family of North Korea is known for its strange and unpredictable behavior. Kim Il-sung, the current leader's grandfather, led the country until his death from a heart attack in 1994. Kim Il-sung ruled the country and its people so tightly that the North Korean calendar begins on his birthday.

His son Kim Jong-il took over the reins. It was Kim Jong-il who oversaw the first North Korean underground nuclear test. He kept producing secret nuclear weapons even after pledging not to in exchange for aid. Kim Jong-il was also a diehard movie fan who is believed to have kidnapped a famous South Korean actress and director. The director said they were forced to make a Godzilla-like movie for the North Korean people to enjoy.

North Korea does not have the money to make its own Hollywood-style movies. It does not have the money to make much at all. The country depended on the Soviet Union for its military and food aid.  But in the 1990s, the Soviet Union broke apart and that lifeline was lost. North Korea had to turn to China for support.

The change happened at the same time as a terrible famine.  Instead of using what money it had to feed its people, North Korea spent more on nuclear weapons. Its hope was that by having more weapons, it would have more bargaining power with other countries. This bargaining power could get it more money, food aid and world attention.

For North Korea, "bargaining" with the rest of the world means exchanging angry warnings and threats. It promised to turn Seoul into a "sea of fire." In March, the North released a video of North Korean military might. The four-minute clip showed pictures of the White House and the U.S. Capitol building with targets laid over them, as though they were in the path of a missile. In fact, North Korea's missiles could not even travel as far as Hawaii.

But even if Kim Jong-un's angry words are just for show, North Korea's neighbors are taking no chances. South Korean troops raised their alert levels. CNN reports that Japan has moved two anti-missile systems into the heart of Tokyo; they are pointed in the direction of North Korea. The North Korean capital of Pyongyang is just 800 miles from Tokyo. That is roughly the distance between Chicago and New York.  A missile fired from North Korea could reach Japan in five to 10 minutes. The U.S. Navy moved two anti-missile ships closer to the Korean Peninsula to watch for any missile launchings in the North.

Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, who is in charge of the U.S. military said North Korea, with its warlike talk and acts, has been "skating very close to a dangerous line." Hagel was asked whether U.S. citizens should be worried about the threats. He replied that the United States can defend its people and its allies from any military action North Korea may take.