North Korea looks set to test a powerful missile. This news has put South Korea on high alert. The United States is also staying watchful. The United States and South Korea are allies, or friends. Neither is on good terms with North Korea. In fact, North Korea's new leader has been making many threats against both countries.

The North Koreans do not have the firepower to hit the U.S. mainland. But its weapons could reach U.S. military bases in the Pacific. North Korea has also threatened Japan. The Japanese are close allies of the United States.

More than 60 years ago, North Korea and South Korea fought a war.  The United States sided with the South. Ever since then, North Korea has been at odds with the United States.

Last year there were some hopes the two countries could become friendlier. North Korea's leader Kim Jong-il died. His son, Kim Jong-un, took over. People wondered if the son might be friendlier to the United States.  After all, Kim Jong-un is just 30 years old. He is known for his love of American basketball.

Retired NBA star Dennis Rodman went to North Korea in February. The basketball legend met with Kim Jong-un. They watched a game and shared some laughs. But not even Rodman could change Kim's attitude. Hopes for a peaceful new start have been dashed.

North Korea tested a powerful bomb in February. It moved its missiles closer to South Korea. It promised to "target" mainland United States, Hawaii and U.S. military bases overseas. North Korea even threatened to burn down the Blue House. That is where South Korea's president lives.

## The Ruling Family

Scary as they sound, South Koreans are not taking these threats so seriously. Reports said people in the capital were acting normally. South Koreans are used to living next to an angry neighbor. They say they know the difference between real threats and fake ones.

Still, the new South Korean president promised to fight back if attacked. President Park Geun-hye is the daughter of Park Chung-hee. He was a general who ruled South Korea for a time and was killed by North Korean spies. Even so, President Park ran for office promising peace. She wanted to improve its relations with North Korea.

But having any relationship with North Korea is not easy. The ruling family of North Korea is known for its odd behavior. Kim Il-sung, the current leader's grandfather, led the country until his death in 1994. Kim Il-sung ruled the country and its people so tightly that the North Korean calendar begins on his birthday.

His son Kim Jong-il took over after. He pledged to not make any powerful weapons, in exchange for aid. But he kept making weapons in secret. Kim Jong-il was also a huge movie fan. He is believed to have kidnapped a famous South Korean actress and director. The director said they were forced to make a Godzilla-like movie for the North Korean people.

North Korea does not have the money to make its own Hollywood-style movies. It does not have the money to make much of anything. In the 1990s, harvests failed. Many people were starving. Instead of using what money it had to feed its people, North Korea bought more weapons. With more weapons, it would have more bargaining power. This bargaining power could get it more money, food and attention.

For North Korea, "bargaining" with other countries means making threats. It promised to turn the South Korean capital into a "sea of fire." In March, the North released a video on YouTube. The clip showed pictures of the White House in a missile target. In fact, North Korea's missiles could not even travel as far as Hawaii.

But even if Kim Jong-un's angry words are just for show, North Korea's enemies are taking no chances. South Korean troops raised their alert levels. The U.S. Navy moved two anti-missile ships closer to North Korea. They are ready for anything.