There are signs that the country of North Korea is getting ready to test a powerful missile. This news has put South Korea on high alert. The United States is also remaining watchful. The United States and South Korea are allies, or friends. Neither is on good terms with North Korea. In fact, North Korea's new leader has been making many threats against both countries.

The North Koreans do not actually have the firepower to hit the U.S. mainland. However, their medium-range weapons could reach U.S. military bases in the Pacific islands. North Korea has also threatened Japan. The Japanese are close allies of the United States.

More than 60 years ago, North Korea and South Korea fought a war. The U.S. sided with the South. Ever since then, North Korea has been at odds with the United States. Last year there were some hopes the two countries could improve relations. North Korea's leader Kim Jong-il died.  His son, Kim Jong-un, took command of the country. People wondered if the son might be friendlier to the United States. After all, Kim Jong-un, who is just 30 years old, has a passion for American basketball.

Retired NBA star Dennis Rodman went to North Korea in February. The basketball star met with Kim Jong-un and shared some laughs, but not even he could change Kim's attitude. Hopes for a peaceful new start have been dashed.

North Korea tested a nuclear bomb in February. Missiles were moved into position close to the border zone near South Korea. It promised to "target" mainland United States, Hawaii and U.S. military bases overseas. North Korea even threatened to burn down the Blue House, where South Korea's president lives.

Scary as the threats sound, South Koreans are not taking them so seriously. Reports said people in the capital were acting normally. South Koreans have gotten used to living next to a hostile neighbor. They say they can tell the difference between real threats and fake ones.

Still, the new South Korean president promised to fight back if attacked. President Park Geun-hye was elected in February. She is the daughter of Park Chung-hee. He was a general who ruled South Korea for a time until North Korean spies killed him. Even so, President Park ran for office promising to improve the relationship between the North and South.

## The Ruling Family

But having any relationship with North Korea is not easy. The ruling family of North Korea is known for its odd behavior. Kim Il-sung, the current leader's grandfather, led the country until his death in 1994. Kim Il-sung ruled the country and its people so tightly that the North Korean calendar begins on his birthday.

His son Kim Jong-il took over after. It was Kim Jong-il who oversaw the first North Korean underground nuclear test. He pledged to not make any more nuclear weapons in exchange for aid. But he kept producing them in secret. Kim Jong-il was also a diehard movie fan. He is believed to have kidnapped a famous South Korean actress and director. The director said they were forced to make a Godzilla-like movie for the North Korean people to enjoy.

North Korea does not have the money to make its own Hollywood-style movies. It does not have the money to make much at all. In the 1990s, harvests failed and the country had a terrible famine. Instead of using what money it had to feed its people, North Korea spent more on nuclear weapons. With more weapons, it would have more bargaining power with other countries. This bargaining power could get it more money, food aid and world attention.

For North Korea, "bargaining" with the rest of the world means making threats. It promised to turn the South Korean capital into a "sea of fire." In March, the North released a video on YouTube. The four-minute clip showed pictures of the White House and the U.S. Capitol in a missile target. In fact, North Korea's missiles couldn't even travel as far as Hawaii.

But even if Kim Jong-un's angry words are just for show, North Korea's neighbors are taking no chances. South Korean troops raised their alert levels. CNN reports that Japan has moved two anti-missile systems into the heart of Tokyo; they are pointed in the direction of North Korea. The U.S. Navy moved two anti-missile ships closer to North Korea to watch for missile launches.