PASCAGOULA, Miss. — Many hardworking Hispanics with skills in construction and roofing poured into the Gulf Coast for jobs after Katrina, joining other Hispanic nationalities.

They would sleep in their trucks in parking lots, in tents and on the bare ground because there were no rooms to rent. They helped tremendously in rebuilding the coast.

Their nail guns pounded from sunup to sundown, seven days a week in the early months.

Without the Hispanic labor force, crawling out from under the debris would have taken considerably longer. These workers, many of them immigrants, were willing to endure conditions that many American workers might not have accepted.

They came from large cities around the United States and from Texas, Louisiana, Florida, North Carolina, Arizona and their home countries. They hailed from Cuba, Puerto Rico, Mexico and South and Central America. There are 21-plus Latin American countries or regions and today, each one of those is represented on the Gulf Coast, according to organizations that work with the community.

Many workers moved on. Early estimates from the Hispanic community were that South Mississippi's Hispanic population tripled to 60,000 (a third of them living in the United States without documentation) and then settled closer to 30,000 in the years after the storm. Census figures list the numbers considerably lower, but there is much doubt that the census can accurately estimate the somewhat-elusive population.

Those who stayed have taken root and the population is growing, no matter how you count it.

When the construction jobs dried up, some opened businesses — landscaping, real estate, auto sales and especially restaurants and groceries -- so they could have authentic, native food.

Those who sent for their families have changed the face of the coast forever.

Census data showed that between 2010 and 2013 in Harrison County, Mississippi, the Hispanic population increased nearly 8 percent. In Hancock County, it was up 13.5 percent, and the boost was largest in Jackson County with a 15.5 percent jump.

In the Pascagoula-Gautier School District, the population of those learning English more than doubled from 196 in 2005 to 463 in 2007.

In the following years, the district has seen a steady climb in enrollment that reached 708 this past school year, said Frank Catchings, director of federal programs for the district. While not all of these students are Hispanic, more than 90 percent of them are.

The Mississippi Immigrants Rights Alliance, the Gulf Coast Latin American Association and El Pueblo stepped up to address the needs of the community, connecting new immigrants with local resources.

The Diocese of Biloxi in Mississippi has Catholic churches that now offer Mass in Spanish at nine services from Pascagoula to Wiggins. This year, the diocese has ordained two new priests from Mexico, bringing the number of Hispanic priests to five.

"They are very much better at taking care of the (Hispanic) community than I was," said the Rev. Paddy Mockler, pointing out jovially that he speaks Spanish with an Irish accent.

Mockler served after the storm at Our Lady of Fatima in Biloxi, where he saw the church attendance swell with Hispanics and then subside. Thirty percent of the 380 families at Sacred Heart in Pascagoula are now Hispanic. The church has a Spanish service on Saturdays and offers classes in English as a second language. It and other parishes have for years taken turns hosting the annual feast day and pageant for Our Lady of Guadalupe and Saint Juan Diego.

But one of the more obvious changes has been in the schools along the coast, where the number of Hispanic students grows steadily.

Susan and Gustavo Santos lead a Hispanic mission church on the grounds of the much larger Crossroads Church of the Nazarene in Vancleave, Mississippi.

It's family friendly and lively, and the congregation has reached 100. They are pastors-in-training for the faith, and their mission church El Taller Del Maestro, which means the master's workshop, has grown to the point where there is now a sister church in Gulfport, Mississippi, with a congregation of 50 to 60.

Gustavo Santos came nine years ago, not because of Katrina, but for the work in shipyards and other industry. He had learned welding in high school in Puerto Rico. Susan Santos wanted to raise their children speaking English.

What has evolved for them is a new business, Quality Marine Staffing, aided by the Katrina influx of skilled Latino workers. Gustavo, with his connections in the community, now hires crews and connects them with local industry.

"We've been praying for this since 2012," Susan Santos said.

She said they want to offer benefits and fair wages, "do everything legally and good."

And it happened. He processed the first payroll last month.

There are several blocks of Chicot Street in east Pascagoula that look like they could exist in Mexico.

Four Hispanic businesses opened along the street in just the past year.

"They're purchasing land and starting businesses," said city spokeswoman Anne Pitre. "It has lead to some real revitalization in east Pascagoula."

The city has started a new festival, Festivo Hispano, and is looking to be more inclusive in its practices. Employees who interact with the public are taking Spanish classes.

"For my personal growth, I'm learning to write Spanish," Pitre said, "so I can translate brochures and public notices.

"The Hispanic population in Pascagoula has grown from 5 percent to 11 percent in the last few years," she said. "That's huge, huge growth."

Lazaro Rovira is 32 and has one of the fastest-growing real estate companies in Jackson County. He offers full service for a flat fee.

He got his start because a Spanish-speaking salesman in real estate is rare, but he has other skills and works to help families improve their credit for home loans.

He and his wife bought a derelict building on Chicot Street, sunk thousands into its renovation and opened Rovira Team Realty a year ago. They have nine agents and have been so successful that in July, they opened an office in Gulfport and are planning one in Lucedale.

Pascagoula attracts a strong Hispanic population because of the industry, Rovira said. All nationalities have come through, starting off in Pascagoula and spreading along the coast.

Some leave their families here, work in neighboring states and come back on the weekends. The industrial tradesmen, landscapers and business owners stay.

"Most are hardworking family people who want the American dream," he said. "A man comes for a few years, saves money and brings his family over."

His parents immigrated from Cuba in 1980, and he was born in Miami, Florida, in 1982. However, he loves raising his daughter in Mississippi. His mother and stepfather also moved to Pascagoula.

Rovira said his business is not just following a Hispanic trend. His Caucasian and African-American client base is also growing.

"When anyone hires a professional in home sales, they want someone who will work hard for them," he said. He works from sunup to sundown, and his ambitions don't lie with business alone.

"I want to be the first Hispanic mayor of Pascagoula," he said. "I plan to run in 2017."