_In an old house in Paris  
that was covered with vines  
_

OK — now continue.

If you were one of the countless children who have been mesmerized by the classic picture book "Madeline," you can.

Word for word, page by page, through the story of the little girls who left the house at half past 9, in two straight lines, in rain or shine, the smallest and most fearless one being Madeline.

"Madeline" was published 75 years ago. The Chicago Public Library is marking the anniversary with "Madeline" birthday parties at six libraries in October and November, and with activities and a costumed "Madeline" character at the Bookamania children's book fair on Nov. 22 at the Harold Washington Library.

But some of us have been celebrating "Madeline," and other special books of our childhoods, all along, by passing our love of these classics on to our own children.

Books like this pack serious power. You don't just read them. You reread them, again and again, the words drumming into your memory so strongly that after 50 years, they are still there.

Or you are read to, in that delicious cocoon spun by a parent's voice at bedtime. Decades later, the book remains as a portal to that time. All I have to do is read the last page of "Madeline" to hear my mother's voice whisper those last lines:

_And she turned out the light —  
and closed the door —  
and that's all there is —  
there isn't any more._

Childhood books feel utterly real, even if they are populated by talking animals. For years I was sure I had personally witnessed the last scene in Margaret Wise Brown's "Wait Till the Moon Is Full" — that I had seen the raccoon child playing ball with his raccoon and rabbit friends while their raccoon and rabbit mothers knitted and chatted under the full moon's light.

I wanted my daughters to see it too. So when they were young I started reading that book and my other childhood favorites to them.

It turned out that I still loved them. So do other parents passing along their beloved books. A friend of mine recalls watching her husband reading "Little House on the Prairie" to their 7-year-old son. The boy was asleep; her husband was still reading to him.

The transfer of book affections doesn't always work. Mothers of sons sometimes face a challenge getting their boys to like their childhood books about, say, horses.

And some books are simply hard to bring into the modern era. A friend of mine tried three different times to introduce her sons to "Winnie the Pooh," which she adored as a girl but finds slow going today.

"I really sold it," she sighed, "but it didn't take."

My daughters turned out to be an eager audience for my childhood favorites.

"Madeline," "Wait Till the Moon Is Full," "The Story of Babar" — they happily listened to them all, snuggling up to me as I had once snuggled up to my own mother.

Then it was on to my favorite chapter books — "Chancy and the Grand Rascal," "Knight's Castle" and, of course, "The Phantom Tollbooth," the Norton Juster classic illustrated by Jules Feiffer.

Night after night my husband or I read "The Phantom Tollbooth" to the girls, taking them on travels with Milo, the bored boy who receives a mysterious gift of a tollbooth that leads him into adventures rich with wordplay and characters like Tock the watchdog, whose body is a watch face.

The girls loved all of them, these books I knew so well they seemed tattooed into my memory.

So my older daughter had a couple of them tattooed onto her skin.

The little raccoon from "Wait Till the Moon Is Full" is inked on her right foot. The watchdog Tock from "The Phantom Tollbooth" is on her left shoulder.

It is high body art praise. And others of her generation have given similar pride of bodily place to images from books dating to their parents' childhoods.

Actress Lena Dunham has tattoos from "The Story of Ferdinand" and "Eloise." A recent BuzzFeed post of tattoos based on children's books included such classics beloved by baby boomers as "The Velveteen Rabbit," "The Little Prince," "Goodnight Moon," "Corduroy," "Winnie the Pooh," "The Phantom Tollbooth" — and "Madeline."

A lot of parents must have been digging their old books out of the basement.

New and wondrous children's literature is being produced all the time. Kids don't have to read their parents' childhood books.

But when they do, magic happens. Time turns fluid; you are simultaneously the parent reading the story and the child listening to your mother reading it to you. Your children are experiencing their childhoods and yours at the same time.

The bond is sweet: You and your children love the same iconic children's book.

And maybe one of you can wiggle a tattooed foot to prove it.