CHICAGO — McDonald's plans to raise starting wages by $1 above the local minimum at select restaurants, just one of the changes on tap as the world's largest fast-food chain tries to win back customers and fend off a union-backed effort to raise pay throughout the industry.

The pay increase takes effect July 1 and will affect more than 90,000 employees at the company's 1,500 company-owned U.S. restaurants.

Those restaurants account for about one-tenth of McDonald's restaurants across the country. Franchisees, which operate the vast majority of U.S. restaurants, will make their own decisions on pay and benefits, Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald's said Wednesday.

Overall, about 750,000 employees work at company- and franchisee-owned McDonald's restaurants in the United States.

The announcement comes one month into Steve Easterbrook's tenure as CEO, but McDonald's has been considering such changes "for several months," said Karen King, its U.S. chief people officer. Following a prolonged sales slump, McDonald's is trying to reinvent itself as "a modern, progressive burger company," Easterbrook has said.

In addition to higher pay, McDonald's said it would expand educational opportunities for all employees and add paid time off for workers at company-owned units. McDonald's did not say how much it will spend on the overall program, but King called it a "significant investment."

The move could have a ripple effect through the fast-food industry, which has been battling image problems related to the healthiness of its food as well as wages and working conditions. A series of protests launched under the banner "Fight for $15" has pressed McDonald's and other operators to raise wages to what backers describe as a living wage.

Some workers said Wednesday they would continue to press McDonald's on the pay issue, calling the $1 bump insufficient.

Still, the wage increase should help burnish McDonald's reputation, said Tim Calkins, a clinical professor of marketing at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Management. Happy employees, in particular, are critical to the company's turnaround efforts, he said.

"One of the most important insights about brands is that if your employees aren't excited about the brand, it is difficult to get them to deliver great service and enable them to drive growth," Calkins said. "A lot of this is about the employees and getting them to feel better about working at McDonald's."

Calkins said he thinks there's "no question" McDonald's employees will be happier as they make more money and feel they are making progress at work. And consumers might feel better about going to McDonald's when they are greeted by upbeat employees.

In a statement, Easterbrook said as much. "We know that a motivated workforce leads to better customer service so we believe this initial step not only benefits our employees, it will improve the McDonald's restaurant experience," the new CEO said. "We'll continue to evaluate opportunities that will make a difference for our people."

Calkins expects other chains will follow McDonald's lead, in part to remain competitive in pay but also because "companies don't want to seem like they're lagging behind when it comes to high-profile issues like this."

Competitor Wendy's said it routinely reviews wages and benefits for employees at company-owned restaurants to remain competitive. At Wendy's, like McDonald's, the vast majority of restaurants are run by franchisees. Burger King declined to comment.

While the federal minimum wage is $7.25, minimum wages exceed that in certain parts of the country.

The average hourly wage across company-owned McDonald's U.S. restaurants is currently $9.01 an hour and will go up to $9.90 with the change announced Wednesday, King said.

McDonald's projected that by the end of 2016, the average wage rate for employees at its company-owned locations would exceed $10 an hour.

It also will give paid personal time off to company restaurant employees who have been with McDonald's for at least a year. If workers choose not to take their earned paid leave, they will receive a check for the value of that time.

"We understand that life balance is important and believe that this will make a difference for our people," Easterbrook wrote in a guest opinion piece appearing Thursday in the Chicago Tribune.

It was not immediately clear whether franchisees would follow McDonald's lead on pay and paid time off.

"Market forces will dictate higher wages as businesses seek to recruit the best available talent for available jobs," a spokeswoman for the International Franchise Association said.

A third pillar of the new plan is offering employees at both company-owned and franchised locations education opportunities. Among other things, McDonald's said it would cover the cost for employees to take classes required for a high school diploma and would help pay for select college courses. It also is expanding access to its free English classes for those who speak English as a second language.

Some workers who have been taking part in protests against the company and other fast-food chains over wages and working conditions said McDonald's made the change because of their actions and that the $1 wage increase was insufficient.

The changes at McDonald's come after other companies, such as Wal-Mart, enhanced their pay and benefit programs.

Kendall Fells, organizing director of the Fight for 15 campaign, said McDonald's is raising wages in reaction to protests and strikes, which won't stop "until workers get what they've been fighting for."

Workers will protest in front of McDonald's stores across the nation Thursday. Nationwide protests are also still scheduled for April 15.

Fells said workers have been acting like a union and forcing McDonald's to implement changes, "as meager as they may be." The next step, he said, is to get that group recognized by McDonald's so it can bargain over wages, benefits and working conditions.

Mary Kay Henry, international president of the Service Employees International Union, said, "McDonald's was forced to pay up, but it's not nearly enough."

The SEIU is a major financial supporter of the Fight for 15 campaign.

Nancy Salgado, a McDonald's worker at a franchised restaurant in Chicago, said McDonald's move is one victory for the Fight for 15 movement, but it won't affect her or thousands of others employed by franchisees.

"It's just a slap in the face," said Salgado, who often protests with Fight for 15.

Salgado said she makes $8.35 per hour and will get a bump to $10 in July under the city's new minimum.

"But it's still not enough," Salgado said. "We are fighting for a living wage."