WASHINGTON — Welcoming guests with the traditional Muslim greeting of "asalaam alaikum," first lady Michelle Obama announced a U.S. pledge of $70 million to help educate 200,000 adolescent girls in Pakistan.

She said the money will help build more than a dozen schools, rehabilitate hundreds of facilities and provide training and scholarships to help Pakistani girls "fulfill their promise" to become the next generation of doctors, teachers and entrepreneurs.

"These girls are all of our girls," Obama said. "I have passion for this issue because I cannot look into the eyes of young women and not see myself and not see my own daughters, and not want the best for them."

Obama was accompanied Thursday by the Pakistan prime minister's wife, Kalsoom Nawaz Sharif, and his daughter, Maryam Nawaz Sharif, who praised the first lady's global effort to educate girls.

Sharif said Obama has inspired millions of girls around the world and her daughters, Malia and Sasha, "could not have a better role model."

Joining hands with Obama at one point, Sharif said, "We shall see about making a difference and we shall not rest until every girl is learning and in school. We shall not rest until every mother is confident that her daughter will have a better life than what she had."

The U.S. commitment follows Pakistan's recent promise to double spending on education, enroll more girls in school and provide more female teachers in the Muslim country.

The first lady is leading a U.S. government effort to help more than 62 million adolescent girls around the world enroll and stay in school.

Obama said in the past eight months, the U.S. has received pledges of more than $800 million for the Let Girls Learn initiative including $350 million from Japan, $200 million from South Korea and $200 million in a partnership with the United Kingdom.

Susan Markham, senior coordinator for gender equality and women's empowerment at USAID, said girls are less likely to attend primary school and are more likely to face barriers to access and completing an education. She said educating girls has ripple effects that go beyond helping just the individual.

"Empowering girls and ensuring them access to quality education has long-term transformational benefits for their future, for their families and communities and for Pakistan's economic prosperity overall," Markham told reporters during a conference call to preview the announcement.

President Barack Obama and the first lady launched Let Girls Learn this year to help more than 62 million adolescent girls around the world who don't attend school, and they have been urging world leaders to join the effort. Since March, the first lady has traveled to Japan, Cambodia and the United Kingdom to promote the initiative and recognize new partnerships.