MILWAUKEE — Flo knows explosives.

She knows how to find buried IEDs, how to detect the smells of more than 50 types of chemicals, and how to alert her handler when she finds something designed by humans to kill humans.

Flo knows love.

She knows the unconditional affection of the Marine who stayed by her side for seven intense months in Afghanistan, a Marine who loved her so much he pestered the military until he was finally able to adopt and bring her to Milwaukee.

Flo knows pain.

She knows something is wrong with her rear left leg, injured while playing fetch, so she hops on her three good legs and wags her tail.

In June, Cody Crangle, 23, was playing with Flo in a park near their home on Milwaukee's east side when she began to limp. Crangle suspected she had pulled a muscle, but a veterinarian told him Flo had torn her ACL.

She needs surgery that could cost around $4,000. Crangle made an appointment for ACL surgery in early August, and although he's a University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee student who works in a bar, he said he'll figure out some way to pay the tab.

While Flo was serving in the military, she had access to top veterinary care. But unlike other retired service members, there's no VA medical system for war dogs.

"If they need veterinarian services, I think the government should do that. … They have served, and served with honor, and they deserve to be taken care of just like any other veteran," said Jerry Witt, an Army dog handler who credits the two dogs he worked with in Vietnam for saving his life.

During the Vietnam War, U.S. military dogs were considered equipment and not military personnel. None returned home at the end of the war — half were euthanized, while the others were given to the South Vietnamese army. Military dog handlers from Vietnam lobbied Congress to change the rules and bring dogs home once their service is done. In 1992, President Bill Clinton signed legislation that ensures all military dogs are treated like true veterans.

But they're not eligible for health care once they're retired.

Crangle is not seeking financial help for Flo's surgery, but he wants to bring to light the dilemma faced by owners of retired military dogs. The Menomonee Falls-based volunteer group War Dogs, which honors military dogs by marching in parades and giving historical presentations, has helped with Flo's veterinary bills so far.

"I think it's surprising to most Americans who don't know that veterans with four legs and a tail don't get services when they retire," said Robin Ganzert, president and CEO of the American Humane Society.

When Crangle joined his company in the 2nd Battalion, 4th Marine Division, he was told he would be the squad's dog handler. He and others from his unit were sent to North Carolina, where they were assigned dogs.

"When I met her, one of the trainers came up to me and said, 'Oh, you have a really special dog,'" Crangle said in an interview. "She was the biggest sweetheart in the world. Flo right away made me feel like I loved her and she loved me."

When Flo and Crangle were stationed in Helmand province, they always walked at the front of foot patrols.

Crangle knew bomb detection dogs and their handlers were high-value targets of terrorists. Protective of Flo, Crangle usually kept her close as they discovered all manner of bombs — from hand grenades hanging from trees attached to trip wires to daisy chains of a dozen mortars.

Though Flo was exposed to recordings of explosions, gunfire and screams during training, eventually her demeanor changed in Afghanistan. Initially she was OK as long as she was at Crangle's side, but one day when his camp came under indirect fire, Flo changed.

"She was terrified, shaking nonstop for like 24 hours. I'm not a veterinarian or a doctor, I can't tell if she has PTSD, but I think in that environment she became more skittish," said Crangle.

"She is so good at her job. She's so sensitive there were some days she was so stressed she wouldn't go out, she just shut down. I could tell she just wanted to go home," Crangle said.

Upon returning from Afghanistan, Flo went back to the war dog facility for medical and mental health assessment and to meet her next handler for another tour. Crangle frequently called the facility to see if Flo was going back to Afghanistan and with which unit. Months later he learned she was being retired and placed up for adoption.

Crangle adopted Flo and drove to O'Hare International Airport in Chicago to pick her up during the 2012 Christmas holiday — their emotional reunion not unlike other returning war heroes greeting loved ones.

Flo stayed with Crangle's parents when he deployed to Asia with the Marines in 2014. Now they live together as Crangle, who left the Marines when his hitch was done last year, studies for a business degree and works.

Like many Marines, both Crangle and Flo sport tattoos. Flo's left ear is tattooed with her ID — R670. Among Crangle's numerous tattoos is one on his right biceps — his pup's dog tag, R670.