PITTSBURGH, Pa. — On the national day of charity known as Giving Tuesday, about 100 employees of Dick's Sporting Goods came to the Sarah Heinz House in Pittsburgh. They were there to clean, paint and decorate for the holidays.

Millions of people gave money online to charities that day. The group from Dick's worked side by side with middle-school students at the Sarah Heinz House. Those students take part in clubs, lessons and other activities at the building.

Many of the employees were millennials. They were in their 20s and 30s. According to a new study, millennials are more likely to give when they can do hands-on work for a charity. It often feels as good to them as giving money, said Deb Hopkins. She runs Pittsburgh Cares. The group matches businesses and individuals with volunteer opportunities.

##The Time-And-Money Equation

Giving Tuesday was launched in 2012. It was started by the 92nd Street Y in New York. The group wanted something to counter the shopping spree between Thanksgiving Day and Cyber Monday four days later. Cyber Monday is a big day for online shopping. About $116.7 million was given by almost 700,000 people on Giving Tuesday, according to its founders.

Many people also volunteered on the day.

Millennials think giving their time and skills to a cause is just as important as giving money, said Derrick Feldmann. He is the lead researcher for The Millennial Impact Project. The project studied how nine nonprofits, or groups that are not meant to make money, conducted their Giving Tuesday fundraising campaigns.

Based in Indianapolis, the project was launched in 2009 to study millennial behavior.

The project decided to study Giving Tuesday, Feldmann said, because it is a somewhat new digital-based program. It has relied mainly on social media to get people to give money.

"It looks and feels like millennials should be a part of it and would be highly involved," Feldmann said. The group tried to find out if that was true.

##A Lesson From "#TarHeelTuesday"

The researchers sought out nine nonprofits. These included Rutgers and Otterbein universities, the University of North Carolina and WBEZ public radio in Chicago. They studied the nonprofits' efforts to get attention before Giving Tuesday and how they advertised the day of the event.

Some nonprofits used online-only campaigns limited to emails and social media posts. Millennials did not respond as well to those, Feldmann said. 

Nonprofits that linked Giving Tuesday to something happening got the biggest response from millennials, he said.

The University of North Carolina (UNC) offers one example. There a student-giving council and a young graduate leadership council hosted on-campus Giving Tuesday events.

UNC created its own hashtag, or Twitter label, for the day. It was called "#TarHeelTuesday." It also encouraged students to volunteer with a certain program and to share their photos on Snapchat.

The university raised about $236,000. Its goal was only  $150,000. About $23,000 or nearly 10 percent of the total amount raised came from millennials. Almost three in 10 of the people who gave money were millennials.

A combination of Internet, community and self-organizing plans get a good response, Feldmann said. These let millennials feel like they "own" the day and the experience, he said.

##All In The Family
In addition to the Dick's event at Sarah Heinz House, Pittsburgh Cares organized other Giving Tuesday activities.  Some involved sorting and packaging toys for the U.S. Marine Corps' Toys for Tots program.

An evening Toys for Tots event was designed for families. The idea was to let children help their parents choose and pack toys for boys and girls in need.

"Millennials very much want their children involved," Hopkins said.

Millennials are not the only ones who want to get directly involved, though, she said. Baby boomers and older volunteers also like to participate, Hopkins said.