WASHINGTON — Piano virtuoso Jan Lisiecki is about to leave his teen years behind. And although the Polish-Canadian musician may not know what gifts he'll be getting for his 20th birthday on March 23, he can at least count on some balmy temperatures. When his milestone birthday arrives, Lisiecki will be on a plane winging to Abu Dhabi, where he's scheduled to perform for the first time.

"We're going to get some warm weather, which is always nice when you live in Canada," Lisiecki said recently by phone from the Calgary home he shares with his parents, who will be traveling with him to Abu Dhabi.

Lisiecki also will be going to Spain, and then finally to Washington, D.C., where he will make his debut at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in a March 28 recital. The recital is sold out, according to the Kennedy Center's online calendar.

Not long after that engagement, Lisiecki will be back at the Kennedy Center on April 7 to appear with the Philadelphia Orchestra, under the direction of Yannick Nézet-Séguin, performing as a soloist in Edvard Grieg's "Piano Concerto in A Minor."

The D.C. events only add to the accomplishments Lisiecki has racked up in the past five years or so. When he was 15, Lisiecki signed an exclusive recording agreement with Deutsche Grammophon. He has played with the New York Philharmonic, graced the BBC Proms, anchored a season-opening concert of Orchestre de Paris under Paavo Järvi and appeared at prestigious venues around the world.

When Lisiecki made his official subscription debut with the Philadelphia Orchestra in 2014, he performed three Mozart concertos in one week.

Part of Lisiecki's success stems from the fact that he simply enjoys being at the piano.

"It's a different world: It's a world of color," he said. "It's a world of possibility, and I think that also communicates to the audience."

Lisiecki's March 28 recital will include pieces by Ignacy Jan Paderewski, the composer and pianist who was the first prime minister of an independent Poland after World War I.

Mendelssohn and Bach also are on the program, as well as all 12 of the etudes in Chopin's "Opus 10."

The etudes "are known individually, but as a sum are very rarely played in order," said Lisiecki, who has recorded an album of Chopin etudes. Hearing the pieces in order, he noted, helps the audience grasp the "overarching idea" that links the compositions. "That gives the audience a different feeling — a special feeling — and really also demonstrates Chopin's genius."