DALLAS — The back room of the Urban Inter-Tribal Center of Texas looks more like a shoe store in the mall than a health care clinic. Orange boxes full of Nike sneakers line the wall.

But you won't find these Nikes in stores. They are made of beige buckskin-like fabric, with shoelaces that thread through the colors of a medicine wheel. At the toe, three small triangles join to form a triangle, symbolizing the North Star.

The cost of such sneakers can top $100. But the clinic gives them to patients with diabetes for free. They're an incentive to come to get treated, and are designed to prevent foot amputations due to diabetes, a common ailment among American Indians.

The free Nikes are a good example of how the clinic has adapted its practice of medicine to suit its clientele.

The sneakers are "an awesome deal," says Don Shelton, 73, of Fort Worth, an avid walker who estimates he's worn out 30 pairs of the shoes since beginning treatment at the center in 2000. Every first Friday of the month, Shelton — now "pretty much retired" and a volunteer Santa who has appeared in Petco and vacuum cleaner commercials — attends nutrition classes at the clinic.

Shelton, a member of the Citizen Potawatomi Nation, first came to the center upon learning he had diabetes, reasoning that an American Indian clinic would know how to manage the disease. He says he was right.

"They understood the history of the American Indian and how they react to diabetes," Shelton says. "Most American Indians are used to eating a lot of high-carb-type foods. And … that causes you to really become susceptible to diabetes."

The center has modern facilities — gleaming white counters, reclining examining chairs and medical equipment everywhere — and programs specifically targeted to American Indians. It fills a significant health-care need for people like Shelton. Located near Dallas' Medical District, the center provides basic medical and dental care, as well as a pharmacy, to members of the 566 federally recognized tribes who live in Dallas. If not for the center, they would have to travel hours to the free health care at tribal facilities.

One of 34 such clinics nationally, the Urban Inter-Tribal Center is funded mostly by federal dollars through the Indian Health Service, a federal agency.

It also fills a cultural gap. American Indian heritage shines through in the little details, like the tribal artwork on the walls and the crops in the new community garden, where the "three sisters" have begun to grow, — corn, beans and squash, arranged so the beans can grow up the cornstalks, which form a natural trellis.

"What we do offer that you won't find in any other community health center is cultural sensitivity for American Indians," says Angela Young, the administrative director of the center and a member of the Choctaw tribe. "We have, in our population, historical trauma that passed down from generation to generation, and it's still just as real today as it was back in the 1800s for many of our family members."

That means knowing to ask when a patient comes in whether they're using any kind of traditional healing, such as roots and herbs or the sweat, a ritual ceremony that involves fasting, prayer and a heated lodge. Those herbs, Young says, could interfere with medications the clinic prescribes.

The center is uniquely positioned to understand how problems such as diabetes intersect with traditional American Indian life. Take fry bread — a meal of white flour fried in lard and topped with ground beef and beans — that many people grew up on.

Made of the ingredients given out by the federal government, it's composed of foods diabetics are supposed to avoid: white flour and oils.

At the nutrition classes at the diabetic clinic, Shelton learned a recipe for a more healthful fry bread, made with better-for-you oils. "Not like your grandma's fry bread," he says, "but it's good for you."

For a group that Young describes as "meat-and-potato-type-of-eating people," fry bread is an example of how history is a part of current health issues the center has to address. Tribes couldn't always grow fruits and vegetables to supplement those reservation commodities — especially if they lived in the desert, Young says.

Dr. Rodney Stapp, the center's CEO, says issues such as diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure and high cholesterol — all health problems facing American Indians today — are deeply mired in historical injustices.

He says the reservation system pushed a hunter-gatherer society into a more sedentary farming lifestyle, introduced flour into what was previously a vegetable-based diet, and distributed substandard food. Feeling trapped on reservations, Stapp says, left many American Indians depressed, even suicidal. Mental health problems, alcoholism and smoking and tobacco use are also found at high rates among American Indians, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

Stapp became a doctor to address such problems. A member of the Comanche tribe, Stapp, 54, says he grew up in Oklahoma mostly without electricity or telephone access. After starting his career in the corporate world, he decided to go to medical school. He began at the center as a volunteer doctor.

"Our roots are … we started in the same situation: grew up eating commodity foods and depending on the tribe for things. And the tribe was depending on the government for things. It's not a good way to live."

Stapp, a podiatrist, was a consultant on the Nikes when they were developed. He says the shoes, which help prevent foot ulcers, are designed for American Indian feet, which Stapp says are wider at the heel. He credits them with the reduction in the center's amputation rate: down from five to seven a year to just zero or one a year.

The historical treatment of American Indians also translates into a wariness of government facilities, including hospitals, Stapp says. Young dubs it "the trust factor."

"We've had people refuse to go to Parkland (Hospital) and drive all the way back to Oklahoma" to Indian Health Service hospitals there, Young says.

The center has about 4,000 active patients, Stapp says.

One of those patients is Patsy Smith, 62, of Dallas' Oak Cliff neighborhood. Smith has been getting treated at the center for 45 years and says she's "had everything done there that can possibly be done there."

Going there feels like "going back home," Smith says.

"You go to (the center) and see people there you've known for 25, 30 years, and you don't see them anywhere else but (the center), or going to a powwow" Smith says. "Because they are Native American, they're Indian, so they're going to look after their own just like you do family."

Norma Ortiz, 73, a member of the Choctaw tribe who has used the center's services for years, says, "A lot of the elders feel better getting their care there. I always feel good going there myself. You feel better being among Indians."

Doug Miller, a postdoctoral research fellow at Southern Methodist University and incoming assistant professor of American Indian history at Oklahoma State University, says after disastrous federal efforts to relocate American Indians to cities in the 1950s and 1960s, intertribal centers became places where ties to tribal culture could be maintained and people could find family members and attend weekend powwows.

The Urban Inter-Tribal Center began with a church group, which brought in a weekly doctor for local American Indians. In 1971, the center was incorporated.

Today, in addition to health services, it offers job training workshops, a community garden and a place to meet some of the other 30,000 American Indians the 2010 census said live in Dallas County.

Stapp acknowledges that resources are not unlimited — one patient described a months-long wait for a tooth extraction, for example — but says the center does everything it can so that American Indian culture can survive and the people can thrive.

"We just want people to have the opportunity to do something with their lives," Stapp says. "You've got to have education to do that, got to have good health to see it through."