###PRO: America needs high-tech naval carriers to prevent future wars

WASHINGTON — A decade of operations against terrorists and rebels has created doubts about the usefulness of the aircraft carrier. Today's budget cuts threaten to shrink the Navy's carrier force — already reduced from 11 to 10 — to as few as eight or nine.

Yet, aircraft carriers have taken part in almost every U.S. major military operation since World War II. They have served as diplomatic tools to increase or ease political pressure. They have given our military unparalleled freedom of action to respond to a range of requirements. They have supported several missions simultaneously and guaranteed access to any region in the world. And they've reduced the nation's need to rely on bases in other countries.

If the U.S. Navy is to continue to secure the high seas, trade routes and shipping lanes around the globe long into the 21st century, it needs a robust fleet — both in quantity and quality.

The new Ford-class carriers are an important step toward this goal. The first is the USS Gerald R. Ford. Called by the Navy "true 'leap ahead'" ships, the Ford-class features important advances to project power over the course of the century it is expected to remain in service.

##A Ship For The 21st Century

The carriers have an advanced aircraft launching system and gear that allows them to quickly stop planes when they land. That will allow them to operate planes heavily loaded with weapons and fuel.

It also has a new radar system, a larger flight deck and improved elevators for bringing missiles from below the deck to the ship's surface. The Ford-class is more automated than older carriers and easier to maintain. Those improvements will reduce the cost of running the ships.

Experts rightly say that anti-ship missiles can potentially threaten carriers. But, the United States is not the only country investing in building new aircraft carriers.

As of 2012, about a dozen nations operate carriers. While the size, capabilities and effectiveness of these vessels vary widely, India, China, Brazil and Thailand are all in the aircraft carrier business. That speaks to the ship's continued usefulness both in peacetime and war.

##Trying To Avoid An "Away Game"

As states like China modernize their navies and acquire more advanced capabilities, they threaten America's long-standing dominance in the ocean.

This is especially troublesome because despite America's overall superiority at sea, possible future battles would likely force America to play an "away game." Nearby enemy forces would enjoy large numerical advantages at first. American forces there would have to make do until the arrival of reinforcements.

This "away game" issue is especially frustrating because of the growing role that smaller ships are playing in America's navy. These new ships are more open to attack.  An increasing number of smaller ships results in an overall naval balance likely to be less favorable to the U.S. in the future.

A military tilted in America's favor is the most financially wise use of military power. While Americans hope not to have to fight a military anytime soon, the best way to win any future conflict is not to fight one at all. If we can stay the most powerful military, other countries won't want to fight us. By spending money on new carriers we would be taking steps to achieve this goal.

While aircraft carriers are under increased risks due to increasing global capabilities, the solution is not to give up. Rather, the United States needs to make use of new technological advantages.

New advances in technology could make carriers last longer. New "directed-energy weapons" can shoot energy, sound waves, or lasers, instead of missiles. And unmanned planes, called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), can be used on carriers.

The key is to do what Americans do best, and that is to create innovative solutions.

The real question is not whether aircraft carriers are floating relics of the past, but how can the nation not afford to invest in a fleet of new super-carriers?

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mackenzie Eaglen is a resident fellow in the Marilyn Ware Center for Security Studies at the American Enterprise Institute. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.

###CON: With important programs losing funding, the military should not get billions

WASHINGTON — The Budget Control Act of 2011 was designed to force Congress to reduce the shortfall between the amount of money the government was spending and how much it was collecting from taxes. If it couldn't find a way, it would require automatic spending cuts.

When the law was passed, the idea behind it was that the automatic cuts in spending would be unthinkable. Because it was so hard to imagine, people thought this would force a long-term budget deal.

That thinking proved to be wrong, and the cuts to Pentagon spending began in March 2013. The Pentagon, or Department of Defense, is in charge of military spending and the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marines.

The problem started because the government has been spending more in a year than it takes in through taxes. That's called a deficit. The law was designed to automatically cut that deficit when spending got out of hand.

However, since government spending was going to be cut, at least the Pentagon is losing some money. It already had too much money.

Now we hear whining and complaining from the Pentagon spending lobby — and especially the Navy, which is pushing for a new line of $14 billion super-carriers — that America's national security will be compromised. Of course that depends on how you define "America" and "national security."

##Spending Unrelated To Security

If we are talking about the actual security of American citizens and residents — well, a huge part of Pentagon spending is clearly unrelated to that.

No one has explained how the U.S. invasion and occupation of Iraq made us safer. And it cost the lives of more than 4,400 Americans and several hundred thousand Iraqis. It's tough to see how the invasion and occupation of Afghanistan has increased our security. And then there's the unmanned drone planes that have dropped bombs on civilians in Pakistan, Yemen and other countries. All of these actions are creating new enemies every day.

No, the Pentagon lobby's real fear right now is that people will see that Pentagon cuts don't endanger us in the least, and will want more.

According to polls, the public already wants much deeper cuts in Pentagon spending than do our politicians who get money and support from companies that make weapons. These politicians do not have to sacrifice their own sons and daughters for their ambition to expand American power. And they don't suffer consequences when money gets cut.

The freeze in government spending is called sequestration. It has been in effect since March. A sequestration results in cuts that go into effect automatically if politicians in Washington, D.C., can't agree on how much money the government should spend, and what to spend it on.

Even if it continues through all of next year, the Pentagon budget will only return to the level of 2007 — excluding wars.

The Navy plans to spend $2.2 billion this year on the Littoral Combat Ship. And it wants more ballistic missile submarines for as much as $8 billion each.

##Weapons Or Preschool Programs?

Would you really rather have these special gifts for companies that sell weapons to the Pentagon? Or would you prefer having thousands of more teachers, or Head Start preschool programs for thousands of children?

And these Navy luxury items are small change compared to the hundreds of billions of dollars of Pentagon waste that is planned for the coming decade.

The worst deal of all would be a "grand bargain" — a long-term budget deal to avoid the cuts in Pentagon spending by cutting Social Security and Medicare benefits instead. These programs give money and health care to retired people.

This is no bargain; it is more like "grand theft" from our senior citizens: their average Social Security check is about $1,100 a month and makes up most of their income.

##Smaller Military Means Less War

It is often argued that Pentagon spending creates jobs. But, in fact it creates fewer jobs than other forms of government spending or even some tax cuts. If overall spending stays frozen, more cuts in the Pentagon — and fewer elsewhere — will provide more jobs for the 11 million unemployed people in our country.

We narrowly avoided entering the war in Syria in September. Public opposition prevented Congress from voting for it and President Obama from bombing without congressional approval.

A smaller military will mean fewer wars and fewer lives destroyed, as our leaders will be forced to scale back their ambitions. We don't need a bigger budget for the Navy or the military — we need a smaller empire, or better yet none at all.

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mark Weisbrot is the co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.