###PRO: America needs more carriers to keep control of the high seas

WASHINGTON — A decade of operations against terrorists has created doubts about whether aircraft carriers are necessary. The number of carriers in the Navy has already been reduced from 11 to 10. And cuts in government spending threaten to shrink the number to as few as eight or nine.

Aircraft carriers are giant ships that can hold dozens of planes and helicopters. They have long decks that planes can use to take off and land. They cost a lot of money to build and keep in working order.

Yet, aircraft carriers have taken part in almost every big U.S. military action since World War II. They have been used to put pressure on other countries. They have given our military the ability to handle different needs. They have supported several missions at the same time. They allow us to fight in any region in the world. And they've reduced the need to rely on bases in other countries.

The U.S. needs a large fleet of quality carriers. Otherwise, the U.S. Navy may not be able to continue to secure the seas and shipping routes around the globe much longer.

##"Leap Ahead Ships"

The new Ford-class carriers are an important step toward this goal. The first is the USS Gerald R. Ford. The Navy calls the carriers "true 'leap ahead'" ships. The Ford-class has important advances that will allow it to be a powerful ship for a long time. It is expected to be in service for at least the next 90 years.

The carriers have an advanced aircraft launching system. And they have gear that allows them to slow down planes when they land. That will allow them to operate planes heavily loaded with weapons and fuel.

It also has a larger flight deck and improved elevators to move missiles from below the deck to its surface. The Ford-class is more automated than older carriers. Fixing the new carriers is easier. That will make it cheaper to run the ships.

It's true that missiles fired at the carriers could cause damage. But, the United States is not the only country building new aircraft carriers.

##Keeping Up With Other Countries

As of 2012, about a dozen nations use carriers. India, China, Brazil and Thailand are all in the aircraft carrier business. The size, capability and effectiveness of these countries' carriers is different. But, that so many countries are building ships shows that carriers are useful both in peacetime and war.

States like China are improving their navies and acquiring more advanced capabilities. By doing so, they threaten America's power in the ocean.

This is a big worry. The U.S. has had the strongest navy for a long time. But, possible future battles could force America to fight far from home. Enemy forces would have more ships and planes close by. American forces there would have to make do until help could be sent.

This is a problem because the U.S. has been building smaller ships. These ships are more open to attack. Using more less secure ships results in a weaker navy.

A strong military is worth spending money on. Americans don't want to fight anytime soon. But, the best way to win a future war is not to fight one at all. If the U.S. keeps its navy strong, other countries won't want to fight us. Spending money to keep the U.S. as the strongest military would achieve this goal.

Aircraft carriers face new risks as other countries get stronger. But, the answer is not to give up. Instead, the United States needs to make better use of its technology.

New advances in technology could make carriers last longer. New weapons can shoot energy, or lasers, instead of missiles. They're like ray guns. And unmanned planes, called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), can be used on carriers.

Aircraft carriers are not outdated. They're necessary to keep us safe in the future. Our nation can't afford to not build a fleet of new super-carriers.

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mackenzie Eaglen is a resident fellow in the Marilyn Ware Center for Security Studies at the American Enterprise Institute. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.

###CON: Building expensive carriers is a waste of money that would be better spent on programs that help more Americans

WASHINGTON — The U.S. government has been spending more money than it's taking in. A law passed back in 2011 aimed to solve this problem. It said that Congress must agree on how to reduce government overspending. If Congress failed, the law automatically cut the money sent to many government programs, including the military.

When the law was passed, people thought there was no way military spending would be cut. They figured Congress would be forced to agree on a deal to stop the overspending.

This turned out to be wrong. Congress failed to reach a deal. The cuts to military spending began in March 2013.

It was a dumb idea to try to solve the U.S.'s money problems by cutting spending. Government spending keeps people working. Many people were jobless when the law was passed. However, since government spending was going to be cut, the military was a good place to start. It already had too much money.

Now we hear whining from private companies that sell things to the military. They say that America will become less safe. The Navy is especially concerned because it is pushing for new aircraft carriers. These ships will hold lots of planes.

##War Does Not Make America Safer

But much of the money the military spends doesn't help protect Americans.

For instance, how has the U.S. war in Iraq made us safer? And it cost the lives of more than 4,400 Americans and several hundred thousand Iraqis. It's tough to see how the war in Afghanistan has increased our safety. And we've bombed people in Pakistan, Yemen and other countries. All of these actions are making new enemies for us.

But the military and companies that sell weapons and equipment are scared. They are worried that people will see that the cuts don't put us in danger. If there's no loss of safety, people may want more cuts.

According to surveys, the public already wants much deeper cuts in Pentagon spending. It's our leaders in Congress who get money from military companies that want to keep the money flowing. These leaders want to increase American power in the world. But, they don't send their own sons and daughters to war. And they don't suffer when money gets cut.

##Spending Billions On Military A Waste

Some military spending has been frozen since March. But, the military is still spending plenty of money right now.

The Navy plans to spend $2.2 billion this year on a new war ship. And it wants more submarines that carry missiles. These cost as much as $8 billion each.

Would you really rather have such gifts made to the military's suppliers? Or would you rather have the money go to pay for thousands of more teachers, or programs that help thousands of poor preschoolers?

And these Navy toys are small change compared with the hundreds of billions of dollars in spending the military plans in the next 10 years. It will just result in more waste.

The worst deal of all would be a "grand bargain." Some leaders in Congress want a deal that would prevent cuts in Pentagon spending. Instead, they would cut Social Security and Medicare benefits. These provide money and health care to old people in retirement.

This is no bargain; it is more like "grand theft" from older Americans: their average Social Security check is about $1,100 a month and makes up most of the money they get in old age.

It is often said that Pentagon spending creates jobs. But, in fact it creates fewer jobs than other forms of government spending.

We almost went to war in Syria in September. But since the American people were against it, Congress didn't vote for it. President Obama wasn't going to bomb Syria without Congress agreeing to it.

A smaller military will force our leaders to scale back their goals. That will mean fewer wars and fewer lives destroyed. We don't need more spending by the Navy or the military. We need a country that doesn't send its military all over the world.

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mark Weisbrot is the co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.