###PRO: Control of the seas could prevent future wars or threats

WASHINGTON — A decade of operations against terrorists and rebels has created doubts about whether aircraft carriers are necessary. And cuts in government spending threaten to shrink the Navy's carrier force — already reduced from 11 to 10 — to as few as eight or nine.

Yet, aircraft carriers have taken part in almost every U.S. major military operation since World War II. They have served as tools to increase or ease political pressure. They have given our military the freedom of action to respond to a range of needs. They have supported several missions at the same time.

They allow us to fight in any region in the world. And they've reduced the nation's need to rely on bases in other countries.

The U.S. needs a large fleet of quality carriers. Otherwise, the U.S. Navy may not be able to continue to secure the high seas, trade routes and shipping lanes around the globe long into the 21st century.

##A Ship To Last For A Century

The new Ford-class carriers are an important step toward this goal. The first is the USS Gerald R. Ford. The Navy calls the Ford-class carriers "true 'leap ahead'" ships. The Ford-class has important advances that will allow it to be a powerful ship over the course of the century it is expected to remain in service.

The carriers have an advanced aircraft launching system. And they have gear that allows them to slow down planes when they land. That will allow them to operate planes heavily loaded with weapons and fuel.

It also has a larger flight deck and improved elevators to move missiles from below the deck to its surface. The Ford-class is more automated than older carriers and keeping the new carriers in working condition is easier. This will reduce the cost of running the ships.

It's true that some missiles can be a threat to carriers. But, the United States is not the only country building new aircraft carriers.

As of 2012, about a dozen nations operate carriers. While the size, capabilities and effectiveness of the ships vary widely, India, China, Brazil and Thailand are all in the aircraft carrier business. That speaks to how useful the ships are both in peacetime and war.

States like China are modernizing their navies and acquiring more advanced capabilities. By doing so, they threaten America's power in the ocean.

##Ships Could Stop Potential Threats

This is especially troublesome because despite America's overall superiority at sea, possible future battles could take place far from home. Nearby enemy forces would have an advantage at first, because they'd have more ships and planes there. American forces would have to make do until reinforcements arrive.

This issue is frustrating. Small ships that are more open to attack are playing a growing role in America's navy. Having ships that are less secure results in a navy that won't be as strong as it has been in the past.

Spending money on a strong military can save money. While Americans hope not to have to fight anytime soon, the best way to win a future conflict is not to fight one at all. If the U.S. remains the most powerful military, other countries won't challenge it. Spending money on a strong defense would achieve this goal.

Aircraft carriers are under increased risks due to increasing global capabilities. But, the solution is not to give up, but instead for the U.S. to use its newest technology.

New advances in technology could make carriers last longer. New "directed-energy weapons" can shoot energy, sound waves, or lasers, instead of missiles. They're like ray guns. And unmanned planes, called [drones](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=drone), can now be used on carriers.

The key is to do what Americans do best, which is find innovative solutions.

The real question is not whether aircraft carriers are outdated. It's how can the nation not afford to build a fleet of new super-carriers?

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mackenzie Eaglen is a resident fellow in the Marilyn Ware Center for Security Studies at the American Enterprise Institute. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.

### CON: Navy building $14 billion ships while everyday Americans struggle to get by

WASHINGTON — A law passed back in 2011 required Congress to agree how to reduce government overspending. If Congress failed, the law triggered automatic cuts to many government programs.

When the law was passed, people believed that big cuts in spending would be unthinkable. The fear of what would happen would force Congress to come up with a long-term deal to fix government spending. Or so people thought.

That thinking turned out to be wrong. Lawmakers haven't been able to agree on spending, so some government programs aren't getting fully funded.

The cuts to Pentagon spending began in March 2013. The Pentagon, or Department of Defense, is in charge of military spending and the Air Force, Army, Navy and Marines.

The problem started because the government has been spending more in a year than it takes in through taxes, creating a deficit. The law was designed to automatically cut that deficit when spending got out of hand.

It was a dumb idea to reduce the deficit with unemployment being so high. Government spending supports jobs for Americans. However, since government spending was going to be cut, at least the Pentagon is getting less money. It already had too much money.

##Naval Spending Just To Prevent Pentagon Cuts

Now we hear whining from the military — and companies that sell weapons, equipment and services to the military — that America's safety will suffer. The Navy is especially concerned because it is pushing for a new line of $14 billion super-carriers. These giant ships will hold lots of planes.

But a huge part of the money the Pentagon spends doesn't really make us safer.

No one has explained how the U.S. war in Iraq made us safer. And it cost the lives of more than 4,400 Americans and several hundred thousand Iraqis. It's tough to see how the war in Afghanistan has increased our safety. And then there's the unmanned drone planes that dropped bombs on people in Pakistan, Yemen and other countries. All of these actions are creating new enemies every day.

No, the real fear of the military and their suppliers is that people will see that Pentagon cuts don't put us in danger. If there's no loss of safety, people may want more cuts.

According to the polls, the public already wants much deeper cuts in Pentagon spending. It's our leaders in Congress that want to keep the money flowing. They get help and money from companies that sell weapons and supplies. But, these leaders in Congress don't send their own sons and daughters into the wars that they start. And they don't suffer when money gets cut.

Some of the money that the military is supposed to get from the government has been frozen since March. Even if the freeze continues through all of next year, the amount the Pentagon spends will still be as high as it was in 2007 — not including money spent on wars.

The Navy plans to spend $2.2 billion this year on a new combat ship. And it wants more submarines that carry missiles which cost as much as $8 billion each.

Do you really want money to go to companies that supply the military? Or would you prefer having thousands of more teachers, or Head Start preschool programs for thousands of children?

And these toys that the Navy wants are small change. The Pentagon is planning hundreds of billions of dollars in spending in the next 10 years that will just result in more waste.

##Grand Bargain Or Grand Theft?

The worst deal of all would be a "grand bargain." Some leaders in Congress want a long-term spending deal to avoid the cuts to the Pentagon. Instead, they would cut Social Security and Medicare. Those programs provide money and health care to old people in retirement.

This is no bargain; it is more like "grand theft" from our senior citizens: their average Social Security check is about $1,100 a month and makes up most of their income.

Some argue that Pentagon spending creates jobs. But, in fact it creates fewer jobs than other forms of government spending. Even some tax cuts would be better than giving the Pentagon more money. If we made more cuts in the Pentagon — and fewer elsewhere — we could provide more jobs for the 11 million unemployed people in our country.

We narrowly avoided entering the war in Syria in September. Public opposition prevented Congress from voting for it and President Obama from bombing without congressional approval.

A smaller military will force our leaders to scale back their ambitions. That will mean fewer wars and fewer lives destroyed. We don't need more money for the Navy or the military — we need a smaller empire, or better yet none at all.

———

>ABOUT THE WRITER
>Mark Weisbrot is the co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research. This essay is available to McClatchy-Tribune News Service subscribers. McClatchy-Tribune did not subsidize the writing of this column; the opinions are those of the writer and do not necessarily represent the views of McClatchy-Tribune or Newsela. This op-ed was adapted by Newsela.