WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama unveiled expansive executive actions on immigration Thursday night to spare nearly 5 million people in the U.S. illegally from deportation. He will refocus enforcement efforts on "felons, not families."

The moves, affecting mostly parents and young people, marked the most sweeping changes to the nation's immigration laws in nearly three decades. By using executive actions, Obama set off a fierce fight with Republicans over the limits of presidential powers.

In a televised address to the nation, Obama defended the legality of his actions. He challenged GOP lawmakers to not focus their energy on blocking his measures. Instead, he asked them to approve long-stalled legislation to take the place of his executive actions.

"To those members of Congress who question my authority to make our immigration system work better, or question the wisdom of me acting where Congress has failed, I have one answer: Pass a bill," Obama said. The move is seen as a flexing of his presidential powers. Just two weeks earlier his political standing was challenged in midterm elections that saw Republicans gain control of Congress.

##President Could "Regret" Actions

As Obama spoke from the White House, immigration supporters with American flags draped over their shoulders marched on Pennsylvania Avenue carrying signs that read, "Gracias, Presidente Obama."

The address marked the first step in the White House effort to promote the executive actions to the public.

Despite Obama's challenge to Republicans to pass a broader immigration bill, his actions and the angry GOP response could largely stamp out any chance of an immigration law for the remainder of his presidency.

Republicans, emboldened by their sweeping victories in the midterms, are weighing responses to the president's actions.

"The president will come to regret the chapter history writes if he does move forward," said Senator Mitch McConnell, the Kentucky Republican who is soon to become the Senate majority leader.

House Speaker John Boehner, Republican from Ohio, has refused to have his members vote on broad immigration legislation passed by the Senate last year. He said Obama's decision to go it alone "cemented his legacy of lawlessness and squandered what little credibility he had left."

##Measures Still Leave Many Uncertain

While Obama's measures are sweeping in their goals, they still leave more than half of the 11 million people living in the U.S. illegally in a state of uncertainty. The president announced new deportation priorities. Law enforcement will now be directed to focus its efforts on tracking down serious criminals and people who have recently crossed the border. At the same time, it would specifically place a low priority on those who have been in the U.S. for more than 10 years.

The president spent months trying to gain a House vote on the Senate bill, before taking action on his own.

Obama insisted that his actions did not amount to amnesty.

"Amnesty is the immigration system we have today — millions of people who live here without paying their taxes or playing by the rules, while politicians use the issue to scare people and whip up votes at election time," he said.

Immigrants who have been in the U.S. illegally for more than five years but whose children are citizens or permanent residents will benefit most from Obama's actions. After passing background checks and paying fees, those individuals will soon be able to seek relief from deportation and get work permits. The administration expects about 4.1 million people to qualify.

##Mixed Views On Actions

Obama is also broadening his 2012 directive that deferred deportation for some young immigrants who entered the country illegally. Obama will expand eligibility to people who arrived in the U.S. as minors before 2010, instead of the current cutoff of 2007. He also will lift the requirement that applicants be under 31. The expansion is expected to affect about 300,000 people.

Applications for the new deportation deferrals will begin in the spring. Those who qualify would be granted deferrals for three years at a time.

Immigration-rights activists gathered at watch parties around the country to listen to the president announce actions they have sought for years.

"This is a great day for farmworkers. It's been worth the pain and sacrifice," said Jesus Zuniga, a 40-year-old who picks tomatoes in California's Central Valley and watched the speech in Fresno.

In New York City, however, a couple of protesters held "no amnesty" signs.

"We have a lot of unemployed Americans right now, and I don't understand why unemployed Americans can't be hired to do the jobs these illegals are doing," said John Wilson.

##Unconstitutional Actions?

The White House insists Obama has the legal authority to halt deportations for parents and for people who came to the U.S. as children, primarily on humanitarian grounds. As support, officials also mentioned previous immigration executive actions by Democratic and Republican presidents dating back to Dwight Eisenhower.

A senior administration official said the decision to protect parents of citizens or lawful permanent residents is in line with an existing law that allows adult citizens to sponsor their parents for immigration. Obama's plan goes a step further. Now, the sponsoring citizen doesn't have to be an adult.

GOP lawmakers disagree with Obama's claims of legal authority. They called his actions an unconstitutional power grab.

Republicans are weighing a range of responses, including filing legal challenges and the threat of a government shutdown. One lawmaker — Republican Representative Mo Brooks of Alabama — has raised the specter of impeachment.

GOP leaders have warned against such talk and are seeking to avoid spending-bill tactics that could lead to a government shutdown. They say such moves could backfire, angering many voters and alienating Hispanic voters for the next presidential election.