WASHINGTON – President Barack Obama plans to move faster to bring high-speed Internet to American public schools. On Tuesday, he pledged to make sure students in the United States have every advantage that "some child in South Korea has right now."

Obama told a crowd at a school in Adelphi, Maryland, "We shouldn't give that kind of competitive advantage over to other countries."

He added, "In a country where we expect free Wi-Fi with our coffee, we should definitely demand it in our schools."

Obama made the remarks as he revealed plans to speed up the start of his pet project. He wants to link schools to the Internet using both money from the government and money from businesses. Several U.S. companies are pitching in about $750 million in goods and services to help students get connected to the World Wide Web. They include Apple, AT&amp;T, Microsoft, Sprint and Verizon.

## Obama's "ConnectED" Plan

The money from the companies will be used, along with $2 billion from the government's Federal Communications Commission. It is also called the FCC. For about 20 million students, the money will mean they can get Wi-Fi in their schools and libraries over the next two years. It is a lot sooner than Obama anticipated when he launched his "ConnectED" plan last year.

Back then, White House officials expected that the FCC would have to go through a long rule-making process to get access to $2 billion. Right now, that money is already dedicated to building capacity for high-speed Internet. But the FCC recently decided it could give out the money faster. This will speed up the funding of high-speed Internet projects without having to vote on it.

The accelerated schedule comes without a single vote of Congress, Obama pointed out Tuesday. He also added that it won't add a dime to the debt the United States has.

But the president also warned lawmakers that he was about to ask them to pitch in.

He said he would ask Congress to "give teachers using cutting-edge technology the training they deserve." That way, he says the technology the government is investing in can be used to its fullest.

The challenge showed Obama using his new second-term plan. He noted in his State of the Union speech that he would announce what he would do, then take action. After that, he would urge Congress to make more sweeping changes. In this case, he's also rallying business leaders who have invested in these projects to bring their own voices to the call for congressional action.

"I'm going to ask every business leader to join us in this effort," President Obama said, "to give every young person every shot at success."