BRUSSELS — President Barack Obama laid a wreath at a cemetery in Belgium on Wednesday. Americans who died there in the fighting in World War I are buried there. The war began 100 years ago in 1914. Yet, Obama noted, it matters to us today.

"The lessons of that war speak to us still," Obama said.

The president is visiting Brussels, the capital of Belgium. He will talk to European leaders about a dangerous situation in Europe. Russia has used its army to take over a part of Ukraine called Crimea. Obama and European leaders are trying to prevent Russia from moving farther into Ukraine's territory.

Ukraine was once part of the Soviet Union. It was a group of republics controlled by Russia. Ukraine gained its independence when the Soviet Union broke up in 1991. The Ukrainian region of Crimea has many Russians in it. Russia invaded Crimea in early March.

On Tuesday, Obama spoke of punishing Russia for taking Crimea. Some leaders worry Russian President Vladimir Putin will send troops farther into Ukraine. If that happens, Obama has warned Russia. The United States could make it hard for Russia to trade with other countries. Russian businesses would suffer. But for now, Crimea is likely to remain in Russian control. It's not expected that Russia will be removed "by force," he said.

## A Worried Europe

Still, Russia's neighbors want to know that NATO will defend them. Other European nations are worried about the U.S. using trading bans on Russia. They fear that the bans would not just hurt Russia. Businesses in other countries may suffer too. Obama is expected to talk about these worries. At the same time, he wants to avoid angry words between the U.S. and Russia, officials say. Heated talks were common when the United States and the Soviet Union were enemies. During a period known as the Cold War, the United States and Russia often argued.

Belgium's king and the prime minister joined Obama. Afterward, all three leaders spoke of lessons learned from the war.

"Our countries have learned the hard way" that countries can be taken over, the king said. His great-grandfather, King Albert, fought in World War I.

Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo had a warning.  "Those who ignore the past are taking the risk to relive it," he said.

Obama noted that poison gas was used as a weapon in World War I. He pointed out the world is still trying to get rid of chemical weapons. Poison gas was recently used in Syria.

"Our efforts send a powerful message that these weapons have no place in a civilized world. This is one of the ways that we can honor those who fell here," Obama said. "We must never, ever take our progress for granted."

The president also read from the poem "In Flanders Fields" about the fighting at Flanders. It was written by John McCrae, a Canadian army doctor. The verse called for the memory of the war to be handed down through history:

_To you from failing hands we throw_  
_The torch; be yours to hold it high_  
_If ye break faith with us who die_  
_We shall not sleep, though poppies grow_  
_In Flanders fields_.