HACKENSACK, N.J. — When he was 3 years old, Mohammad Abdelhamid told his mother that he was going to be a basketball player and – like the pros – buy a mansion.

His mother, Azza Abdelziz, took his ambitions to heart and raised him as a well-rounded athlete. He now plays three sports at Fort Lee High School – soccer, basketball and baseball – as well as participating in a private soccer club that travels all over the region.

Abdelziz, who laughed off the promise of a mansion, was full of encouragement on a recent Sunday as she watched him take on Paramus Catholic High School in an area basketball tournament hosted at Fort Lee. Also in attendance were relatives, friends and recruiters taking in the action as the warm bodies on the court pushed up the temperature in the gym.

But Abdelziz deserved as much applause from her son as she was heaping on him.

The sacrifices many parents in the crowd have made on behalf of their children's athletic careers are as remarkable for their size as for their duration. Abdelziz, for example, said that over the past 10 years, she has hosted relatives at her house less and less because of her son's game and practice schedule. She has also stuck with her job as a school bus driver because the hours are conducive to high school sports.

Jocelyn Picache, the mother of another Fort Lee player, said basketball is not even the most demanding of youth sports. She estimated that her family spent upward of $100,000 transporting her eldest daughter around the country for weekly gymnastics competitions when she was between the ages of 6 and 13. Her daughter, who was a prospect for the U.S. Olympic team, had to give up the sport after a serious back injury.

"We could have made a down payment on a house," Picache said.

But in talking about such decisions, parents were full of pride, not bitterness.

Howard Breindel, the father of a player for Tenafly High School, said making sacrifices for your children is what parenting is all about.

"You have kids so you can support them through these years," he said, "because after that they're gone."

Plus, he said, by participating in sports, young athletes learn essential life lessons such as discipline, teamwork, respect, sportsmanship and focus. It was a point made over and over by parents watching the tournament: These games will help these boys succeed in the classroom and in life.

Then there is the allure of playing ball in college. Kevin Goodson, whose son plays for Jersey City's Henry Snyder High School, said playing basketball in college was a dream for everyone on his son's team.

But Breindel speculated that by the time kids get to high school and see a wider pool of talent, they become more realistic about their chances of playing at the next level. Which is fine, he said, because there is so much else to do. His son, for example, has been accepted into college to write screenplays.

According to 2013 estimates from the NCAA, a mere 3.3 percent of high school men's basketball players compete at the college level, as opposed to 5.7 percent for soccer, 6.5 percent for football, 6.8 percent for baseball and 3.7 percent for women's basketball.

Only 0.03 percent of high school men's basketball players make it as a pro.

While high school sports last — together with the attendant sacrifices — Abdelziz and Picache are going to make the most of the time. The two women live on different floors in the same apartment complex, but they see each other most often at their sons' sporting events.

"All these kids are like my kids," Abdelziz said as she cheered alongside Picache. She said she especially enjoyed road trips when all the players and family members go out to dinner together and stay at the same hotel.

For Picache, attending the games helps to relieve her stress after a long day of work.

"Once I go to the game, it takes the pressure off," she said. "I forget about everything."