ORLANDO, Fla. — Walt Disney World visitors wait in long lines. At the Dumbo the Flying Elephant ride they once had to stand in the hot sun for a long time.

Now, the riders can now wait in an air-conditioned tent. Kids can play on slides and a toy fire engine. They can climb a tower, too. The buzz of a pager tells parents it is time to go on the ride.

"It's so much better this way," said Russ Spence of Richmond, Virginia. He was waiting in the tent with his 3-year-old grandson.

Theme park lines keep getting longer. That's why parks like Disney World in Florida are making wait lines more enjoyable. The efforts are good for business. Park guests complain most about long lines.

Bigger Crowds, Longer Lines

You have to cut the waiting time, says Jim MacPhee. Or at least make it more fun. He works for Walt Disney World Parks. The company has done a lot to make its ride lines more entertaining.

The idea has caught on. Fun lines have opened at Florida and Southern California theme parks. Visitors can watch videos or play games. And robotic characters are there to entertain the waiting riders.

More people are visiting the top 20 theme parks in North America. A company called Aecom keeps track of visitors. It says attendance has grown in the past five years.

Bigger crowds mean visitors go on fewer rides. Most visitors have time for only 10 rides a day. That means a lot of time spent standing in lines.

Disney parks first tried to solve the problem of long lines in 1999. The company introduced the Fastpass. It let park visitors return to a ride at a scheduled time to get on a shorter line. Other parks copied the idea. Six Flags offers its visitors the Flash Pass. These passes are free.

Most theme parks offer passes to shorter lines. But visitors must pay extra for a lot of them.

The Handwriting On The Honey Wall

The lines are still long for those without special passes. But the lines are often more entertaining.

Disney World in Orlando has been putting added attractions on its lines for years. Waiting for the Many Adventures of Winnie the Pooh ride? You can use your hands to write on a wall of fake dripping honey. You can play music on plastic pumpkins and watermelons.

The entertainment was needed on a recent summer day. The waiting time for the Winnie the Pooh ride was more than an hour.

Kelly Ferreri visits Disney World every year with her family. Her children played with the pumpkins and honey wall as they waited. She thought the games helped. "It keeps kids entertained for all the time that they would be standing in line," she said. "It's beautiful."

Universal Studios Hollywood makes waiting fun, too. Riders of the new Transformers: The Ride-3D line up in an area that looks like a military fort. They watch videos that explain their mission. They must keep the powerful "AllSpark" from falling into the hands of the evil Decepticons.

"Guest satisfaction is very important to us," said Larry Kurzweil. He works at Universal Studios Hollywood. "We want to entertain our guests from the moment they enter the ride queue."

Waiting At Full Throttle

What's new at Six Flags Magic Mountain in Valencia? There's a 16-by-9-foot screen near Full Throttle. It is the park's newest ride. Visitors waiting in line can watch a video of bungee jumpers and mountain bikers.

Six Flags Entertainment Corp. has added a game similar to Whac-A-Mole. Visitors play it on television screens. They use their cellphones as controllers. The game is at all 16 Six Flags parks.

David McKillips works at Six Flags. He says the games make for a better experience.

Visitors going on the Toy Story Midway Mania ride may get the giggles. The ride is at Disney's California Adventure Park. A Mr. Potato Head robot sings and tells jokes.

"I'm going to guess your weight," Mr. Potato Head tells them. "I'd say you wait about 15, 20, 25 minutes, tops!"