WAYNE, N.J. — Pencils roll around classroom floors, forgotten in drawers and backpacks and wedged between car seats — unused, discarded, wasted. Yet elsewhere in the world, one pencil is a rare and treasured thing.

That inequity so bothered Kyle VanDerVelden, a 16-year-old junior at Wayne Hills High School, that "I just decided there was definitely something that I could do," he said.

What began as a modest idea to collect and donate stray pencils mushroomed into a campaign that has pulled in thousands of writing implements — some used but most new — from local schools, businesses and churches.

With the help of Kim Oppenheimer, a Teaneck, New Jersey, native and New York City resident who runs the nonprofit Right-to-Write, Kyle's pencils have reached people in impoverished areas of Ethiopia, Panama and Haiti and other far-flung countries, Oppenheimer said.

At a local elementary school this month, Kyle moved boxes crammed with pens, pencils, crayons, markers and mechanical pencils with his mom's help. The month-long pencil drive yielded an impressive haul: 3,790 writing tools.

"Children giving to children is really valuable," Oppenheimer said, praising Kyle's ability not only to appeal to his peers but to motivate students in lower grades to be part of the project.

The idea behind her one-person organization is simple: People who learn about her mission from her website mail in or hand-deliver pencils. She packs them, fitting around 200 pencils in sealed bags, then hands the packages to travelers heading for developing countries, who pack them into their suitcases. When they arrive at destinations off the beaten track, often on humanitarian trips, the travelers themselves deliver the bags of pencils.

Oppenheimer said she's managed to send pencils to schools, hospitals and orphanages in Mexico, Brazil, Liberia, Namibia, India and Vietnam.

Kyle, a soft-spoken athlete who hopes to become an architect, said the idea to help came around this time last year, as he left volleyball practice and noticed school janitors sweeping up discarded pencils. In the summer, fear over the spread of the Ebola virus grew, putting a spotlight on hardships faced in West Africa.

"There was a desperate need for any kind of help," he said, "And that's what made me think, 'Wow, not only do these people need vaccines and help, but they need something to start a foundation with … they need to learn.'"

He researched organizations he could volunteer with and discovered Right-to-Write, run by Oppenheimer, a special education instructor who has traveled extensively and is immersed in the world of international aid and development.

"It's a simple idea, and works so easily," Oppenheimer said. "When any traveler is going overseas, for the most part, you can fit that bag into your suitcase, like a hardcover book."

She said she came up with the idea when she traveled as a volunteer with a medical mission to Peru in 2005. She had taken a suitcase of clothing to donate but soon realized that people wanted her pen. "Even the nurses wanted my pen as I walked around the hallway," Oppenheimer said.

"I figured if I hadn't realized there was such a need, that many other people hadn't as well," she said. The group began three years after her Peru trip, and to date, she has collected more than 80,000 pencils.

Kyle reached out last summer and "was super interested and energetic from the very beginning," Oppenheimer said.

Since he started his drives, the donations have been pouring in: more than 3,500 pencils collected from local businesses, churches and schools. At schools, he speaks to students during assembly and tells them students just like them need pencils.

The recent elementary school drive that netted more than 3,700 writing implements was the biggest to date. Throughout February, students dropped pencils and markers into shoeboxes outside classrooms and the cafeteria.

Kyle took them home and said he planned to pack them in the sealed bags and deliver to Oppenheimer to coordinate the delivery.

For the elementary school students, the act of giving invited them to reflect on the unsettling reality that an expendable everyday item such as a pencil could be so coveted by their peers around the world.

Christopher Bacchioni, a fifth-grader, said he donated "to give pencils to people who don't have utensils, to help people in need."

He can imagine children "being happy because they can write now, that they don't have just like one pencil to use all year," he said. "They can have a few."