CHICAGO — At Chicago's main animal shelter, a pit bull mix wags his tail and licks a visitor's hand through iron bars, eager to find a friend. In an adjoining cage, a pit bull snarls and bares his teeth at passing strangers. Across the aisle, another pit bull barks continuously.

Pit bulls make up 40 percent of the dogs that come into Chicago Animal Care and Control — and about two-thirds of the dogs that get euthanized if they can't be adopted. They are flooding local shelters, prompting animal advocates to try desperate measures to address the problem.

The problem is simple, advocates say: People keep breeding pit bulls for money, and owners can't or won't handle them. So they end up as one of the most commonly abused, neglected and euthanized pets.

Pit bulls have been both glorified and victimized by their reputation. They're not a breed but a general term for a group of dogs including American pit bull terriers, American Staffordshire terriers, Staffordshire bull terriers and various mixes. Known for their powerful builds, and large, broad heads and jaws, they're beloved by some for sweetness and loyalty, and feared by others for much-publicized vicious attacks.

Their growing numbers at shelters have run counter to what otherwise has been a great success in animal care in recent decades — a steady decline in impounded and euthanized pets, due primarily to sterilizations and adoptions. In Chicago, the number of animals put down each year dropped by more than half from 2006 through last year, to about 8,000. The number of pit bulls impounded, however, went steadily up from 2010 to 2012, with the number euthanized generally also increasing.

The dogs' fate ultimately depends on how they are treated by humans — but just what to do is a point of controversy.

For those looking to own a pet, pit bulls are seemingly everywhere: they're for sale on eBay for up to $1,000 each, at pet stores, in parking lots and even on ice during breaks at Chicago Wolves hockey games. On a typical recent day, Chicago's animal control website for the city showed 28 of 41 dogs up for adoption were pit bulls.

Part of the reason for the rising tide of pit bulls is their increase in popularity, but pit bulls appear to end up in shelters far out of proportion to their numbers. No pit bull breed was among the top 50 most popular breeds listed by the American Kennel Club last year.

In Chicago, pit bull mixes account by far for the most reported dog bites, which in some cases lead owners to give up the dogs. In other cases, especially during the recent recession, owners say they lost their home or lost a job and can't afford them.

The most common reason owners cite in giving up dogs, according to the American Humane Association, is that their landlord didn't allow the pet. That's particularly the case for pit bulls, which are not welcomed in many apartment complexes, and which are not allowed under some homeowner insurance policies.

Sgt. Mark George, head of the Chicago police animal crimes unit, said dogfighting is not as much of an issue as it was in 2007, when NFL star Michael Vick was sentenced to prison for it, but it still goes on. Some people get the dogs for protection in crime-ridden neighborhoods, he said, while gangbangers often own pit bulls as a status symbol. Investigators run into the dogs when they search for narcotics or guns.

Outside the city, many suburban animal control facilities face overcrowding issues, especially in urban areas like Aurora and Waukegan where pit bulls are most popular.

In Waukegan, Animal Control Director Susan Elliot says the breed is popular both with "thugs" who often mistreat them and with rescuers who fall in love with the dogs. About half the dogs the shelter gets are strays — the rest are simply surrendered by their owners.

"The problem is, people don't want them after they're a year old," Elliot said. "They're not as cute. Now they're a dog, and you have to let them out. It's a lot of work, and people get lazy. 'It has too much energy,' that's another big excuse."

"They're wonderful dogs in the right hands," she said.

To reduce the numbers, Waukegan has instituted what Elliot called one of harshest laws in the state prohibiting selling of dogs by anyone except registered breeders, with substantial fines for violators. The city also works with nonprofit groups to provide cheap spaying and neutering and adoptions. Elliot's goal is for the Waukegan, Ill., facility to become a no-kill shelter.

Lake County Animal Care and Control Coordinator Robin Van Sickle agreed that it's hard to get people to adopt pit bulls if the dogs are less than completely friendly.

"Pit bulls probably get overlooked because of the prejudice against them," she said. "If there's any cause for concern, if they have a bite history, rescue agencies have difficulty placing then, and they don't want to invest in an animal if they can't adopt them out."

To save the dogs, a host of rescue groups that specialize in pit bulls have sprung up, with names like Pit Pals and Chicagoland Bully Breed Rescue. Their mission is not only to find homes for the pets but to rehabilitate their image.

The agencies often tell of horror stories about pit bull owners, blaming them for the dogs' bad rap. Recycled Pits, for instance, recently reported rescuing a dog that had severe infected head wounds from fighting. Another dog had chemical burns over half its body, while another was said to have spent its life on a 3-foot chain and was used just for breeding.

To find fit owners and "forever" homes for pets that may have had a couple of homes already, Bombshell Bullies Pit Bull Rescue in Vernon Hills has strict rules for adoptions. It will not place dogs in homes that already have two or more dogs, or one of the same sex. The agency charges $250 to $300, which includes vaccinations, a microchip and sterilization, and it requires people who adopt their dogs to train them.

For that purpose, it works with NoBull Dog Style next door, where owner Jeff Hakanson boasts of being able to train any dog. He recommends two or three months for basic training while also trying to educate owners on what they need to do.

He blames breeding with other, larger dogs for creating nervous mixes that are more likely to growl or bite over perceived threats. For that reason, he believes in banning sales by anyone except registered breeders but concedes that such laws are tough to enforce.

"Most of the surplus you see is just from ignorance among breeders," he said. "Some breed for fighting, some to sell puppies, some dogs get loose and impregnated. In Waukegan, every other house has a litter of pit bull puppies."

At Will County Animal Control, where up to half the dogs are pit bulls, administrator Leroy Schild said the dogs' aggression can be controlled with proper training, but most dogs he sees aren't vaccinated, let alone trained.

Elsewhere, some cities have turned to bans to contain the number of pit bulls. Denver has a long-standing prohibition, and Miami-Dade County, Fla., residents last year voted overwhelmingly to keep a ban. San Francisco requires sterilization, which reportedly has led to a significant decrease in the number of abandoned and euthanized dogs.

The dogs are known for their bite, but research is limited on the strength of their jaws. A study at one hospital in San Antonio found that injuries from pit bull bites were much more severe than from other dogs.

But advocates argue that pit bull fears are pure hype, breed-specific laws are discriminatory and any fault lies not with the dogs but with owners. They say the term "pit bull" is so broad as to include all kinds of dogs, and have shot down many attempts at such laws elsewhere. Last year they got Cincinnati to reverse its ban.

In Elgin, Ill., after several incidents involving pit bulls, in 2010 council member John Prigge proposed requiring the dogs to be registered, with nonregistered dogs declared illegal. He faced a strong backlash from pit bull owners, who organized opposition from across the suburbs to defeat the proposal.

Instead the city passed an ordinance to declare any dogs involved in fighting or attacks to be vicious and requiring them to be muzzled in public, which Prigge said has helped cut down on incidents.

A better solution than targeting one breed, according to the Humane Society of the United States, is to encourage responsible owners.

The society's Pets for Life program is designed to help owners take care of their dogs, going into neighborhoods in Chicago and nationwide to help low-income owners sterilize, vaccinate and take care of their dogs.

"Our focus is to keep all pets in the homes they're already in," Cory Smith said.

For those in the market for a dog, PAWS Chicago founder Paula Fasseas urged people to consider a no-kill rescue agency like hers rather than a for-profit breeder who will make the overpopulation worse.

"So many pit bulls are being put down for no reason," Fasseas said, "and they're really sweet dogs."