CHICAGO — With President Barack Obama expected to choose the site for his library in less than two months, Chicagoans engaged in a bitter fight over a proposal to place it in a public park. But it was not the first time that a presidential library was at the center of a land dispute.

In rural College Station, Texas, residents fought Texas A&amp;M University over plans to move a pig farm to make way for the George H.W. Bush presidential library.

Residents in Atlanta, Georgia, tied themselves to trees and lay down in front of bulldozers to stop the city from building a two-lane highway through a public park leading to President Jimmy Carter's library.

And in Little Rock, Arkansas, the city evoked eminent domain to tear down old warehouses where homeless people slept to make way for President Bill Clinton's library.

The University of Chicago proposed to build the library on 20 acres in either Washington Park or Jackson Park on the South Side.

Last week, the Chicago Park District approved a plan devised by Mayor Rahm Emanuel to authorize the transfer of parkland to the city's control if the University of Chicago is chosen to host the library.

"It's often tricky finding real estate and making it all work," said Benjamin Hufbauer, associate professor of art history at the University of Louisville and author of "Presidential Temples: How Memorials and Libraries Shape Public Memory."

The University of Chicago's quest to use parkland was the latest in a long and complicated history of land fights involving presidential libraries, Hufbauer said.

In some cases, officials were able to work out an agreement that kept the library project on schedule. In others, the dispute landed in court, delaying the project for years. Plans for libraries honoring John F. Kennedy and Ronald Reagan at their preferred sites had to be scrapped.

In most cases, the presidents have sat quietly on the sidelines while others battled it out on their behalf. But the presidents almost always have the final say on whether to continue the fight or throw in the towel.

"In general, presidents don't want controversy. It doesn't help them," Hufbauer said.

The two most recent presidential libraries built — for Bill Clinton and George W. Bush — faced long and expensive court battles over eminent domain.

Even before George W. Bush announced his selection of Southern Methodist University (SMU), his wife's alma mater, the school had been caught up in a dispute with its neighbors over land.

For years, SMU had been buying land surrounding the Dallas campus. Though the university had kept details of its library bid under close wraps, some residents of a nearby condominium complex suspected that SMU was attempting to buy up the complex, unit by unit, to build the library there. Most sold their condos willingly to the university, but not Gary Vodicka, who battled the university in court for four years.

In the end, the city seized the land on behalf of the university through eminent domain and the 347-unit complex was razed. The land is now is part of the grounds of the George W. Bush Presidential Center.

Like SMU, the University of Chicago is landlocked and for more than a decade has quietly been buying property in the Washington Park neighborhood. While the university has offered a 6-acre parcel across the street from the park — the largest lot it owns in the neighborhood — school officials said the space was too small for a modern-day presidential library. Clinton's library is on 38 acres and George W. Bush's is on 23 acres. The university also is offering an adjacent 5 acres owned by the city and the Chicago Transit Authority.

According to University of Chicago officials, the library building would take up 3 to 5 acres of the parkland, with the rest being preserved as open space. If the university is selected to host the library, the Obamas would decide whether to build it in Washington Park or Jackson Park in Woodlawn.

Disagreement over the University of Chicago's proposal involved park preservationists, who have threatened to sue the city to stop the transfer, and residents of the Washington Park and Woodlawn neighborhoods, who embrace the plan as a means of bringing economic revitalization.

The dispute placed the university in a controversial light and gave steam to what the University of Chicago considers to be its biggest rival, Columbia University in New York. The University of Illinois at Chicago remains in the running to build the library on the Near West Side, as does the University of Hawaii, which wants to build it in Honolulu.

Last week, the park board approved the future transfer of 20 acres from whichever park is chosen by the Obamas to the city. The transfer would take place only if the University of Chicago is selected to host the library. The land would then be leased to the Barack Obama Foundation, which is charged with building the library. If the University of Chicago does not win the bid, the Park District would retain control of its land.

Under no circumstances would the parkland ever be owned by the University of Chicago. Still, preservationists were skeptical.

"There is case law in Illinois that once a lease is in effect for a certain period of years, it effectively is viewed as an actual transfer in the eyes of the law, and it would be handled that way legally," said Cassandra Francis, president of Chicago's Friends of the Parks, which joined forces with national preservationist groups to fight the transfer. "We are looking at these legal implications very closely."

In Little Rock, officials battled over the definition of a park. The city's plans to build the Clinton library in a decaying warehouse district on the edge of downtown sparked a court battle that lasted nearly five years. The city argued that it could acquire the private land for a park and then build the library in that park.

But landowner Gene Pfeifer refused to give up his 3-acre riverfront property in the middle of the proposed library site. In the end, the state Supreme Court allowed the city to acquire the property through eminent domain.

"In the traditional sense, we didn't displace any houses. But we did displace homeless people in a way that I regret to this day," said James "Skip" Rutherford, who headed Clinton's foundation during the construction and is now dean of the University of Arkansas Clinton School of Public Service in Little Rock. "I wish I had toured some of those vacant warehouses before we tore them down."

Chicago's 350-acre Washington Park was designed by legendary landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted. But Chicago isn't the only city where a fight has been waged over an Olmsted park.

When Carter was about to build his presidential library in the 1980s, a controversy developed over a decades-old plan to build a roadway through Olmsted Linear Park in Atlanta. The two-lane highway, then called "Presidential Parkway," would wind through the park and encircle the Carter library, which sat atop the hill where Union General William Sherman watched Atlanta burn during the Civil War.

Though the park was littered and barely used, residents from affluent neighborhoods nearby, calling themselves "roadbusters," organized protests to stop the construction. In one incident, a woman climbed a dogwood tree and fell to the ground as city workers sawed it down. Others were herded off to jail for trespassing after lying on the ground in front of construction machinery. After the case was in the courts for more than 12 years, the road was built but cut off before entering the park.

"The original plan would have completely ruined the park," said Jennifer Richardson, an Atlanta resident who participated in the protests. "It gave President Carter a black eye, but he never spoke about it or returned any of the letters we wrote to him. But he never backed down."

Residents of College Station fought Texas A&amp;M's plans to move the school's swine center from its 90-acre library site to a low-income African-American community a few miles to the west.

Though the university insisted that the plan to move 800 pigs had nothing to do with the library, residents complained that their suburban communities would be overcome by foul odors. They also worried about water and air pollution. The university eventually agreed to look at other locations for the swine center, and the library went up as scheduled on the site that once held the pig farm.

When Reagan first announced plans in 1983 to build his library at Stanford University near San Francisco, officials boasted that he would be the first president to open his library while still in the White House. But a series of disputes over where the library should be built led to delays — and rising construction costs — that kept it from opening until 1991, after Reagan had been out of office for more than two years.

Reagan was well into fundraising for his proposed library at Stanford when he was forced to find an alternate site in Simi Valley in Southern California.

Residents of Palo Alto never liked the idea of a presidential library going up in their Northern California town because of the increased traffic and environmental concerns. Students and faculty at Stanford argued that the library would become an unwanted conservative think tank in the center of the campus. So they joined forces to make sure it didn't happen. In 1987, four years after selecting Stanford, Reagan pulled out and went looking for a site that was more welcoming.

But even in Simi Valley, Reagan ran into opposition. There were fights over increased traffic, air quality, future development and even a rare sunflower that grew on the hilltop where the library would be built.

In the early 1970s, the proposed Kennedy presidential library was forced to move from the site Kennedy had chosen near his alma mater, Harvard University, to an undeveloped area near the Boston campus of the University of Massachusetts called Columbia Point.

Prior to Kennedy's assassination in 1963, Harvard had invited the president to place his library near its Cambridge campus. Officials scrapped plans to build the library on the banks of the St. Charles River after neighbors and environmentalists threatened to sue, claiming that the library would add to an already congested Harvard Square.