CHICAGO — It could be a scene from a faraway land — women in long, colorful skirts harvesting mustard leaves, a man with a weathered face and a traditional salwar kameez beneath his suit jacket squeezing between rows — chopped, fermented daikon spread out to dry.

But it is a scene off Chicago's Lawrence Avenue.

Tucked into a quiet corner of the city's bustling Albany Park neighborhood, the Global Garden Refugee Training Farm — the only refugee farm in Illinois — is tended by natives of Congo, Bhutan and Burma.

Covering slightly more than an acre is an exuberantly fertile urban garden. Lush tomato, mustard and cilantro plants jockey for space; sturdy squash vines climb over trellises made of dismantled cribs and baby gates.

Founded with a federal grant, the 2-year-old operation is an opportunity for refugees to return to the farm lives many left behind, to grow fresh vegetables for traditional dishes, to get fresh air and exercise, and to socialize in an open-air community center.

"When I get here, I'm so happy," said Matun Myint, 43, a refugee from Burma, through an interpreter. "I don't have any anxiety; I don't have any worries."

She and the other refugees have had plenty of worries elsewhere.

The Burmese refugees escaped when their country, now known as Myanmar, was under military rule. They spent as many as 20 years in a refugee camp in Thailand.

The Bhutanese refugees are ethnic Nepalese who fled Bhutan after the 1989 "One Nation, One People" campaign forbade expressions of their culture. They spent years in refugee camps in Nepal before being resettled in the U.S. beginning in 2008.

"These are people who never chose to leave their homes; they were kicked out, and then invited to come here," said farm manager Linda Seyler. "They come with no material resources. When they arrive here, they don't speak English."

She added, "But the farm has been just a great place for them."

Along with reconnecting them with the land, she said, the farm encourages social interactions among refugees and with neighbors at the twice-weekly farmers market.

"You come to the market stand … and there is so much that happens between the farmers and their neighbors," she said. "They're sharing recipes, they're meeting people from other ethnicities — people who use the same vegetables in different ways."

"This is a place to socialize, to learn, and a place to manage the stress," said Hasta Bhattarai, until recently program coordinator of the Bhutanese Community Association of Illinois, who often serves as an interpreter.

Some 100 families — about half from Bhutan and half from Burma, plus two families from Congo — farm on 40-foot plots. Another section is planted and worked communally. Vegetables grown there are sold at twice-weekly farmers markets, with proceeds paying for the farm's operation and maintenance.

Families can sell their extra produce at the markets too. Last year, farmers earned as much as $980 in a season, Seyler said, and this year, when farmers are also selling at the Horner Park Farmers Market, they could earn even more.

Many of the refugees were farmers in their native lands, some on a large scale. "Most of us, including myself, had big plots in Bhutan — 5, 10, 20 acres of land," Bhattarai said.

They grew rice, millet and wheat. Some raised cows and made their own butter and cheese. Sha Darnal, 26, said his father had 20 acres in Bhutan and plowed the fields using bulls.

Farming in Albany Park is different in both scale and climate.

The refugees from Burma had never seen winter. The first time Myint saw snow on the ground, she was so curious that she ate some.

They were used to planting year-round, said Tah Mae, 40, through an interpreter. "Here, when the weather gets cold, all the plants die," he said.

Working such small plots has taken some adjustment. In Bhutan, "we had big land, and this was our lives," said Buddhi Darjee, 42, through an interpreter. "Here we have a very limited space."

Even so, it is a space she treasures. She takes two CTA buses to get to her garden.

"Once I am in the garden, I don't want to go home," she said.

Naina Darjee (no relation) feels just as strongly about the garden, which he visits almost every day. It is his connection to the world he came from.

"Sometimes I forget my life in Bhutan," said Darjee, 66. In the garden, he remembers.

The farm is a boon for refugees' physical and mental health, said Yvette Kyaw, a health promoter for the Heartland Alliance who serves as an interpreter for families from Burma.

"They come here and they are depressed. They miss their country," she said. "But they say, 'When we get stressed out, we just come down to the garden.'"

The refugee farm was born when Seyler, then program manager with the Coalition of Limited English Speaking Elderly (CLESE), saw a notice about grants from the Refugee Agricultural Partnership Program (RAPP), part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Refugee Resettlement.

RAPP funds small-acreage farms across the country to help refugee families grow healthy food and obtain supplemental income, and to promote better physical and mental health and encourage greater community integration.

Seyler, a former Peace Corps volunteer in rural Thailand with degrees in agronomy, wrote a grant proposal for CLESE in partnership with the Heartland Alliance's Refugee Health Programs. In 2010, RAPP gave a three-year nonrenewable startup grant for a refugee farm in Chicago.

In 2011, refugees began tending plots at four community garden sites, including 10 plots donated by the Peterson Garden Project. Then, garden project founder LaManda Joy spotted a 1 1/3-acre vacant lot in Albany Park, an area home to many refugees.

It turned out to be owned by the city. The City Council approved its use for the refugee garden, Seyler said, and in 2012, volunteers and refugee farmers began work by sealing the surface — a standard precaution in urban farming, where there could be pollutants in the soil.

Forty truckloads of mushroom compost were brought in — "In essence, this is one raised bed," Seyler said — and the farm was a reality.

It is surrounded by a chain-link fence, and farmers are given the code to the lock so they can come and go according to their work schedules. Many of the refugees work in meat-packing plants or downtown hotels or restaurants.

Some live in neighboring apartment buildings and walk over, often pushing babies in strollers. Others have to take public transportation, carrying produce home in bags.

Families sometimes spend hours here, bringing lunch or dinner. On one recent day, Soa Ti, a refugee from Burma, was squatting on the ground cutting up turnips to be dried while a few teenage girls chatted nearby, cellphones on and earbuds dangling.

Inside the plastic-covered hoop house, fermented mustard greens — gundruk, a staple of Nepalese cooking — were hung over a cord or spread out on scrap lumber to dry. On other pieces of lumber, the farmers had spread out chopped daikon that they had pickled.

Seyler, who works at the farm as a volunteer, said the farm is succeeding at helping participants settle into new lives in Chicago.

But it is also helping them continue to cook the foods of their previous lives.

In her apartment a few steps from the Global Garden, Ganga Monger, 32, of Bhutan, stirred a pot of dal and displayed sabji, a spicy dish of vegetables whose enticing smells were wafting through the air.

"I love growing all kinds of plants," she said, with Bhattarai interpreting. "I watch them grow up and bloom."

Hearing the birds and watching the plants grow, she said, "makes me happy."