WASHINGTON — Republicans seized control of the Senate on Tuesday, riding a wave of discontent with President Barack Obama to majority power in both houses of Congress for the final two years of his presidency.

Republicans won Democratic-held Senate seats in Arkansas, Colorado, Iowa, Montana, North Carolina, South Dakota and West Virginia, assuring them of majority control of the Senate for the first time since January 2007.

They also held their majority control of the House of Representatives and looked to add as many as a dozen seats, which would swell their ranks to a level Republicans haven't achieved since 1949.

The results vividly demonstrated how constituents were frustrated with government, notably Obama, and most saw the country heading in the wrong direction.

Democratic efforts to offset the Republican momentum with gains of their own failed.

In Kentucky, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell easily beat Democratic Secretary of State Alison Lundergan Grimes. The Democrats had hopes for a Republican seat in Georgia, but Michelle Nunn fell to Republican businessman David Perdue. And in Kansas, Democrats appeared to be counting on Greg Orman, running as an independent against Senator Pat Roberts, a Republican. Vice President Joe Biden earlier Tuesday called Orman "an independent who will be with us in the state of Kansas." It wasn't enough. Roberts held the seat.

Democrats did hold New Hampshire, where Senator Jeanne Shaheen turned back a strong challenge from former Senator Scott Brown. And they stopped the Republicans, at least for now, in Louisiana. Since no one got a majority, Democratic Senator Mary Landrieu will face Republican Representative Bill Cassidy in a runoff next month.

But the night belonged to the Republican Party, thanks to a favorable electoral map and a president with dismal approval ratings. McConnell, speaking to supporters, was both defiant and conciliatory.

"Tonight, Kentuckians said we can do better as a nation," McConnell said in his victory speech in Louisville. "Tonight, they said we can have real change in Washington. Real change, and that's just what I intend to deliver."

Democrats were defending 21 Senate seats to the Republicans' 15. Seven of the Democratic seats were in states that went for Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney in 2012 against Obama, including Arkansas, Montana, South Dakota and West Virginia.

"This is probably the worst possible group of states for Democrats since Dwight Eisenhower," Obama said Tuesday on WNPR in Connecticut.

In House races, two Democratic incumbents fell: Representative Nick Rahall of West Virginia and Representative Joe Garcia of Florida. Rahall, first elected to the House in 1976, was the victim of a GOP surge in a state that's trended increasingly Republican.

## A Look At Key Senate Races

— Georgia. Perdue won the Republican nomination campaigning as an outsider who would shake up Washington, but Nunn gained by questioning his business record. Democrats had at least hoped no one would get a majority and the race would go to a Jan. 6 runoff. Instead, Perdue got enough to win outright. He'll succeed Republican Senator Saxby Chambliss.

— Kentucky. McConnell easily topped Grimes. Democrats once had big hopes of gaining a seat here, but McConnell slammed Grimes as a supporter of Obama policies, which are not popular in the state. Grimes tried hard to separate herself, but among her stumbles was her refusal last month to say whether she voted for Obama in 2012.

— West Virginia. Republican Representative Shelley Moore Capito won election as the state's first woman senator, defeating Democratic Secretary of State Natalie Tennant in a race that was never considered close. Capito will be the state's first female senator.

— North Carolina. Democratic Senator Kay Hagan lost to Republican House Speaker Thom Tillis. The race was nasty and costly — the campaigns aired more than 100,000 ads, according to The Charlotte Observer.

— New Hampshire. Brown, easily defeated in his 2012 re-election bid in Massachusetts, moved to his vacation home in New Hampshire. He was called a carpetbagger, a label he couldn't escape.

— Arkansas. Democratic Senator Mark Pryor lost to Republican Tom Cotton after being hammered for supporting Obama on nine of 10 key votes last year, a liability in a state where the president's approval ratings have hovered around 30 percent in recent polls.

— Kansas. The streak continues: No Republican has lost a Kansas Senate campaign since 1932, and though Roberts was seen as out of touch with the state, he was able to overcome the Orman challenge. Roberts worked to define Orman as untested and a closet Democrat, and conservatives who had challenged Roberts rallied at the end to support him.

— Louisiana. Two conservatives, Cassidy and Rob Maness, were splitting the anti-Landrieu vote in a state where Obama is deeply unpopular. Cassidy is the likely favorite in a Dec. 6 runoff.

— South Dakota. Republican Mike Rounds won a three-way battle. Independent Larry Pressler, a Republican South Dakota senator from 1979 to 1997, made some inroads but faded.

— Colorado. Senator Mark Udall, a Democrat, thought he could tar Republican Representative Cory Gardner as a doctrinaire conservative with little regard for women's rights. That strategy backfired as the affable Gardner retained a sizable following among women.

— Iowa. Republican Joni Ernst, a state senator, vaulted to prominence earlier this year with her down-to-earth pitch as a mother, soldier and independent. She defeated Democratic Bruce Braley to take the seat being vacated by retiring Senator Tom Harkin, a Democrat.

— Montana. Republican Representative Steve Daines won the Senate seat easily. Any prospect of a competitive race evaporated when incumbent Senator John Walsh, a Democrat, dropped out this summer after facing plagiarism allegations. Daines wound up with an easy path to victory.

— Alaska. Senator Mark Begich, a Democrat, is behind in polls but has a ground game that's a proven success. His race with Republican Dan Sullivan is likely to be close and perhaps not decided for days.