ORLANDO, Fla.— Fake service-dog certificates and vests for ordinary pets are showing up all over. And supporters of the disabled say this is creating big problems.

It has gotten so bad that the nation's largest service-dog organization got involved. It started a campaign last week. It wants government lawyers to take action against the fakers.

Service dogs are trained to help people with disabilities. Many people know that these dogs wear harnesses or vests, said Paul Mundell. He works for Canine Companions for Independence.

A lot of businesses are selling the equipment. And people are buying the gear so that they can take their pet dogs on airplanes or into restaurants and stores, Mundell said. "It happens all the time."

A Fake Flight Vest

Mundell was on a recent flight to Orlando. He said he saw a man with a tiny dog. The man walked the dog off the flight and removed its "service animal" vest. Then he left the airport. "It was clear he was simply using the vest to get cabin privileges," Mundell said.

Organizations that serve the public must allow service animals into their buildings. The dogs can go with people with disabilities wherever the public is allowed to go. Questions are limited. Workers may only ask if the service animal is needed because of a disability. Legally, they can't ask for proof, like a service-dog certificate.

And, some say, a lot of people are taking advantage of this.

Florida has no punishment for people who say their dog is a service animal, but isn't, said Paul Edwards. He is the president of the Florida Council of the Blind. He and some others think it reasonable to ask people to carry proof that their dog is a service animal.

But some supporters are worried that doing so may put a burden on people with disabilities. They would have to prove their dog is a service animal. But others say that humans are already facing more hassles.

Eating Out With Fluffy

"Somebody will take Fluffy with them into a restaurant, and the dog will bark or snap at someone, or poop on the floor," said Kris Baker, 63. That causes problems when people come in with a real service dog. "We get the questions and the resentment. It's harder for us."

Sometimes people will ask how they can get a vest for their untrained dog, she added.

"This is not something that is for pets," she said. "This is an indication of training that my dog and I have been through."

Luke McGregor agrees. On a flight home from New York last week, he saw a woman who claimed to have an "emotional-support dog." But it whined and scratched at its cage throughout the trip. That behavior is considered unacceptable in a trained service dog.

He could do little more than roll his eyes at the scene.

Disabled Paying The Bill

McGregor uses a wheelchair and CCI dog. He knows he'll be left to deal with the fallout from such stunts.

"I'm already stopped in restaurants and grocery stores," he said. Workers wrongly tell him he cannot bring his dog in, McGregor said. Eventually enough people will be upset by all of the supposed service dogs. "We will suffer for it," he said.

In 2011, the Department of Justice said dogs were the only legal assistance animals. Some people had monkeys, snakes and other creatures. The department also cleared up what makes a dog a service animal. It's a dog that has been trained to help a disabled person.

CCI.org is asking people to sign a letter to the Justice Department. It wants to tell the department to fix the problem. The group wants to get 10,000 signatures in a week.