SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Sodas and other sugary drinks sold in California will have to have warning labels. That is, if a new bill passes. If it does, California would be the first state to make these signs required.

Drinks with added sweeteners that have 75 or more calories in every 12 ounces would have to show the label. A calorie is a unit of energy in food. The sign would read: "STATE OF CALIFORNIA SAFETY WARNING: Drinking beverages with added sugar(s) contributes to obesity, diabetes, and tooth decay." [Obesity](https://www.newsela.com/?tag=obesity) is when a person has unhealthy levels extra of body fat. Diabetes is a disease involving sugar in the blood.

William Monning proposed the bill. He is in the California Senate. He said there is clear science showing the link between sugary drinks and these diseases. He added that the sign was written by experts.

The goal of the label is to give buyers the right to know, he said. There are health risks to drinking sodas. They are a health problem "that will take more lives than gun violence," he said.

## Protecting Public Health

CalBev is the name of a group that fights for the soda companies. It said that the companies already post calories on the front of many bottles. This is part of its "Clear on Calories" program. It began in 2010. Drink bottles also have lists of nutrition information.

"We agree that obesity is a serious issue," the group said. But it called Monning's bill "misleading." It said just 6 percent of calories in the average American's diet come from soda or other sweet drinks. But 11 percent come from sweets and deserts. It said most calories come in other forms. They come from fats, oils and starches in food.

The group would not say how much it would cost them to add the new signs. But it said the law would raise the cost of doing business in California.

The doctors who support Monning's bill gave their own numbers. They said one soda a day makes a child 55 percent more likely to be overweight. It can raise the risk of diabetes by 26 percent.

Monning said it is not the soda companies' job to protect the public's health. "It is the responsibility of government," he said. He noted that people could still choose to drink the drinks.

Monning said warning labels can make a difference in people's choices.

He said the labeling would be in line with the drink makers' own goal. They say they want to give people the information to make a smart choice.