LOS ANGELES — Virgin Galactic's SpaceShipTwo, part of an ambitious commercial space venture founded by British billionaire Richard Branson, crashed during testing Friday and broke into several pieces. One test pilot was killed and another was injured.

"Space is hard and today was a tough day," said George Whitesides, the CEO of Virgin Galactic.

Two pilots were aboard SpaceShipTwo. A California Highway Patrol spokesman said two people were found near the crash in the desert north of California City and east of Mojave. One of the pilots had parachuted out of the aircraft, and another was located near the scene, the California Highway Patrol said. Their names have not been released.

The WhiteKnightTwo aircraft, which carries the SpaceShipTwo, landed safely. National Transportation Safety Board investigators were on their way to the crash site, which the Kern County sheriff's office said was spread over a 2- to 3-mile area.

Virgin Galactic has engaged in a nearly decade-long endeavor to produce the world's first commercial space liner, which would make several trips a day carrying scores of paying customers into space for a brief journey.

It announced an agreement in May with the Federal Aviation Administration that helped clear the path to send paying customers on a suborbital flight by setting parameters for how routine missions to space will take place in national airspace.

Friday's test was the company's first rocket-powered test flight in nine months. Scaled Composites was conducting the test flight in partnership with Virgin Galactic, and its CEO said the flight was using a new fuel formation that had been tested on the ground. In January, SpaceShipTwo reached 71,000 feet — its highest altitude so far. Virgin Galactic has done its testing for the spacecraft in the Mojave Desert at Mojave Air and Space Port, about 100 miles northeast of Los Angeles.

The crash was the second catastrophe in the commercial space industry in a week. On Tuesday night, an unmanned rocket exploded just seconds after liftoff from a Virginia launch pad. The $200 million rocket, owned by Orbital Sciences, was carrying supplies to the space station. No one was injured in that explosion.

Virgin Galactic's plans have been repeatedly delayed. Branson said earlier this month at a celebration in Mojave that it was "on the verge" of going to space, but he did not give a time frame. Branson said Friday via Twitter that he was on his way to California to be with the Virgin Galactic team.

Stuart Witt, CEO and general manager of Mojave Space and Air Port, said he did not see an explosion.

"From my eyes and ears, I detected nothing that appeared abnormal," he said. "If there was a huge explosion, I didn't hear it." He said a 90-second pause led him to think something had gone wrong.

"It's when I wasn't hearing anything that I became concerned," he said.

Virgin Galactic's reusable SpaceShipTwo rocket plane was designed to fly with the WhiteKnightTwo carrier aircraft to 50,000 feet, where the spaceship separates and blasts off. Virgin Galactic has said that when the rocket motor engages, it will power the spaceship to nearly 2,500 miles per hour (mph) and take the pilot — and up to six passengers — to the edge of space, or more than 60 miles above the Earth's surface.

Passengers would experience weightlessness at the suborbital altitude and see the curvature of the Earth. The spaceship would re-enter the atmosphere and glide back to a runway. The company planned to charge $250,000 for the experience.

The idea of Virgin Galactic routinely taking passengers to space this way was developed by retired maverick aerospace engineer Burt Rutan and his Mojave company Scaled Composites, which was conducting the test Friday.

Virgin Galactic said it has accepted more than $80 million in deposits for about 700 reservations made by people who are interested in the ride, including stars like Justin Bieber, Ashton Kutcher and Leonardo DiCaprio. Ticket holders also include Jim Clash, a writer and resident of New York City. He reserved his ticket four years ago with a 10 percent deposit and says he won't be swayed.

"It's rocket science. It's dangerous, it's risky, it's complicated. Most of us who bought tickets know that," he said. "I expected there to be accidents … I'm very sad and shocked that it was in such a spectacular fashion today, but it's not going to change my view."

Marco Caceres, senior analyst and director of space studies at the Teal Group, said that having twin crashes in a week "could have a very serious impact" on attracting investors to the industry.

He said that any time a person dies, it sends the message of how dangerous these ventures are. Virgin will now have a harder time attracting customers, he said. Virgin's space plane had looked safer than a rocket to the public, he said.

"People will now realize this is space travel," Caceres said, "and you're getting into a rocket."

Michael Blades, senior industry analyst of aerospace and defense at Frost &amp; Sullivan, said the timing is especially bad and Virgin's crash will indefinitely push back its goal of blasting tourists off into space, which has already suffered a number of delays.

"The passenger thing probably won't happen this decade," he said.

Friday's accident was not the first for the program. In 2007, during a test of the spaceship's propulsion system, an explosion at the Mojave Desert airport killed three workers and injured three others.

The blast reminded the public of the risks of rocketry, which had long been the domain of powerful governments rather than small businesses.

Branson has since built a 68,000-square-foot facility at the space port for a joint venture, called Spaceship Co., to mass-produce its rocket ship and carrier aircraft. It was one of the first aircraft assembly plants to be built in the region in decades.

Mojave Air and Space Port's warren of nearly 100 wind-worn hangars sits just off a desolate stretch of California 14, amid the dusty landscape dotted with sage brush and gnarled Joshua trees.

The 3,300-acre site with a 2-mile-long runway has been transformed into an energetic commercial space hub, drawing projects bankrolled by Branson, Microsoft Corp. co-founder Paul Allen and other aerospace visionaries. It's been called the Silicon Valley of Space.

There are dozens of companies at Mojave Air and Space Port — most of them aerospace-related — bringing about hundreds of jobs, many of them young rocket scientists, aerospace engineers and technicians eager to work in the burgeoning commercial space industry.