CHICAGO — The tension between the two Manley High School students started on Facebook, with a wall post that asked a direct, but loaded, question.

"Do you have a problem with me?" one teenager wrote on the other's page.

By the time Marquita Riley, 16, and Aaliyah Hudson, 17, ended up in their West Side school's "peace room," rumors had floated through the halls that the two girls were going to brawl.

Hoping to defuse the conflict and avoid a physical confrontation that could lead to a 10-day suspension, Aaliyah retreated to the room, a bright classroom with a comfy couch, chairs and posters, to get a counselor to mediate.

There, the girls sat in a circle of chairs, talked and listened to each other until they worked out their problems.

"I came down here and talked before I reacted," Aaliyah said after their session. "That way, 'cause if anything did happen, it wouldn't be my bad. I'd be at fault, but I came down and warned them," she said.

The peace circle and peace room at Manley are a part of the school's restorative justice initiative, a growing social movement that, among other things, focuses on healing and teaching how to resolve conflicts. The philosophy aims to bring together victims and perpetrators to cooperatively work through their problems.

The concept is increasingly being incorporated in schools, community centers and churches in Chicago as a way to teach young people how to dissect their anger and confront tension before it turns violent. It's also being used as an alternative to punitive measures, like suspensions and arrests, which can lead to more trouble for hurting communities.

"Restorative justice is a lens for how to view the world," said Ilana Zafran, a program director for Umoja Student Development Corp., which as a part of its work implements restorative justice programs in Chicago public schools. "It's a philosophy, viewpoint that says when harm happens or someone misbehaves, there needs to be a process of restoration in order for the community to move forward."

Chicago authorities are grappling with high-profile shootings and killings among youths, and grass-roots activists, ministers and educators are turning to the principles of restorative justice in an attempt to stymie the unrest. Activists say the approach defuses violence by instilling a value system and culture that eventually shows positive effects.

The concept forces all sides in a disagreement to communicate and understand one other instead of resorting to violence. While there may still be punishment for wrongdoing, restorative justice emphasizes identifying hurt and harm and thinking of ways to repair and heal.

"The assumption is if you are a teenager, you know everything about how to act and behave," Zafran said. "But that's not true. This idea of restoration is not something even adults do well because it can be messy and complicated and involves vulnerability and that is just hard."

But while the principles of restorative justice are theoretically ideal, they are complicated to implement, supporters admit. It's also difficult to measure the success of such work, since there are no statistics that chart how many violent acts were avoided.

But at a time when many schools are struggling with high suspension rates and community leaders want less violence, restorative justice is a tactic worth trying, experts say.

"The idea that if we punish hard enough they won't do it again hasn't proven effective," said the Rev. David Kelly of the Precious Blood Ministry of Reconciliation in the Back of the Yards. The ministry applies the tenets of the philosophy when working with troubled youths. "Ultimately we're putting so much money into incarceration and it's a failing system that is costly."

At Manley and Fenger Academy High School on the South Side, administrators have created peace rooms where students and workers can retreat to work out problems.

In the peace circles, people involved in a conflict sit together and are allowed to express their feelings without interruption.

"This process forces us to look at a conflict and then look at what goes on behind it," said Tosha Jackson, assistant principal at Fenger.

That school began implementing restorative justice during its turnaround after the 2009 brawl that left student Derrion Albert dead.

"It helps us to better understand the students. And it helps the students to better understand themselves," Jackson said.

In the peace rooms, students often reveal deep troubles they may have at home and their gang ties. Teachers admit they are carrying unresolved hurt and anger, and staff members admit they are struggling, too. The conversations sometimes lead to more consideration, forgiveness and, if nothing else, an agreement to be cordial, Jackson said.

"A lot of our kids don't want to be involved in fights. They don't want to be suspended or away from school," Jackson said. "We had to create an environment of peace. High school has to be a pleasurable experience for our kids. If they come here and feel the same anxiety they feel in the streets, how can we expect them to stay?"

Before she started high school, Geneva Harris, 18, said she was the type of kid who called others names, gave cutting responses and oozed sassy attitude. But at Fenger, another student questioned the motivation behind her demeanor.

Harris, a senior, learned from that student the steps for breaking through tension. Then she became a peer conflict resolver herself. Now, she's quick to pull her friends and family members into a circle and talk their problems over.

"I've learned different ways to communicate with people. Now I'm a people person," she said. "I'm like the older sister among my friends."

At Manley, restorative justice was first implemented to address the school's high suspension rate, said Ted Christians, CEO of Umoja. But eventually, as the suspension rate dropped by 40 percent and the number of on-site arrests fell, it became a way of teaching social skills and necessary moral lessons.

On a recent sunny afternoon, the Manley High School's peace room pulsated with activity. An emotional student was brought into the room to talk through a heated quarrel she earlier had with a teacher. Another student checked in with the restorative justice coordinator, Kenny Riley, just to let him know that after a rift with the school's security guard, the tension had eased.

Then there were Marquita and Aaliyah, the two girls rumored to be gearing up for a major fight. "People came up to me and said you wanted to fight me," Marquita, a sophomore, told Aaliyah.

"If you thought I had a problem with you, you could have come to talk to me," Aaliyah told Marquita.

After another 20 minutes of discussion, they agreed they had simply misunderstood each other. The girls decided they would not fight, and promised they would talk it over if they found themselves facing tension again.