SANTA ANA, Calif. — Wayne Irving's daughter was 15 when she asked to get her learner's permit. A permit would allow her to begin learning to drive.

Irving was already unhappy about how much texting his daughter did. And he had just learned something very sad: The year before, more than 7,000 Americans had died from texting while driving.

Irving decided he had to do something. In 2009 he began to work on a smartphone app to help solve the problem. That app is called Text Kills. It was developed with four other people. Now, it has grown into a company.

Irving had never done anything like the app before. But it worked so well he and the others were invited to Washington, D.C. There, they showed the app to experts.

No. 1 Killer Of Teens

The problem Text Kills is fighting has gotten worse since 2009. Texting while driving has become the No. 1 killer of U.S. teens. It now kills more teens than drinking and driving.

Since 2010, Text Kills has traveled the United States in a yellow bus. It plans to visit more than 30 high schools this year. The goal is to talk to teens who text while driving.

Text Kills is asking drivers to promise not to text behind the wheel. NASCAR racers Kyle Busch and Joey Logano have already promised. They signed their names to the side of the Text Kills bus. So have more than 100,000 others.

Many students have their own stories about texting while driving, Irving said. "One freshman's parents bought her a brand-new Ford Mustang two weeks before college. She (wrecked) it a week later. Another gal told us her cousin died three weeks earlier. He was texting, ran off the road and hit a tree."

Since then Irving has heard thousands of stories. Many kids and parents "have lost loved ones."

Driving Distracted, On A Screen

Many teenage drivers are killed in car crashes because something is distracting them. Often, this is a cellphone.

Earlier this month, Text Kills began to raise money for a film. It hopes to offer it to teachers across the country. The film is titled "Smartphones of Mass Destruction".

The film is just one way to spread its message. The bus has already visited 3,000 schools. At the events, Text Kills uses simulators. These help students see what it's like to drive while distracted.

One simulator uses a 50-inch TV screen. This is attached to the side of the Text Kills bus. Students can drive a car on the screen, just like in a video game.

They drive a race car around the track. Then, they are told to pick up a card that looks like a cellphone, and read it out loud. "They read it, and their eyes aren't on the road. Everybody else is watching them ... (run) off the track and hit a wall, and their car is spinning around," said Text Kills member Ryan Foland. This helps students see just how dangerous it is to text while driving.

"I Won't Do That Again"

Another simulator uses a toy car. This car is run by remote control. Blindfolded drivers try to keep it on a track. Their eyes are covered for just five seconds because that is how long it takes to send a text.

Every time, the car goes off the track and hits somebody's ankle, Foland said.

Seeing this makes people realize how easy it is crash because of distracted driving. And then they think, "I won't do that again," he added.