Toy-related injuries involving American children have jumped about 40 percent since 1990, according to a new analysis of hospital data.

In 1990, infants, toddlers, children and teens were being injured at a rate of 18.9 per 10,000. By 2011, that rate had jumped to 26.4 per 10,000, according to the analysis by the Center for Injury Research and Policy at Nationwide Children's Hospital in Columbus, Ohio.

The total number of toy-related injuries grew even more during that period, from 121,249 in 1990 to 195,363 in 2011. That's an increase of 61 percent, the researchers reported this week in the journal Clinical Pediatrics.

Many of these injuries could have been prevented if toys were designed with a greater emphasis on safety, the authors said.

These estimates are based on data from the National Electronic Injury Surveillance System, which is run by the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission.

The commission collects patient data from a nationally representative sample of about 100 hospitals that have 24-hour emergency rooms and at least six inpatient beds. The information is used to calculate injuries for the entire country.

With about 3 billion model planes, hula hoops, building block sets and other toys sold in the U.S. every year, "the importance of toys in society cannot be underestimated," the researchers wrote. Most of the time, kids emerge unscathed from their play sessions.

But not always.

When it came to injuries involving toys, the researchers found:

The age at which children were most likely to be injured was 2, and kids younger than 5 accounted for just over half (50.5 percent) of the total injuries.

Four out of 5 injuries were suffered at home, and 63 percent of the mishaps involved boys.

Toy-related injuries were more frequent during the spring and summer months of April through September (57 percent) than during the fall and winter months of October through March (43 percent).

The overwhelming majority (98 percent) of kids seen in emergency rooms were released without being admitted to the hospital.

One type of toy was called out for its role in fueling the rise of injuries: foot-powered scooters. The total number of injuries involving these and other "ride-on toys" shot up 74 percent during the study period, from 41,418 in 1990 to 71,929 in 2011, the researchers found.

This category was responsible for 35 percent of all toy-related injuries, more than any other specific toy product.

Scooters helped make falls and collisions the most common types of toy-related injuries, accounting for 46 percent and 22 percent of the total, respectively. Put another way, 60 percent of falls were the result of playing with ride-on toys.

Accidents related to scooters tended to be more severe than other toy-related injuries, according to the report. For instance, kids playing with ride-on toys were 3.2 times more likely to suffer a fracture or dislocation compared with kids using other kinds of toys. Overall, fractures and dislocations accounted for 11 percent of all toy-related injuries, coming in third behind lacerations (39 percent) and soft tissue injuries (21 percent).

Finally, kids who went to emergency rooms after hurting themselves on ride-on toys were 38 percent more likely than other kids to be admitted to the hospital, the researchers found. In all, 43 percent of toy-related hospital admissions during the study period were due to mishaps with ride-on toys.

Though the injury rate for these toys declined somewhat after the initial spike, it has been rising again since 2005.