Back in 1950, Eiji Toyoda visited a Ford plant to learn how Americans made cars. The visit by a member of Japan's most important manufacturing family changed the way Toyota Motor Corp. made cars. And that in turn ended up altering the global auto industry.

Toyoda died Tuesday at the age of 100. He is credited with developing the car company's manufacturing processes. In addition, he helped spearhead Toyota's push into the U.S. auto market.

"Clearly Eiji was the person who laid the groundwork for what Toyota is today," said automotive researcher David Cole. "He was a real visionary and inspirational leader who understood what it would take to make Toyota a successful company."

Toyoda was a cousin of the Japanese automaker's founder, Kiichiro Toyoda. The family used the Toyota name for the business because they believed it sounded better.

Toyoda "helped blaze a new trail in the way auto companies are run," said Leslie Kendall of the Petersen Automotive Museum. He showed how companies can cut back on waste and how they should treat their employees, Kendall added.

From Textile Mill To Assembly Line

Toyoda was born on Sept. 12, 1913, in Nagoya City. In 1936 he graduated from the University of Tokyo with a degree in mechanical engineering. That same year, he joined Toyoda Automatic Loom Works Ltd., a textile mill founded by his father and uncle. About a year later, he moved to the company's new automotive branch.

Toyoda quickly became drawn to the making of automobiles. He dove into factory operations and began supervising activities on the shop floor.

Having grown up at the family textile mill, Eiji Toyoda loved machines.

"From my childhood, machines and business were always there right in front of me," he said in a 1999 Time Magazine interview. "I probably developed an understanding of both."

He rose through the ranks, becoming a Toyota director by 1945. Five years later, Toyoda visited the Ford factory in Dearborn, Mich. His experience there gave him the ideas he used to change Toyota's manufacturing.

"We were producing 40 cars a day," he said in the Time interview. "Ford was making 8,000 units, a 200-times difference. The gap was enormous."

An Idea Comes "Just in Time"

Toyoda changed Toyota's manufacturing approach. The company began making only a small number of cars at a time. It ordered only enough parts as it needed for those cars.

This reduced the need to store supplies at the factory. It was the start of the system known as "kanban" or "just in time" delivery. This has become standard in the global auto industry.

Today, Toyota is the world's biggest car builder.

Toyoda became vice president of Toyota in 1960 and president in 1967. Among other accomplishments, he helped create the Corolla. This went on to become one of the world's best-selling cars.

Before Prius, There Was Corona

Toyota entered the American market in 1957. At first, the company pinned its hopes on a slow, dull, four-door car called the Toyopet Crown. But it wasn't a very good car. It handled badly at speeds over 60 miles per hour and overheated easily. Toyota's U.S. sales in its first year were tiny: only 288 vehicles.

In 1965 Toyota launched the Corona. Although still a small car, it didn't have any of the Toyopet's problems. It became the automaker's first big seller in the United States.

The popular Corolla followed in the late 1960s. This quickly built a U.S. reputation for its low cost and reliability. It was also very fuel-efficient –– that is, it got a lot of miles out of a gallon of gas.

By 1972, Toyota passed Volkswagen to become the top foreign brand in America. So far in 2013, the automaker has sold more than 1.5 million vehicles here. It now sells more than 14 percent of the vehicles bought in the United States.

Toyoda retired in 1994, but remained involved with the company. He is is survived by three sons, Kanshiro, Tetsuro and Shuhei. All three work for companies connected to Toyota.