Minutes after arriving by bus at an outlet mall in California, a dozen or so Chinese tourists hurried to buy luggage. They planned to stuff the suitcases with high-end clothes, shoes and purses.

But not Guoshing Cui, a Samsung supervisor from Guangzhou. He went straight to the Coach store and picked out three expensive handbags. He paid more than $800 from a wad of $100 bills.

The bags were gifts for family and friends in China. Coach goods sell there for two to three times the price in the United States. "It's a smart move," he said of his purchases.

Such power shopping has made Chinese tourists the highest-spending overseas visitors to the United States. They are the customers that outlet malls, shopping centers and tour bus operators most want.

Chinese tourists spend about $3,000 per visit to California. That compares with $1,900 for other overseas visitors, according to the latest government statistics. About one-third of the spending is on gifts and souvenirs.

"They don't like to lay on the beaches," said Ernest Wooden Jr., president of the Los Angeles Tourism and Convention Board. "What they do like is shopping."

##Money To Spend

Foreign visitors to the United States spent a record $168.1 billion in 2012, according to U.S. officials. The money from Chinese visitors helped.

China's strong economy and its growing middle class mean more Chinese citizens have money to travel and spend, according to tourism experts. The middle class in China numbered 247 million people in 2011. That is 18 percent of the population. It is projected to grow to more than 600 million by 2020.

Visitors to California from China are typically professionals, executives or managers. They have an average annual income of $66,900. That compares with an average income of about $5,000 for all Chinese residents.

Store owners, hotel managers and tour guides in Southern California go out of their way to welcome Chinese tourists.

Twenty stores at a Desert Hills mall have salesclerks who speak Mandarin. Jeffrey Hsu is one of them. He works at the Ugg Australia store.

"I think we understand their customs," Hsu said. "When someone comes to a foreign country, they want to bring back gifts for their family and friends."

Spending by Chinese travelers has grown fast in the past few years. It now exceeds that of other high-spending visitors, including travelers from Japan, Australia, Brazil and South Korea.

The customs and characteristics of their economy back home shape how foreign visitors spend their time and money when they are in the United States.

Australians have a similar culture to people in the United States and are more likely than other travelers to visit museums, art galleries and historical places.

"We are fascinated by peoples of different cultures," said James McKay, an engineer from Melbourne. McKay's recent visit to the United States included a tour of Alcatraz, the former prison island in San Francisco. He visited the Pearl Harbor memorial in Hawaii and Ground Zero in New York. He also took a historic tour of Disneyland with his wife, Karen.

Japanese tourists spend a lot at restaurants because certain foods cost much more at home. Red meat is especially expensive in Japan.

"Don't even put fish or chicken in front of them," Joanna Sanchez, a spokeswoman for Morton's steakhouse, said of Japanese visitors. "They come for steak."

The Chinese tourists tend not to shop for themselves. Most of their purchase are gifts for friends and family.

## Coach, Ugg and Polo

Chinese tourists in the United States usually buy high-end clothes and accessories shown in American movies and magazines. They look for brands such as Coach, Ugg, Polo, Nike, Tommy Hilfiger and Neiman Marcus. High Chinese taxes make such brands two to three times more expensive in China, said Helen Koo, president of America Asia Tours.

"Many tourists feel that the savings more than pay for the entire trip," she said.

Many Chinese visitors also stock up on vitamins in the United States. They don't trust the quality of the supplements sold in China.

To stretch their travel budgets, Chinese tourists prefer shopping at outlet malls. Outlet malls are located far from major cities and typically have dozens of manufacturers stores. They can sell products at lower prices than at department stores.

"We see many visitors head to the luggage store, get a suitcase and then it's, 'OK, we are going to fill the bag,' " said Michele Rothstein of Simon Property Group. Simon is one of the country's largest mall operators.

Ding Sheng, a tourist from Guangzhou, China, said he took a tour to Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills and was planning to see the casinos of Las Vegas and the Grand Canyon. But he said a shopping outing to the outlet mall was the highlight of the trip.

Although Chinese tourists spend heavily on gifts and souvenirs, the travelers typically skimp on food and lodging, tour guides say.

"Even when they stay at a cheap hotel, they spend a lot on shopping," said Nathan Xue, a tour guide for TPI America.