Almost 20 years ago, 189 countries agreed to work toward better lives and equal rights for women. Now as countries prepare to meet again to discuss their progress, two studies show that there is more work to be done.

In 1995, the United Nations (U.N.) held the Fourth Annual Conference on Women in Beijing, China. The U.N. is an organization that promotes international cooperation and peace. Countries all over the world are members of the U.N.

In Beijing, members came up with a "Platform for Action." It was a set of goals adopted by 189 countries to improve the lives and legal rights of women and girls. The goals included making it easier for girls to go to school and ending child marriages.

This year, U.N. members will gather in New York to discuss women's rights once again. They will review how much progress has been made. According to two new studies, many of their goals have not been met.

##Laws Leave Women And Girls Behind

One study was done by the World Policy Analysis Center of the University of California in Los Angeles (UCLA). It was released on Monday. It found that about 90 percent of countries still have laws and policies that give women and girls fewer rights than men and boys.

The other study came from the U.N. itself. It reviewed how much had changed in the past 20 years. Although it indicated that there has been some progress, it found that women and girls are still treated unfairly.

For example, men still have more control than women in government. Only 20 countries around the world are led by women. Although women make up about half the world's population, only about one-fifth of lawmakers are women.

##Equality In Business 81 Years Away

Throughout the world, women are paid less than men for doing the same work.

Progress has been slow. At the current rate, it will take about 50 years for there to be as many women in government as men, and it will take 81 years for women to participate equally in business.

Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, head of the U.N. agency on women, said last week that world leaders have not done enough on this issue.

"The leaders entrusted with the power to realize the promises made in Beijing have failed women and girls," she said.

Both studies noted that some progress has been made. For example, many countries have removed laws that treated women unfairly, and many have also added laws to stop violence against women and girls.

There are other positive signs. Nearly half of all primary school students are now girls, and the number of workers who are women has grown since the 1990s. Women also have better health care.

##Child Marriage Hurts Girls And Their Babies

Many countries have also passed laws to keep girls from being forced to get married at a young age. Now almost every country has a law that prohibits people from marrying until they reach a certain age. The Maldives, an island nation in the Indian Ocean, passed a marriage law in 2001. The law said that people could not marry until the age of 18. Since then, there has been a big drop in the number of girls getting married between the ages of 15 and 18.

"Girls who marry young have babies young," said Jody Heymann. She is the founding director of UCLA's World Policy Analysis Center.

Having children at a young age is dangerous for women's health and their babies' health. It also reduces women's chances of finishing their education and affects their ability to earn a living.

For these reasons, the U.N. agreed to try to end child marriages. However, more than 60 countries still allow girls to be married at a younger age than boys. Researchers said that this fact helps explain why nearly five times more girls than boys get married before they turn 18.

##New Moms In U.S. Lack Guaranteed Paid Leave

Unfair treatment of women is not just an international problem. The two studies showed that it is a problem in the United States, too. The U.S. does not have a law guaranteeing paid leave for new mothers, for instance. Paid leave allows mothers to spend time with their newborns while still earning money from their job. The U.S. is the only wealthy country without a law that guarantees paid leave for new mothers.

In Mississippi, girls can be married at 15 with their parents' approval, but boys have to wait until they are 17. This means that girls may be expected to get married at a younger age, making it harder for them to make their own choices.

The U.S. is also one of just seven U.N. member countries that have not approved the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, a U.N. agreement that protects women's rights.

Despite the barriers, however, the UCLA study found that progress has been recorded in every region of the world and in countries at every income level.

"Clearly we have the capability to do this as a global community," Heymann said. "It's a question of whether we all focus on getting the job done."